March 12
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as long as the inflation rate is going down, which it is-
when I took office it was over 12 percent per year, it is now down in the range of
534 percent to 6 percent. The trend is down. We see no reason whatsoever why
that trend should change. As long as the trend is there, we will continue to use
the economic policies that we have been utilizing. I can't foresee anything that
would get us to change our economic policy.
The rate of inflation is going down, unemployment is going down, employ-
ment is going up, and the net result is, we are making very significant headway—
more than we anticipated in January, incidentally. And as the Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers said several days ago, if this continued improve-
ment also continues to improve, we will undoubtedly have to reevaluate our
forecasts, which could have an impact on our budget and a number of related
matters.
I am just pleased that we are making headway, and I see no reason why we
should change our economic policies.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
[16.] Q. Mr. President, you just talked about the inflation rate going down.
What kind of employment picture do you see for new high school and college
graduates this spring, and what kind of advice would you give them?
The President. That is a serious matter because approximately 1.8 to 2
million new job applicants come into the labor market every year and they
primarily come from high schools and colleges. The youth unemployment rate
is higher than the national average for everybody. We have got to expand the
economy, the domestic or the private sector of the economy, to absorb that
influx. I think the best place to do it is in the private sector where five out of six
jobs in our society now exist.
And how can we do it? First, by having a general tax reduction larger than
the one the Congress approved. Number two, by having specific tax incentives to
private industry so that private industry will move into areas of high unemploy-
ment and build plants and buy equipment this year rather than wait for 2 or 3
years. That will provide jobs.
In the meantime, I think we have to fully fund what is called the Compre-
hensive Education Training Act, CETA, so that those who graduate without a
skill can be trained for a skill where there is a demand, and there are areas in our
employment across the country where there is a shortage. That particular legis-
lation and the funding we have provided will help in that regard.
663
