[212]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
North Carolina as Phil Ford ¹ has done for the university and will do in the days
ahead.
With that, I will be glad to answer questions. I understand the first one is from
Howard Covington.²
PRESIDENT FORD COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN HOWARD CALLAWAY
[1.] Q. Good morning, Mr. President. This morning, in reference to a
report concerning Mr. Callaway, following the release of that report, Mr.
Callaway has told reporters that he would like to say that you have full faith and
confidence in him, but that would have to come from you. Would you comment
on that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Callaway, this morning, asked that he be temporarily
relieved of his responsibilities as campaign chairman for the President Ford
Committee. It was at his request and I acceded to it. I have known Bo Callaway
for 15 or more years. I knew him before he came to Congress; I knew him in the
Congress; I knew him as Secretary of the Army. He has been very helpful and
effective as the chairman of the President Ford Committee. I have full faith in
Bo Callaway. He is stepping aside until all of the allegations have been answered,
and we will wait and see. But on a personal basis, he is a man of integrity.
Q. How long do you expect him to be absent from the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no way of knowing the precise time.
NORTH CAROLINA GOVERNOR JAMES HOLSHOUSER
[2.] Q. Mr. President, there has been speculation in North Carolina political
circles that if you are nominated and elected, Governor Holshouser may be
offered a Cabinet appointment. Have you personally considered or discussed
such a possibility with him?
THE PRESIDENT. Jim Holshouser is, likewise, a very long and good personal
friend of mine. I have known him on the many trips I have taken to North
Carolina, when I came down on many occasions to help congressional or other
candidates. He has done a superb job as Governor of North Carolina. I cer-
tainly would consider him for some high office in the next administration. I
would certainly consider him as one of the potential Vice-Presidential candi-
dates. We have a number of outstanding members of the Republican Party in
¹ Basketball player for the University of North Carolina.
* President of Covington Diesel, Inc., Greensboro, N.C.
Howard H. (Bo) Callaway, national campaign chairman of the President Ford Committee, was being
investigated for allegedly intervening in a decision by Government officials to expand a resort he controls
on Federal land in Colorado.
682
