March 11
[203]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We will have to be persuasive in trying to convince other countries, who are parts
of these international loaning organizations, that the point you raise is a very
legitimate one, and I think it is.
Q. Mr. President, there seems to be a large military conflict now in Angola.
And I was wondering if you could relate the Soviet buildup in all of the con-
tinent of Africa to your idea of détente with the Soviet Union and we, as Ameri-
can farmers, selling them agricultural produce at the same time that we are
working with them militarily or facing them militarily in other areas of the
world.
THE PRESIDENT. I firmly oppose military adventurism such as the Soviet
Union and Castro's Cuba undertook in moving into Angola and the Soviet
Union supplying $200 million worth of military hardware and Castro's Cuba
providing some 12,000 military personnel to support one of the three factions in
Angola that were contesting who or what group ought to be the ruling faction
in the country of Angola.
The United States, at my direction, felt that the other two groups more
nearly represented the majority of the people in Angola. We tried to help those
other two factions, the FNLA [National Front for the Liberation of Angola]
and the UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of Angola].
The Soviet Union and Castro were in favor of the MPLA [Popular Movement
for the Liberation of Angola]. We put a small investment of money and wanted
to put some more. I think if we had put the extra money in, we would have been
able to get an Angolan solution to the problems of Angola, not a Castro-Soviet
Union solution. I vigorously oppose the Soviet Union and Cuba being involved,
and to the extent that we can under the circumstances that might develop, we
would also oppose additional adventurism in Africa by either of those two
countries.
Now, I don't believe that it would have been in the best interest of the United
States as a whole, even though we opposed the Soviet Union in Angola, to cut
off our grain shipments to the Soviet Union. I know that some say that we should
use grain shipments and withdraw them from the Soviet Union, that we should
buy them from the farmers if we can't sell them overseas, and we ought to store
them until other markets are provided overseas. I just don't agree with that.
I can remember, and I suspect some people in this audience can remember, not
too many years ago, when we had a surplus of corn, a surplus of wheat and,
perhaps, soybeans. The Government literally controlled the farmers market. We
have gotten away from that, and I don't believe we should make farm exports a
pawn in international relations.
619
