February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. That sounds very good, but you will still be asking us to be accountable for
that money and still want to know that it is going to the right people and for
the right services.
THE PRESIDENT. We will give you the money for the social services program
on the one hand or the health programs on the other.
Now, we have to have some understanding of where you spend it. We can't
give it to the State for either social services or health and then have it go for
highways. We do have to have some recordkeeping, but you don't have to go
through a multiplicity of applications in health-15 programs. You can make one
application for a block amount, get the money, and then, at the State and local
level, you make the decision. As long as we are convinced that the money is
going for the overall purpose, we are not going to come looking over your
shoulder and have one investigator for every one of your social workers.
It is just the opposite. Under the present system, it is totally intolerable. Paul
O'Neill is the expert here on this program, but isn't the overhead about 15 to
20?—about 10 percent on this program as we look at it. And we can reduce that
to what percentage, Paul?
PAUL H. O'NEILL [Deputy Director of the Office of Mangement and Budget].
We can get rid of 2,300 Federal employees and have about 50 left.
The President. This is an interesting statistic. If Congress would go along
with that, we could get rid of 2,300 Federal employees and have 50 left. So, that
shows how many fewer-[laughter]-how many fewer Federal employees
would be bothering you.
Q. Nevertheless, we do have some control over how that title 20 money is
spent. We make a State plan and we make the decision in the State how the
money is to be spent. Nevertheless, one of those 50 people in Washington, or
several, would still be saying, prove to us you spent it right.
And what bothers me, Mr. President, is that there are people in Washington
who are doing their darnedest to see that we do not spend that money for the
services that the Congress wanted.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am sure that you will be less harassed with 50 em-
ployees than 2,300. [Laughter]
Q. I hope so.
THE PRESIDENT. So, at least we will make headway in that regard. Now,
Paul-
DEPUTY DIRECTOR O'NEILL. We are designing the legislation at the President's
direction, and we have been working with mayors and Governors and county
officials. And in the draft legislation that we now have, we would require that
177
