April 9
[316]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
negotiating process more directly. During the recent visit to Washington of
Turkish Foreign Minister Caglayangil, I emphasized the need for both sides
to negotiate in good faith so that progress on the Cyprus problem can be realized
as expeditiously as possible. Secretary of State Kissinger also addressed the
Cyprus question in his discussions with the Foreign Minister. It was clear from
our conversations that Foreign Minister Caglayangil believes these negotia-
tions should be sustained so that the entire spectrum of issues can be considered.
In sum, we are encouraged that the negotiating process has been resumed
and that a procedure has been developed whereby the critical issues can finally
be subjected to serious negotiations. An important threshold has been crossed.
Equally encouraging is the impetus that has been created to work out the
humanitarian problems. Now we must all work to maintain and increase
momentum. We are ourselves again reviewing the situation to see what more
can be done to complement the efforts of UN Secretary General Waldheim and
the parties, now that the stage has been reached where proposals are being
exchanged. We will give serious consideration to any initiative or action—
consonant with the wishes of those involved-which would provide greater
impetus to the process that is now underway. In the weeks ahead, we will
be in touch with the parties to explore such possibilities.
For the moment, we urge that the two sides engage in realistic and statesman-
like discussions on the major issues such as territory. For our part, we shall
continue to devote our energies and resources to finding a just solution to the
problems of Cyprus.
The White House,
April 9, 1976.
316
GERALD R. FORD
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at San Antonio,
Texas. April 9, 1976
REPORTER. Mr. President, what about the 1,200 civilians employed at Kelly that
were laid off in the manpower cuts, and what specifically will you do for them,
and what assurances do the people of San Antonio have that there will not be
further cutbacks in the closing of Kelly?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, I think we have to have a little history of what
precipitated the closing here of Kelly and around a thousand civilian jobs. Con-
1027
