February 10
[77]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Egypt and with Israel, and continues to seek a just and lasting peace through-
out the Middle East.
A strong military presence and decisive action by the United States coupled
with the elements of our Pacific doctrine have stabilized international relations
in Asia and the Far East. I believe and believe very strongly-that $112,700
million requested in my fiscal year 1977 defense budget represents the best way
to deter war and to keep our country secure. By maintaining unquestioned mili-
tary strength, we will negotiate from strength, not from weakness.
We will not prevail in this protracted struggle with the enemies of freedom,
big or small, by warming over the old rhetoric of the cold war or by fast and
fancy gunplay with weapons that can destroy most of the human race.
We will win this struggle, and we are winning it, by the patient and pains-
taking pursuit of our own national interest through continuing my present
policy of peace through strength.
Anyone who has ever been in the Armed Forces, especially in wartime, knows
that the final objective you gain from that experience, the continuing mission you
take with you when you leave the service, is to work for a peaceful world for
your children and your grandchildren.
The veterans of all nations will tell you just that. But, as Americans, we have
an extra responsibility. We did not seek it, but it was thrust upon us. We cannot
escape it, and we will not. Circumstances, destiny, fate, or whatever you call it,
the fact is the United States of America is today the world's best and perhaps its
only hope of peace with freedom.
Upon our strengths, upon our power, upon our prudence and our persever-
ance rests mankind's best hope for a better world. Whatever chance there is for
permanent peace depends upon America's resolution and rational leadership.
I am committed to such a firm and steady course. And I am greatly encour-
aged and pleased by your strong and steadfast support.
I thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House following the briefing by
administration officials.
In his opening remarks, he referred to William P.
Clements, Jr., Deputy Secretary of Defense, Gen.
George S. Brown, USAF, Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, and Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft,
USAF (ret.), Deputy Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs.
247
