March 13
[212]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the Congress, as Governors, and certainly Jim Holshouser would be included
among them. And with the new administration he would certainly be eligible
for an outstanding position in the new administration.
POLITICAL CAMPAIGN CHARGES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, as early as February 6, Ronald Reagan had asked
you to take a position on the New River here in North Carolina, and we didn't
hear any statements until basically yesterday when it came out. Now, he has
been charging that you have used your office for political appointments and
also for other political announcements. Doesn't this kind of look like the same
sort of thing? So, is his charge more warranted with the New River an-
nouncement yesterday?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am very delighted that the Secretary of Interior
yesterday made the announcement that he had approved the environmental
impact statement, which he has now forwarded to the Council on Environ-
mental Quality, which recommends that the New River be included in the Wild
and Scenic River Program-some 26.5 miles. It is now before the Council on
Environmental Quality.
Secretary Kleppe made the decision totally on his own. He never talked to
me about it. I never talked to him about it. The 90-day period, which expired, I
think, February 28, gave him the opportunity to examine all of the aspects of it.
And he has made the decision 13 days after the deadline, which I think is a
reasonable and a responsible period of time.
I have read some of these political allegations about my campaign. Let me
answer that very categorically. I have been in 14 political campaigns, including
this one. I have also talked affirmatively about my own record, my own cam-
paign, my own promises. I never paid much attention to last-minute political
observations or changes. I will run on my own record and not be concerned
about these last-minute allegations.
PRESIDENT FORD COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN CALLAWAY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to return to the question of Mr. Calla-
way, if we may. You said that you do not know how long he will be away from
the campaign. It is not quite clear to some people as to who will determine
whether or not there has been a violation, certainly of ethical practices, on the
part of Mr. Callaway. Who will make that determination to clear this matter
up?
683
