[234]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
That brings me to another incidental reason I am in North Carolina today.
[Laughter] There is a rumor going around that North Carolina is planning
a Presidential primary next Tuesday. I heard about it on the plane coming down
here this morning. [Laughter]
But let me give you a few reasons or a few pluses concerning the state of
the Union, and I will talk about that in the remaining time. Things are really
looking up for the United States of America, and we should be very proud of
that fact. We should recognize, however, that we have been through some very
bad times in America in recent years. There is no denying that. We ought to
be frank and honest about it, but there is also no reason whatsoever for us to
dwell on it.
I think all of us should look to the future, and that future, as I see it, is filled
with hope and expectation, promise and fulfillment. And I can say without
hesitation or qualification, I am very, very proud to be an American, and I am
proud of America.
In the last 19 months, as we scan that period of time, really great progress
has been made in a number of areas under the most difficult circumstances.
Today, America is at peace. Today, there are no Americans committed in com-
bat anyplace throughout the world, and I can assure you that I intend to keep
it that way.
The best way I know to maintain that is to have what I call peace through
strength. And let me say firmly and strongly America's defenses are second to
none, and they will continue to be second to none in the next 4 years.
In addition to our military strength, America's economic strength is being
steadily restored after the worst recession in 40 years. It is easy to get lost in a
sea of statistics when we talk about economics. A simple way to look at it is
to recall that 19 months ago, everything that was supposed to be going up was
going down and vice versa.
However, today we are headed in the right direction in every possible eco-
nomic indicator. Thanks to some commonsense policies and the support of
people in the Congress like Jim, at the beginning of this recess, and thanks to
the determination and courage and ingenuity of the American people, we are
working our way out of this recession, and doing it in the right way.
We are on the road to a new prosperity in the United States, and I am not
about to take any detours or roadblocks put in the way by a Congress that wants
to fool around with our economy in a political and a partisan way.
Unemployment is going down, prices are stabilizing, inflation has been cut
in half in the last 19 months. In fact, the Labor Department announced just
752
