[223]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
As we enter the last quarter of the twentieth century, our policies are di-
rected toward working with others to ensure that the world's talents and re-
sources better serve the well-being of mankind. We continue to seek a world
in which all people can prosper, a world without hunger or severe want, a world
in which the best efforts of all nations are prized and rewarded, so that their
progress and health are ensured.
My Council on International Economic Policy plays a significant role in the
development of America's international economic policies to meet immediate
needs and guide our future course. Through its participation on the Economic
Policy Board we have achieved better coordination of U.S. domestic and inter-
national economic policy than ever before in our history.
This, the fourth International Economic Report of the President, measures
the range of the Administration's concerns and the character of the American
response to major international economic issues. I am proud of our progress and
accomplishments in 1975. I am confident that they will lead toward a more free
and open world of international economic relations benefitting the American
people and all people.
The White House,
March 17, 1976.
NOTE: The President's message, together with the
annual report of the Council on International Eco-
nomic Policy, is printed in the "International Eco-
GERALD R. FORD
nomic Report of the President, Transmitted to the
Congress March 1976" (Government Printing Office,
189 pp.).
224
Letter to the House Minority Leader on Certain
Provisions of the Proposed Antitrust Bill.
March 17, 1976
Dear John:
As I outlined to you on Tuesday, March 16, I support vigorous antitrust
enforcement, but I have serious reservations concerning the parens patriae
concept set forth in the present version of H.R. 8532.
I question whether federal legislation is desirable which authorizes a state
attorney general to sue on behalf of the state's citizens to recover treble damages
that result from violations of the federal antitrust laws. The states have the
ability to amend their own antitrust laws to authorize parens patriae suits in their
730
