[185]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the last 19 months, I have taken affirmative action to ensure that America's
alliances are strong, our commitments are worthwhile, and our defenses are
without equal in the world.
In my Presidency, I have proposed the two largest peacetime defense budgets in
American history as the best assurance of deterring aggression and maintaining
our own national security. There are some very sincere, very thoughtful, and very
patriotic Americans who believe that these defense proposals take too much of
our financial resources, take them away from domestic programs supported by
the Federal Government. And I respect that view. But we must remember that
the foundation for all of these domestic programs, the basic premise upon which
they all depend is that the United States will continue as a free, independent, and
secure nation. That must be our highest priority, and in this administration it is.
Beyond securing our own independence, America's defensive strength, by the
very fact of its existence, enables us to deter aggression in many parts of the
world. And that strength makes it possible for us to negotiate for peaceful prog-
ress from a position that commands respect and invites cooperation.
Because both sides of the Middle East conflict respect our strength, our word,
and our commitment to a just and lasting peace, we have won the role of a peace-
maker in that very strategic and very volatile part of the world.
Our aim is to make peace secure throughout the world. We are conducting our
foreign policy with our eyes open, our guard up, and our powder dry. We know
that peace and national security cannot be pursued on a one-way street, but we
also know that returning to a collision course in a thermonuclear age can leave
the human race in ashes.
I will not lead the American people down the road to needless danger and
senseless destruction. I will lead them on the path of peace through strength, and
we will live in peace and freedom in the United States of America.
It is our duty and our great opportunity to make the most of the peace and free-
dom we enjoy in America today. Let us show ourselves worthy of the price we
have paid for them in blood, in sacrifice, and in treasure.
Let us take more seriously and more personally our precious right of free po-
litical expression in this election year. Let us set ambitious goals for the future of
our country and work hard and work together to achieve those goals.
Let us strive to secure the blessings of liberty for ourselves and our posterity
and stand tall and strong and free among the nations of the world.
Let us make certain that the cause of freedom has no better friend, no stronger
ally than the United States of America. And let us resolve, as the greatest son of
548
