January 29
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
legislation-legislation that we recommended and finally got the Congress to
agree to—there is money in there for some 30,000 to 40,000 jobs in the rehabili-
tation of railbeds and a wide variety of other programs. And Secretary Coleman
has promised me that there will be immediate implementation of that legislation.
We not only need our rail system working better but we can also, in a construc-
tive way, rehabilitate the railroads so that they can provide the services both for
freight as well as passenger service.
There are a number of other programs that I know will interest you, and you,
undoubtedly, have a great many questions that you might like to ask. But if we
work together—general revenue sharing, some of these consolidation programs—
if we work in unison, we can achieve a great deal. I happen to think that we
are on the right course in trying to get over the hump of the recession that we
had in 1975, where we had very high inflation and unemployment, much too
high. But by a firm, steady, constructive program of trying to watch the expendi-
ture of Federal dollars and not going for some of these quick fixes that some
people advocated, the rate of inflation is going down. The rate of unemploy-
ment is headed in the right direction-down. And we are laying the foundation
for a healthy economy with the emphasis—with the emphasis on the private sec-
tor, and that is where you get your tax money.
If you have a healthy economy, you can collect and will collect money at the
local level to provide the services that your constituents require, and it will give
us an opportunity to help you with Federal dollars in better managed programs
such as we have proposed.
I am an optimist about America. I believe the system that has given us all
these blessings for some 200 years is a better system than some government-
managed economy. And working together we can, I think, give us a good year
in 1976, and an even better year in 1977.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:07 p.m. in the State Dining Room at the White House.
39
Remarks to Delegates Attending the Young Republican
Conference. January 29, 1976
I am particularly pleased to see so many of you, to see the enthusiasm and to
I AM really delighted to welcome you to the East Room of the White House.
105
