[260]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
domestic market is not seriously disrupted and that our objectives under the
multifiber arrangement are met. I can assure you that they will be.
Other steps also need to be taken to keep our textile industry strong and pros-
perous including reform of our regulatory system. We need to ensure that legiti-
mate concerns over noise levels, dust and water pollution are met at a pace and
at a level that can be sustained by the industry and by the economy.
And I am also familiar with the fact that with the impetus that had started
in some of these areas a few years ago, there were efforts made to go too far too
fast. And what we are trying to do in a responsible and reasonable and construc-
tive way is to swing the pendulum back so we can balance, I think equitably,
the needs of the economy on the one hand and the other problems on the other.
But also high on the list of needs in your industry is energy conservation and
development and availability. As users of natural gas in the finishing of your
fabrics, you know far, far better than I how important it is that we have an
adequate supply of this vital resource. And as users of man-made fibers you
know, again far better than I, how important it is that we have an adequate
supply of petroleum. In order to be certain that these vital supplies are available
for all American industry, I continue to support vigorously, as I have from the
very outset, the deregulation of natural gas and the development of an energy
conservation ethic. These are essential.
These two programs are absolutely essential in achieving energy independence
for the United States, and, obviously, I have your support. As we look at the
problem of deregulation of natural gas, we were able to get from the United
States Senate late in 1975 the Bentsen-Pearson bill which gave us an opportunity
to achieve the deregulation of natural gas. We made a massive effort—and I
believe that many in this audience worked with your Members of the House of
Representatives to try and get the House to do the same. Probably the greatest
disappointment in this session of the Congress has been the fact that we lost
that vote in the House of Representatives by, I think, a difference of 3, some-
thing like 207 to 204.
Unbelievable, that Members of the House of Representatives could not under-
stand, could not realize that the only way you can stimulate more exploration
for natural gas is to give to those who are willing to invest an opportunity for a
fair return on their investment. And as long as we keep the lid, as is the case
under existing law, you are not going to have any real exploration effort to try
and find more of this resource in this country.
Then the bottom line is what really bothers me. In the month of February
of this year we imported more oil from foreign sources than ever in the history
810
