February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. All right. In other words, why is military aid given to other countries? If
you give military aid, to my understanding it means go fight and kill each
other. That is what it basically means.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a very idealistic view. But if you look at the
Middle East—let's be very categorical and frank—if you look at the Middle
East, we have had substantial military hardware given and/or sold by the Soviet
Union to Syria. And they did the same thing for Egypt until Egypt learned that
their better future rested with us rather than with the Soviet Union. You have
to live in the real world, not in some world that you would like, but it isn't
that way.
So, as much as I would like to not send any military hardware to any of these
countries, if they ask it in their self-defense, and we don't get American military
forces involved, and they think it is in their national interests, and they are
willing to pay for it. I think we have to at least consider it and, in a number of
cases, be forthcoming.
U.S.-CUBAN RELATIONS
[12.] Q. President Ford, Catherine Miner. My question involves Angola.
How is the Cuban involvement in Angola going to affect the future economic
relations with the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. The 10,000 to 12,000 Communist-oriented Cuban mercenaries
that are an expeditionary force, for all intents and purposes, have stopped any
possibility of U.S.-Cuban relations improving, period.
NAVY SHIPBUILDING PROGRAM
[13.] Q. Mr. President, you talked in your speech about a strong military
posture for the country, and yet it has become recently very evident that the
Russians have been increasing their naval power at a much faster rate than we
have—the incidents in Somalia, with the new large naval bases on the coast and
things like that. Is there any consideration being given right now to revamping
our Navy and getting rid of some of the older ships and bringing up the tech-
nology level?
THE PRESIDENT. There certainly is. We have had a new and expanded Navy
shipbuilding program for 2 years, and the third year is included in the budget
that I submitted. And in that budget we are recommending to the Congress
$6,900 million in spending for 17 new capital ships.
It is very true in the last 5 years the Soviet Union has moved forward un-
believably in the building of a new, major naval force for worldwide operations.
At the same time, the United States, during the Vietnam war, was neglecting
225
