[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
What we have to do is have the Federal Government run a good tight
Defense Department, carry on the other legitimate areas, and work with the
States and local units of government. But if you are suggesting that we do away
with the National Institutes of Health or some of those very essential programs,
I respectfully disagree with you.
Q. Mr. President, I'm George Patterson and I'm president of the Broward
County Bar Association. Like Mr. Bass, I'm proud of my profession, and we
are proud to have a lawyer as President of the United States. We have been
talking about revenue sharing, and I want to mention something about revenue
raising for south Florida.
As you well know, the price and the availability of gasoline seems to be very
critical to our economy in south Florida. And I would like to know, sir, what
steps your administration is taking to prevent an increase in the price of gaso-
line to the American consumer, and what is your opinion as to whether or not
there will be an increase in the near future?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we had a very substantial increase in the cost of gasoline
and fuel oil following the Egyptian-Syrian-Israeli war in October of 1973,
because of the oil embargo and the increase in price. Unfortunately, we are
now importing from OPEC nations 40 percent of our domestic oil consump-
tion-40 percent. It has gone up from 33 percent in the last 3 years.
They control the price. We don't control the price. That's why we have to
have an energy program to stimulate domestic production and, in the mean-
time, we have to have conservation. But an interesting thing—if I could take
just a minute-since 1972, our domestic oil and gas production has gone down
every year. Today we are buying from overseas sources 40 percent of the oil
that we use in this country, and it is going up every day. And we don't control
that price.
Now, what we have done—it was not precisely the way I recommended it—
but in a compromise, the Congress and I agreed on an energy program that I
signed into law in December of last year.³ What it does is, more or less, stabilize
the price of gasoline and fuel oil for the first year. As a matter of fact, it might
even dip a cent. And I understand in most areas of the country, it has dropped
about a cent as far as gasoline in the last several weeks. But, anyhow, it is sup-
posed to stabilize it.
But then, in order to stimulate domestic production, so we use our oil and
not Arab oil, you are going to have some slight increases. You can't expect
3 See 1975 volume, Items 741 and 742.
288
