February 14
[90]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
back the cost of living for the consumer. For the month of January there was
no increase in the Wholesale Price Index. The month before there was a 1.6
drop. The month before, it was zero, so we are really doing something effective
in the Wholesale Price Index. And that will have a beneficial impact for young
and old and people in every one of our 50 States.
But to create jobs we have to have our economy really moving. And, again
yesterday, we got some excellent news—that industrial production was up
again.
So as we look across the domestic spectrum, I find a great reason for en-
couragement, even more so than I tried to say during the State of the Union
Message about a month ago. But it does not do us much good to get things
straightened out and problems corrected at home unless we are sure that our
national security is in the right direction.
I said last week, and I reiterate it here—the policy of this administration
is one of peace through strength. I submitted in January the largest defense
budget, I think, in the history of the United States-$112.7 billion. This is the
first real step to make certain that we have not only the capability to deter
war but the capability to make certain that our security is secure.
But more importantly, we are making the right kind of headway because
we are strong in our reestablishment of our alliances abroad. I have had some
excellent personal contacts with the heads of government in Britain, in France,
and West Germany and other Western European countries. Today, the NATO
alliance is in the best shape it has been since its inception.
It is important that we keep a strong partner and many friendships in the
Pacific. Our relations with Japan today are the best they have ever been.
That is a bulwark of strength in that vast ocean area.
At the same time, we can look with great pride at what has been accom-
plished in the Middle East. We have moved forward to a just and permanent
peace in the Middle East. Why? Because the Israelis trusted us and the Egyp-
tians trusted us. And it is the trust they have in us which convinced them
that they could move toward a settlement of some of their differences. This
is the result of America being strong and America being trusted.
But we do face some adversaries around the globe. We face the People's
Republic of China. It is important that we continue the negotiations and
the open relations that we have with them. We recognize that their ideology,
their political philosophy, is totally different from ours, but you can't ignore
297
