January 29
[37]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Often, as I walk into the office, I realize that man's wisdom and strength are
not sufficient. So, I try to practice the truth of Proverbs 3:5-6:
"Trust in the Lord with all thine heart;
Lean not unto thine own understanding.
In all thy ways acknowledge Him,
And He shall direct thy path."
Tolerance, understanding, love-let us pray for all of these because we need
them as a people. Let us pray for God's guidance in our pursuit of peace. Let us
rediscover our past and renew ourselves in its cherished principles. And then let
us begin our journey into this third century with the same faith and the same
purpose of our Nation's founders. Let us span the centuries at this moment and
unite the past, the present, and the future in spiritual communion.
Let us make it our "earnest prayer," as George Washington did two centuries
ago, that "God would graciously be pleased to dispose us all to do justice, to love
mercy, and to demean ourselves with charity and humility, and a peaceful
temper of mind, without which we can never hope to be a happy nation.”
And let us make it our "constant prayer," as Lincoln did more than a century
ago, not only that God is on our side but that we “and this Nation should be on
the Lord's side."
Finally, let it be said that in this great Nation of ours freedom still flourishes
and liberty still lives. As we declare our dependence on God, let us unite in the
same bond which united those who signed America's Declaration of Independ-
ence 200 years ago.
Let us today reaffirm their pledge, as written in the closing words of that ma-
jestic document, that "For the support of this declaration, with a firm Reliance
on the Protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our
lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honor."
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:11 a.m. in the In-
ternational Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. Representative Richardson Preyer of North
Carolina presided at the breakfast, which was spon-
sored by the United States Senate and House prayer
breakfast groups.
101
