March 24
[254]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
forced to shoulder an ever-larger burden to pay for benefit increases far exceed-
ing real changes in the cost of living.
Under existing law, when annuities under the Civil Service, Foreign Service,
Central Intelligence Agency, and military retirement systems are adjusted to
reflect changes in the cost of living, an extra one percent is added automatically.
Because the extra one percent has been compounded each time the system has
been adjusted, retirement payments are running substantially ahead of the actual
rise in the cost of living. This procedure threatens the financial integrity of the
retirement systems.
Since the one percent add-on became a part of the law in 1969, Government
retirement annuity adjustments have led to increases totaling 63 percent. Yet
during this same period, the actual increase in the Consumer Price Index was
50 percent. As a result, annuitants under these retirement systems received $1.6
billion more by the end of fiscal year 1975 than they would have if the adjust-
ments had simply kept pace with the actual increases in the CPI. Furthermore,
the liability for future Federal personnel retirement payments increased $11.2
billion in just six years because of the one percent add-on. Each future increase,
under current law, will mean at least $1.9 billion in added liability for future
payments.
Retired Federal employees deserve to be protected from the ravages of infla-
tion. The Federal retirement system is a good one and its guarantee of automatic
adjustments directly related to rises in the CPI is not widespread in the private
sector. But the Federal systems are unique in providing one percent over and
above the actual rise in the CPI. It is neither appropriate nor fiscally responsible
for the Federal government to continue to provide such an added benefit.
Accordingly, the Civil Service Commission, the Department of State, the
Department of Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency are submitting bills
to repeal the one percent add-on feature in the civilian and military retirement
systems they administer.
I urge the Congress to consider these proposals and act on them promptly
and favorably.
The White House,
March 24, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
799
