[192]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Will you veto it?
THE PRESIDENT. It's only half-way through the Congress. I don't indicate
publicly until I see the black and white, until I see the language in the law, or
proposed law, as to whether I'm going to veto it or not.
We will do one here, and then we've got a young man over here that I want to
get a question from.
THE ENVIRONMENT
[8.] Q. Mr. President, although the environment is not a major campaign
issue this year, it remains an important issue in the minds of many Americans.
As President for 4 additional years, what initiatives will you take to ensure that
environmental quality is improved, especially in consideration of a report link-
ing 80 to 90 percent of cancer to pollution of our air and water?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the environment ought to be discussed in this
campaign. I think it's a matter that shouldn't be cast aside. It's a vitally impor-
tant problem in this country. We kind of woke up to the dangers of the environ-
ment, the damage that has been done to our air and water, about 6 years ago,
and Congress passed some legislation to try and clean up the air and the water.
Some substantial progress has been made.
The Federal Government has spent about $18 billion to help local cities and
communities clean up their water and sewerage problems. The Environmental
Protection Agency has issued very strict regulations about industry and its
efforts to clean up its discharge and to clean up what they do as far as the air is
concerned.
Now, I think we have shifted a little bit from an all-out effort to clean up the
air and water in 5 years, after we destroyed it for about 100, so that we are going
to probably stretch out some of these programs, because you just can't overcome
100 years of neglect in a period of 5 years.
But I can assure you from this administration's point of view, we are going to
continue to have a sound, constructive, broad-gauged environmental program.
And I can assure you there will be maybe some stretching out for a minimum
period of time, but we aren't going to neglect the environment, period.
Q. I'll hold you to that, Mr. President. Thank you.
CHILDHOOD ASPIRATIONS TO BE PRESIDENT
[9.] Q. Mr. President, when you were little, did you ever think that some
day you would be President of the United States? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Believe me, we didn't get together ahead of time, did we?
592
