[272]
March 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, with all the concern about how we are going to feed the
world in the future, there is some concern that we are not putting enough seed
money into agricultural research on both the Federal and the State level. I
wonder what plans you might have in that direction of upgrading the amount
and the quality of research?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't pass judgment on what the States are doing, but I can
tell you about the Federal Government. I increased, for fiscal year 1977, the re-
search and development in the Department of Agriculture by 5.5 percent. I think
it was a $22 million increase.
Now, some question has been raised that that is not above the increase in
the cost of living. Therefore, it really in effect was not an increase. All I can say is
that when I look at all the departments and the various subdepartments in a
department that got cut—I mean, cut in dollars—research in the Department
of Agriculture by getting an increase came out pretty well.
I happen to be a firm believer in research and development across the board.
We put substantially increased amounts in for energy research. Solar energy I
increased by almost 40 percent. Of course, it started from a relatively low base
but I think it was $80 million, and we increased it about 40 percent over that.
We did the same—not quite as much—in geothermal research and several
others. So, I am basically in favor of research and development. And we in-
creased basic research-which is very important for many of the long-range
things-by 11 percent across the board in the government, so that once we get
that we can apply it to applied research. But in the Department of Agriculture,
it was a $22 million increase-5.5 percent.
There was a gentleman when I was talking about nuclear power who I
gathered—way in the back of the room—might have some differences with me
on that, and I want to give him his equal time.
Q. No, sir. I just wanted to ask you one more political question.
THE PRESIDENT. Now, this was not a put-up deal. [Laughter]
Q. I am sure every man in the room has his own opinion of how you will do,
assuming the best, if you win the nomination and run for President in Novem-
ber. I would like to hear your assessment of how you will do, given the chance in
November, among the farm voters?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we did pretty well with the farmers in Illinois.
Q. What was the percentage of the vote there, among the farmers?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we got-it was a little less than the suburban vote but it
was not materially less, and I think primarily that support we got in those areas
came from the meeting that I held in Peoria with about 300 or 400 farmers. So, it
864
