March 15
[218]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, we are concerned, I think, in Ohio, with the scheduled
abandonment of some of the rail lines.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, under the Rail Revitalization Act, which I signed about
a month ago it provides that if a State wants to continue what has been
designated as a prospective line for abandonment, that State can put up 30
percent of the cost of maintaining that line, and the Federal Government will
put up 70 percent. But it has to be of such importance to the State that the State
is willing to make an investment, and I think that is a fair proposition.
Q. Our president, in Europe, said we are being thought of as an unstable
supplier of grain. I think you said a word about that, but this concern about keep-
ing exports open seems to be there, as well as here.
THE PRESIDENT. I know that some in agriculture have raised questions about
the embargo that we imposed for several months in 1975. But it was done solely
for the purpose of getting a 5-year firm agreement for a minimum sale of 6
million bushels (tons) per year to the Soviet Union, with an opportunity for
them to buy more.
Now, I am convinced that that was in the long-range interest of agriculture.
I can assure you to this extent: I see no prospects for any reimposition of any
embargo. In fact, I told some Illinois farmers 10 days ago or 2 weeks ago, the
chances were literally nil. And as long as we produce and have the capability
of selling as we have, I see not using agriculture—and this is the important
thing—not using our farm exports as a pawn in international politics, period.
MR. SWANK. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:20 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Representative Clarence
(Bud) J. Brown of Ohio and C. William Swank,
executive vice president of the federation.
218
Remarks at the Swearing In of William W. Scranton as
United States Representative to the United Nations.
March 15, 1976
Governor Scranton and Mary, Mr. Justice Stewart, Governor Ray, Members of
the Congress, Cabinet, Diplomatic Corps, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great personal privilege and a very high honor to participate in the
swearing in of an old friend, Bill Scranton, as the new Representative of the
United States at the United Nations and as the newest member of my Cabinet.
717
