[188]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
what specifically your policy is going to be, should there be any more Com-
munist incursions in that area?
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, are watching it very closely. I think it would
be inappropriate for me to give any signal as to our precise course of action.
Q. Is there any truth to the story that Melvin Laird is being considered
for the Secretary of State's job?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. Mel Laird is a very close and very good friend of
mine. He has got a number of very fine jobs on the outside in the private
sector. He is a very helpful adviser to me. But we have a good Secretary of
State, and he is going to stay on.
Q. Yesterday, your son Jack said that he thought that if you won in Illinois
that would end the Reagan threat. Do you agree with your son Jack on that
issue?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if we win in Florida and Illinois, we will be very en-
couraged, and I would think my opponent would be somewhat discouraged.
Q. How formidable a candidate do you think Mr. Reagan is?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me just talk to the local press, please, Wally [Walter
Rodgers, Associated Press Radio].
Q. Could this be the key turning point in your campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. It will be very significant, because with success in Florida
and success here, we will have piled up a significant number of delegates, and
that is what will make the difference in Kansas City.
Q. Assuming there are victories in Florida and Illinois, do you see Mr.
Reagan then pulling out of the race?
THE PRESIDENT. You will have to ask him about that.
Q. Sir, do you think Hubert Humphrey will be your opponent in 1976?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think the rest of them are, as I understand it, cutting
each other up pretty badly, dividing the Democratic Party with their comments
and criticisms of one another. And so, I still think the prediction I made better
than a year ago, that Hubert would be the candidate, holds true.
Q. You have fewer candidates for delegates in this district than there are
seats available. Is that indicative of the rest of your campaign organization
throughout the State?
The President. I think we have got a very first-class organization. Former
Governor Ogilvie has done an outstanding job giving us real leadership. Every
place I have been our delegate lists are good, they are strong, they are identifiable
people who have been leaders in the community. I think we will do all right
in this district as well as others.
562
