[283]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
But let me give you an example. Remember this Lithuanian, Kudirka, who
tried to escape from a Soviet fishing boat and got on board an American
Coast Guard vessel and then was put back? This was before I was in the White
House. I want you to know-and I saw him—where did we see Kudirka the
other day? Some place in the last month or two I saw him, and he was very
grateful because he knows through my personal intercession he got back here
and is in the United States.
Q. What can our Government do from a humanitarian point of view to
intercede on their behalf, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you will give me the names, we will undertake it.
Q. Sir, I wrote you a letter and I delivered it to Mr. Kuropas.²
THE PRESIDENT. All right, fine.
Q. Mr. President, I am a Serbian Orthodox priest from Cudahy. I am a
Yugoslavian immigrant and also a citizen of the United States. I would like to
inform you that in our Orthodox Church services, we always pray for you and
for your health, so I guess I deserve to ask you a question. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. If I don't answer it right, will you still pray for me? [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, I cannot change our books. That's in our rites. [Laughter]
Last December, my brother, who was the mechanical engineer and doctor of
engineering—he was the professor at the university—he was killed in Tito's jail.
And I read this morning's newspaper that he said that they are sentencing those
people who are pro-Soviets―he does not have anything to do with the pro-Soviet
regime. His father is my brother from my father's brother—that's my cousin.
He does not have anything to do with Soviet. His father was the (inaudible).
He fought against communism. He invented three inventions over there, and
they didn't recognize them. So, he fought against communism, and they put
him in jail. And at 9 today, in jail, he was killed. So, you can expect me to ask
you a question, to give you information on this.
I came to this country 13 years ago, and I am proud to live in this country.
And I am grateful that you invited ethnic groups to discuss this. I would like to
say this: I lived in Yugoslavia for 22 years, and I know that Yugoslavia is not
independent; she is still an enemy of the United States. And financial aid
which the United States Government sends to Yugoslavia is not used for the
people, but for their leaders and rulers to prolong their regime and to enjoy
American dollars that might be available.
2
The Yugoslav Government sent a field hospital to North Vietnam while still
Myron B. Kuropas, Special Assistant to the President for Ethnic Affairs.
900
