[287]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Republican, but I will tell you this: I have heard in the 27 years since I have
been in Congress, tax reform—that has been an old song that has been sung
and sung and sung, and Mel Laird and Bill Steiger have heard it a long time
along with me. The party in power in the Congress of the United States has the
responsibility, and the Democratic Party has controlled the Congress 38 out of
42 years, and they have not passed a bona fide tax reform bill. If they want a
majority, doggone it, they ought to perform. That is all I am saying.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES IN AGRICULTURE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am current vice president, and I am also planning
on running for president next year of the West Bend High School's FFA [Fu-
ture Farmers of America]. My question is that with many of the problems
being faced today by younger people in securing jobs, I was wondering what
you see as the future for them in securing a job in an agriculture field?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have been encouraged from the reports that I get
from the Department of Agriculture that more young people today are going to
our agricultural universities and colleges than at any time in the history of the
United States. There must be a lot of young people who have faith in agriculture
as an occupation, and I think that faith is justified, and let me tell you why.
We now have 215 million Americans in this country. As we look around the
world the population is burgeoning—it is really exploding. The demand for
food is going to get greater and greater and greater because we have more people,
and countries and people are getting more affluent.
So, there is going to be a guaranteed market for agricultural products from
the United States, and as long as that market exists, if you are able and willing
to work, I think the occupation of a farmer is a great prospect for young people,
and I would urge you and others to get into it.
Did you have another question?
PRESENTATION OF FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA PLAQUE
[8.] Q. Yes. I also have a presentation to make to you. At our last meeting—
and we just had one this last week-the members voted unanimously to elect
you as an honorary member of our chapter, and I would like to present you
with this plaque. Please accept this with the compliments of our chapter.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much.
Q. You are welcome, Mr. President.
The President. I had an opportunity about a year and a half ago to speak
928
