March 29
[268]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
United States and the Atlantic alliance stand for freedom. That is our policy and
that is the policy of the American people.
And so, gentlemen, as we honor each of you we also honor our own highest
principles, and we are reminded of our duty. May we serve it as well as each of
you have served.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:50 a.m. at a cere-
mony at the Pentagon. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Donald H. Rumsfeld, Secretary of
.Defense.
268
Letter to the Chairman of the International Trade Commission
on Imports of Dry Milk Mixtures. March 29, 1976
[Dated March 26, 1976. Released March 29, 1976]
Dear Mr. Chairman:
Pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, I
have been advised by the Secretary of Agriculture, and I agree with him, that
there is reason to believe that mixtures of dried milk and other ingredients are
being and are practically certain to be imported under such conditions and in
such quantities as to render or tend to render ineffective, or materially interfere
with, the price support program for milk undertaken by the Department of
Agriculture, or to reduce substantially the amount of products processed in the
United States from domestic milk.
Specifically, reference is made to the following mixtures:
Dried milk (described in items 115.45, 115.50, 115.55, and 118.05) which
contains not over 5.5 percent by weight of butterfat and which is mixed
with other ingredients, including but not limited to sugar, if such mixtures
are capable of being further processed or mixed with similar or other in-
gredients and are not prepared for marketing to the retail consumers in
the identical form and package in which imported; all the foregoing
mixtures wherever classified under the Tariff Schedules of the United
States.
The Secretary has also advised me, pursuant to Section 22(b) of the Agricul-
tural Adjustment Act, as amended, that a condition exists requiring emergency
treatment with respect to these mixtures and has, therefore, recommended that I
take immediate action under Section 22(b) to restrict the quantity of the afore-
mentioned mixtures, which may be entered. It is my intention promptly to issue
851
