[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Number one, we are working very closely in a new program with the Mexican
Government. That is one point of entry where there has been this tremendous
increase. The cooperation that we are developing with the Mexican Govern-
ment, I think, will produce some results in stopping the flow on the one hand.
When I was in Mexico about 18 months ago, I personally talked to President
Echeverría about it.
Number two in this budget, this budget I have here, we have recommended
additional employees for the Immigration and Naturalization Service so that
they can do a better job of finding illegal aliens on the one hand and seeking to
get them deported on the other hand.
Now, there is one other thing we are trying to do. I have favored legislation
that has passed the House last year, as I recall, that makes it mandatory for an
employer to ask whether a prospective employee is an illegal alien. That would
be very helpful.
Unfortunately, the Senate has not approved it. But that would make the ad-
ministration of this program much, much better. So, between better coopera-
tion with Mexico primarily, through more employees to try and find illegal
aliens and get them deported, and through prospective legislation, I hope we
can make some significant advancements in solving the problem that you are
talking about, because it does add to our unemployment, it does add in many
major metropolitan communities to the welfare burden.
Those jobs ought to be available to legally—or legal immigrants or, certainly,
American citizens. We are working on it as much as we can, because I recognize
the difficulty.
Q. Mr. President, John Hoar, Jr. The other day you signed a bill which we
have been looking for in this State concerning the railroads. I congratulate you
for doing that. This encompasses certain provisions and clarifies certain provi-
sions of the Regional Rail Reorganization Act, which we have been looking for.
We've got a bad situation in this State, being dependent on one railroad basic-
ally. That railroad, although it's not part of ConRail, is in a very tenuous condi-
tion. We are not unique in the country.
However, my question is, what do you see for the future of railroads and
developing of the railroads and encouraging rail traffic, both freight and, I will
put in parentheses, "passenger," because that depends a lot on the success of
the freight.
THE PRESIDENT. The Congress did pass the bill that I signed last week. I rec-
ommended it. It involves $6,200 million. It provides for the rebuilding of road-
beds; it provides for the refinancing and consolidation of the New York
174
