March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
SITUATION IN ANGOLA
[7.] Q. Do you support Mr. Kissinger's belief that the United States will be
interpreted as weak in the eyes of the Kremlin because of our failure to respond
to Angola, and do you feel that this marks the end of the détente envisioned by
Secretary Kissinger?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Congress of the United States made a very serious
mistake when they denied me, as President, the capability to help, with very
limited amounts of money, two of the three forces in Angola that were trying
to settle Angola's problems by Angolans.
If we had gotten the very limited amount of money that I thought should
be utilized to help these two Angolan groups—the UNITA [Union for the
Total Independence of Angola] and the FNLA [National Front for the Libera-
tion of Angola]—I think they could have found a negotiated way for a coalition
government. But because the Congress failed to help and assist, the Cuban-domi-
nated 12,000 mercenaries, plus Soviet equipment of some $200 million, with the
help and assistance of the MPLA [Popular Movement for the Liberation of
Angola], now dominate Angola. It is a very rich country, with a very great
potential, and it was a serious mistake that the action of the Congress resulted
in the Soviet Union and Cuba, in effect, taking over that country. I think it is
a serious mistake with broad ramifications in the future.
MARIJUANA REFORM
[8.] Q. I would like to know your views on marijuana reform.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe, on the basis of the scientific evidence that we
have available today, that we should decriminalize the use of marijuana.
SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUND
[9.] Q. My question relates to social security. In 1965, the maximum amount
of social security paid on behalf of any one employee was a maximum of $348.
Now in 1976 someone earning $15,300 pays a combined employee-employer
total of $1,790. So, in just over 10 years we have had a 414-percent increase in the
cost to middle-income American taxpayers. And apparently there is no end in
sight because a deficit occurred this year for the first time so more and more
money is going to have to be raised. So your solution is to increase regressiveness
of that tax by increasing another three-tenths of 1 percent and further burdening
the low- and middle-income taxpayers in this country.
I would suggest that maybe a better approach would be, completely reevaluate
841
