[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
billion increase in Federal revenues and, therefore, such a policy would not
increase the deficit?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that the Federal Government should, out of
the Federal Treasury, coming from the Federal taxpayers, provide a job for
every individual. It seems to me that the better approach is to create an economic
environment so that the private sector provides jobs for those who want to work.
And that is the basis of my proposal in the budget and in the economic
message. The employment of individuals by the government, with the taxpayers
paying the bill for their employment, in my opinion, is not, in concept, the
American way. We have prospered, and we will prosper in the future, by utiliz-
ing the free enterprise system and the private sector far better than making the
government the employer.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Sarah [Sarah McClendon, McClendon News Service],
how are you?
Q. Don't you feel that you may have 50 little nations by sending this money
back to the States for this program on children and other block grant ventures?
Don't you feel that the States might take the money and then might use it badly
or they might not have a program at all? And one State might have a better
program than the other, and the people in the population might flock to that
State.
THE PRESIDENT. Sarah, I think you have forgotten that the Federal Govern-
ment was established by the States.
Q. I have not forgotten it, sir, but I don't see how that applies here.
THE PRESIDENT. It seems to me that the States have a record of handling the
problems the best, as far as their individual circumstances are concerned. I
believe that States and local units of government with elected officials can make
better judgments than a bureaucracy here in Washington, D.C. I believe that
the closer decisions are made to the people, the better they are. And that is the
concept in which I firmly believe. It is working in community development. It
is working in the law enforcement assistance area.
I am not going to give up on properly elected officials at the State and local
level. I think they do a good job. And all we are doing is giving them money to
carry out the kind of programs. And the programs in education may be different
in Florida from those in Maine. The programs in the field of health may be
different in South Carolina than they are in Alaska.
And I happen to believe that the Governor of Alaska and the Governor of
Florida or South Carolina can make good judgments in these areas. And I think
60
