April 3
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
confidence to invest their money. It means that the signs of faith and optimism,
the signs of health and vitality are returning to a country that not too long ago
seemed to be frozen into a long, cold winter.
kept to,
We have come through some hard times together, and now we can see that
not only has our system survived but it is getting stronger and stronger. And I
think the policies that this administration followed, that this administration
had a significant impact on how much better things are getting.
Common sense, for example, told us that the way to beat unemployment was
not by padding the Federal payroll but by strengthening America's free enter-
prise system. Common sense told us that the way to hold down the cost of living
was to hold down the cost of government, and I did that with 46 vetoes, 39 of
those vetoes were upheld by the Congress. And because we were able to sustain
36 [39] of those vetoes we saved the taxpayers $13 billion—and that ain't hay.
We fought to get you off the treadmill of inflation, and we are going to keep
on fighting, and we are going to continue to be successful. We are going to
keep our policy of sound and stable price levels, and we are going to keep our
common sense.
Common sense tells us that State and local governments close to the people
frequently have a far better sense of their needs than some Federal agency hun-
dreds and hundreds of miles away from you in Washington, D.C.
Common sense tells us that one program that has worked for the American
people is our social security system, which ensures a decent standard of living
for our elderly Americans. I am determined to preserve the integrity of the
social security system, and I have made concrete proposals to achieve it, and
the Congress better respond to it.
Common sense tells us that we really don't want to dismantle the Federal
Government and destroy good programs along with the bad ones. We should
improve the programs that do work and get rid of those—that extra luggage
that does not work, and we are in the process of doing that right now.
But, as some of you know, one of our best programs is general revenue shar-
ing, and if you want to look at the author of general revenue sharing, look at
Mel Laird here, who back at least 10 or 12 years ago was really the author, the
principal sponsor of general revenue sharing. And it has done a lot to help local
government, State government do the job at the local level a lot better than some
of the bureaucrats are doing it or have done it in Washington, D.C. So, we
ought to thank Mel, but let's get the Congress to extend it.
You know, common sense tells us that you don't switch quarterbacks just
when your team is hitting its stride, just when you are gaining ground. Or, to
955
