March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
like there have been some convictions. Obviously, something has to be done
to change a system that has rotted as that one has.
Now, we have a proposal before the Congress. There are several other pro-
posals that have come from Members of Congress. The Committee on Agricul-
ture is having a meeting—next week is it? The bill, according to Paul and the
Secretary, is being marked up today. There are any one of several options. We
think the one that the Secretary proposed is the best, but, obviously, we cannot
tolerate the condition that exists down there at the present time. And if the Con-
gress sends me a good bill that will change the bad law we now have, I will darn
soon sign it.
Q. Mr. President, I have a small farm in Menard County, and I am interested
in keeping it in my family. Is there consideration given to actual income worth
of property rather than our spiraling inflation values for this base of inheritance
tax? There is certainly a difference.
THE PRESIDENT. Would you state that again, please?
Q. Are they considering using the actual income worth of the crop off the
land rather than spiraling inflationary real estate sales for evaluation of property?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I had always assumed that the value of the property
related to the productivity of a particular piece of property as far as the estab-
lishment of the value for inheritance or estate tax purposes.
Q. For instance, a piece of property has just sold for $3,000 an acre within
about 12 miles of Springfield, 80 acres. There is no way that you can have an
income of $3,000 an acre from that land. There is no way that a woman who has
250 acres valued today by the appraiser for her inheritance tax at $520,000, and
owning $75,000 worth of machinery and $40,000 worth of insurance can pay
$172,000 worth of inheritance tax, plus $20,000 to an attorney. This is an actual
case I am interested in.
THE PRESIDENT. It seems to me that someone like yourself or a person repre-
senting that viewpoint and that practical problem ought to go down and testify
before the House Committee on Ways and Means and lay it out to them.
Q. I would be delighted to.
Q. Mr. President, I am a farmer here in Sangamon County. Would you ex-
pand a little on the reason for the appointment of Secretary Butz to the new
position. And does this mean that there is a possibility of someone other than
the Secretary of Agriculture assuming this task at some future time?
THE PRESIDENT. The Secretary of Agriculture was put in charge of this com-
mittee because we are in the process of reorganizing the internal administration
of the West Wing in the White House. And I have felt that this particular sub-
539
