January 5
[8]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in Earl Butz. You don't know how he fights for you. You don't know how
he sells for you. You don't know all the things he does, literally night and day,
for you. He is the advocate of profitable food production, the advocate of the
farmer, and the advocate of fair play. And I want to thank you, Earl, for the
great job you have done for them and for the country.
I share your pride in the new strength of agriculture. You have made America
the source of life-sustaining food production in a world that is increasingly short
of food.
We, through your efforts, have provided $25 billion in Food for Peace over
the last two decades, the last 20 years. In the last 10 years we have furnished—the
United States, through your efforts, furnished 80 percent of the food aid in the
entire world. And during this Bicentennial Year, we will ship approximately
$1 billion worth of commodities under the Food for Peace program.
At home, you are supplying the American people with food at a far smaller
share of their income than anywhere else throughout the world. And I compli-
ment you for it. You are not making an undue profit at the consumer's expense.
While the price of bread, for example, went up nearly 11 cents a loaf over the
last 3 years, wheat prices added only 1½ cents per loaf; nonfarm costs added
more than 9 cents. I wish I had Earl Butz' loaf of bread here to illustrate it.
[Laughter]
Let us never forget that America's farmers must profit if America is to profit.
There must be enough income for you to replace machinery, conserve and enrich
the soil, and adopt new techniques and buy essential supplies. The continuity of
our farm families is vital. Therefore, I want you to be the first to know that when
Congress reconvenes, I will propose changes in our tax laws to revise family
estate taxes.
I want this continuity preserved. I want this done so that farms can be handed
down from generation to generation without the forced liquidation of family
enterprises. I know from my many personal friends in agriculture, too much
labor, too much love go into the development of a paying farm to dismantle it
with every new generation.
It is no exaggeration to say that the fate of America in our third century and
of all civilization depends on you. I have faith in you, in all the farming families
of America, and in your federation.
Let there go forth from this meeting today the Bicentennial message that the
past is prologue to an even better future. America, with its greatest material and
human resources ever achieved by any nation, has not forgotten the spirit of “can
do." We can do, and we in America will do as we have in the past.
19
