[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
about 26 Panamanians and about 10 Americans. Now those negotiations are
very complicated. They are deadlocked. I can assure you that I will not do any-
thing that will jeopardize the defense of the canal or the operations of the canal.
I can't tell you whether there will be an agreement or not. I can simply tell you
how I feel about it, and I will reiterate, that the defense and the operations of
the canal are mandatory from our point of view.
Q. Mr. President, my name is John Lomelo, I'm the mayor of the city of
Sunrise and I have two questions I'd like to ask you. Question number one: Is
the United States or your particular administration going to stand fast by what
Moynihan has—in the U.N.—has spoken out in a strong attitude for the nations
around the world to start to respect us a little bit?
THE PRESIDENT. I selected Pat Moynihan. He was my appointee, and I selected
him because he wrote an article in some magazine-I think it is called Com-
mentary—where he said precisely what we ought to do. It appealed to me. I
appointed him. He did exactly as he said he would and as I wanted him to, and
I regret very much that he has resigned because he is a first-class U.N. Ambassa-
dor. But I sent him up there, and he carried out my policy. Now the man that
will succeed him will do exactly the same thing.
Q. In other words, you are saying whoever goes there next will be echoing,
basically, what Moynihan has been doing, speaking out as an American should
speak out?
The President. He certainly will. I am not sure he will be as flamboyant as
Pat, but the substance will be precisely the same. And I reiterate, I put Pat in
there and he carried out my policy, and the next one will do exactly the same
thing. So don't worry.
Q. Second question, Mr. President. You were mentioning the fact we have
no control because of the Arab prices on the Arab oil. We do have something
that could be quite a control if we were to use it, on the domestic level, and
that is food-wheat. Why are we, at this time, not using this commodity?
Unfortunately, we shouldn't say, “Well, the people should not eat over there."
I am not saying that. However, at the same time, they are saying to us that they
are going to charge us for this fuel which our people need in this country for
heat, for energy, right on down the line.
And you made the comment to deregulate the natural gas. Many communi-
ties will not be affected by the deregulation of natural gas. Some of us who
have natural gas systems will be affected, because the price will go up. So,
therefore, we are going to have to raise those prices to our consumers. So, why
290
