March 12
[206]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have a right to expect that the Federal Government will practice fiscal restraint
and make its ends meet.
I don't need to tell you that just 1 year ago this country was in very serious
difficulty as the end result of unwise Federal spending over a long, long period
of time. We were confronted at that time with both inflation and recession. In
the face of more popular solutions that sounded good on the surface, we held the
line on bigger and bigger spending. In many cases, a majority in the Congress
wanted to take the very popular course, or what seemed to be the popular
course, with budget-busting proposals.
I strongly disagreed with that approach and since becoming President some
19 months ago, I vetoed 46 bills sent down to the Oval Office from Capitol Hill.
Thirty-nine of those vetoes were sustained, and John and Chuck were very help-
ful in that regard. And it is interesting to note that those vetoes amounted to a
savings to the Federal Treasury and to the taxpayers, eventually, of some $13
billion. And may I add parenthetically, if there is a continuation of that kind
of irresponsible action by the Congress in sending one after another inflationary
budget-busting proposals to the White House, they will be vetoed every single
time.
I think we have set a very firm and a very steady course toward recovery, and
we have stuck to it. We didn't try to tinker with any quick fixes or superficial
answers to the great American economy. We recognized and we encouraged
the natural strengths in our free enterprise system, and I think it is working.
It was Teddy Roosevelt who said—I don't know whether he said it here in
Rockford or not, but he did say, and I quote: "It ought to be evident to everyone
that business has to prosper before anyone can get any benefit from it.” And I
will add that the heavy hand of government interference must be lifted before
business can prosper. John Anderson in the introduction mentioned our attempt
to deregulate the American business—a program of deregulation that, in my
opinion, will work. We have made some headway with the enactment of the
Rail Revitalization Act. We are pushing for deregulation in virtually every
other independent agency, and we have a task force, or several, I should say,
that are going through every department of the Federal Government—not
people from that agency or that department but a group from another agency
or another department that is requiring that every department justify all regu-
lations and all forms that they require that department's constituency to make
out or to prepare. I think we can reduce very substantially the redtape and the
regulations that have been on the books, so to speak, for a long, long time, and
I guarantee you that we will make progress in this regard.
629
