[169]
March 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
The proposed legislation will require States to develop a plan, with public
participation, for the use of Federal funds. All interested citizens, students,
parents and appropriate public and private institutions will participate in the
development of the plan. States will be required to develop procedures for inde-
pendent monitoring of compliance with their plan. State progress will be meas-
ured against the plan, but the plan itself will not be subject to Federal approval.
For Fiscal Year 1977 I am requesting $3.3 billion for the education block
grant. For the next three fiscal years, I am proposing authorizations of $3.5
billion, $3.7 billion and $3.9 billion. For too long the real issue in our education
programs―Federal versus State and local control-has been obscured by end-
less bickering over funding levels. Hopefully, with these request levels, we can
focus the attention where it belongs, on reform of our education support
programs.
Enactment of this legislation will allow people at the State and local level to
stop worrying about entangling Federal red tape and turn their full attention
to educating our youth.
I urge prompt and favorable consideration of the Financial Assistance for
Elementary and Secondary Education Act.
The White House,
March 1, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
170
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Documents as Required by the Forest and
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974.
March 2, 1976
I AM pleased to transmit a Statement of Policy, a Renewable Resources
Assessment and the Secretary of Agriculture's proposed Renewable Resources
Programs as required by the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Plan-
ning Act of 1974.
I have agreed that the general goals recommended by the Secretary are desir-
able ends and are worthy of our careful consideration. I have further stated that
my policy will be to implement the recommended goals in accord with two
basic principles—maximizing the Federal budget's contribution to the Nation's
502
