[296]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
296
Message to the Congress Transmitting Report and
Plan for the National Cancer Program. April 5, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to you the report on the activities, progress, and accom-
plishments of the National Cancer Institute during calendar year 1974, as well
as a program plan for the next five years. The Director's Report and the Plan
were prepared in accordance with Title IV, Part A, Section 410A (b), Public
Health Service Act, as amended (42 USC 286e (b)).
The Administration is pleased to note the progress and accomplishments in
cancer research, especially on cancer treatment and detection, and in promo-
tion of the use of cancer knowledge in medical and health practice. A number
of centers of cancer expertise have been established across the country. The re-
sults of the research and control activities must surely foretell an ameliorating
influence on the formidable cancer statistics that face us today.
Our intensified cancer research effort was born of public concern about the
problems of cancer, which takes many forms, and it has our continuing support
and commitment. The recommendations of the National Cancer Program Plan
for substantial increases in funding, expanded research training, and new con-
struction of research facilities must, however, be annually reviewed in the con-
text of limited budgetary resources and other competing demands.
Our national involvement is symbolized by the National Cancer Program.
People in Government and in the private sector must share the responsibility
in this total effort against cancer. This report and this plan are a mark of our
progress toward the ultimate solutions to the problems of cancer.
The White House,
April 5, 1976.
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Cancer Pro-
gram, Report of the Director, 1975-United States
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare,
Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health"
(115 pp.).
GERALD R. FORD
The plan is entitled "National Cancer Program,
1975 Annual Plan for FY 1977-1981-U.S. Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public
Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Na-
tional Cancer Institute" (122 pp. plus appendix).
968
