March 30
[274]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
You have demonstrated outstandingly your willingness to join us in facing very
squarely the great challenges of our time, not only in the Middle East but
elsewhere.
I was extremely pleased to discuss at length some of the most complicated and
controversial issues which both our countries face in the Middle East. His Maj-
esty and I agreed that in addition to the progress that peacemaking efforts have
achieved so far, much, much more remains to be done.
We are both very conscious of the many difficult problems that must be over-
come to secure a just and a lasting peace. These problems will not be solved
tonight or even tomorrow in our meeting in the morning, but we know that
they must be solved, and we will double and redouble our efforts in that regard.
We are jointly committed to persevere in the pursuit of peace. We are more
than ever determined that the negotiating process must continue. A settlement
must be obtained that will fulfill the aspiration of all states and all peoples of the
Middle East for peace, stability, and human progress. Certainly, the United
States could not hope for a more able and honored associate in this historic task
than His Majesty King Hussein.
Your Majesty, your determination, your courage, your dedication to the cause
of peace in the Middle East are so well-known to all of us that any repetition on
my part of your distinguished accomplishments is totally unnecessary.
You are no less famed for your personal courage, your forthrightness, your
dedication to the welfare of your people, and for your loyalty to your friends. I am
proud to salute you tonight not only as a statesman and a leader but also as a
close, personal friend and as a friend of our country.
I must say that I take very special pleasure in welcoming another outstanding
representative of Jordan, Her Majesty, the Queen. She was once in our country
as a student, and we are delighted to welcome her as a gracious queen whose
charm captivates us as it does the Jordanian people.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rise and join me in a toast to His Majesty
King Hussein of Jordan, a partner in the search for peace, a distinguished leader,
and a true friend of the United States, and to Her Majesty Queen Alia.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:13 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. King
Hussein I responded to the President's toast as
follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, distinguished guests:
Thank you, Mr. President, for the thoughts you
have expressed so eloquently. The welcome and
hospitality you and Mrs. Ford have so graciously ex-
tended to me and my wife are deeply appreciated.
We feel very much at home, which is fitting for
friends.
The friendship between Jordan and the United
States is indeed unique. It stems from common
values which we both hold dearer than life-free-
dom, equality, honor, and human dignity. It has
grown during a most difficult period in the lives of
both countries. Friendship deserves a more serious
consideration of those who enjoy it. When there is
867
