[287]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the administration of justice, just to name a few. The important thing is that
government should do what it has to do better, more effectively, more efficiently
than it has been doing in the past. But as I told some of your neighbors over in
La Crosse last weekend-we must make sure that government is always the
servant, never the master of the American people.
The pages of history tell us that our people have made tremendous progress
in the last 200 years, no other nation can match us in the combined economic,
agricultural, technological, military, and more importantly, moral strength of
the United States of America. We are number one in the world, and we are going
to keep it that way in the years ahead.
Yes, I think we have made substantial progress going through a period of
trauma, difficulty, trial, and tragedy. Yes, but the strength of the American
people, the strength of the government that we have, has proven, I think, not
only to us but all the world that America is strong and is going to keep strong.
But there is more to be done, and that is why I am asking for your support next
Tuesday, next November, and in the challenging years ahead.
Thank you very, very much.
Now, let's have the questions-the best part of the program.
QUESTIONS
[1.] Q. Good evening, sir.
GUN CONTROL
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, how are you?
Q. Doing fine, thank you.
You were touching most of the subject on taxes and such, but I wanted to go
off into another subject on gun control. Were you for it, against it—what are your
stands on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I have long been an adamant opponent of the registration of
guns or the registration of gunowners, period. Let me add, if I might, one or two
sentences to that. I believe that we should pass legislation to make mandatory cer-
tain penalties for those individuals who commit a crime in the possession of a
gun, period. And I also happen to believe that we should, in those areas of heavy
crime, where we know, from the records that the so-called "Saturday Night
Specials," the cheap handguns, are used in great numbers to commit a crime, to
commit murder, then we ought to beef up the law enforcement people in those
areas to try and stop that kind of attack against our society.
924
