[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Lynn has just indicated that you are going to propose
eliminating the 1-percent kicker on Federal pensions. Have you proposed, or
are you planning to propose, anything which would deal with the so-called flaw
in the social security cost-of-living increase which is said to give a double jump
to social security beneficiaries?
THE PRESIDENT. It's my recollection that we seek to remedy those defects in
all cases. Is that correct?
DIRECTOR LYNN. That's right, Mr. President. We do address that question.
And I think the book that you have been handed on 70 issues goes into that in
somewhat more detail.
Q. Mr. President, in your Medicare program you suggest that you are going
to limit Medicare payment increases to 7 percent for hospitals and 4 percent for
physicians. The medical profession has not been known for limiting their in-
creases. If they ignore this plea, will the burden go on to the recipient, and will
that be over the maximum amount that we have been told they would pay in
catastrophic?
THE PRESIDENT. That limit of 7-percent increase on hospitals and nursing care
homes and the 4-percent limit on physician fees applies only to those programs
where the Federal Government pays the hospital, the nursing home, or the
physician. And I believe that a physician or a hospital, under those programs,
can't charge extra where the Federal Government has the principal responsibility.
David or Paul?
SECRETARY MATHEWS. Roughly, the theory that we are operating on here is
that the—if you look, as everybody knows, at the costs in health care delivery,
they are running well above any of the other inflationary costs—some figures
up to 40 percent. And these are two remedies that would seek to restrain that
cost. But we are obviously operating on the assumption that there can be some
moderation both in hospital fees and in doctors fees in this case.
THE PRESIDENT. Paul, do you want to add anything?
PAUL H. O'NEILL [Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget].
Yes, perhaps one thing. Under the Medicare program now and under this new
proposed legislation, a doctor or a hospital, if they agree to accept assignment—
that is to say, if they agree to work directly with the Medicare program—they
must agree to accept the fees without any further billing to the patients. They
do, of course, have the ability, if they wish to take advantage of it, not to deal
directly with the program, but rather to deal directly with the patient. But I
don't think we would expect the doctors and hospitals to turn down so-called as-
signments under these new provisions.
66
