[107]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
J
we are achieving, particularly in the area of food, a better balance than we
have had for a long, long time.
Q. Well, that is why in my original question I rule out seasonal or monthly.
The reality is that over the years food prices continue to go up. The price may
remain the same, Mr. President, on an item, but the quantity has been
diminished.
The President. Well, when I became President, as I recall, the food prices
that year had gone up something like 20 percent. It is now estimated that
food prices in this calendar year will increase somewhere between 4 and 5
percent. That is a significant improvement. It, I think, ought to get a little
praise rather than condemnation. From 20 percent down to 4 or 5 percent is
a lot of progress.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-seventh news con-
ference began at 8 p.m. in the East Room at the
White House. It was broadcast live on radio and
television.
108
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-Spain
Friendship and Cooperation Treaty. February 18, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between the
United States of America and Spain, signed at Madrid on January 24, 1976,
together with seven Supplementary Agreements and eight related exchanges
of notes. For the information of the Senate, I transmit also the report of the
Department of State with respect to the Treaty.
I believe this Treaty will promote United States interests and objectives relat-
ing to Spain and western security. With the advice and consent of the Senate
to ratification, the Treaty would serve to provide a firm basis for a new stage in
United States-Spanish relations, reflecting United States support for and encour-
agement of the important evolution which has begun in Spain and to which the
Spanish Government renewed its commitment in connection with the signing
of the Treaty. The Treaty reflects the mutual conviction of Spain and the United
States that the proper course of this evolution should include, as major objec-
tives, the integration of Spain into the institutions of Europe and the North
Atlantic defense system and should include a broadly based cooperative rela-
360
