[73]
February 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
trine of separation of powers. The other would severely limit our effectiveness in
international affairs.
The appropriation, "Procurement of Ammunition, Army," in title IV of
the bill restricts the obligation of funds for certain purposes "until approval is
received from the Appropriations and Armed Services Committees of the House
and Senate."
The exercise of an otherwise valid Executive power cannot be limited by a
discretionary act of a committee of Congress nor can a committee give the Execu-
tive a power which it otherwise would not have. The legislative branch cannot
inject itself into the Executive functions, and opposition to attempts of the kind
embodied in this bill has been expressed by Presidents for more than 50 years.
In addition, I am deeply disappointed that the Congress has acted in this bill
to deprive the people of Angola of the assistance needed to resist Soviet and
Cuban military intervention in their country. I believe this provision is an ex-
tremely undesirable precedent that could limit severely our ability to play a posi-
tive and effective role in international affairs.
Because of the importance of the programs which are funded by appropria-
tions contained in this bill and the problems which would be caused by a further
delay of this legislation, I shall not veto the bill. However, I intend to treat the
unconstitutional provision in the appropriation "Procurement of Ammunition,
Army," to the extent it requires further congressional committee approval, as
a complete nullity. I cannot concur in this legislative encroachment upon the
constitutional powers of the executive branch.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9861, approved February 9, is Public Law 94-212 (90 Stat. 153).
74
Message on the Observance of Black History Month,
February 1976. February 10, 1976
IN THE Bicentennial year of our Independence, we can review with admiration
the impressive contributions of black Americans to our national life and culture.
One hundred years ago, to help highlight these achievements, Dr. Carter G.
Woodson founded the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and
History. We are grateful to him today for his initiative, and we are richer for the
work of his organization.
Freedom and the recognition of individual rights are what our Revolution
was all about. They were ideals that inspired our fight for Independence: ideals
242
