[99]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
terrible stories that the President didn't have any friends, he didn't have any
organization, he was not going to win-you know, all the dire, pessimistic
predictions. I have been here almost 24 hours, and I don't believe any of them.
I think I have got a lot of friends. I think we have got a good organization,
and I think we are going to win. We are going to win for two reasons. Num-
ber one, all of you and literally thousands like you throughout the State of
Florida are really dedicated, unselfish, and believe that what is good in this
cause is good for America. And I thank you for that dedication and that support.
Let me now talk about what we can talk about—I am going to talk about it,
and I hope you will talk about it. We have got good programs; they are good
for America, and they are going to be implemented for the benefit of 215 mil-
lion Americans all over this country.
Let me summarize it very quickly. Number one, we were faced with a terrible
recession, lots of high inflation. Inflation is going down, employment is going
up and unemployment is going down, and that is good for America. And we
are going to do better and better.
Number two, this country is still the leader in the world. We have a great
responsibility. We can keep peace with strength, and we are going to have the
strength to keep the peace-period. Our allies in Western Europe know it and
support us. Our allies in the Pacific know it and support us. Our potential
adversaries know we have it, and they respect it.
As I came through this wonderful group tonight, I had the privilege of
shaking hands and saying hello to many, many who are in the Cuban-American
population. Let me say categorically and emphatically, the United States will
have nothing to do with Castro's Cuba-period.
And let me make another comment or two. The United States has to have
a strong military capability, and we do with the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines. We are going to have the money out there; we are going to have the
weapons. We've got wonderful people, and through them and what they stand
for we can keep the peace through strength. But there is another thing that
ought to be emphasized. It is the best insurance in peace as well as in war—
America needs the finest intelligence capability anyplace in the world, and we
are going to have it. We can't let those who want to dismantle our intelligence
community prevail, and I'll be darned if we are going to let the leakers ruin
our intelligence community.
John, I want to thank you. I want to thank all of you. I am proud to be a
part of you. I am proud of what you have done, and I'm most grateful. But
334
