February 19
[117]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
STATE AND LOCAL DECISIONMAKING
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
I am very much concerned about the rules and regulations that override
our State laws. The people who make the rules and regulations are not answer-
able to our people because they are not elected officials. Is there some way that
you could set up a legislative subcommittee to oversee the rules and regula-
tions or get their approval before they are finally made?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am sure you are familiar with the fact that under
our system of government of checks and balances the President can't tell
the Congress to establish a committee or a subcommittee. They are a separate
and coordinate branch of our government. In fact, they would probably do
just the opposite if I recommended it. If you recommended it, they might pro-
ceed with it. No, I am being very serious. I don't think that the Federal Govern-
ment—and I can only speak for the Federal Government-should override
responsible local or State decisions. And frankly, that is one of the reasons why
I have tried so hard to get the Congress to move from categorical grant pro-
grams, where some bureaucrat in Washington makes the decision and over-
rides the decisionmaking process of a local official or a State official. And
under the program where I recommend taking Federal money and giving
it to the local officials and State officials, then you don't have some bureaucrat
in Washington making the decision; you have the process handled right here
in Keene or Manchester or Portsmouth or Conway or any one of the other
places.
Thank you all. It's a great pleasure to see you. Good luck to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:42 p.m. at Keene
High School. The forum was sponsored by the
Keene Jaycees.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
James A. Masiello, vice chairman of the New Hamp-
shire President Ford Committee, John M. Croteau,
Jr., chairman of the board of the Keene Jaycees, Rev.
Chandler H. McCarty, pastor, St. James Episcopal
Church of Keene, Robert M. Clark, master of cere-
monies, and Charles Burns, principal of Keene High
School.
117
Remarks at Harper's Acres Retirement Home in Keene.
February 19, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much. First, may I express, on behalf of Betty and
myself, our appreciation for the opportunity to come back to Harper's Acres
and to meet all of you and have an opportunity of saying hello and to enjoy your
friendship and hospitality.
391
