February 17
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ing were conducted by that agency. What do you have in mind for putting
more severe controls on the FBI in intelligence gathering?
THE PRESIDENT. The Attorney General is in the process right now of writing
very strict guidelines involving the activities of the FBI, and he expects to
have those guidelines available and in place and effective within a relatively
short period of time. And those guidelines will take care of the problems
that you have raised.
CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
[14.] Q. Mr. President, as I understand it then, those guidelines would be
the result of Executive action, and, as I understand it as well, much of what
you propose here this evening will be the result of Executive actions, some of
which you have already taken. Do you foresee no role for the Congress in
oversight of intelligence-gathering activity at the time that it is going on,
either foreign or domestic?
THE PRESIDENT. I will issue Executive orders involving the foreign intelli-
gence agencies. The Attorney General will do it as it affects the FBI. The
Congress, I hope, will establish a joint committee along the format of the
Joint Atomic Energy Committee, and this committee called-if this is the
proper title, it is up to the Congress, of course-the Joint Intelligence Commit-
tee, would have an oversight responsibility as to the programs and the perform-
ance of the intelligence communities in the Federal Government.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S VISIT TO CHINA
[15.] Q. Mr. President, following up on Helen's questions, you were asked
about the Nixon trip last weekend, and you said in part that it was "wholesome
and healthy for private citizens to make these sorts of trips to China." You
have mentioned again tonight that former President Nixon is going as a pri-
vate citizen. With all due respect, Richard Nixon is not exactly your run-of-
the-mill private citizen. I would like to ask if you really think it is wholesome
and healthy for the conduct of American foreign policy for Mr. Nixon to
be making this trip?
The President. He is not going there involving any foreign policy matters.
He is going as a guest of the Chinese Government, and he is going as a pri-
vate citizen. He has not had any special briefings. He is going under the guide-
lines that I have suggested.
Q. You see no complications at all to foreign policy in his trip?
THE PRESIDENT. None whatsoever.
357
