[293]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I can assure you if the Defense Department decides that that base ought to be
closed, other departments will maximize their efforts to take care of any transi-
tional, unfortunate circumstance to any individuals who were previously
employed there.
Q. Unemployment, why is that——
THE PRESIDENT. On unemployment, I said that last March we had 8.9 per-
cent unemployment in the country. At the present time, the unemployment has
dropped to 7.5 percent as announced as of yesterday. We have regained in total
employment 2,600,000. We had a gain of 375,000 in the month of March alone.
We have an alltime employment figure of 86,700,000.
Now, we still have too much unemployment, but the momentum is going
in the right direction. We are selling more automobiles, retail sales as a whole
are up, industrial orders are up. You are going to find this momentum coming
from increased public confidence, so that I think in the months ahead you are
going to see more employment and less and less unemployment.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. You are the first one I have ever seen of our
Presidents of the United States of America.
THE PRESIDENT. One more.
TAX REFORM LEGISLATION
[9.] Q. I have a tax-related question for you. In your State of the Union
Address you had mentioned that there would be tax incentives for long term
investors. I wonder if anything has come about on this or if you could elaborate
on it, please?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the State of the Union Message I recommended
certain specific tax proposals that I thought would be helpful in the area of
unemployment. One was that in a geographical area of unemployment where
the unemployment was high, 8 percent as I recall, that we would give a special
tax incentive for an employer to build a new plant there or to expand or to im-
prove his plant facilities. I think that would have been a better way to get unem-
ployment down than to actually add extra payroll. That is one proposal. The
other was to provide for greater opportunity for employees and others to own
shares of stock in American industry and give a tax deferral in order to stimulate
investment in America's industrial capacity.
Those two proposals and several others are now before the Committee on
Ways and Means on which Congressman Bill Steiger serves. I would hope that
some of them at least will be approved by the Congress in 1976.
964
