[240]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
a plan that will stop them. We have a plan that, if the Congress will approve
the money—$28 million—we will be able to take two Angolan groups that form
the majority of the population of Angola, and they will be able to gain control
against the Soviet-Cuban backed group.
But when the Congress turned us down, wouldn't give us the money, we
couldn't support the two factions that could have won, and communism,
whether it is Soviet Union or Cuba, wouldn't be in there today. That is unfor-
giveable, but that is the fact.
Now, let's take a minute. We have told Castro-and these were measured
words—that he, under no circumstances, should undertake any adventures either
in Latin America or elsewhere, because we were going to take appropriate ac-
tion. If we do—and I think we have to—I hope the Congress will back me bet-
ter than they did in the case of Angola. We've got to get the Congress to come
along with the people and with the President.
And let me quickly tell you why you should be optimistic in general. Our
alliances with the NATO countries have never been better. Our relations with
Japan are the best in the history of the United States. Our relations in the Mid-
dle East have been such that the United States of America could take a leading
role in bringing Israel on the one hand and Egypt on the other to a very sig-
nificant negotiation that kept the momentum for peace in the Middle East mov-
ing. No other country in the world could have taken that leadership except
the United States.
We could go around the globe, and I could give you other illustrations that
would show, beyond any question of a doubt, that the United States is respected
in the world. The United States is a leader in the world. And these people who
go around downgrading our reputation, our credibility, our effectiveness, un-
fortunately, don't know what they are talking about.
PRESIDENT'S VIEWS ON SCOUTING
[6.] Q. Mr. President, this is my question. Mr. President, I understand that
you were an Eagle Scout. What role has scouting played in your life, and how
can scouting help benefit the American boy?
THE PRESIDENT. I was an Eagle Scout. I am proud of the fact that I was an
Eagle Scout, and I am proud of the Boy Scouts of America.
You know, the Scout oath, the Scout laws are the best guidelines I know to
give you the right direction in school, in marriage, in your career, to make your
life happy and prosperous. So, if you live up to the Scout oath and the Scout
776
