[283]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress to fund it, if we can get the Congress to give us the money to carry on.
Let's turn to the submarine situation. We have the Polaris, we are moving in-
we have the Poseidon, and I have requested additional funding for what is called
the Trident, which is a much more capable submarine for ballistic missile
purposes.
But now let's take, having mentioned the Navy—I heard somebody or read
somebody saying that we were outnumbered in the Navy, and they quoted the
figures, as I recall, of 1,100 to 400, something like that. That is an oversimplifica-
tion. It shows that you are comparing apples with oranges. We have about a 3 to 1
ratio over them in tonnage. Some people try to take numbers and compare a
torpedo boat with an aircraft carrier. Now they don't quite relate to one another.
An aircraft carrier that costs a billion dollars and has probably 125 strike air-
craft, that has probably a tonnage of 80 million (thousand) tons, is a lot more
powerful than some torpedo boat. So, you have to understand what people are
comparing. And it is a distortion, it is a misleading statement for people to quote
numbers without quoting what the military capability is. And I think it is un-
fortunate for this country that misleading statements like that are made. It could
alarm the American people, it could have an adverse impact on our allies, and
it could encourage our enemies. And I think it is very unfortunate.
Q. Mr. President, I would just like to say that we, the American people, feel
honored having you as President for your frankness and honesty in bringing the
truth to Government-to the American people.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President, do you believe we are committing suicide by shackling our
information-gathering sources abroad by publishing the names of those people
that serve this country abroad in a very important field?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that some of the information that has been given
out as to people who represent us abroad is very harmful to our intelligence-
gathering capability. I think one of the most tragic incidents was when some,
I think, underground newspaper in Greece published the name of a man named
Richard Welch. And the net result is Richard Welch was assassinated. I think
that is unforgiveable, unconscionable, indefensible. And we cannot get people
to work for the United States if we can't give them the assurance that their
identity and whatever else is needed is protected. And these publicity seekers
in this case, whoever they were—and I don't know—resulted in the murder,
the loss of life of a father. I think it is unconscionable.
Q. Mr. President, Vytas Paukstelis from the American Lithuanian com-
munity. Over the past years we have been watching détente work. It is our
898
