January 29
[38]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
smaller, and I think we have to launch a massive effort to get some action. Time
is of the essence.
Now let's talk about some of the other programs that all of you work with on
a day-to-day basis, where the Federal Government can be helpful, has been help-
ful, where the concept of block grant programs, I believe, has been beneficial
to the recipients—those you serve and yourselves.
Let's talk about the community development program. In the budget that I
sent up a week or 10 days ago, we recommended $3.2 billion-$450 million more
than in the current fiscal year. We recognize that all of you in communities have
special problems, and we are trying to make sure, under the Community De-
velopment Act of 1974, that you are going to not only get the benefit of the con-
solidation of categorical grant programs-what were there-seven cut down to
one—but we also recognize that with a better way to deliver those services, you
are going to get more money.
So, when I hear criticism that this administration is not responsive to the
needs of local units of government, the facts tell a different story.
Now I would like to say a word or two about four other programs that we are
seeking to consolidate so that at the local level you can do a better job of deliv-
ering the services—health, education, social services, child nutrition.
The health programs under the categorical grant system, I think, have not
been delivered as well as they should. And let me illustrate why they can't be
delivered effectively. Have we got that mess chart here?
Let me show you how these health services are delivered: $10 billion from
the Federal Government to States and local units of government delivering
health services, some 15 different basic programs-$10 billion.
You can't possibly deliver the services effectively with that kind of a system,
and what we are trying to do is to consolidate these programs so that the money
goes from the Federal Government—that is important—without any matching
fund requirement, so that the people who are the beneficiaries get the services
much more effectively.
Now, we have the same problem in primary, elementary, and secondary educa-
tion. The chart looks as bad, if not worse. And what we have recommended in
the case of education is the consolidation of—I think there are 27 programs in
this area. So, you can imagine it looks much worse than this one with only 15,
and we are recommending $3,300 million with $150 million bonus so that
nobody can say that we weren't responsive. But nobody can defend that kind of
a system.
103
