[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
opportunity to talk to Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle and at
both ends of the Capitol.
I think most of you recognize they have a very great interest in what we are
trying to do. As a matter of fact, I think some of their efforts are probably as
hard hitting as I hope ours are in trying to satisfy the industries and the seg-
ments of our society that all of you have a great responsibility and are deeply
involved in.
I think in this session we have today my remarks will be kept to a minimum
because I am more interested in hearing about what you have done and what
your plans for the future are. I think we have to recognize that there are cer-
tain areas that more or less cut across each of your agencies; for example, the
consumer, the small businessman and, of course, the taxpayers. The latter af-
fects not only all of you in a personal way but as individuals who have a re-
sponsibility to handle a great deal of personnel, some more than others, and
you all have a responsibility affecting our economy, and that affects our tax-
payers.
We do have some mutual problems, both in the executive branch per se and
also in the regulatory agencies. About a year ago I asked how many forms are
required of business generally or of citizens generally. I think the figure was
around 5,200, which seems awfully high, but we had it verified and I suggested
to Jim that we ought to require that every agency of the executive branch of
the Government, as well as others, do something affirmatively to reduce that
onerous burden on individuals and on our society. The target is 10 percent by
July 1.
Jim, I understand some are doing better than others.
MR. LYNN [James T. Lynn, Director, Office of Management and Budget].
Yes, and we have had a complicating factor. As we dug into it, we found there
are some forms that are never reported. We find also some departments and
agencies show progress toward the 10-percent cut. They work from the originally
reported figure because they count ones they didn't know about before from the
old 10 percent number. It is uneven, that is the best way to characterize it.
THE PRESIDENT. We expect everybody—and we will include the White House
in that—to get that 10 percent figure down. Ed Schmults and Paul MacAvoy
have been handling this responsibility for me, and I would like at this point, Ed,
if you would kick it off, and I will mainly listen and maybe ask some questions.
MR. SCHMULTS [Edward C. Schmults, Deputy Counsel to the President]. Be-
fore we begin our discussion, I would like to make a few comments on the
progress reports you all submitted at the end of the year. Reform of our regu-
1000
