March 6
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The result of this approach has been growth and recovery without restarting
the inflationary cycle. This approach has proved or has provided, I should
say, an environment in this country where free enterprise can flourish as it
will, and that means small business and small farmers, as well. We have
made some solid gains in agriculture under the great leadership of Earl Butz.
The last 3 years have registered the highest net farm income in history. And
I am determined that farmers must have a fair return for their hard labor which
they do for all of us, and we should all be very, very thankful for them.
We want to keep the Nation's grain reserves in farmers' hands, not in Gov-
ernment bins. We want farm exports kept in private trade, not determined by
Government boards. We oppose putting farm products under the control of
an international body.
We oppose subsidized imports. We want our products to compete fairly in
world markets. We have now sold the Soviet Union $2 billion or more in
farm products from the 1975 crop. That is a record, and it is only the begin-
ning of a continued program of export of our products here in the United
States.
As a result of the agreement we concluded last fall, I can assure you that
we were tough bargainers, Yankee traders in the process.
American farmers are going to have a regular market in Russia from 1976
through 1980 with no less than 6 million tons of corn and wheat each year,
and maybe—maybe, much more.
American agriculture is the heart of our great economy. I intend to steer
a steady course to assure that agriculture remains prosperous and our farmers
get their full share of America's burgeoning prosperity.
And let me add this: The right kind of leadership in Washington, experi-
enced with the complexities of government, familiar with the ways of the
Congress, knowledgeable about the multitude of our programs, has a far better
chance of a guiding, steady, balanced course than those who would hide be-
hind a blanket denunciation of our National Government. Rhetoric is no sub-
stitute for practical achievements. Generalities offer no substitute for tested,
proven, successful results. It took a confidence born of experience to say no
to the doomsayers who called for more and more spending. It will take an
understanding born of experience to continue the progress we will make in
the months ahead.
We still have a long way to go before we achieve complete recovery, but we
are on the way and nothing is going to stop us. Farm income is improving,
business is improving, employment is going up and unemployment is going
565
