[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
said she was surprised that you were still in the running as a candidate, and she
was wondering why you hadn't quit as yet and-
The President. Well, I was a little surprised myself—[laughter]—because
I have always had very cordial and good relations with former Senator Smith.
I admired her then, and I admire her now.
The reason I am running is because I think I am the only person with a
moderate, middle-of-the-road political philosophy that can win as a Repub-
lican or as a Democrat, and I think it is vitally important for the future of
America having somebody who is not on one side or the other.
I think it is important for a person who has a middle-of-the-road philosophy
to win to give us the kind of strength at home and the kind of strength abroad
that is needed, not only for our generation but for a lot of these kids I see here
tonight.
FOREIGN AID
Q. Mr. President, how do you feel about foreign aid?
THE PRESIDENT. How do I feel about foreign aid? Well, let me give you an
example of how foreign aid was very helpful, and then I can give you some
examples where it hasn't worked.
But I see some people in this audience who came back from World War II
when Western Europe was devastated. And if it had not been rehabilitated, most
of the Western European countries today would be under communism. But
the United States contributed a substantial amount of money to the rebuilding
of Western Europe, and the net result is we have freedom in those countries-
France, West Germany, Belgium, Holland, and so forth. That was a good
investment by America in a foreign aid program.
Now, we have helped some other countries where the programs have been
good. I think the Chinese Nationalist Government on Taiwan, we helped them.
We are no longer helping them because they are on their own.
Now, we have made some bad investments, too. So I think you have to realize
that in programs that involve distant lands, different kinds of people, different
kinds of societies, you will be successful one day and you may not be as successful
the next.
I think the United States should have a responsible foreign aid program
for two reasons: One, humanitarian. We ought to help people less well off than
ourselves. Americans are generous, humane, and we ought to help them. Sec-
ondly, I think we ought to in order to help ourselves in the implementation
and execution of our foreign policy.
388
