February 14
[96]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
destiny of America, ought to look beyond its shores, ought to have a broad
vision. It is a responsibility we have that we ought to accept willingly. America
is great because it is good. I think we ought to take that position all over the
world.
Q. May I shake your hand?
B-I BOMBER
Q. Mr. President, I personally appreciate the great leadership you are giving
to our country. One of the big issues before our country, of course, is spending
and cost, and it has been one of the issues we have been discussing a lot here
today. Related to it is a major issue before Congress—the B-1 bomber. What
is your point of view on this?
THE PRESIDENT. I have from its very inception supported the research and
development, and in this budget I have recommended the procurement funds
for the B-1 bomber. Let me tell you why: Our main strategic, high-performance
aircraft today is the B-52. We have some B-52's today that are over 20 years
old. Would you want your son or your close friend flying on a combat mission
in a plane that was over 20 years old? I wouldn't.
I think if we are going to keep America strong—and I think it is needed and
necessary so we can have peace with strength-we have to phase out those
weapon systems as they become obsolete and follow on with other weapon
systems, such as the B-1 replacing the B-52. I think it is essential for our
security. I think it is essential for peace through strength, to have that new
high-performance strategic aircraft.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:07 p.m. at the Ft.
Myers Exhibition Hall. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Representative L. A. (Skip) Bafalis, Col.
Louis Antol, Jr., chairman of the Lee County Re-
publican Executive Committee, Cassius Peacock,
chairman of the Lee County President Ford Com-
mittee, and Rev. Robert G. Browning, Jr., pastor,
St. Hilary's Episcopal Church of Ft. Myers.
96
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Ft. Myers. February 14, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Lou. It is wonderful to be here with your Con-
gressman, Skip, and to have spent the last day and a half with Lou Frey and in
between we have had Bill Young from down around St. Petersburg. It has
been an amazing trip.
323
