February 13
[87]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And I thank you very much for just the fact that you are here, but even more
importantly, the fact that you are interested in good government and you are
interested in good programs, and you are interested in the future of this country.
Now, if I might take just a minute. I was also thinking, flying down here,
back to August 1974. It was a great responsibility that fell on my shoulders. We
had a traumatic experience in this country. We had to reestablish public trust
and faith. We had to meet the problems of a domestic economy where prices
were going up and everything else was going down-employment, all the other
industrial problems that we face.
We had the problem of our allies not being certain or positive what kind of
job a new President would do—and the solidarity of our alliances around the
world involves the peace and security of this country. It has a big impact on
the peace and security of the world.
But ever since August of 1974 I have been very fortunate. A good many Ameri-
cans prayed, a good many Americans understood the traumatic experiences we
had had. A lot of fine Americans went to work.
So, we are coming out of all those sad experiences. We are making great head-
way, whether it is in getting more people employed—some 2,100,000 more
Americans employed today than last March—with the unemployment going
down and the employment going up.
We had some great news today. You know inflation is an insidious factor in
our society. We got a report today that the Wholesale Price Index showed no
upward movement at all, so for the last 3 months we have actually had a down-
ward trend in wholesale prices.
This is the kind of news we want to have a strong economy. It will add to
the public confidence that is returning generally. So, I think we can look down
that road and say that the path is going to get rosier and rosier for 215 million
Americans.
But if we are going to have a strong society and a strong economy at home,
we have to be strong as we meet our challenges abroad. As Lou and Skip and
Bill know, I have submitted to the Congress the biggest, the best defense pro-
gram this country has ever had. And they will help me get it through the
Congress. Then, we can continue a policy of peace with strength, which is what
has been successful as we have reassured our allies, whether they were in Western
Europe or in the Pacific, and have kept our negotiating capability with our
adversaries, whether they are the Soviet Union or the People's Republic of
China.
271
