March 5
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
personal way with an honorary appointment to the Everett McKinley Dirksen
Chair of Government and Public Affairs. And I am deeply honored, because
Everett Dirksen was one of the finest public servants I have ever known, and
history will record him as one of the most gifted and beloved men ever to serve
in the Congress of the United States.
Ev and I became especially close during the years when he served as the Repub-
lican leader in the United States Senate and I was his counterpart in the House of
Representatives. Ev Dirksen was more than a statesman, more than a master of
legislative process, more than a never-to-be-forgotten speaker. I knew him as a
good friend, a wise counselor, and an inspiring teacher.
He taught us one of his most unforgettable lessons on the memorable day in
1963 when the Senate was debating ratification of the nuclear test ban treaty.
Speaking in support of that treaty, Senator Dirksen said, and I quote, "Under the
circumstances, with bigger and more destructive weapons being built all the
time, with armament burdens upon every country in the world, unless we take
a step in the whole domain of faith, what will be left except gloom and defeatism
against the day when some careless person will pull the trigger ?"
Everett Dirksen knew that somehow the peace of the world must be made
more secure, that if men had made the world more dangerous, men could also
make it safe and had an obligation to make that effort. Twice in this century,
the whole world has gone to war. Twice, the United States has joined the global
struggle, believing with Woodrow Wilson that "the right is more precious than
peace" and agreeing with Franklin Delano Roosevelt that we "are willing to
fight to maintain freedom."
Twice more we have honored our commitments to individual nations where
peace was broken by acts of naked aggression and by armies bent on destruction,
terror, and conquest. America has seen too much of war in the 20th century, too
much of suffering and dying on bloodstained fields of battle.
We cherish the peace that America enjoys, the peace that finds no Americans
in combat anywhere in the world tonight. And yet we know that the freedoms
we have defended so often are being challenged today. We know that our
strength, our power, our constant vigilance, and our resolve are the foundation
of mankind's hope for peace and stability in the world.
If we should ever relinquish that role, if our contribution to peace should be
diminished by our own weakness, the consequences could be severe and tragic
for the whole world. For this reason, the United States must pursue a policy of
peace through strength. That is the policy which my administration will always
pursue.
547
