March 26
[260]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the United States, better than 7,100,000 barrels per day. And last week or the
week before—I am not sure which—it got up to 8 million-plus barrels per day.
And while we are buying more imported oil, if the trend is like that, there is
less and less production of crude oil and natural gas from domestic sources.
So, any help you can give us in trying to get this legislation through—we have
got problems-would be, I think, totally in the national interest.
But let me go on to several of the other ongoing concerns that I know you
have. I recognize that you are concerned about American technological develop-
ment in the textile field. Too often we have become an importer of textile tech-
nology rather than the exporter that we once were as a nation. Industry must
provide adequate research and development funds in this area, and it should
be that these funds are not the first to be cut during tough times. And having
just gone through a budget preparation experience—much like, I am sure, you
do in your respective companies-when you are trying to hold down expenditures
as we are, the temptation is to reduce research and development because it does
not have an immediate impact or effect.
And I was faced with that problem-research and development for the De-
partment of Defense, research and development for our energy program,
whether it was solar energy or geothermal energy sources. I made a decision—-
and I hope that you will in your industry—that we have to make those long-
term commitments. And so I increased the research and development money
across the board for the Federal Government by 11 percent. It was about double
the increase in the proposed spending for the Federal Government as a whole
in the next fiscal year.
If we don't make those kinds of investments now, we can't keep pace in the
generations ahead with other countries that are rapidly achieving far more than
anyone anticipated, a research and development capability which obviously
materializes into hardware of one kind or another.
Of course, I think we have to recognize that as we work on our economy that
we should expand, if we can, these efforts in research and development in the
other areas. Our policies as a nation, of balanced economic growth, avoiding the
pitfalls of inflation on the one hand and the boom and bust psychology on the
other, I think can assure us that we will have the funds to invest today and more
to invest in the future.
Our policies of freeing the private enterprise system from some excessive
paperwork and unneeded regulation can also be helpful, not only in getting
your job done but relieving the bureaucracy in numbers and paperwork in
Washington.
811
