April 5
[297]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
297
Remarks at the Swearing In of Robert Strausz-Hupé as
United States Permanent Representative on the
NATO Council. April 5, 1976
Secretary Kissinger, Secretary Rumsfeld, Ambassador Strausz-Hupé, General
Scowcroft, members of the diplomatic corps, ladies and gentlemen:
We have planned this ceremony here in the Rose Garden today in order
to emphasize once again the importance that the United States attaches to our
friendship and solidarity with our NATO Allies.
For over a quarter of a century, NATO has served as a bulwark of Western
defenses. It has successfully deterred aggression against the North Atlantic
community. The United States is totally committed to the NATO alliance. It
is a cornerstone of our foreign policy-has been and is and will be in 1976—
as it has been over a quarter of a century, and as it will continue to be in the
future. Secretary Kissinger shares my own very deep conviction for and dedica-
tion to the alliance.
The man we have chosen to represent us in this Council exemplifies the
strength of our commitment. Robert Strausz-Hupé has had a long and very
distinguished career as a scholar, a writer, and a diplomat. Through his writings
and his deeds, he has amply demonstrated an understanding of the active, de-
manding role that the United States must play in the world and the continuing
responsibilities we must bear for our collective defense.
Mr. Strausz-Hupé will be reporting to the NATO headquarters in Brussels
at a time when, among the allies themselves, there is a new sense of unity and
solidarity. Yet, this is also a time when here in our own land there are those
who question our military capability and our resolve as a nation. While I wel-
come open and honest debate about America's role in the world, I can only
deplore those actions which tend to mislead not only our own people but our
friends and adversaries abroad.
Mr. Ambassador, I ask that you carry from here a personal message from
me to our friends in Europe. Tell them in clear and unmistakable terms, the
United States today is the most powerful economic and military force in the
world, and we shall remain that way. The United States today is totally com-
mitted to the NATO Alliance. We have stood firm in the defense of liberty
for two centuries, and we shall also always be faithful to that heritage.
And finally, the United States of America today, as in the past, is a true,
969
