January 3
[6]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for continuity in the execution of foreign policy, and somehow we have to
mesh the role and responsibility of the Congress, which is proper, with the
opportunity for the President to carry out that foreign policy in the best interests
of the United States.
Now, there have been some instances in recent months where I think the
actions of the Congress have hampered, interfered with the execution of for-
eign policy, and let me cite one or two examples.
The action of the Congress about a year ago has harmed the opportunity of
many to emigrate from the Soviet Union. I noticed just the other day that the
emigration from the Soviet Union is down this year, including many reductions
in the emigration of Soviet Jews from Russia. I think the action of the Congress
was harmful in that regard.
It is my judgment that in the case of congressional action on Turkish aid,
they have slowed down the potential solution to the Cyprus problem.
In some respects—and I emphasize some-the action of the Congress has
hurt our efforts in the intelligence field, although the Congress in some respects
in this area has illuminated what were, and I think we all recognize, some
abuses in the intelligence field.
But overall there has to be a better understanding of the role of the Congress
and the role of the President, and they have to be meshed if we are going to be
successful.
JOHN CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, is it because of Vietnam and the fact that
President Johnson and, to some degree, President Nixon had a lot of control
over Vietnam and the Congress had very little control of it that you are in this
fix?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe some of the instances that I have cited, John, are an
aftermath of the trauma of Vietnam. Congress really asserted itself in the latter
days of the Vietnam war. We all understand why. And Congress, having
whetted its appetite, so to speak, I think, in the last few months, has continued
to do some things that have been harmful in the execution on a day-to-day basis
of our foreign policy.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, as a result of the Soviet role in Angola, the fact
that the SALT talks now have bogged down somewhat, the fact that the spirit
and the letter of the Helsinki agreements have not been fully carried out by
Russia, are you now less enthusiastic about the prospects for détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not at all, and I think it would be very unwise for a
President—me or anyone else—to abandon détente. I think détente is in the best
9
