[189]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
at the candidates, making their judgments, and then they will be darn sure to
get honest people 100 percent in the Federal Government.
ABORTION
[15.] Q. Mr. President, would you give us your views on the abortion issue
and the recent controversy which has swept through our country?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is raised about the controversy which is very
deepseated, very controversial, as to what to do in the field of abortion. We have
fine, decent people on either side and a good many in the middle on that issue.
I happen to believe that the Supreme Court decision went too far. On the other
hand, I think some of the constitutional amendments proposed likewise go far,
too far. I think there is an area where we can find an answer and it is not way
over here and it is not way over there. And some of us are trying to achieve that
proper balance.
I thank you all very, very much for the opportunity of being here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 a.m. in the
cafeteria at Centennial High School. The forum was
sponsored by the Chambers of Commerce of Cham-
paign, Urbana, and Rantoul,
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Representative Edward R. Madigan, Secretary of
Agriculture Earl L. Butz, Governor Richard B.
Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73, chairman of the Illinois
President Ford Committee, James A. Fink, president,
Champaign Chamber of Commerce, William James
Fitzgerald, president, Urbana Chamber of Com-
merce, and Wayne Rasmus, president, Rantoul
Chamber of Commerce.
190
Remarks at the Chanute Community Foundation Reception
in Rantoul, Illinois. March 6, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much. It's wonderful to be here, and I thank the
Chairman; I thank the good mayor, Mr. McJilton. It's delightful to have with
us here the outstanding Secretary of Agriculture, Senator Chuck Percy, Con-
gressman Ed Madigan, Congressman Paul Findley, my very good friend and
your former great Governor, Dick Ogilvie. I hope I haven't missed anybody.
The last 2 days in Illinois have been superb and, of course, this meeting here
today is likewise a very wonderful experience for me. And I thank all of you for
coming out on a Saturday afternoon, whether you come from your farms or
your business or Chanute field.
And speaking of Chanute field, we've got an outstanding Secretary of Defense
in Don Rumsfeld who comes from the great State of Illinois. And I think Don
ought to come down here and take a look at it.
576
