[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
with our problem of trying to make a turnover of jobs available as we have the
ebb and flow of companies moving in and out and trying to attract new indus-
tries and new companies, that they come in and are immediately faced with this
type of a problem. And this is why I address the administration part of it. And
are there things we could do from the administrative part rather than through
the channel of amendments, which takes a longer process?
THE PRESIDENT. We will take a look at it. But I do know, as I said a moment
ago, there is, I think, a more understanding and flexible attitude today than
there was, say 3 years ago.
Q. Mr. President, John McDonald, State representative from Manchester, the
home of the McIntyre ski area. [Laughter]
Mr. President, both of our New Hampshire Senators are actively pursuing
legislation which would, in effect, cut one of the links in the marketing chain
of the major oil companies wherein they would not be controlling oil from the
wellhead to the pump. If such legislation is passed, Mr. President, would you
sign this type of legislation or veto it?
THE PRESIDENT. You are talking about the proposals for divestiture?
Q. That is correct.
THE PRESIDENT. Either horizontal or vertical, and there are a number of pro-
posals in the Congress. I think there is one that has been reported by a Senate
committee or subcommittee that would provided for divestiture. I have no
sympathy for the giant oil companies as such. In fact, we are being blamed
because FEA and others are watching them too closely.
But anyhow, I don't think divestiture is the way to solve the problem. It seems
to me that a well-managed oil company, big or small, is the best way to solve
our energy problem. And to just tear them apart I don't think answers the
problem.
We have, as I recall, about 10 to 15 major oil companies. They reaped a finan-
cial bonanza a year or so ago. They are having a less desirable year at the
present time, but to tear them up, in my opinion, is not the best way to get them
to get in and help us solve the energy problem.
So, I am against just the kind of legislation that I think you are talking about.
Q. Mr. President, Representative McLaughlin from Nashua. Would you care
to comment on the U.S. Coast Guard's encroachment on the inland waters of
the State of New Hampshire? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I think you are talking about problems involving Lake
Winnipesaukee.
Q. Yes, sir.
180
