[290]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
290
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at
Green Bay, Wisconsin.
April 3, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON, everybody. It is nice to be in Green Bay and Brown
County, and it is great to have an opportunity to respond to any of the local
press questions. Do any of you have any questions you would like to ask?
REPORTER. Do you ever wake up in the middle of the night and really wonder
if you are President?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I remember very vividly that I took the oath of office and
ever since that, in August of 1974, I have been so busy I haven't thought of
anything except trying to solve the problems that we have had.
Q. Do you feel we will get a good fuels bill eventually?
The President. I think eventually the Congress will get around to passing
a good energy bill. They took a year to pass one that was marginally good.
But there are some things they could do this year that would make our Project
Independence more meaningful. We certainly are going to keep the pressure
on, because we can't continue to be so dependent on foreign oil.
Q. President Ford, this is a an agricultural State. If you are reelected, is there
any change anticipated with the Secretary of Agriculture?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Earl Butz is one of the finest Secretaries of Agri-
culture we have ever had. He has gotten our farm economy turned around and
on the right track. We are now producing about $22 billion a year in farm ex-
ports. We have had the highest 3 years of net farm income. We have farm pro-
grams that are designed for production and not for storage. So, I think, in my
opinion at least, Earl Butz is the best Secretary of Agriculture we have had, and
we are lucky to have him.
Q. What do you think will be the results of the Wisconsin primary, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. It is going to be a tough battle, a close contest. I have been
up here trying to meet face to face the people from the State of Wisconsin. I
think that is an important way to communicate—I think it is the best way to
communicate. I think if you can talk to people or if you can look them straight
in the eye, that is the way to convince them that they ought to support you. And
it will be a tough battle, but I think we will come out ahead, although it will be
very close. I will be satisfied with 50 percent, plus 1 vote.
948
