March 9
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
reasonable expectations of progress than even the optimists would have dared
to imagine just a few short months ago.
The forecasts of doom and gloom, each more dire and desperate than the
last, were wrong once again. The false prophets among us once again under-
estimated the courage, the determination, and the ingenuity and the indomi-
table spirit of the American people. I have never underestimated the American
people, and I don't think you have or you will. I can assure each and every one
of you that I never will.
The American people did not panic in the face of adversity, and the American
free enterprise system did not fail to respond to one of its greatest and most com-
plex challenges. Through the commonsense steps that I initiated-tax cuts for
individuals, tax incentives for business expansion and job production, and ex-
tended assistance for those Americans hardest hit by our national adversity—we
are working our way out of the worst recession in 40 years. And we did it with-
out resorting to wage and price controls, massive new spending programs by the
Federal Government, or any of the other so-called cures that the patient might
not have survived.
Unfortunately, as you know better than I, the construction industry has not
shared fully in the recovery we are experiencing nationwide. Unemployment in
your industry remains far too high and the volume of your business activity
remains much too low. Within the constraint of Federal fiscal responsibility, I
am doing everything practical and possible at the Federal level to help your
industry restore its economic health.
In the budget for fiscal year 1977-let me illustrate. I have proposed that the
Federal Government spend more than $21 billion for construction of highways,
hospitals, schools, water and sewerage treatment plants, mass transit facilities,
libraries, dams, buildings, and other major construction projects. That is an
increase of more than $3 billion in expenditures over the budget for fiscal year
1976. I think you have a great opportunity to move in and move up in this fiscal
year 1977.
In my State of the Union Message, I proposed an accelerated depreciation
allowance for new job-creating construction and expansion in those areas of
the country with the highest levels of unemployment. If the Congress will act,
we can get that program going this year and get your industry going along with
it.
In the 1977 budget, I have proposed a 30-percent increase in research and
development over last year. For example, over 100 new nuclear plants and about
200 coal-fired powerplants could be built by 1985. We will also have to construct
597
