April 2
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to the Future Farmers' National Convention out in Kansas City, and also had
an opportunity a few months ago to meet the leaders of each State of the Future
Farmers and, believe me, they are impressive as members and they were cer-
tainly impressive as officers of the respective States.
Congratulations, and thank you very much.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
RONALD REAGAN'S COMMENTS ABOUT SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[9.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I would like to know about what
Ronald Reagan stated Wednesday night. He said that Kissinger stated that he is
in office to keep the United States in second place and Russia first. I would like
to know what you think and what you plan to do about this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place, Secretary of State Kissinger said that
never was stated by him, and I understand that this afternoon that former Gov-
ernor Reagan said that he had not seen the quote but he had heard sombody who
had heard it from somebody else as an alleged quote from Dr. Kissinger. Now,
that is not a very credible way to quote somebody. It just, in my opinion, was
careless, irresponsible work in writing a speech that was to be made to a good
many millions of Americans. If you are going to quote somebody you ought to
have the facts, and in this case they didn't.
DECISIONMAKING IN "MAYAGUEZ" INCIDENT
[10.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I would like to know what you think
has been your most important decision as President and why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there were several. It seems some days like that is all it is
all day long. I would say that probably the one that took the most forceful action
was the decision to make certain that the Mayaguez, the merchant ship, was re-
covered from the Cambodians. That was probably one of the most meaningful
decisions because that ship was attacked, it was seized by the Cambodians, and
we sent in our forces to get it back, and we got it back. That was a tough decision.
BEEF PRODUCTION INDUSTRY; ESTATE TAX EXEMPTIONS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you after hearing you encourage
these young boys to go into agriculture-my husband and I have a beef farm and
after struggling for 10 years we still have a hard time making ends meet. You just
mentioned that prices are coming down. Well, it seems to me that the only thing
that comes down is the beef price. We get about the same price we got 10 years
929
