[107]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
who gather vital information around the world and carry out missions that
advance our interests in the world.
The overriding task now is to rebuild the confidence as well as the capability
of our intelligence services so that we can live securely in peace and freedom.
And now ladies and gentlemen, your questions.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press].
QUESTIONS
GEORGE BUSH
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you've talked often lately, including tonight, about
the need for a strong intelligence capability. You have appointed a Director of
Central Intelligence who has little or no intelligence expertise that I am aware
of. And I wondered, what do you see as the advantages of having a relative
novice directing the intelligence community?
THE PRESIDENT. I respectfully disagree with your assessment of George Bush's
capabilities and background. George Bush was our U.N. Ambassador and did a
superb job at the United Nations. George Bush was our representative in the
People's Republic of China and in that capacity did extremely well. I have
known George Bush for a number of years. I served with him in the House
of Representatives where he did a very fine job. I am absolutely convinced he
will perform superbly as the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Q. Mr. President, are you arguing that he has intelligence, an intelligence
background?
THE PRESIDENT. I think he has the intelligence to do the job and the experi-
ence in foreign policy. And, I think, these are major ingredients that make him
an outstanding person for this responsibility.
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S VISIT TO CHINA
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Robert Strauss¹ has suggested that it might behoove
you to ask former President Nixon to postpone or cancel his trip to China. There
are also reports that you are unhappy because it coincides with the New Hamp-
shire primary. Do you have any plans to ask him to put off the trip?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no such plans. Mr. Nixon is going to the People's Re-
public of China as a private citizen at the invitation of that Government. I don't
¹ Chairman, Democratic National Committee.
350
