[10]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
net result is good today—not as good as we want it, not as good as it is going
to be.
As I look down the path in preparation for the State of the Union Message
and look back to where we were a year ago, we have made great strides forward.
But the most important thing is the hope that we can convey to the older gen-
eration, the middle generation that is doing the work in the factories and the
fields and in the gas stations and the like, the group that is in college, and the
younger group that is just getting started in the educational process. We can
and will offer hope to all segments of our society-the poor, the rich, the handi-
capped. We will do a job that will make everybody proud to be an American
and proud of America.
In the political arena in which we are operating, we can talk about the head-
way we have made and the expectations that are down the road, but we know
from past experience that a good organization such as you have here, that you
are all a part of, will make a meaningful difference, whether it is in New
Hampshire or Massachusetts or Florida or any one of the other States where
we either have a primary or whether we have a convention.
This is a group that I am proud of. I know you will do the job. And I pledge
to each and every one of you that we will work in the administration, if neces-
sary, 24 hours a day to have a program that you can go out and sell that is in
the best interests of 215 million Americans.
I notice that there are a few who were in New Hampshire or maybe Massa-
chusetts or Florida, and we are glad they are out there in the field working,
but what you do here in this facility under Bo's leadership is meaningful to us,
to all of you, and to the country as a whole.
Let me thank you again for the opportunity to see so many of you, meet so
many of you, and to express my appreciation for your efforts on behalf of the
administration, myself, as well as the country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:15 p.m. at the offices located at 1828 L Street, NW.
11
Remarks to Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade
Negotiations. January 8, 1976
IT IS my understanding that you have all been appropriately sworn in by the
Vice President, that he spoke to you all for a few minutes, and then you have had
22
