[138]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, with those very general and not very consequential observations, I will be
glad to answer any questions. Don't be so shy. [Laughter]
QUESTIONS
NEW HAMPSHIRE PRIMARY ELECTION VICTORY
[1.] Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what your reactions are to your rather
narrow victory in New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. I naturally was very pleased. I went to bed about 11:30 last
night and woke up at 5:30, the usual time, and I turned the radio on, and the
news was very good. I think we really mounted an effective campaign, starting
about 3 weeks ago.
The first trip to New Hampshire was, I think, very effective, culminating in a
tremendous meeting with the students at the University of New Hampshire,
which was a highlight, actually, of that weekend. And then we had an excel-
lent trip down to Florida, and that momentum started to build up, and then we
had a very favorable meeting in New Hampshire, in Keene and Dover, last
weekend.
And of course, the good economic news of the last 3 weeks-the employment
up, unemployment down, the Wholesale Price Index and the Consumer Price
Index, plus the other developments—all started the momentum going.
I can't help but comment, though. Some of those who didn't do so well yes-
terday seemed to be satisfied with second. I never knew of any political cam-
paign where running second was very beneficial.
But we are very happy, and we expect to keep going. And with the momen-
tum we have, I am confident we will end up in Kansas City with a good victory,
and we will end on November 2 with a bigger one.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[2.] Q. Mr. President, have you given any consideration to who
like to be the candidate for Vice President?
you would
THE PRESIDENT. I mentioned a number of them a week or two ago. I hesitate
to add to or subtract from that list. I got in enough trouble just suggesting a
number of the potentials that we have. [Laughter] I happen to believe the Repub-
lican Party at the Federal, as well as the State level, has a great wealth of po-
tential Vice-Presidential candidates. And, therefore, I don't want to preclude
anybody from getting in the ballgame and working with me to unify the Re-
publican Party and present a good team in the general election.
438
