January 21
[24]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
illnesses today, and everybody knows that very few people in our society today
can carry the burden of catastrophic illness.
And in order to ensure that the retired people are covered, I am recommend-
ing some changes in Medicare. Under existing Medicare arrangements, a person
gets the first day free, and up to 60 days there is a small payment. But after 60
days, there is an obligation both as to hospital or nursing home care and doctor
bills.
Under the proposal that I have recommended, the first day of care will be
free and there will be a small charge of 20 (10) percent of the cost of nursing
home and hospital care up to 60 days. But after a $500 payment is made per year,
that is it. There is no other payment after $500.
And in the case of doctors' bills, the limit per year is $250. We would increase
the deductible from $60 to $77 and a limit of $250 per year. This will give that
catastrophic illness coverage to all people who are currently under Medicare,
some 25,000 (25 million).
I think these are steps in the right direction. They take care of the problems
of inflation. They give the trust fund the security and the integrity that is
required, and most of all, it handles the problem of catastrophic illness, which,
I know from experiences in families that are close to me, is a burden that few,
if any, in our society can take care of.
I hope and trust that we can count on the support of all of you and your
respective organizations. It will help to make, in my opinion, a better oppor-
tunity for enjoyment of life for our senior citizens.
Thank you very much.
Now I would like to introduce my good friend and your good friend and our
outstanding Vice President, Nelson Rockefeller.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Well, as a retired person, I feel a tremendous sense of
community here but who, based on power of experience, was drafted back very
graciously by the President to serve with him, so that I am delighted with the
privilege and opportunity of being in his administration and of having this
opportunity to say just a word with this wonderful group gathered here today.
Three things about the President that I particularly admire and that made it
a tremendous honor and a pleasure for me to be associated with him in this
capacity:
On was a deep sense of human concern. And this, to me, in this difficult
period in which we live, is a fundamental requirement for leadership.
Secondly, a tremendously inquisitive mind in trying to understand the issues
77
