March 11
[203]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
mental impact statements and any other legal matters that are before the court,
I don't think I should say yes or no.
I am fully cognizant of all the details. It is a case of the Government wanting
to do it and certain other elements in our society wanting to have it rebuilt and
a lawsuit, as I understand it, initiated as plaintiffs by the environmentalists. And
until that lawsuit is settled, I can have some opinions, but I don't think I ought
to express them, because it might foul it up more than help the conclusion of
the matter.
[At this point, Senator Charles Percy informed the audience that he had introduced a bill
in the Congress which would provide for the authorization for the project.]
Q. Mr. President, do you think in the future, if you are elected, or in the next
administration, that there will be an investigation of the Federal milk market
orders that require our milk in some areas of the State to be shipped anywhere
from 10 miles to 200, unloaded into a tank, loaded back up, and hauled back the
other 200 miles before it can become into manufactured products?
THE PRESIDENT. I must admit, I am not well informed on this particular point.
I would like to have from you or others who are interested, the facts on this
case or these problems and, if you will, we will look into it. But I don't like to
answer questions where I don't have some background or knowledge and, I
confess, I don't in this case. And if you will get it to me, we will look into it, and
we will give you an answer.
Q. Fine. Thank you, Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President, I have more of a recommendation than a question. But
while you and your office, along with the Department of Agriculture, are formu-
lating food policy, I would recommend that you put forth a more concerted
effort to inform our urban populace of the magnitude of American agriculture
and its significance to the economy, both in food production and the financial
impact in relation to other agri-businesses, and that we cannot produce cheap
food.
THE PRESIDENT. I have no hesitancy in being an advocate of what you are
recommending because, as I said in response to a gentleman who asked a ques-
tion or made a recommendation earlier, I think I know of the great contribution
made by American agriculture. When you consider that the Soviet Union, with
half of their population devoted to producing their food and fiber, can't
produce enough for their population, and the United States with 5 percent out
of 215 million Americans produces more than enough for us to eat and wear,
617
