[287]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
to extend the payment of the estate tax would also be helpful if the farm was
worth more than $150,000. That is one way to help ensure the transfer of the
property and have it kept in the same family from one generation to another.
Now, for a young farmer that wants to start fresh, the odds are tough, I agree,
but you have got some good bankers around here in West Bend. And the SBA
and others, I think, can be receptive particularly if you have got a good earning
record, a good credit record, and know something about the business.
Then, of course, there is another way in which the property can go from
husband to wife without any estate tax imposition, and that is if it is part in joint
ownership. That is an easy way to transfer it without any estate problem.
We will do one more here and then one more over on the right.
MINIMUM WAGE RATES
[15.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know why the minimum wage is
lower than what most people get that are on welfare.
THE PRESIDENT. Why, the minimum wage-
Q. The minimum wage is lower than what a person can get on welfare.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is—
Q. It most certainly is.
THE PRESIDENT. Now, there are some instances where you have aid to depend-
ent children, and a woman, if she has five children, or whatever the number is,
it is possible that she will get more, particularly if you include food stamps, and
any one of the other programs. But a single person on welfare, if my memory
is correct, cannot get more in welfare than he or she would get under the mini-
mum wage. Is that correct, Mel?
I think I have got two good witnesses here, but we all three might be wrong,
but I think that is right. And if it isn't right, it's wrong. [Laughter]
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OPPONENTS
[16.] Q. My name is Becky Elliott, and I am from West Bend. I wanted
to know if you think you are going to beat Jimmy Carter and the rest of the
other guys for the President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think I can beat all those guys. [Laughter]
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. at the
West Bend High School fieldhouse. Governor War-
ren P. Knowles of Wisconsin 1964-71, chairman
of the Wisconsin President Ford Committee intro-
duced the President.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Mayor Ralph Schoenhaar of West Bend and Dr.
William S. Steinert, superintendent of Joint School
District No. 1, West Bend.
Following his remarks, the President attended a
President Ford Committee reception at the West
Bend Holiday Inn.
932
