February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. If I could make one more comment, and then I will sit down and let every-
one else ask their questions. We took a poll of student opinion; 1,520 students
answered the poll. In one question it said some people say that public officials in
Washington tend to dominate and determine the actions of America's major
corporations. Others say that America's major corporations tend to dominate
and determine the actions of our public officials in Washington. The results of
the 1,520 students polled, 83 percent think that corporations control Washing-
ton. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I have known a great many Democrats as well as Republicans
in the Congress, and I have known six Presidents, and I think the comment to
the effect that corporations control those individuals is completely and totally
false.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
[8.] Q. President Ford, my name is Dan Smith. I am also with the Peo-
ple's Bicentennial Commission. Recently you have been quoting some of the
most important founders of this county-Patrick Henry last week, Thomas
Jefferson just at your State of the Union Addesss—you have talked a lot about
common sense.
The People's Bicentennial Commission has been meeting all candidates,
peacefully. There are many people here who are not with us who are express-
ing their opinion as well. The American democracy is the most incredible
experiment in a political system that this Earth has had. We are very concerned
that that democracy is being subverted, it is being undermined, and is being dic-
tated to by the giant corporations of this country.
Now, for example, Chase Manhattan Bank estimates-Chase Manhattan
Bank says that 17 percent of the people in this room right now will be unem-
ployed permanently in 10 years because the multinationals are exporting capital
and jobs and technology from this country. What will you do to prevent the
multinationals from subverting our jobs, the students in this room and the
people of New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. Reliable statisticians tell us that we have to create approxi-
mately 2,100,000 new jobs for younger people entering the labor market every
year.
This is possible if we carry out economic plans and programs that give greater
opportunity to the free sector, or the private sector of our society. Five out of
six jobs in this country today are provided not by government, but by the pri-
vate sector. That is where we have to provide by law and by regulation, by
221
