March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is my strong belief that basic research, even though it is not as glamorous,
is not as spectacular, is fundamental if we are going to be able to use what we
have in the way of applied research.
Now, in certain areas in the fiscal year 1977 budget, I added more and did not
add as much in others. In the area of energy research, we increased the funds
on an average of about 31 percent. In the area of solar energy, as I recall, we in-
creased the funding some 40 percent; in geothermal, a significant increase. But
across the board, in the Federal Government, the recommendations from me as
President to the Congress showed an 11-percent increase in research and about
a 14-percent increase in basic research money.
And I might add that was not easy in a year when we were trying to cut back
on expenditures in a good many other areas. But I have a firm belief that if
America is to continue to move ahead and to keep ahead, we have to have not
only as much funding as we possibly can in basic and applied research by the
Federal Government but we have to offer incentives for industry, for industry
itself to spend its funds in the area of both basic as well as applied research.
AMERICA'S LEADERSHIP ROLE
[4.] Q. I was inspired by a song I believe John Wayne recorded not too long
ago about how the Americans are always going out for other countries. And,
well, you know, as soon as some country is in trouble, right away America
gives them their help, and when we need help, the other countries don't lift a
finger for us. What do you have to say about that?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the United States, because of our size, our
strength, not only in material things but morally and spiritually, we have to as-
sume a leadership role in the world. Maybe we don't necessarily like it every time
the burden is thrust on us, but fate has given us certain great assets, and when
those assets are given to us, we have an obligation, in my opinion, to help others
in a responsible and a reasonable way.
It is my feeling that America is looked upon by people all over the world and
that where we can, we ought to help the underdeveloped nations. Where we
can, we ought to help nations or people who want freedom in nations where it
does not exist. Now, that does not mean we have to go all over the world on every
occasion, but I think the leadership role that has been thrust upon us by fate
we must assume for freedom and for survival. And, therefore, if we do it right,
we can continue to have that leadership role, which I think is something we
should be proud of, if we use it well.
839
