February 8
[66]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
more people are working today than worked in March of last year. Eighty-six
and a half million people gainfully employed, better than 92 percent of the
work force in this country is working today. And all of these improvements
were achieved not by some phony quick fix but by saying the place to achieve
success in turning around from a recession is in the private sector.
Five out of every six jobs in this country come from the private sector. The
other one-sixth comes from government. So, if we are going to solve the problem
of unemployment we should do it in the private sector, and that is what we are
going to do.
If you try to do it the public sector way, you pile deficit upon deficit upon
deficit. And speaking of deficits and Federal financing, let me make this obser-
vation. We have a strong program to put a restraint on the increase in Federal
spending, and if we do, we can then have a bona fide bigger tax cut in 1976, we
will balance the budget in 1978, 1979, and we can have an additional tax cut at
that time. That is good, sound government policy.
Now, let me speak for just a minute about the future. We have to have a
balance between the Federal Government and the State government. We have
to maintain this new federalism that we have tried to promote, where the
Federal Government gives the money to the State governments and to local units
of government so they can carry out and deliver the services at the local and
State level in a better way.
Isn't it far, far better to have those Federal dollars in health, child nutrition,
education, and social services? Isn't it better to have the Federal money handled
at the local and State level rather than dictated to you by some bureaucrat in
Washington, D.C.?
And, of course, the worse alternative would be not to give you the money, and
if you wanted the services, to have to raise local taxes to carry out the services.
But let me say one word about the future of the children who are here—and
there are some wonderful young boys and girls—and every time I look at them,
I wonder if what we are doing is right for that generation.
I think all of us can survive, but we have an honest obligation, all of us, to
make sure that we do the right things in government today so that they have a
better America tomorrow.
And what can we do? First, we have to get the American people today to have
faith in their government. That means that the disillusionment that exists today
must be eliminated, eradicated; we shouldn't promise more than we can deliver,
and we should deliver everything we promise. That is the way to get the Ameri-
can people to have faith in their government.
197
