[189]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
passed bill, number 1267, in the Senate. Known as the Financial Institutions Act,
this legislation is now being considered in the House under what they call the
financial reform bill of 1976. This legislation, if passed in its present form, would
seriously discriminate against the bank customer.
For example, the savings and loans and other thrifts would be allowed check-
ing accounts, consumer lending, and trust powers. This in essence would give
them the main functions of a bank, but they would still retain the interest differ-
ential which would allow them to pay a quarter of a percent more to their sav-
ings customers than would the banks be able to pay. Banking does not mind
competition, but if others come into the banking ballpark to play, then the
same set of rules should apply.
My question then is this: Since the present bill in the House is 217 pages long,
and much time is needed to study it, and hopefully amendments will be made
to that bill, is the administration pushing for fast passage of that particular bill,
or would it be possible for this to be delayed possibly as long as a year to enable
the authorities there in Washington, as well as the banking and other financial
industries, to consider this and get a more meaningful bill and a more equitable
bill passed?
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand it, the Hunt Commission or committee was
formed 3 or 4 years ago. It took several years of intensive study by a group of
experts representing all segments of the financial community. They made rec-
ommendations. Those recommendations were submitted to the House, as well
as the Senate. The Senate, in the Senate Committee on Banking, held extensive
hearings, I am told, and the Senate has passed the legislation.
The House Committee on Banking and Currency, I understand, has also held
some hearings. I can't tell you the precise number, but it is a proposal that has
been on the agenda for 3 or 4 years. It is something that has not been a sudden,
unexpected proposal, so all parties—the proponents as well as the opponents—
have had an opportunity of educating the Members of the House as well as the
Senate. And I am sure that the Congress is going to give it the deliberate con-
sideration that it ought to get.
I don't think I should say, "Give it another year." There has been 4 years of
study on the matter, and if the Congress or the House of Representatives con-
tinues to move ahead responsibly, I don't think we should ask for any delay.
There has been very ample time for this whole matter to be considered.
As I recall, it was before the House and Senate for 2 years in the last Congress,
and this is the second year of this Congress. So, it seems to me there has been
time for all parties to have their day in court. But I expect the House will hold
572
