February 14
[95]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I understand you are having this evening, that all of Ft. Myers is proud of
Edison's very long association with this great community. Edison, as all of you
know, was a truly remarkable man, and I can't help but add this feature. Thomas
Edison was a friend of a man by the name of Henry Ford. [Laughter] I am a
Ford from Michigan, but the other Fords would never admit I was a relative.
[Laughter]
Well, Edison was a great man. Besides his inventive genius, he was also a man
of very tremendous insight and very clear vision. His views on hard work are
legendary. "There is no substitute for hard work," he once said, and he defined
genius as one per cent inspiration and ninety-nine per cent perspiration.
His views on government were equally forthright. He knew the importance
of fiscal responsibility in government, of holding taxes down, and of keeping
private enterprise strong. He was a very perceptive man and he once said,
"There is far more danger in public than in private monopoly, for when
government goes into business, it can always shift its losses to the taxpayers.
Government never makes ends meet. And that is the first requisite of busi-
ness." Very perceptive and very wise.
In those very few words, I think Thomas Edison summed up much of
what has gone wrong in this country-Government never making ends meet.
We have had a balanced budget—it is hard to believe, but it is true-only seven
times in the last 44 years. It's a terrible record. No business could match that
record and ever hope to survive, much less prosper.
I think we can turn that dangerous trend around. I think we must and I
think we will turn it around, because if we don't, if we don't draw the line
right now and make ends meet soon, we are going to be in very serious, very
deep, very considerable trouble. You and I know very well, but it looks like
it might take another Thomas Edison to make the United States Congress-
the majority, anyhow-see the light.
I have to concede, it won't be easy. A budget already blotted by years of
excesses can't be slimmed down overnight, but it can be put on a rather
rigorous diet. If the Congress can resist the temptation to feed it in between
meals-I will veto any attempts to do that—we can get it down to the right
size where it ought to be.
And the best part of this budget which I submitted to the Congress in
January is that if we do what I recommended this year and what I have
proposed would follow on, we can make our ends meet, and we can have
a balanced budget in 3 years and have another tax decrease. I think that makes
headway.
311
