February 17
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will do well in both. I certainly was greatly
encouraged by the 2 days we were in Florida last weekend. The crowds were
very large. The enthusiasm of not only my party workers but the public, gen-
erally, was extremely encouraging. We are going to New Hampshire on Thurs-
day and Friday of this week, and I am led to believe that we will be warmly
received there. So, I am encouraged in both cases.
Q. Do you expect to win?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when I say I am encouraged, I think that is quite
indicative that I think I will do very well.
REORGANIZATION OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, your opening remarks concerning the Central Intelli-
gence Agency sounded considerably like an official secrets act which applies
in Great Britain. Now, this act has been criticized as being beyond the constitu-
tional realm that we apply here in the United States.
First of all, do you agree with that assessment? And secondly, wouldn't—if
you received this kind of legislation—wouldn't this in the future prevent the
kind of disclosures which have brought out the abuses in the Central Intelligence
Agency?
THE PRESIDENT. I categorically disagree with your assessment. It is a great
deal different from the official secrets act that prevails in Great Britain. As a
matter of fact, this is much more restrictive on the foreign intelligence com-
munity in the United States than anything that has been in existence in the past.
There are a number of specific limitations as to what foreign intelligence
agencies in the United States can do. They are spelled out, and there is an official
charter for each one of the intelligence agencies.
And I am recommending to the Congress several very specific pieces of
legislation which are, I think, constructive and quite contrary to the impression
you left with your question.
For example, I am recommending that the Attorney General proceed to work
with the Congress to establish legislation for electronic surveillance so that
he, representing the administration, would have to go to the court to get the
authority even in national security matters. Under the present setup, the At-
torney General can simply do it without going to the court if it involves national
security. This is quite contrary to the impression that you raised with the ques-
tion that you asked.
So, I think we are going down the middle trying to make certain and positive
353
