[262]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
two of those big coffee urns filled with silver-knives, forks, and spoons—and as
I got up following his very complimentary introduction, I pulled the tablecloth
and all this fell down and made a lot of clatter and made a big hullabaloo.
And then I came to the podium and I had my speech book, and I had it on
top with about 40 or 50 pages, and I put my speech book down like this, and
I put the other things up like this, and then they all went down like that.
[Laughter] I hope I did not throw away your notes.
And then I turned to Chevy Chase and said, "Chevy, you are a very, very, very
funny suburb." And I concluded with saying, "I'm Gerald Ford and you're not."
[Laughter]
But then, if I might—as you can see, I enjoyed your being master of cere-
monies much more tonight, Cary, but I do appreciate very much Leona
Mitchell's rendition of some of my most favorite songs. And although I am not
an expert in the Metropolitan Opera, I certainly appreciated that wonderful
voice and that selection.
Howard Keel sang from my favorite musical comedy, “Oklahoma,” which
brought to my mind an incident that happened when I was the Republican
leader of the House for five terms. Every year, when a new Congress convenes,
or every 2 years, the defeated minority candidate for the Speaker of the House
has to act very generous in presenting the elected Speaker even though you
wished you had gotten enough votes in the previous November election to pre-
vail. And after I had done it three times as a generous gesture to Speaker
McCormick of Massachusetts, the Democrats came up with a new man, Carl
Albert, from Oklahoma.
Well, the truth is "Oklahoma" is one of my favorite musical comedies, and
I was trying to think of some new way of introducing the new Speaker after
he had defeated me about 240 to 180, or whatever the score was. And I was try-
ing to change from Boston, Massachusetts, to Oklahoma. And I talked to Bob
Hartmann who has been with me for a number of years, and I said, "Bob, we
have got to find a new way to do it," and I mentioned casually that "Okla-
homa" was a favorite. So, he came back with this version, Howard. He said,
"Why don't you do it this way?" So, without singing it, I will go through the
words as we did it. It goes something like this: “Oh, what a beautiful morning,
oh, what a beautiful day, if I had 40 more votes in my pocket, everything would
be going my way.” [Laughter]
I certainly want to thank Ed and John in particular, but I do want to thank
all of you who are here this evening and giving your support to our efforts. And
I thank all of you on behalf of Betty and myself and Steve also. And let me say
820
