[1]
January 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe that S. 2350 is undesirable as well as unnecessary. The proper con-
cerns of the National Security Council extend substantially beyond the statu-
tory responsibilities and focus of the Secretary of the Treasury. Most issues
that come before the Council on a regular basis do not have significant economic
and monetary implications.
Moreover, a large number of executive departments and agencies have key
responsibilities for programs affecting international economic policy. From
time to time these programs influence importantly our foreign policy and
national security decisions. The Treasury Department does not and could
not represent all those interests. Extending full statutory membership on the
National Security Council to the Secretary of the Treasury would not achieve
the purpose of bringing to bear on decisions the full range of international
economic considerations.
For these several reasons, I am concerned that increasing the statutory
membership of the Council might well diminish its flexibility and usefulness
as a most important advisory mechanism for the President.
In sum, S. 2350 is unnecessary, since adequate arrangements for providing
advice to the President on the integration of economic and foreign policy
already exist, and it is undesirable because the proposed arrangement is incon-
sistent with the purposes of the National Security Council and would lessen
the current and desirable flexibility of the President in arranging for advice
on the broad spectrum of international and national security policy matters.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
December 31, 1975.
NOTE: The Senate overrode the President's veto
on January 22, 1976. On January 26, the House of
Representatives reconsidered S. 2350, and the bill
was referred to committee.
2
Statement on Signing the Public Broadcasting Financing Act
of 1975. January 1, 1976
I AM pleased to sign H.R. 6461, the Public Broadcasting Financing Act of 1975.
This legislation, while not perfect, represents a milestone in the history of
public broadcasting. It will help assure that public broadcasting can concentrate
on being the effective and innovative source of educational and cultural pro-
graming which the American people have come to expect.
2
