[177]
March 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
much as we've used up most of the available sites around the country for
hydropower.
The question is asked, what will we be importing? And the answer is, it de-
pends upon what we do with what we have. If we simply move in the direction
of decontrol as we've proposed, and world oil prices stay at current levels adjusted
for inflation, we will move to 6 million barrels a day on a much bigger base by
1985 as compared to 14 million barrels a day. If, for example, the Congress pre-
vents us from completing decontrol of oil within the next 39 months, if they
don't go along with the deregulation of natural gas and don't permit other de-
control provisions that we were—the authority we were given to do within the
last act, if the Congress stands ready to block some of those or has the authority
to, if they do, we can wind up importing 14 million barrels a day as compared to
the decontrol level.
Now, we can accelerate that something more with accelerated OCS beyond
the category, the rate that Secretary Kleppe has already announced. If he finds
that reserves are better than currently anticipated, if we are allowed to explore
Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 4 and actually produce it—and that, you know,
hasn't been decided in this bill-if we get your building standards measures
and your investment tax credit for homeowners and that series, and that we get
started with synthetic fuels, the recent fuel program and the energy independ-
ence authority, then we can actually be down to 1 million barrels a day or
slightly above that by 1985.
That will take a lot of strain, but it's within our reach as a nation if we are
prepared to make the sacrifices to get the job done.
Where will the new oil come from? The important calculation here—although
Alaska is not a surprise to anyone; it's clear that we have to complete the pipeline
and continue production. Secretary Kleppe has a good, solid plan for the produc-
tion of Alaskan oil onshore and on the Outer Continental Shelf. The OCS
provision there anticipates that Secretary Kleppe will be able to meet his schedule
as announced, and that his calculations of existing reserves are accurate. If they
are richer than that, then we'll improve that situation; if they are poorer, we
will not.
The green box is really important, because that suggests that we need to do
some things to improve onshore development of oil, and that means that we have
to do everything possible to induce enhanced recovery.
Now, the bill passed by the Congress provides us with the authority to do
that. However, they have the right to prevent it with a congressional veto. If
they don't, and we provide the necessary inducements for onshore recovery,
518
