[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
to talk personally with Chairman Mao. I can assure you-because I was there-
that the relations between the People's Republic of China and the United
States are good, and they are going to continue to be good. And there is no
reason whatsoever for anyone to doubt that.
It is important for us to have a relationship, one that recognizes their system
is different than ours, but it recognizes also that there are 800 million-plus people
in China with a vast land area and we ought to keep that relationship. We are
keeping it, and Chairman Mao and the other people that I talked with are as
anxious as we are to maintain that relationship. It is good. It is good for them and
it is good for us, and we intend to keep it that way.
FOOD AND OIL MONOPOLIES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Peter Doyle, I'm from Keene. The Democrats,
particularly Senator Harris, have proposed to break up the food and energy
monopolies, citing the fact that they are illegal, that they promote inflation, and
that they have killed competition and the idea of free enterprise in our govern-
ment. Have you ordered the Attorney General to enforce the law of the land
in the antitrust laws on the books?
THE PRESIDENT. Against what industry?
Q. The food and oil monopolies.
THE PRESIDENT. The Department of Justice, the Antitrust Division, has
been strengthened in numbers and personnel since I became President, and
in the budget that I submitted for the next fiscal year we added additional
personnel. And we have a first-class Attorney General who is a former antitrust
lawyer, served in the Department of Justice and worked on the Hill, and is a
very qualified man. I can assure you that he and his department will carry
out the law as far as antitrust activities are concerned.
And I should add this: Better than a year ago, I recommended to the Congress
some strengthening of our antitrusts laws, including added penalties for crim-
inal violation of those antitrust statutes. So, our record is good, as far as the De-
partment of Justice is concerned, as far as new legislation is concerned, and I
can assure you, if there is, if there is any monopoly in the food business or in
the oil business, Attorney General Ed Levi will go after them.
Q. Would you say that the food and oil monopolies are adding to the inflation
in the U.S.?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the main cause of inflation in the oil business is the
fact that we now buy 40 percent of our oil from foreign sources, and it is a
cartel in the Middle East. That is the reason why we are having added costs
382
