[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
sentatives of the mayors and the county officials got together with Members of
Congress on the respective committees and actually worked out a formula.
I know that there were some inequities, and I had some trouble with some of
my local constituents back home when one city got a certain amount and the
next city got a different amount. But this is a very complicated formula that has
three basic ingredients: One, it depends on population; two, it cranks in a factor
related to the number of disadvantaged; and, three, it has a factor of tax effort.
And if you take those three factors and factor it into a single formula, and that
is how the funds are distributed.
Now, the cities—those who are disadvantaged—do get a slightly higher
amount. Those communities that have a higher local tax effort get a little
higher amount and, obviously, those that are larger get a significantly greater
amount, depending on the population.
Now the question is raised, should they change the formula? I suspect that if
we tinkered with the formula so that your community would get more and
the one next door would get less, Paul Rogers would have as many problems
with the people that got less as he would with you. I know a little bit about
how you have to handle those problems. [Laughter]
So, the best general view is that this formula, having been worked out by the
three people, or three groups I mentioned, is the best possible one we could get.
And if you start tinkering with it, you will probably only help those people who
don't want the program anyhow. That is what will happen, and time is running
out.
Now, to turn to your second question. Yes, the Federal Government has got
a deficit of $70 billion this year. It is too high. On the other hand, if my budget
is enacted by the Congress, we will have a deficit of about $41 billion in the
next fiscal year, which is roughly half of the present one, and we will have a
balanced budget in 3 years, which means—
What I am saying is the revenue sharing legislation is a 5-year package.
If we do what I have recommended in the budget for fiscal 1977 and the suc-
ceeding years, even with general revenue sharing we can have a balanced budget
in 3 years. And the prospects are we could have one in the succeeding year,
which would give us an opportunity for another Federal tax reduction when we
get to that balanced budget position.
So, it is a combination of getting a program that gives certainty to State and
local units of government—and, as you said, it is one of the best, if not the best
program the Federal Government had—and at the same time gradually restrain
280
