April 2
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Greece and Turkey over Cyprus as well as other matters-the Aegean Sea. I can
just say we are trying to be fair, to get a settlement of Cyprus and, if we do, we
will strengthen NATO. And if we get these two treaties—one for Greece, one for
Turkey-it will improve our capability to help in that end of the Mediterranean.
Q. Mr. President, I would have many questions, but I would like to fulfill one
question of my daughter. She told me if I have a chance, to wish you health as
President of the United States.
The President. Thank you very, very much, sir. Give her my very best, please.
Q. Mr. President, about a day ago or so, we listened on the television. Your
opponent was speaking. I think one of the points that he was underlining was
that it was a kind of a general decline in the moral—I am not speaking about the
hardware—it was kind of a moral defeat on the part of the United States.
The same echo-it was echoed also by Alexander Solzhenitsyn-one is kind of
a native American speaking, and the other is one who has come from the Soviet
Union, and he emphasized the same thing.
Would you reassure us—and I am sure that you feel the same as I do feel-
that your administration is doing the best to kind of dispel this kind of a belief?
Would you tell us something about this? We are doing the best to kind of keep
not only the military strength but also the moral leadership.
THE PRESIDENT. It is my very strong, personal belief that this administration,
represented by me and by the others who hold positions of great responsibility,
approach every problem from a moral position plus an equitable position. I don't
think you can achieve an equitable settlement unless you have a moral position
to begin with, and so what we are trying to do—and whenever we negotiate—is
to adopt what we think is right in our conscience from a position of morality and,
at the same time, achieve it without going to war. And I think we are making
headway.
We aren't compromising, and we aren't sacrificing. And anybody who says we
are does not know the facts. There is no evidence whatsoever that this administra-
tion has done anything to step back from a position of morality and good con-
science in dealing with any of the Communist countries. As a matter of fact, all
of my public life, I entered as a person who believed in helping our friends
around the world trying to stand up for freedom on this side and the other side
of the Iron Curtain.
One of the amusing things is, really, that in the 25-plus years I was in the Con-
gress, I was known as the biggest military hawk in the Republican Party or
Democratic Party. I mean, that's a fact. So you aren't going to have to worry
about any retreat on my part from either moral or equitable or military position.
903
