February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Frankly, I think you could be a big help not only to us but to every other
State if general revenue sharing were exactly what it was meant to be: block
grant-if you want to put it into savings, fine; if you want to spend it, fine. It's
that kind of thing that I think would help New Hampshire the most.
THE PRESIDENT. I remember the debates on the floor of the House in 1972
when this issue was raised. And the argument on the other side was simply
this: that the Federal Government was operating then and is operating today
in a deficit. If the Federal Government borrows money to give it to the State or
the communities and then those communities put the money in the bank and
draw interest on it, makes it a little difficult to justify the program.
Here the Federal Government is borrowing money to give it to communities
and States so they can put it in the bank and draw interest. That is the other
side of the coin.
The basic concept is that this is for immediate needs, whether it is buying
trucks for the fire department, or doing something for the police department,
or any one of a number of other programs.
It would seem to me-I know this has happened in some Michigan communi-
ties—as long as they know that money is coming, they could plan on a building
program. And they could finance it over a period of 2 or 3 years with this money
assured as a way of paying their obligations.
Q. I suppose it is the 2-year period that is too short for that kind of planning.
I think that is where you don't get the money until after the town meeting. It
comes in and you have already missed a year. It is just the way it works out in
New Hampshire. It doesn't allow you to do that. And that is why I think that
someone ought to look back at that.
THE PRESIDENT. I recommend that you go down and testify before the House
Committee on Government Operations, or go over to the Senate Finance Com-
mittee, which has jurisdiction in the Senate.
It is a very legitimate, I think, difference of opinion. I just wanted you to know
what the other side of the coin is. And I listened to that debate on the floor of
the House, and rightly or wrongly, that is the decision the Congress made.
Q. Mr. President, I am Selectman William Morris from the town of Gilford.
I just want to let you and Ron Nessen know the skiing is great up there right
now. That is Gunstock and Mt. Rowe. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, I really learned to ski up here in New
Hampshire, and after I heard about Ron's famous, or infamous, comment, I
made the suggestion to him he ought to go up on Tuckerman's and somebody
ought to throw him over the side of the mountain. [Laughter]
165
