[6]
January 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. BROKAW. But as a result of this TASS article, is it your understanding now
that Russia is prepared to break off its military support and to have Cuba quit
sending troops as well to Angola?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe we can say categorically that that is their in-
tention. We are simply working with them because a continuation of that con-
frontation is destabilizing. It is, I think, inconsistent with the aims and objec-
tives of détente, and we are making some headway. But I can't say categorically
that the end result is what we want it to be at the present time.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, in a recent speech, Secretary Kissinger said there
is a gray area between foreign policy and national security which, he said, we
deny ourselves at great risk to our national security. I suppose that training for-
eign mercenaries for use in Angola might be called part of that gray area. Are
we training foreign mercenaries for use in Angola?
The President. The United States is not training foreign mercenaries in
Angola. We do expend some Federal funds, or United States funds, in trying to
be helpful, but we are not training foreign mercenaries.
MR. BROKAW. Are we financing the training of foreign mercenaries?
THE PRESIDENT. We are working with other countries that feel they have an
interest in giving the Angolans an opportunity to make the decision for them-
selves, and I think this is a proper responsibility of the Federal Government.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, while you may disagree with the results of the
Senate vote on Angola, do you agree that it probably represents the will of the
American people?
THE PRESIDENT. It may at this time. But I will repeat, as I said a few moments
ago, the American people, I think, if told and fully informed as to the role and
responsibility and the aims and objectives of the American Government in try-
ing to let the Angolans and the Africans come to a solution, I think in time the
American people will support what we have been trying to do in Angola.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, in the past the congressional role in foreign policy
has been largely confined to a few chairmen and senior members. Now the
process has been broadened considerably. You are formerly a man of Congress.
Do you think that is a healthy sign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Congress, under the Constitution, does have a proper
role in foreign policy, but I don't think our forefathers who drafted that Con-
stitution ever envisioned that 535 Members of the House and Senate could exe-
cute foreign policy on a day-to-day basis. I think the drafters of the Constitution
felt that a President had to have the opportunity for decisiveness, for flexibility,
8
