March 20
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Back in 1972, I helped to lead the fight in the House of Representatives to get
the Congress at that time to approve the general revenue sharing piece of legis-
lation and, incidentally, I intend to fight just as hard in 1976 as I did in 1972 for
this legislation. I just wish that the Congress would respond more affirmatively.
As a matter of fact, last year, I think it was in July, I submitted to the Con-
gress a proposal to extend the existing legislation. So far only subcommittee ten-
tative action has been taken. It is unbelievable that the Congress has been so
negligent in acting on this legislation, which currently expires on December 31,
1976. Every Governor knows how important that legislation is.
You have to include, Jim, in your budget, the anticipated funding for your
next calendar or fiscal year, and, if Congress doesn't act before that budget has
to be put together, your Governor and 49 other Governors either have to re-
duce services or add taxes, and every mayor and every local official-and there
are 39,000 of them—are placed in exactly the same position. So, it is vitally im-
portant that the Congress move on this legislation. Otherwise, there will be
chaos, in my judgment, in 50 State capitals and in 39,000 communities around
the country.
Now, let me cite some specific figures—the impact of general revenue sharing.
The city of Charlotte has received over $20 million in this program since its
inception about 4½ years ago, and Mecklenburg County has received more than
$10 million. I recommended a 5¾4-year extension of the legislation and, under
that legislation during the full term of its existence, Charlotte would receive
$31,600,000 and Mecklenburg County, $15 million-plus. And the figures for
the State of North Carolina would be greater under the program I recom-
mended than they have received under the existing program.
This is something that we all know has worked well with the Federal Gov-
ernment collecting the money and sending it back to the States and to the local
communities with a minimum amount of redtape and a maximum amount
of local decisionmaking by the Governors and by the locally elected officials, the
people who honestly know what the problems are. I think we ought to en-
courage this trend of giving the decisionmaking to the people at the local level,
and revenue sharing has been probably the most successful Federal program
in that regard.
Now, in fighting for general revenue sharing, and in many other legisla-
tive efforts, Jim has proven his expertise, his deep commitment to service and
his truly outstanding representation here for all of you. Let me summarize
by saying Jim is a darned good Member of the Congress, and I hope and trust
that you will keep working for him in the years ahead.
751
