[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. We have recommended in this budget full funding for the
summer youth program. The money is about $450 million. That is a very good
program that helps substantially in major metropolitan areas in the undertaking
of getting young people off the streets and getting them working.
We have also recommended the full funding of the comprehensive education
training program—I think that is around $1,600 million—to get people who
are unemployed to be trained for subsequent employment. Those are good
programs.
I mentioned them last night in the State of the Union Message. Those are
constructive. I think they have been proven, but to go into a massive $17 billion
Federal employment program I don't think is the right approach when a better
way is to get the private sector to do it.
Q. Mr. President, does that mean that your budget, in nonmilitary terms—
what are the nonmilitary expenditures aimed at achieving and maintaining
peace as opposed to the Defense Department budget? Are they more or less
than last year?
THE PRESIDENT. The foreign aid programs, is that what you refer to?
Q. Foreign aid.
THE PRESIDENT. The foreign aid programs, as a whole, are in the magnitude
of approximately $6 billion. They provide traditional economic supporting as-
sistance for a number of countries. There is a heavy concentration in the Middle
East.
As I recall, it is about 30 percent of the overall total. But it is a program
designed—economic assistance and some military assistance for nations around
the world.
Secretary Sisco, do you want to add anything to that?
JOSEPH J. SISCO [Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs]. Mr. President,
I would just add that, as you indicated, the emphasis in the AID program is on
the high level of economic aid to the Middle East for the obvious reasons that
this is a very volatile area. In addition, we are supporting new multilateral de-
velopment assistance initiatives that are an outgrowth of the statement that we
made before the U.N. General Assembly—the economic session—about a year
ago. And we are implementing that particular program. And likewise, there
are important elements on the bilateral development aid assistance, as well as
maintaining the U.S. food aid at about two-thirds of the worldwide target of
10 million tons of food.
Q. Mr. President, will you comment on your energy budget for 1977?
74
