March 20
[235]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
fluence others by your outstanding example. You make it possible for babies to
be born healthy into a wholesome climate. Through your knowledge of nutri-
tion and consumer education, you can separate real food from junk food. You
can also separate real and enduring values from phony and temporary fads.
Your generation—and we are so lucky—is the most honest, the most open, the
most aware in the 200 years of our Nation's history. And as the Governor said,
with people like you and organizations such as this, we have nothing but opti-
mistic futures for all Americans.
You think in terms of possibilities rather than limitations. You are the genera-
tion who will live the longest with America's rewards, or exist longest with
America's burdens. Your fate is in your hands, and I am convinced beyond any
doubt whatsoever that your fate is in good hands.
Last week, I attended the anniversary observance of the famous Battle of
Guilford Courthouse. It was a great occasion, paying tribute to some heroic peo-
ple on a plot of historic ground in North Carolina. It was there that North Caro-
linians fought so courageously in the Revolutionary War.
Today, the commonsense and moderation of North Carolina symbolizes the
new realism of the entire United States. I congratulate you not only for your
State's historic courage but for the modern North Carolina lifestyle. You com-
bine the best of the present with the finest values of the past, and you have some
great values that you should retain from your heritage in North Carolina. You
do this with genuine humility, and I can say with conviction that I greatly ad-
mire the North Carolina approach.
I am convinced that the decisions affecting your home and your family life
should be made right here in North Carolina, and not by some distant Federal
Government or anyone else. We must restore the principle of local control by
local people. That is what the American Revolution was all about—government
by the consent of the governed, and that is why Americans 200 years ago said,
"No taxation without representation," and threw tea into the Boston Harbor.
If the Bicentennial is to have any meaning, any real meaning, we must give
you, America's future homemakers, a real voice in your own destiny. You live in
a State which has been a showcase of progress. Students from many, many places
are attracted to North Carolina by your excellent institutions of higher learning.
It is hard to believe that two generations of the Ford family have come here to
North Carolina to study. I went to law school one summer at the University of
North Carolina and lived in Carr Dormitory-some may know about it—and
then during World War II, I served in the Navy at the Navy preflight school in
Chapel Hill.
757
