February 18
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tionship with the United States in all areas of mutual interest. The Treaty
should contribute positively to the achievement of these goals.
In the area of western security, the agreement provides for a continuation of
the important contribution made by Spain through facilities and related military
rights accorded United States forces on Spanish territory. The agreement
reflects a careful balancing of Spanish concerns with the changing re-
quirements of United States military deployment. As a new development
of the United States-Spanish defense relationship, the Treaty establishes mecha-
nisms and guidelines, such as those reflected in the provisions dealing with mili-
tary planning and coordination, to help develop an active Spanish contribution
to western security, a contribution which complements and is coordinated with
existing arrangements. The Treaty does not expand the existing United States
defense commitment in the North Atlantic Treaty area nor does it create an
additional bilateral one. Finally, the Treaty pledges military assistance to the
Spanish armed forces in their program of upgrading and modernization. The
major portion of that assistance is in the form of loan repayment guarantees.
The actual cost to the United States taxpayer is expected to be far lower than
the figures listed in the agreement.
I recommend that the Senate give prompt consideration to the Treaty and
consent to its ratification.
The White House,
February 18, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The treaty and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive E (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
109
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-Switzerland
Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters.
February 18, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith the Treaty between the United States of America and the
Swiss Confederation on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, signed at Bern
on May 25, 1973, six exchanges of interpretative letters of the same date, and
an exchange of interpretative letters dated December 23, 1975. I urge that the
Senate advise and consent to ratification of the Treaty and related matters.
361
