[218]
March 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I knew Bill as a strong internationalist when we were fellow students at Yale
Law School. I knew him as a fellow Congressman who strongly supported such
concepts as the Peace Corps and foreign aid. I knew Bill as a special assistant
and an international troubleshooter for Secretaries of State John Foster Dulles
and Christian Herter. I knew him as a Governor of a great State who broke
deadlocks in disputes between differing interests. And therefore, I have the
greatest confidence in him as our new Ambassador to the United Nations.
Bill Scranton is the man who performed so effectively on the transition team
during the tumultuous days when I first assumed the Presidency. He will now
be our United Nations Ambassador when the entire world is in transition.
As Chairman of the President's Committee on Campus Unrest, Bill Scranton
showed great initiative and independence of spirit. Now, he takes over a very
difficult post at a time of widespread unrest in the world.
From Bill Scranton's record of achievement and from my own years of very
close personal friendship with him, I know him to be a man of depth and of
vision. He personifies the old American virtue, dating from George Washing-
ton and Pennsylvania's Ben Franklin, of balancing conciliation with great
personal strength.
The United States of America is the world's best hope for peace with freedom.
Universal aspirations for a better life depend substantially on our strength, our
perseverance, and our prudence throughout the world and at the United Na-
tions. These qualities will be ably demonstrated by our new Ambassador.
The United States retains the idealism that made us the driving force behind
the creation of the United Nations, over three decades ago, as a worldwide sys-
tem to promote peace and progress. Americans are convinced that the world
can be a better place. Reason and good will can triumph over prejudice and ar-
rogance. That is why we remain committed to the support of the United
Nations.
The opportunities arising from interdependence are positive and very creative.
We remain guided by principles expressed in the Secretary of State's speech to
the Seventh Special Session of the United Nations last autumn. We will continue
to stand up and speak out for the good name of the United States and against
the pursuit of narrow interests.
Bill Scranton will have very heavy responsibilities. He has my complete con-
fidence and trust in the discharge of those responsibilities. I know that he will
not only advocate America's views with great strength and great skill but that
he will listen respectfully to all other delegates who speak in good faith.
718
