[69]
February 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Older Americans continue to enrich our lives with their vision, strength,
and experience. They have earned the right to live securely, comfortably, and
independently. The proposals that I am sending to the Congress offer signifi-
cant improvements in the quality of life for all older Americans.
We all have a great stake in fighting inflation, but older Americans liv-
ing on fixed incomes are especially hard hit. I pledge to continue the fight
against inflation.
To provide special relief to the elderly, I am requesting in my budget for
fiscal year 1977 that the full cost-of-living increase in social security benefits
are paid during the coming year.
The value of the social security system is beyond challenge. I am concerned,
however, about the integrity of the Social Security Trust Fund, that enables
people to count on this source of retirement income. I am concerned because
the system now pays out more in benefits than it receives in tax payments.
To prevent a rapid decline in the Trust Fund over the next few years, I
had to make a very difficult decision. I am proposing a small payroll tax
increase of three-tenths of 1 percent each-for employees as well as employers-
of covered wages. The alternative would have been to limit expected increases
in retirement and disability payments. This proposed tax increase will help to
stabilize the Trust Fund so that current and future recipients will be fully
assured of receiving the benefits they are entitled to.
I am also very concerned about the effect of catastrophic illnesses. I want
to lighten the financial burden which now strikes after prolonged hospitali-
zation—when the elderly and their families can least afford it. Therefore, I am
proposing catastrophic health insurance for the more than 24 million Ameri-
cans and disabled Americans protected by Medicare.
No one who is covered by Medicare would have to pay more than $500 a
year for covered hospital or nursing home care. No one who is covered by
Medicare would have to pay more than $250 for 1 year's doctor bills. Bene-
ficiaries and their physicians now have little incentive to limit the duration
of hospitalization for less serious conditions.
To encourage economic use of covered health services, I am also proposing
changes in cost-sharing arrangements. As under the current system, a bene-
ficiary who is in the hospital will pay $104 a day for the first day of hospital
services. In addition, he or she will pay 10 percent of additional charges up to
an annual maximum of $500. For covered physician services, my proposal
would increase the annual deductible from $60 to $77 and would continue
the current 20 percent cost sharing.
234
