[278]
March 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
that a lot more Republicans, who are in step and in touch with the people in 50
States, are in office when the 95th Congress convenes on January 3, 1977. I have
promised repeatedly, and I promise you again tonight, that I will do everything
I possibly can to win a Republican majority in the United States Congress, the
House and the Senate, in 1976.
Having served in the minority in the House of Representatives in the 25-plus
years in every year except 2 and having had the honor to be the minority leader
in 9 years or thereabouts, always in the minority, I can assure you that it is not
easy. John Rhodes put it very succinctly: It is not only the speakership, it is not
only the power to control the programing, it is the power of every committee
chairman, and people in this room that I have known a great many years know
the power of a committee chairman. And if we are going to get the kind of
consideration for legislation that is needed and necessary for this country, both at
home as well as abroad, we need that kind of leadership in every one of the 20-
plus committees in the House and the 15 or so in the United States Senate.
And so, I am willing to dedicate my time to the maximum to help in recruiting
candidates, to raise money for them, to help elect them. And it was almost ex-
actly 2 years ago tonight I made a speech as Vice President to the Midwest
Republican Leadership Conference in Chicago. I said at that time, and I say with
emphasis this evening, that the Presidency alone cannot ensure the success of
our cause if we do not win sufficient party support in the Congress for our pro-
grams or our policies. Furthermore, that support cannot be fully ensured without
strong Republican involvement and representation from the grass roots up, from
the county courthouses to the city halls and to the State legislatures.
I said 2 years ago, and I reiterate again with emphasis, that every Presidential
candidate of the Republican Party should pledge to work within and for the
benefit of the Republican Party, to campaign not only for himself or herself but
for the whole Republican ticket from top to bottom, and I pledge that to you
again here tonight. I said then and I repeat now that I will never do or say
anything to weaken or divide this Grand Old Party which all of us love so much
and all of us believe has the right political philosophy.
I have always campaigned for the unity of our party, recognizing that con-
scientious men and women could differ on particulars without forsaking the
basic Republican philosophies to which they are committed. For the 36 years
since I first took an active part in Republican politics, that has been my philos-
ophy and it has been my practice, and I will not abandon it in 1976.
Quite a few of you, I am sure, know that I have campaigned many, many times
in all of the 50 States on behalf of candidates for the Congress and other offices
876
