[207]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
abuses by any of the intelligence community against American citizens. Let me
outline very quickly what we have done.
In the first place, we set down criteria in a rather lengthy document of what
intelligence agencies and individuals could not do-specific guidelines. Those
were lacking in the past. And if those guidelines are not lived up to, then the
persons responsible, individually or the head of an agency, are held accountable.
Accountability is the real crux of how you can prevent abuses.
In addition, we have established an Intelligence Review Board which is
composed of three individuals, three outstanding individuals-former Ambas-
sador Robert Murphy, Mr. Stephen Ailes, and Mr. Leo Cherne. They have the
responsibility of taking complaints from individuals or from the Inspectors
General of the CIA, the defense intelligence community, and to make an
objective analysis of any abuses by individuals or an agency. Then in order to
strengthen the intelligence community in an effective way, we have set up-
we have first gotten rid of about 10 different boards that were overlapping in
duplication, and we have established an intelligence community committee
headed by the new head of the Central Intelligence Agency. And there are
three of them that will bring together the intelligence community, which is
made up of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency,
the National Security Agency, and three or four others, and they report to me
directly.
When you come right down to it, the person in this area who has the final
responsibility is the President. And I believe that you have to hold people
accountable, and I am fully willing to assume that responsibility. And I think
it is the way it should be handled. If it goes wrong, the President ought to assume
the liability. If it does well, then it is good for the country. But in the final
analysis, the accountability comes right into the Oval Office of the White House
with the President, and I think that is the way to solve the problem.
CUBAN AND SOVIET INVOLVEMENT IN AFRICA
[7.] Q. What specific role would you have the United States play in the
event of intensive Cuban and Russian involvement in the overthrow of the
Governments of Rhodesia and South Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, we believe that there ought to be more progress
in Rhodesia where there are, as I recall the figures, some 220,000 whites and 5 or
6 million blacks. There ought to be movement toward a majority government.
That, I think, has to be, inevitably, the result.
Number two, in South Africa, the situation is somewhat different. Namibia,
640
