[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion on the boards of directors of large corporations to the people who work
for these large corporations and to the citizens who live immediately around
these corporations, so that the people who are most intimately affected by the
decisions of these corporations have input into the decisionmaking process of
the corporations? It seems to me that until the people get true freedom—that
to have freedom come from on high is a negation of what true freedom really is.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, under our system you have to give representation to the
people who have invested their money into the building of the plant and the
purchasing of the equipment-
Q. If I can interrupt for a second, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. —and the operation of the facility. Now, there are instances
where employees have bought the business. Obviously, in that case the people
who are employed ought to run the place, not only in the management but in
the plant itself.
In a number of cases where you have stock ownership programs, where an
employee or the employees buy stock and, therefore, are a part-owner, there is
representation by those employees or somebody representing them on the board
of directors, and that is very proper. Whether or not you should go beyond that
would create some considerable change in our whole system.
Now, it has been tried in Germany or West Germany, with some success.
Whether it ought to be tried here or not, I think, it is premature to make any
comment.
DEFENSE BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, I would like to know if the United States was ever in a
world war situation, would you authorize the first strike, and if the answer to
this is no, then how do you justify such a high defense budget?
THE PRESIDENT. The United States has no plans for any first strike, but now
let me answer the second question. The United States Government has been
putting less and less of our resources into our national security for the last 10
years, and the net result has been that the percentage of the Federal funds that
go to defense this year is 24 percent and social programs derive about 50 to 55
percent of the total Federal expenditures.
We have reached a point of diminishing return for several reasons. One, the
Soviet Union, during the same period of time, has increased their expenditures
out of their total government expenditures, their total GNP, and if we don't
correct the situation—which I am trying to do and tried to do last year—the
national security of this country will be in some jeopardy.
384
