[260]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
special message yesterday—I understand it was read—Bob has made a very great
contribution to the American textile industry as well as to the strength and the
vitality of the American free enterprise system. We all wish you the very best,
Bob.
Your theme, as I understand it, at this convention is "Textiles are our first
great industry,” and it is appropriate that you should have that title on our
Bicentennial Year. It also reminds us, however, that today the textile industry is
one of the largest industries in our country.
I was interested in reading the history that when Samuel Slater built the
country's first spinning mill in 1790 on the Blackstone River in Pawtucket,
Rhode Island, the Nation was very, very young. In the 186 intervening years, the
textile industry has played a very major and massive role in our Nation's
economic growth from the beginning to the present.
As John was telling me, it is now the largest employer of labor in manufactur-
ing, with combined textile and apparel manufacturing accounting for some
2,400,000 jobs out of 86,600,000 jobs, according to the last statistics by the Depart-
ment of Labor. Fortunately your industry was one of the very first to come out
of our recent recession, but because all of the trends that we see today—all are
pluses—I think this industry, as well as the country, can look confidently to con-
tinued economic recovery this year.
We have had, it seems, good economic news about every Friday for the last
month or 5 weeks. First, we had a substantial drop in unemployment; a very
significant increase in employment. And then we had good news when there
was actually a reduction in the Wholesale Price Index, and then last week we
had additional, very beneficial news indicating that the increase in the Con-
sumer Price Index was also very, very small.
But this morning, flying out, I was reading one of the morning newspapers
from the east coast, and I could not help but quote from it because I think this
is the fundamental that will determine whether or not we have a continued,
improving economic climate in the months ahead. According to the University
of Michigan Survey Research Center, they are saying the following, "Consumer
confidence improved sharply in the last 3-month period.”
Let me quote several of the portions from that report: "The recent sentiment—
improvement is sufficiently large, and broad-based across all income groups, so
that it is not likely to be reversed in the months ahead." They also said, “This
rise in consumer optimism, coupled with pent-up demand for various guides
and services, suggests that a substantial increase in consumer spending is clearly
in prospect." They went on to say, "News in the months ahead, that the eco-
808
