[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Is it fair to say that because of the commissary benefits and because of the
comparability, you feel military members are overpaid by that amount?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't say overpaid. I think they are paid properly.
Q. Overcompensated?
The President. I said they were paid properly. I don't use your words. I use
my own. [Laughter]
Q. In light of what you just said about the seriousness of the problem of 52
percent of military budget being spent on pay, would you consider returning to
the old nonvoluntary system, the draft system?
THE PRESIDENT. I firmly believe in the all-volunteer military force. I believe
that the experience in the last 3 years has been good. All of the services have
been able to recruit all of the manpower they needed. They have been able to
increase the educational requirements and still get all of the manpower that
they wanted in a voluntary way. So, I strongly believe in an all-voluntary
military force, a career force. And the experience in the last several years has
been very encouraging. And I think we ought to continue it.
Q. Mr. President, your last budget message and your last budget placed
emphasis on steps to get the Nation out of the recession. Does this budget repre-
sent a shift in emphasis to fighting inflation?
The President. It is a budget that aims at a balanced economy, continued
efforts against inflation, and the establishment of a healthy civilian economy that
will provide for greater jobs in the private sector. It is a combination, well-
balanced Federal budget in that regard.
Bob [Robert S. Boyd, Knight Newspapers].
Q. On page 66 of your budget you say you call for a full-scale development of
long-range strategic cruise missiles. Does that mean that you have given up
hope for achieving some kind of controls or restraints on cruise missiles in
Moscow ?
THE PRESIDENT. The research and development program on cruise missiles,
whether they are from aircraft or submarines or surface ships or land-based, is a
program that must continue. Secretary Kissinger is now in Moscow to continue
negotiations on SALT II. We certainly expect to continue the research and
development in this new weapons system area until we find out whether or
not we can negotiate SALT II.
SALT II may have—I say "may have"-some impact on what we do in the
future in cruise missiles. But certainly I can't predicate funding on a research
and development program in the budget that begins October 1, 1976, on
decisions that haven't been made in December of 1975. It just makes sense to
72
