[107]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
people will elect a President who will not abuse that responsibility. I certainly
don't intend to.
POLICY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PRESIDENT FORD AND RONALD REAGAN
[5.] Q. Mr. President, last weekend in Florida you suggested that anyone
to the right of you politically could not be elected as President. Newsmen as-
sumed you were referring to Ronald Reagan, but you were not entirely specific,
and I would like to pin you down now.
Do you believe that Reagan is so far to the right that he cannot win a national
election? And, if you do believe that, I would like to know what you base your
opinion on, especially in light of the fact that he was twice elected Governor of
the most populous State in the country by large margins?
The President. I was referring to anybody in either political party who is to
the right of me, and there are some in the Democratic Party and some-I think
Governor Reagan is to the right of me philosophically. It seems to me that there
are some differences, for example, between Governor Reagan and myself.
Let's take the issue of social security. He has suggested, from time to time,
that it ought to be voluntary, not mandatory as it is under the existing law. He
has suggested that maybe the funds from the social security program ought to be
invested in the stock market. I disagree with both of those proposals. I believe
in the firm integrity of the social security program, and the way I have sug-
gested, it seems to me, is the better approach.
Governor Reagan has suggested a $90 billion cut in Federal expenditures,
transferring the responsibilities and the programs to the local and State officials
where they either have to abandon the programs or raise taxes to support them.
I disagree with that approach.
I think that the better way to do it is to take the Federal funds and transfer
them to the State and local units of government so that those services can be
provided at the State and local level much more effectively.
These are some of the differences that exist between Mr. Reagan and myself.
It is a somewhat different philosophy.
Q. But specifically, do you believe he cannot win a national election?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that anybody to the right of me, Democratic or
Republican, can't win a national election.
NEW HAMPSHIRE AND FLORIDA PRIMARIES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, are you ready to say now flatly that you are confident
of winning the New Hampshire and/or the Florida primary?
352
