[231]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
porting, too. [Laughter] We get along very well, and I am an avid reader of
newspapers, to tell you the truth. I think they do a fine job, and I also think
that the people who cover the White House do a fine job. We don't always agree.
I like some headlines better than the others, but they have a responsibility and
I have one, and I think we understand each one and our respective responsibilities.
ADMINISTRATION'S GOALS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, other than the economic recovery, what would you
say is the major problem confronting your administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, the main one is to make certain and positive that
we have an economic recovery without reigniting inflation, and I think we are
on the right track. And all of the signs indicate that we will make more progress
in the months ahead than we have in the months behind us. Other than that, I
think trying to get the Congress to move with us on an energy program. We
have to do more than has been done. We have to somehow enact legislation that
I can sign that will stimulate domestic production.
I saw some figures just a day or so ago that in the month of February the
imports of foreign crude oil were at the highest rate in the history of the United
States-something over 7 million barrels per day—and it is going up. Now,
what does that mean? It means with domestic production going down and a
greater dependence on foreign oil, we are really subject to the whims and fancies
of other countries. So, we have to move in this area very, very importantly.
Secondly, in the international scene, number one, we have to convince the
Congress that the military budget that I submitted in January for the next fiscal
year of $112.7 billion be approved with, I hope, every program and every policy
that I included, without change. Now that is too optimistic, but at least we
are going to fight to prevent the kind of cutbacks and slashes that Congress
has imposed on the Defense Department for the last 5 to 10 years.
If we have that kind of a military program, with an improvement in our
strategic as well as conventional forces, we can then negotiate from strength
for whatever purposes we want, whether it is a SALT II agreement, whether
it is in any of the other areas where it is in our national interest. So, if we get that
kind of a defense budget through, many of our other problems, both from a
national security point of view and from a foreign policy point of view, we
will be in good shape.
MINIMUM WAGE
[5.] Q. Mr. President, we have been hearing for the last couple of days
in our meetings, about the possibility of the consideration of a $3 minimum
742
