[286]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
threatening children, and harassing women claim to have a concern for human
rights. Manifestly, they do not.
I have instructed the Department of Justice to do everything it can in coopera-
tion with the New York authorities to bring to justice those who have committed
these vicious acts. I am confident that the New York authorities will cooperate
in these efforts to the fullest degree.
NOTE: The statement was released at Milwaukee, Wis.
287
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public
Forum in West Bend, Wisconsin. April 2, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Warren Knowles, Congressman Bill
Steiger, my old and very dear friend, your former Congressman from Wis-
consin, Mel Laird, Mayor Schoenhaar, Dr. Steinert, students, faculty, and guests
of West Bend East Suns and the West Bend West Spartans:
It is a great pleasure to be back in Wisconsin and to visit a school where East
meets West right here in the gymnasium.
Let me,
first of all, pay my respects to the Suns and the Spartans of West
Bend, and especially let me thank the girls' track team for letting us borrow
the gymnasium today. I didn't mean to interrupt your practice, girls, but I
am trying to get in shape for the big race in November, and I appreciate your
cooperation.
The purpose of my visit can be summed up in a very few words. As much
as I believe in a strong and prosperous automobile industry, I am here to say
that this year there is absolutely no reason to trade in your Ford on another
model.
After a few brief introductory remarks, I look forward with a great deal of
pleasure to answering your questions. And at the outset, let me congratulate all
of you because I have heard from Governor Knowles and Bill Steiger and
others of the remarkable recovery in West Bend from the recent ice storms. I
understand that things are getting back to normal now, and I commend you for
the community spirit that was so important under these most difficult
circumstances.
Now, after some rather stormy weather in recent years it is good to see that
America is getting back to normal, too. On the economic front, we are steadily
920
