February 25
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
aid that might be coming through these programs. I was wondering if you have
given that any consideration, that smaller towns don't qualify for big city aid?
THE PRESIDENT. In the legislation that I was discussing a moment ago, in the
$740 million program under the Community Development Act, 25 percent of
that money was allocated to communities under 50,000. So I am sure that a
community such as the one you describe would be eligible for help and assistance.
POLICY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PRESIDENT FORD AND RONALD REAGAN
[12.] Q. What were some of the major issues developed in the New Hamp-
shire primary?
THE PRESIDENT. What are some of the major issues developed in the primary?
I think one of the major issues was the very definite difference in my approach
and in former Governor Reagan's approach on how we would get local respon-
sibility to handle the problems that exist in the whole United States at the local
level.
My approach is one of taking Federal money, giving it to the States and to the
local communities and letting them make the decisions as to how that money
should be spent. And Governor Reagan's proposal is to take away the Federal
funds and tell the States and local units of government that, if they want to solve
the problems, they have to take additional tax money at either the State or the
local level. I think the approach that we have recommended is the preferable one,
and I think it was a factor in the election in New Hampshire.
There were some other issues where we got into some differences on how there
should be a financing of the social security program, how it should be managed,
the trust fund. But I really think the fiscal issue and the delivery of services to
the local people was rather significant.
BETTY FORD
[13.] Q. I would like to commend you for letting Betty speak her mind.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I knew when I married her she would. [Laughter] So she
hasn't changed, and I don't think she will, and I am real proud that her polls are
better than mine. [Laughter]
Q. In relation to that, how does she enjoy being on the campaign trail without
you in Florida?
The PRESIDENT. I talked to her last night about midnight and she said she had
a good day in Jacksonville. She enjoys the opportunity to get out and participate.
443
