[135]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me emphasize that no State will receive less Federal money in the future
under my block grant proposal than it received in fiscal year 1976 under the
programs being consolidated.
My consolidation proposal will allow the States far greater flexibility in pro-
viding for the delivery of health care services to those with low incomes. It
eliminates the requirements for State matching funds.
My proposal is designed to reduce Federal redtape, increase local control over
health spending, and expand public participation in health planning. It is
essential to continuing our national progress in the field of health.
I strongly urge the Congress to take affirmative action quickly and positively
on this important proposal.
Mr. Secretary, I am signing the message to the Congress so that they can
move quickly and, as I said, positively, on this very important proposal.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:53 p.m. at a ceremony in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
136
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Health Care
Reform Legislation.
February 25, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
The health of our people is one of our Nation's most vital resources.
Significant progress has been made in improving the health of the Nation's
people during the last 25 years, as can be seen in the reductions in the infant
mortality rate, increases in life expectancy, and the conquering of some com-
municable diseases. This progress has come under a largely private health care
system with the support of public funds.
In the past 10 year period (1965-1975) Federal spending for health has in-
creased from $5 billion to $37 billion. With greater Federal funding has come a
multitude of Federal programs, regulations and restrictions—all motivated by
the best of intentions but each adding to the confusion and overlap and inequity
that now characterizes our efforts at the national level.
Today I am proposing to the Congress legislation that addresses these prob-
lems. I am asking Congress to enact the Financial Assistance for Health Care
Act which will consolidate Medicaid and 15 categorical Federal health programs
into a $10 billion block grant to the States. I am proposing that future Federal
funding for this new program be increased annually in increments of $500
430
