February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
environmental and the safety objectives can be met? But would it be fair to
these segments of the economy and pose fewer problems to us here in New
Hampshire that do not have large, huge corporations that have tremendous
resources?
THE PRESIDENT. Let my clarify one thing. You are talking about the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, not about the Occupational Health and Safety
organization [Administration]. You are talking about the former, the Environ-
mental Protection Agency?
Q. Yes, we are, and some of the safety implementations are administered with
a great deal more of feeling and understanding. This we can say. But still there
are areas there that appear to be actually-don't make too much sense when you
come right down to it.
THE PRESIDENT. In the case of the EPA, they have, in my opinion, been too
inflexible in some of their decisions as to certain standards. I think we have
gotten a little different objective. We have a fine person in charge of it, a man
named Russell Train. I think there is a realization now, in and out of Govern-
ment, that we can't make up in a few years for all the environmental evils we
perpetrated on the country over a period of a hundred years.
So there is, I think, a little more flexibility on the part of EPA. If you have a
specific case, I would recommend that you communicate it to us. I think there is
some flexibility, if there is a hardship involving the closing of a plant and the
loss of jobs. It depends on the kind of damage to the environment in each case.
On some occasions—we have just had a tragic thing happen down in Virginia.
You may have read about it, this kepone, a chemical. For some reasons or
another that was not promptly and adequately handled by either the State or the
Federal authorities. So, you almost have to handle each case on an individual
basis.
Now, as to the tax incentive, there is a provision in the Internal Revenue Code
that gives to business a tax write-off up to a certain percentage for the funds they
expend in improving their plant and equipment to meet EPA standards.
I know that some small companies that have a bad cash flow have not been
able to utilize that, but it is available and I think it is 20 percent, as I recall.
But anyhow, there is such a provision, and I think a good many companies I
know have used it. But there are some, I am sure, that for economic reasons, can't
finance it.
But the concept is good. Whether it can meet every particular plant's problem
or not depends on the individual plant.
Q. Part of our problem, Mr. President, is not solely with the existing plant but
179
