[97]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
97
Remarks at a Federal Bar Association Dinner in Miami,
Florida. February 14, 1976
Thank you very much, Bob, Maurice, my good friend, Louis Frey, members
of the judiciary, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
As I had the privilege and honor of going through the reception, a number
of very kindly remarks were made concerning the fact that I had apparently
picked up some Florida sunshine. I am delighted that that happened.
It is wonderful to be here in Florida and, of course, the sunshine was great
and the receptions were exceptional. But let me just say it is a great privilege
and pleasure to be here on this occasion with this very distinguished group,
and I thank you for the invitation.
It is a great honor and privilege to address the fellow members of the Fed-
eral Bar Association, the leading professional organization representing attor-
neys, civilian as well as military, in Federal service and formerly employed by
the United States Government. The Federal lawyer, serving in every depart-
ment or agency of our Government, has never had more important responsi-
bilities than today in our rapidly, very rapidly changing society. And this
is especially true in law enforcement.
In south Florida, you have done an outstanding job to provide speedy justice
and mobilize State and local cooperation. Indeed—and I am delighted to
hear it—I understand that some of the Federal courts in your district remain
in session as late as 11 p.m. to speed trials and to prevent backlogs. I congratu-
late you. I wish the same example would be followed nationwide, if I can
trespass on another branch of the Federal Government.
I specifically, in addition, commend the coordination of the Federal, city,
and local law enforcement officers in the investigations of the bombings of
the Miami International Airport, the local FBI office, and other target areas
in the Miami area. I congratulate you for this fine and, I think, exceptional
effort.
Frankly, I have had it with terrorism of the kind that recently killed so
many innocent people at LaGuardia Airport in New York City¹ and has
plagued the south Florida area. The FBI has reported that bombings in the
United States in 1975 killed 69 people.
See 1975 volume, Item 749.
326
