[287]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
RELAXATION OF TENSIONS IN THE WORLD
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you what your stand on détente
is and why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I think most of you know, we are not using that
word any more—[laughter]—but I think that is immaterial. I am really con-
cerned about the results from our negotiating with any power.
The point that has to be understood is that two, for example, super powers
have to negotiate at arm's length, and we, being one, have to be absolutely cer-
tain and positive that in the process of trying to ease tensions, to relax tension,
so we don't fall into a nuclear holocaust with the world turned into ashes, that
we don't weaken ourselves. And in the process of trying to negotiate respon-
sible positions, where we don't give up more than we get—and this is the
attitude—we also must protect our national interest.
We don't want to go back to the cold war where everybody sat with a happy
finger on the trigger of a nuclear capability. We want to reduce those tensions.
We want to reduce our nuclear capability in a mutual sense so that the possibili-
ties for a nuclear holocaust are less and less and less, but we have to do it in a
responsible, constructive, mutual way.
It does not do us any good to have 10 times more power than we have today,
which would blow up the Earth 20 times. We have to negotiate from strength to
get a mutual advantage for the safety of our country and the protection of man-
kind throughout the globe. And that is what we mean by negotiating from
strength.
SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM
[5.] Q. Mr. President, we are very honored to have you here tonight, sir. In
nearby West Bend, at the Cedar Lake Home, many of the residents have asked
me to find out your views on the elderly.
THE PRESIDENT. I am a firm believer in the social security program. I believe
that it has not only helped immensely those who retire at 62 or 65 but I think it
has also been of great help and benefit when the husband, for example, dies at
40 and there are survivorship benefits.
I think there are other great advantages such as the disability portion of social
security. I think we must be certain and positive that the retirement benefits and
the other benefits that come from the social security program are made certain,
and this is where the problem arises.
At the present time, in this 12-month period, there will be $3.5 billion more
926
