[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Many of these farms have been in the same family for generation after gen-
eration. And anyone who knows farmers, knows what they do, and knows
farm families, know that we want the family farm to survive and thrive in
America. We want to make it easier for people to pass on their farms, the prod-
uct of
many years of hard work and love and faith, to their sons and to their
daughters.
We want to make it easier to keep those farms in the family rather than sac-
rificing it to the tax collector. In order to achieve this, to maintain this capability
of holding a farm within a family, I have proposed to the Congress two legis-
lative recommendations. One, to stretch out estate tax payments at a greatly
reduced interest rate over a 25-year period. And, second, I have proposed an in-
crease in the estate tax exemption from $60,000-it was established at that level
in 1942-to $150,000.
These proposals, if enacted, and I hope and trust the Congress will move,
would help not only family farms but family businesses as well. And I sus-
pect in a community like La Crosse there are many small family-owned busi-
nesses that are an important segment of our economy, that can and must be
kept within the family for the same reasons that we want family farms retained
by one generation after another.
But let me talk for a minute about some of the economic problems we have
had for the last 24 months, most of it occurring in late 1974 and early in 1975.
Yes, as Dr. Gunderson said, we were hit with the worst recession in 40 years,
but thanks to some very strong commonsense policies that I initiated at the outset
of the recession and thanks more importantly to the determination, the courage
of the American people, we are working our way out of our economic
difficulties.
One favorable economic factor after another pointing the way, we are on the
road to economic recovery and prosperity in America, and we are picking up
speed every day. Even with the very severe setbacks that we suffered, America
today is the most economically powerful nation in the world. And with all the
trends in the right direction, employment going up, unemployment going
down, with the rate of inflation getting lower and lower, with public confidence
leaping forward, with housing starts up, with automobile sales greater, America
is showing that we have faith in this great free enterprise system.
We did not panic when the problem got bad; we did not succumb to any
quick fixes that would have called for the people to go and work for the govern-
ment. We recognized that five out of the six jobs in this country are in the private
836
