March 5
[184]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
So, I'm an optimist about '76 and the next 4 years, and so I hope we can justify
your faith in us.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:45 p.m. at the Forum 30 Hotel.
184
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Peoria, Illinois.
March 5, 1976
IT IS great to be in Peoria. I have been here a number of times. In fact, Bob
Michel reminded me of the time, quite a few years ago—I won't tell you how
long, but it was a great occasion, and it's nice to be back in 1976.
Reporter. What is your current stand on the right-to-life amendment in the
Constitution?
THE PRESIDENT. My stand today is the same as it has been for some time. I
think the Supreme Court went too far. I think the amendment that bans all
abortion goes too far. I think that there is a reasonable and responsible middle
ground, and that's the position that I take.
Q. Mr. President, if you win the primary, will you be able to beat out either
Teddy Kennedy or Hubert Humphrey?
The President. Well, I think that our chances in November are very good,
regardless of the Democratic candidates.
Q. How about the current status of revenue sharing as far as you are con-
cerned? Are you satisfied with the progress of that bill through Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I have recommended to Congress a 534-year exten-
sion of general revenue sharing—last July, as I recollect—and Congress has not
gotten the legislation out of subcommittee yet. Congress has been very, very
dilatory. The majority party doesn't seem to have much inspiration to pass the
legislation. I hope that we can push—with the help of Governors, mayors,
and county officials—this legislation can be vitally important to all units of
government.
Q. Do you think it is going to pass?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm always optimistic, but the time delay is very bothersome.
All I can say is that we're working very hard to get some congressional action
before it's too late.
Q. Is it going to play in Peoria? Are you going to win in central Illinois ?
545
