[192]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Number two, we had a record crop of 2 billion bushels in 1975, an alltime
record in the United States. So, we have ample supplies from the carryover.
And the unfortunate drought in that area—a lack of rain, a lack of snow cover—
even if it stays where it is will not have a severely adverse impact on our
wheat supplies in 1976, and therefore, would have, I think, no significant im-
pact on our grain sales to the Soviet Union.
EFFECT OF PRIMARY ELECTION RESULTS ON RONALD REAGAN'S CAMPAIGN
[4.] Q. Mr. President, with your recent victories in New England and a
possible win in Florida, would you consider that a big win here in Illinois would
be a knockout blow to Ronald Reagan's campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we won in New Hampshire; we won in Vermont; we
won in Massachusetts. It's a close race, but I think we're going to win in
Florida, and I've been impressed with the warm welcome here in the great
State of Illinois. And after you win five in a row, I'd be very encouraged. But
I think you would have to ask my opponent what he will do. That's his deci-
sion, certainly not mine.
HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE REPORT; POLICYMAKING IN THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT
[5.] Q. I just would like to start by saying I'm honored to have an audi-
ence and that I do love you, President Ford, and I love America. I was con-
cerned—I read recently in the news that Secretary of State Henry Kissinger had
accused Otis Pike of a brand of McCarthyism. And this kind of dissent going
on between the executive branch and the Congress is something very serious,
especially when it concerns our intelligence community. I would like to know
how you feel about Henry Kissinger's accusation, if you feel that that was
just, and I also have another related question.
I was recently speaking to a United States attorney, and I'm very concerned
about what's happening in the United States and in the world. And he stated
that the President isn't really running this country and neither is the Congress,
but the bureaucrats are. And certainly, I've been watching your administration
very closely in trying to grasp what's happening, and it seems to me that the
balance of power is tipping in favor of the bureaucracy. And I, as a citizen,
feel that there is need in our government to balance this type of change.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer the first question in this way: The Pike
Committee of the House of Representatives was given the job to investigate
allegations concerning the Central Intelligence Agency and other intelligence-
588
