March 3
[174]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Finally, I expect that the Executive Branch will cooperate fully with the
Commission on Federal Paperwork in its efforts to address these matters more
broadly.
I anticipate your wholehearted and effective compliance in securing these
goals.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
174
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Disabled
American Veterans National Service and Legislative
Headquarters. March 3, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Lyle, distinguished Members of the House and
Senate, my former colleagues, my very good friends and also a former col-
league, the Administrator of the Veterans Administration, better known as
Roudy, Mrs. Schulze, Reverend Elson, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am extremely proud to be here with you today and to particularly participate
in the dedication ceremonies of the National Service Headquarters of the DAV.
It is a most impressive building in an excellent site, and I commend and con-
gratulate the DAV for seeing this brick and mortar come to life with the activ-
ities that are going on here today and the activities that will be continuing for a
good many years to come.
In August of 1974 I had the privilege, as Vice President, of addressing the 53d
annual convention in New Orleans. At that time your national commander very
graciously offered me an invitation. He said I would be welcome at any gather-
ing of the Disabled American Veterans at any place. I can think of no time or
place or occasion more appropriate for me to accept that invitation than here
today. And I thank you, Mr. Commander, for inviting me to participate.
The completion of this very, very impressive new National Service Head-
quarters is the proud climax of your fine history of accomplishment, a history
that stretches back some 56 years. And I know how much it has meant to many
of you to participate, and I can tell from the crowd here and the looks on the
faces of those here that this is a historic moment in the life and the history of the
DAV.
509
