[199]
March 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
The intelligence needs of the '70's and beyond require the use of highly so-
phisticated technology. Furthermore, there are new areas of concern which
demand our attention. No longer does this country face only military threats.
New threats are presented in such areas as economic reprisal and international
terrorism. The combined experience and expertise of the members of this Board
will be an invaluable resource as we seek solutions to the foreign intelligence
problems of today and the future.
In developing the Nation's offensive and defensive strategy to conduct foreign
policy and provide for the national security, we must be able to deal with prob-
lems covering the broadest spectrum of activities.
By strengthening the Board as I have done today, and by giving the Board my
full personal support, I fully anticipate that the Foreign Intelligence Advisory
Board will continue its indispensable role in advising me on the effectiveness of
our foreign intelligence efforts.
200
Memorandum Establishing the Agricultural Policy Committee.
March 11, 1976
Memorandum for: Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of
Agriculture, Secretary of Commerce, Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, Assistant to the President for Do-
mestic Affairs, Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs, Assistant
to the President for National Security Affairs, Special Assistant to the
President for Consumer Affairs, Acting Executive Director of the Council
on International Economic Policy
Subject: Establishment of Agricultural Policy Committee
This memorandum is to advise you of a recent agricultural policy making re-
organization within my Administration.
I am creating a new Agricultural Policy Committee. Each of you is being des-
ignated as a member of this Committee, with Secretary of Agriculture Earl
Butz serving as Chairman.
This new Committee consolidates agricultural policy making into one group,
which will advise me on the formulation, coordination and implementation of
all food and agricultural policy. The scope of the Committee includes both do-
mestic and international food and agricultural issues.
606
