February 14
[97]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I think we owe protection to everyone, but most of all we owe protection
to those least able to cope with violence. Let us pay special attention to guard-
ing areas where our elderly people are concentrated. Let us help them feel safe
as they sit in the sun in this beautiful State or take an evening walk in this
beautiful area. Let us lift the oppressive fear from their hearts.
While prisons exist to protect society from the criminal, those convicted
are on the main line back to crime if they are freed because of inadequate
detention facilities. This is also true if inmates are confined in notoriously
bad or overcrowded facilities that breed even more crime.
Unbelievably, America still has the same prison capacity as in 1960, although
crime has doubled and our population has burgeoned. The need for more
prisons is obvious and very, very urgent, and I included it in the budget for
the next fiscal year—four new Federal prisons that are badly needed to meet
this problem at the Federal level.
Here in the Miami area the Federal Government will next month open a
new Federal Youth Center. All of you know it will have a detention facility
capable of handling some 250—including youths and pre-trial adult offenders.
I think this is a step forward.
My concern is for the total fabric of American society with our constitutional
guarantee of due process. The time is long, long overdue to give the innocent
victim every bit of protection and consideration now accorded to the criminal.
Why are so many serious and violent crimes never reported to the police?
The criminal victimization survey conducted by the Bureau of Census for
the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, better known as LEAA,
disclosed that in 13 major cities, including Miami, only about one-third of
rapes, robberies, aggravated assaults, and burglaries are reported to the police.
Miami has a higher rate of reporting, than most of the cities that were surveyed.
But even here the figures show that 4 out of 10 rape cases are not reported.
In the case of robbery accompanied by serious assault resulting in injury, 3
out of every 10 victims do not report the crime to police.
Crime figures, unfortunately, do not tell the full and the very terrible story.
The fact that so many victims are reluctant to report serious crimes indicates
a breakdown in the traditional relationship between the citizen and the police.
We must protect the victims of crime as well as the witnesses to crime. We
must help them and we must treat them with great respect. That is essential.
As all of you know, in the law enforcement process all law-abiding people
must unite in the struggle to regain the freedom of our streets and the safety
of our homes. When a criminal is arrested, the police are required to imme-
329
