[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
American farmer. There is no question in my mind, because if you look at the
sales record for the last 5 or 6 years, some years it was way down here, the next
year it was up here, then it was down here, then it was up. There was no certain
market. They could come and go as they pleased, and now you have not only the
6 million tons but you have a greater potential. You have a guarantee of that
much, and when you look at what we are going to be selling, as we have in the
past, to Poland, to Japan, to other Eastern European countries, and Western
European countries, I am an optimist as far as the American farmer is concerned.
And I recognize that there were some declines in the prices of grain from 6 or
8 months ago, but I also am an optimist because I look at future prices. Soy-
beans for next year's crop are 19 cents higher than the ones for the current crop.
Corn is 2 cents higher. Wheat is about 12 cents higher. I should think that
would convince farmers that 1976 is going to be a darn good year. And I am con-
vinced the years after that will be equally optimistic.
Q. I am a farmer in western Illinois. I am also associated with a number of
farmer cooperatives. Along with many other farmers and farm leaders, I am
becoming increasingly concerned with the rather frequent flow of statements
and innuendoes from the administration and departments of the executive
branch—primarily the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice
and others—that farmer marketing cooperatives are either monopolistic or
otherwise somehow responsible for the high food prices.
The facts are that marketing cooperatives have been an essential tool for the
orderly marketing of our farm production to the benefit of their farmer owners,
and at the same time these cooperatives, these marketing cooperatives, along with
many others, have been a competitive influence to the great benefit of consumers.
My question, Mr. President, is this. If reelected, do you feel that you can give
strong support to farmer cooperatives?
THE PRESIDENT. I think my record in the Congress and my personal record as
President indicates a strong support for farmer cooperatives. The Federal Trade
Commission is going to have a new Chairman. At least I have submitted his
name to the United States Senate for consideration. He comes from Illinois. He
is the son of a former good Republican Congressman from here. His name is
Cal Collier. I think you will find in Cal Collier, as the Chairman of that Com-
mission, a very proper understanding of the role of marketing cooperatives. I
can't prejudge in every detail, but if he is as good as his old man, he will make a
darn good Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.
Q. Mr. President, I am from northern Illinois. I would like to commend you
on your estate tax plan by increasing the deduction to $150,000. What can we, as
536
