[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Your budget this year includes Federal assistance for 500,000 housing units.
Even with this support I believe you are forecasting 1.4 to 1.6 million new units.
This is well below the 2 million units that has been presented as goals to meet
our housing needs. How do you answer criticism that this administration is
taking away these units and increasing shortages in housing?
THE PRESIDENT. We think the 500,000 housing construction and rehabili-
tation program is a good base for a sound Federal housing program. The num-
ber of starts in calendar 1975 was roughly 1,100,000. We are optimistic that
that figure will be improved, particularly with interest rates going down and
with mortgage money being available.
I would like to ask the Secretary of HUD to add anything to that. She just
went down and didn't get run out of town in Dallas when she spoke to the
homebuilders, so she must have a good program that will be better in 1976.
CARLA A. HILLS [Secretary of Housing and Urban Development]. Oh, I
agree, Mr. President, that the remedy to truly help housing is to get the infla-
tion down so that we close the gap between the actual cost of housing and the
real income of people. Now, to correct what I think was implied there, our
assistance is to people, not to construction, when we address our over 500,000
units.
That reflects 100,000 units which will give an opportunity for home owner-
ship through a home subsidy program. In addition, we have 400,000 units,
which is comprised of new, existing, and substantially rehabilitated, where the
assistance is in the form of rental subsidy whereby we provide the difference
between 15 or 25 percent of the person's income and the fair rental value of
a modest unit.
In addition, we have reflected in this budget, 6,000 units of housing for our
Indians. So, we are over 500,000 units. But I think the real remedy is to expand
home ownership for all of our people. And we certainly have done that in an
emergency basis through our tandem program where great numbers of dol-
lars—indeed, over $15 billion of mortgage purchase assistance-has been pro-
vided over the past 22 months for single-family dwellings.
And just 2 weeks ago we have released $3 billion for multifamily assistance.
Now, I regard these as purely emergency measures. And by 1977, if our econ-
omy continues on the track which it is on now, we can be sure we won't need
these emergency measures, but that people will be able to enter the housing
market and buy the home of their choice.
Q. Mr. President, if I could follow up on the question on housing and ask
either you or Mrs. Hills, we have at least 9 million people in this country living
68
