[48]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Five out of six jobs in this country are in the private sector, and they are the
permanent jobs, not make-work, quick-fix employment. And what we hope to
do is to stimulate the economy with investment tax credits, with incentives for
industry to go into high unemployment areas, build a plant more quickly than
they would have done otherwise because they could have an accelerated depre-
ciation schedule. That is the best way, in my opinion, on the short run as well
as the long haul.
ANGOLA AND U.S. COMMITMENTS TO ALLIES
[5.] Q. Within the last couple of days the leader of the Belgian Government
said that the United States could no longer be trusted to defend its allies. First, do
you feel that there is justification for that, and second, how would you respond
to that?
THE PRESIDENT. The United States can be trusted to work with its allies. The
United States will live up to all its alliance commitments. I think what was
intended by that comment was the action of the United States Senate and the
House of Representatives in precluding the executive branch from spending
funds in Angola in support of organizations that we think ought to have an
opportunity to participate in the Angolan Government.
The Soviet Union has spent roughly $200 million in Angola. Cuba has at
least 10,000 highly trained military personnel in Angola. The net result is the
MPLA [Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola] is the dominant politi-
cal organization in Angola, and the two other groups, the FNLA [National
Front for the Liberation of Angola] and the UNITA [National Union for the
Total Independence of Angola], are being beaten militarily by Soviet forces
and Cuban forces. We think that the two other organizations ought to have an
opportunity to participate and not be driven out of their country.
I am told that the two organizations represent more than a majority of the
population. We think there ought to be an Angolan solution to the problem
there, and we don't like the fact that the Soviet Union and Cuba are trying to
impose their will. But what bothers the Belgian official—and it bothers many
other responsible officials around the world—is that where there is a direct effort
by the Soviet Union, and in this case Cuba in addition, the United States stands
by helplessly. And they are concerned, and I think they have a right to feel that
way, even though I know we will live up to any alliance commitments that we
have.
Q. Mr. President, are you hopeful that you can convince the Congress to pro-
vide aid in Angola?
122
