January 30
[48]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In the meantime, I have also urged all Presidential candidates to comply with
the spirit of the law that the Supreme Court has acted on.
FLORIDA PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY
[3.] Q. Mr. President, your national campaign chairman was in Tallahassee
about a week ago—Mr. Callaway. He said at the time your campaign was not
picking up the kind of momentum it was in New Hampshire and that if it did
not gain this momentum your campaign was in trouble. Some other people in
Florida had complained about statements like that. Would you react to how well
or badly you think your campaign is going in Florida?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we are on the right track. I think the campaign will
produce results. We are moving, and I am optimistic as to how we will do in
Florida.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[4.] Q. At the briefing today, either Mr. Greenspan or Mr. Lynn hadn't
any solution, apparently, or didn't appear to have, to the short-term unemploy-
ment problem, and they talked about the long-term problems. In my hometown
of Rockford, Illinois, we have led the State in unemployment for over a year.
What proposals have you made or are you making that will solve the problems
in towns such as that?
THE PRESIDENT. We have had for the last 12 or 18 months several programs.
One, the public service jobs program—I think we recommended the appropria-
tion, and I think Congress approved the funds for roughly 300,000 such jobs
throughout the country. We have a summer youth program, which I have
requested full funding for-around $450 million for the last summer, and I
have recommended the same full funding for the coming summer.
We also, of course, recommended the extension of the unemployment insur-
ance to 65 weeks. And in that way, we are trying to cushion the unemployment
for those who have lost their jobs, and we are trying to provide on the short
term some public service programs.
In addition, last year I recommended an additional $2 billion in expenditures
for the Federal highway program, over and above what was the program at that
time. We have recommended several other less well-known programs, but the
main problem is to get the economy going so that permanent jobs will exist
in the private sector.
2 Alan Greenspan, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and James T. Lynn, Director of the
Office of Management and Budget.
121
