[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me emphasize, however, this is only a part of our policy of strengthening
our agricultural export trade. Farm exports thus far in the 1970's will total 2½
times more than in the same period in the 1960's.
In addition to the $2 billion in sales to the Soviet Union this fiscal year, we
expect to sell $6,800 million to Western European nations; $3,200 million to
Japan alone, and $1,200 million to Eastern Europe.
I think we can all be proud of that record.
I am proud, too, of our Secretary of Agriculture, my very good friend, Earl
Butz. I am today asking the Secretary to assume a new and very vital role in the
strengthening of America's agricultural policymaking within the executive
branch of our Government. The Secretary will be the Chairman of a new Cabi-
net-level Agricultural Policy Committee¹ that I have created. This committee
will consolidate all agricultural policymaking functions of the existing execu-
tive branch committees. It will have the central and vital role in the develop-
ment and the direction of our Nation's food policies.
This new committee and its leadership reasserts the importance that I attach to
Secretary Butz as my chief agricultural policy adviser and spokesman. I am
positive, I am absolutely confident that this bolstering of agricultural policy
within the executive branch will benefit the farmers of Illinois and the entire
United States.
I congratulate you, Earl, on your new responsibilities. Just as we are more
effectively utilizing the energy of Earl Butz, and he has lots of it, we look to the
availability of energy in general as the key to modern farming.
In American agriculture, machines greatly multiply the efforts of men. You
need plentiful supplies of petroleum and natural gas. U.S. production of natural
gas peaked in 1973 and has been declining ever since. This has very serious
implications from the point of view of agriculture. As farmers, you know it
better than I. You need natural gas for drying your crops. You need it as the pri-
mary source for nitrogen fertilizers that put dollars in your pockets and food
on everyone's table.
Yet, today, that crucial supply of natural gas in the United States is being
choked off by outmoded price regulations and restrictions on the interstate ship-
ment of natural gas. And the whole problem, let's be very frank, is bad legisla-
tion. As President, I am determined to rectify that situation. But I need the help
of the Congress to change this bad legislation, these restrictive laws. And I ask
1 See Item 200.
528
