[159]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
crowds and intense feelings, strong indications of support. And we get the same
result in polls that are taken elsewhere. We have the momentum going by any
standard that you use, and when you have it, the opposition just can't stop it.
Q. Mr. President, do you consider yourself the underdog in the Florida pri-
mary right now?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we are going to win, so I am not the underdog.
Q. As of now you are ahead?
THE PRESIDENT. In my opinion.
Q. Mr. President, how crucial is Florida for you?
THE PRESIDENT. Every State is important.
Q. Have you considered the possibility of Reagan beating you in the Florida
primary, and what would you do?
The President. Since I expect to win, we only look for what we can do to
make certain that that takes place. I haven't considered any other option.
Q. Mr. President, to go back to the African situation for a minute, Secretary
Kissinger says that we must take every necessary measure to prevent the same
kind of thing happening in Rhodesia-civil war, guerrilla warfare, interven-
tion-that happened in Angola. Will you ask Congress for money or any other
measures in Rhodesia?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with any statement that Secretary Kissinger
made as precise as you have indicated. So, since I don't know of such a statement
being made, I don't think I should comment on it.
Q. Mr. President, there has been a lot of the Presidential candidates, particu-
larly in the Democratic ranks, who showed up on lists as getting illegal contribu-
tions from oil companies. I know your name showed up, I think it was on the
Ashland list, for $1,000 or more. Could you tell us what you did with that
money? Did you know it was an illegal campaign contribution?
THE PRESIDENT. All of that was reported to the Senate committee that investi-
gated my qualifications for the Vice-Presidency. It was answered fully on the
record. I suggest you go back and look at the record.
Q. Mr. President, Governor Reagan described his showing in New Hamp-
shire as a victory. What would your definition for defeat be for you in Florida,
less than 50 percent?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think any political race where you finish second does
much good for you. And since I don't expect to finish second, I don't consider
any other options.
Q. Mr. President, you have suggested that Hubert Humphrey would probably
be the nominee of the Democratic Party. I am wondering-two questions-first,
480
