February 21
[124]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ture to issue regulations which will set in motion the reforms needed to elimi-
nate abuses, control costs, and concentrate benefits on those truly in need.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Herman E. Talmadge, Chairman
of the Senate Agriculture and Forestry Committee,
and the Honorable Thomas S. Foley, Chairman of
the House Agriculture Committee.
123
Statement on Proposed Legislation To Reconstitute the
Federal Election Commission. February 20, 1976
ON FEBRUARY 16, I submitted legislation to the Congress which would re-
constitute the Federal Election Commission along the lines mandated by the
Supreme Court. At that time, the Congress had 2 weeks in which to take
affirmative action on this legislation or the Commission would lose most of its
powers under the Federal Election Campaign Act. Now, there are only 9 days
left for the Congress to act.
I believe that the measure I proposed is the right way to proceed. There is
simply no time to consider with sufficient care amendments to the law which
are not essential to compliance with the Supreme Court decision. Nor is this
the time to introduce other changes and new uncertainties into the law just as
the primaries are beginning. I would have very serious reservations about any
change in the existing rules under which citizens may be allowed to participate
in the 1976 elections, and I urge that the Congress take only the simple and
necessary step of reconstituting the Federal Election Commission in an appro-
priate constitutional manner.
124
Remarks at a Meeting With the Intelligence Oversight Board.
February 21, 1976
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ailes, and Mr. Cherne:
I thank you, first of all, for taking on this responsibility which, I think, is
extremely significant in the reorganization of the intelligence community. As
all three of you know, we told the intelligence community what they have to do
on the one hand and what they can't do on the other hand.
411
