March 6
[192]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
This administration was confident that we could defeat the recession without sur-
rendering to inflation, and we're doing it.
All the jobs lost to the recession have now been recovered. We got a report
just yesterday from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that we had 86,300,000 gain-
fully employed. It matched the alltime number of people employed in this great
country.
Inflation has been cut in half. The Wholesale Price Index fell a half of 1 per-
cent in February. That's the biggest monthly decline in nearly a year. It's just
another indication that we are bringing under control the frightening inflation
of 12½ to 13 percent about 17 or 18 months ago. Consumer confidence and a
host of other economic indicators are up, and we're going to keep them up.
We're going to make sure, we're going to be positive that there are enough real
jobs created by the economy-not by government—so that all of you, some 2
million of you who come from our schools can use the skills you have learned
in these three colleges and live a rich, rewarding life in this great country where
we all are so proud.
You and I and every other thinking American wants long term, sustainable
growth that won't be undermined by inflation. To keep the cost of living down,
I intend to keep the cost of government down. We darn well better do it.
We've already made some very real progress. My budget cuts in half the rate
of growth in Federal spending we've seen over the last decade. And by 46 vetoes
of legislation sent to me by the Congress in the last 19 months—39 of them have
been sustained—and as a result of those vetoes-and the Congress has supported
the sustaining of those vetoes—we have saved the taxpayer $13 billion. And we
will veto more of them.
By continuing the commonsense approach that I've been taking, we can have
a balanced budget by 1979. And that means a further major tax cut will be possi-
ble, putting more money back into the American taxpayer's pocket; that is, into
your pocket.
You have as many good uses for that money as the Government does, perhaps
more. Another way we can hold down the cost of government is by using
Federal dollars in the most effective way possible, not by junking good programs
along with bad ones, not by dumping them into the laps of State and local units
of government, but by sensibly improving the ones that do work and getting rid
of those programs that don't work.
Revenue sharing is an excellent example of a Federal program that has
583
