[300]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
problems facing older persons and in appreciating the response to the prob-
lems now confronting our Nation.
One of these principles is the right to an adequate standard of living in re-
tirement. Let me reaffirm that older Americans have earned the right to live
securely, comfortably, and independently.
As I have said before, the value of our social security system is beyond ques-
tion. I will do all that I can to ensure the integrity of the Trust Fund, so that
future generations of retirees may continue to rely on it.
With these thoughts and commitments in mind, I am happy today to join
in this annual proclamation designating May as Older Americans Month. I
urge all organizations concerned with employment and volunteer services
to observe this month with ceremonies, activities, and programs designed to
increase opportunities for older persons, and I urge that such programs in-
clude public forums for discussion of the Bicentennial Charter for Older
Americans.
I ask all Americans to join me in reflecting upon the achievements and the
needs of our older citizens.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:06 p.m. at a
ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare David Mathews.
301
Remarks Upon Signing Rural Development Legislation.
April 5, 1976
Secretary Butz, distinguished Members of the Congress:
Let me welcome you all here today for the signing of H.R. 6346, which extends
the authority for certain rural development and research and development ac-
tivities through fiscal year 1979. Most importantly, however, another section of
this bill exempts custom combine operators, hay harvesters, and sheepshearers
from the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act.
I am only sorry that my good friend Bob Dole is not able to participate in this
ceremony. I know he would like to have been here with the other Members of
Congress since he, along with others, led the effort to clarify the Farm Labor
Contractors Registration Act. I understand that failure to change this act could
lead to very severe hardship for the custom combine operators, as well as others.
Since the Farm Labor Act was intended to protect unskilled migrant farm
974
