[209]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
only putting off the inevitable. They have got to find an answer under our cur-
rent beneficiary formula. It is inevitable, something has to be done. I thought
we ought to face up to it this year even though it is an election year. And I regret
that the Congress is not facing up to it. That is the honest and realistic thing to do.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN ACCUSATIONS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, last night the second number two man in the Reagan
campaign here in Illinois charged you and your administration with vote buy-
ing. I believe Governor Reagan repeated that comment today saying that the
announcement of various Federal projects in key primary States just before
the election was an attempt to influence the election. I wonder if you could
respond to that, if you think that this brings a question of credibility of your
administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have been in 13 congressional campaigns and 1
Presidential nomination campaign. I have always campaigned on my own
record. I have never been too concerned about the charges made by an opponent
in any one of the 14 campaigns that are leveled at me in a political atmosphere
or a political campaign. I don't intend to do it in this case. And we will talk
affirmatively about what we have done, and we will let the voters make the
decision. I just don't think it is constructive to respond to political charges in
the heat of a campaign.
Q. Do you think if I could follow up, sir-do you think that the question of
how well-researched decisions on Federal projects can be called into question
as they are announced? In Florida, I think that happened a couple of times in
the last few weeks—a VA hospital in St. Petersburg and a highway project
down in Miami.
THE PRESIDENT. There has been no decision made on the Bay Pines Veterans
Hospital in the St. Petersburg area. I went out and visited the hospital, which is,
I think, an obligation on my part. I have been working with the Congressmen
from that district over a period of several years on the project, but no final
decision has been made.
I guess one of the other charges made in the heat of a campaign involved
some mass transit announcement, not by me but by the Secretary of Trans-
portation, who was there. It was a decision made in the regular order of business.
But you know a political campaign generates all kinds of charges. And if
we waste our time answering them, why we can't talk about the affirmative
things that we are doing, we have accomplished, so I just dismiss them.
656
