March 11
[203]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
balance between what the Federal Government gives up and what we try to do
to help preserve the family farm.
I think $150,000, bearing in mind our fiscal situation, bearing in mind that it
is better than a 100-percent increase, is a fair and constructive proposal. It will
help, I can assure you, particularly with the 5-year moratorium where there is no
tax paid and no interest paid, plus a 20-year period of paying in equal install-
ments with 4-percent interest. So, it really is a broad-gauged and, I think,
equitable approach to try and help keep those farms in a family.
Q. Mr. President, the analysis of Illinois Farm Business for Management
records on dairy herds of 80-plus cows, shows a return per hundredweight of
milk after all costs-and this is $3 per hour for labor-of 14 cents in 1972, 14
cents in 1973, a minus 51 cents in 1974, and a minus $1.46 in 1975. On 40 to 80
cowherds, it was a minus 38, a minus 29, a minus $1.23, and a minus $2.13.
Much of this decline was caused by the flood of imported cheese and dried milk
in late 1973 and '74. Can the dairymen feel confident this will not happen again?
Or now that we are again showing a profit, must we fear consumer and Govern-
ment pressures to beat our prices down?
THE PRESIDENT. Two points, I think, will answer that question. Number one,
the Secretary of Agriculture has issued the order that will raise dairy price
supports to 80 percent April 1 of this year, and we will do it quarterly in the
future, if there is the requirement to keep that equity in the future.
Number two, as you know, we took some action to protect the American
cheese manufacturers—was it a year or 2 years ago? I have forgotten which—
and I can assure you we will be alert to those circumstances in the future.
I might add that the action taken by the Secretary of Agriculture to keep the
price support figure at 80 percent, I fully concur with. And I might add that
there are some Presidential candidates who have said they are totally against
any dairy supports, period.
Q. Mr. President, will Congress ever again recognize that they cannot help
people by doing for them what they could and should do for themselves, that
the share of the wealth programs discourage man's initiatives, thereby leading to
a lowered standard of living for everyone?
THE PRESIDENT. I basically agree with your philosophy, and let me give you
some specifics as to how I tried to meet it as President. I have vetoed 46 bills in
19 months. I think that is an alltime record. Thirty-nine of them have been
sustained by the Congress of the United States, and that is not a bad batting
average, as John and Chuck know. But the main point is we saved $13 billion
615
