February 28
[159]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Helen asked me where this increase in our percentage vote
came to the extent of 12 percent. As I understood it, my opponent's campaign
manager a few weeks ago was saying that they were going to win 2 to 1, which
is 66 to 67 percent. I understand he has now adjusted it downward to 55 percent,
so if my mathematics is good, old or new, I think it's 12 percent. [Laughter] So,
we have picked up that many percentage points in a pretty quick hurry.
Q. Mr. President, the party for Reagan has said that if it goes for Mr. Reagan
here in Florida, it might be the end of you. How do you feel about this?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a very ridiculous and certainly not an accurate state-
ment. I have said repeatedly I am entering every one of the 31 primaries. I regret
that others have not done so. They pick and choose the ones they want to partici-
pate in.
We are going to win, and I think we will not only win the 31, we have a good
start. I haven't lost an election out of Michigan, and I have won some in Michi-
gan, so I just think we are going to keep the momentum going. And I see
nothing that would change under any circumstances the prospects of our
winning in Kansas City and being successful in November.
Q. Mr. President, if Governor Wallace does not get the Democratic nomina-
tion, do you expect him to run on a third-party ticket against you?
THE PRESIDENT. I would have no way of knowing.
Q. If he does, do you think that would hurt you?
The President. Since I don't think it is going to happen, from what I read,
not what I know, I don't think it will have any impact whatsoever.
Q. Mr. President, if Governor Reagan is so unqualified for the Presidency,
why would you accept him as a Vice President? Doesn't this kind of downgrade
the Vice-Presidency? So many Vice Presidents have become Presidents, as you
know.
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't said anything other than that it was conceivable that
he might be on the ticket. I haven't made that decision.
Q. Mr. President, you talked a lot about momentum. Can you tell us exactly
what it is, where you find the momentum, where you see it?
THE PRESIDENT. We got quite a bit of momentum, Ann [Ann Compton,
American Broadcasting Corporation], up in New Hampshire, because they
expected to win. I read in some columns and I read elsewhere a week or two
before the campaign in New Hampshire, they expected to win by 8 percent of
the vote. They lost 10 percent almost overnight. I think that is an indication of
momentum, and anybody who was down here on the trip in Florida 2 weeks
ago and anybody who has been here today, I can't believe doesn't see good
479
