[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Carol Roberts, city commissioner from West Palm
Beach, and this year-with a deficit budget-I would like to know how you
feel about a national health insurance plan and, if one is passed, how it would
be funded?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not recommend a Government-sponsored national
health insurance program. I did not for two reasons.
Number one, I don't think that a national Government-sponsored health
insurance program has worked very well as far as the patient is concerned
in any country where it has been tried, and that is particularly true in Great
Britain and several other countries. So, I don't think it is the best way to
improve health care.
Number two, it would be very expensive, and I don't think we could afford
it. But the principal reason I am opposed to it is that it has not worked, and
I don't think it will work. Secondly, the cost would be substantial, and the
Federal budget could not afford it at the present time.
Now, we have recommended under Medicare two things: One, that as
far as Federal payments to hospitals and doctors, nursing homes—there should
be a 7-percent increase in price or cost for hospitals and nursing homes and
a 4-percent increase for doctor bill payments by the Federal Government to
the categories.
Now, at the same time, I have seen enough—I have seen a sufficient number
of tragedies involving catastrophic illnesses, and I suspect everybody in this
room knows a family or knows a person who has had an extended illness,
and if they had any resources, they were gone as they were bedridden with
horrendous costs-hospital, nursing home and doctors for an extended period
of time.
I think it is the greatest tragedy. As a matter of fact, there are about 3
million of those people who are today under Medicare-3 million out of
24 million. I have recommended that the Federal Government institute a
program to take care of catastrophic illnesses and how would it be done.
It would be done by saying that no patient would pay more than $500 a
year for hospital or nursing home care or no more than $250 a year in doctor
bills. That is a flat ceiling and after that, Medicare would take care of the total
cost. The individual under Medicare would make his payments as he is doing
it today. And I think it is the right thing to do. It takes care of a critical,
crucial problem that I have seen-some real tragedies all over the country.
292
