[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
incentive, the opportunity to create these extra jobs-2,100,000 every year, and
that is what we are seeking to do.
Now, the other course of action is to restrict the private sector and provide
government jobs. I don't think that works. It has never worked in any country
that has ever tried it and where you are able to continue freedom as far as
individuals are concerned. I am confident that our society, our form of gov-
ernment which has done more for more people in the history of the world in 200
years, can do the same thing in the future. And I am an optimist about it, and
I think we are on the way to achieve it.
CYPRUS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I first apologize for my imperfect English, but I
hope we are not going to be able to lose much in the translation. A very inter-
esting thing happened which I want everybody to know. When we were wait-
ing for you to go to the Mub, the State police said, "Would you please move
behind the ropes?" I want the people to know that that is something every-
body should be thankful for, because a lot of places police do not usually say
"please." All right.
My question, however, is a more sensitive issue, Sections 505(b) and 505(d)
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
THE PRESIDENT. What act?
Q. The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 states that military aid is only given to
foreign countries if, and only if, it is to be used for defensive and peaceful
purposes. In view of that, why is your administration in constant support of
the military aid to Turkey, when Turkey, in using American arms to invade
Cyprus, had violated the American law, as you stated; to this day does not
obey any of the United Nations' resolutions; and further, has made no minor,
let alone major, concessions in solving their problem of the Cyprus refugees.
Please address that.
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, in December the Congress passed an excep-
tion to that provision to which you refer.
Q. The exception is overruled, I think.
THE PRESIDENT. Isn't that right? But I think to understand the very compli-
cated and very controversial problem involving Cyprus, we have to go back, not
just in recent history, but back to what started the conflict in Cyprus and the
tragic results that have taken place. I am sure you are familiar with the fact
that the previous Government in Greece stimulated an attempt to assassinate
[Archbishop Makarios, and they sought to move in Greek National Guard
222
