February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I can understand the Chinese. He was very instrumental in helping to open
up the relations between our country and their country. There is no political
ramification at all. He is going as a private citizen, at their invitation.
I just learned late last night of the new acting Premier in the People's Repub-
lic. I have not had an opportunity thus far to get any full report from the experts
in the State Department and the intelligence community. I think it is premature
for me to make any comment until I have had the full benefits of the experts
in this area.
ELLIOT RICHARDSON
[18.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Murray, Foster's Daily Democrat.
Other than Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, probably the hardest person
to keep track of in the Federal Government has been Elliot Richardson. Under
the Nixon-Ford administrations, he has been Ambassador to Great Britain,
Secretary of HEW, Defense, and now Commerce.
My question, sir, is, are there specific qualifications for these positions, and if
so, has Elliot Richardson—does he and has he had the specific qualifications?
And I would also like to know how high up he is on your Vice-Presidential
candidate list?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously Secretary of Commerce Richardson has many,
many qualifications. Before he came to the Federal Government, he was attor-
ney general for the State of Massachusetts. He was also Lieutenant Governor
for Massachusetts.
He had long had an interest in serving in the Federal Government. He had
many broad experiences in private life as an attorney. He is a very well edu-
cated, a very able, dedicated person. And the fact that I had confidence in him
as our Ambassador to Great Britain to ask him to come back to be Secretary of
Commerce indicates my strong feeling that he is an outstanding public servant.
I mentioned his name the other day among 10 or maybe more prospective
Vice-Presidential candidates. I think that is a clear indication of my additional
feeling concerning his capabilities. But to list them or to put him in a certain
place on the ladder, I think, is premature as far as Vice President is concerned.
Q. Mr. Ford, are there specific qualifications for these top Government posi-
tions, and if there are, is Mr. Richardson that versatile to hold these different
positions in such a short period of time?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the very excellent qualifications he has is excellent
administrative responsibility. He has always been known as an outstanding
administrator, to get an organization working smoothly with a minimum of
213
