April 5
[295]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
—Those coffee producers who perform best during the next two years will
be rewarded with a permanent increase in their basic quotas, which is an
additional incentive to ship to the market every available bag of coffee.
-Quotas will go to those countries which have coffee available to ship through
a new and more flexible system of annual quota distribution.
-The Agreement is the most generous in its quota allocation to the smallest
producers, and allows them the highest growth rates.
Now, as in 1962 and 1968, coffee remains in financial terms the most impor-
tant non-petroleum commodity exported by developing countries. A large num-
ber of developing countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia rely on coffee
as a major source of their export earnings. Altogether, 43 producing nations
participated in the negotiation of the new Agreement and are expected to join it.
As the world's largest consuming country, coffee is also important to the U.S.
In 1974, we imported coffee valued at $1.5 billion. In that same year, we ex-
ported agricultural and manufactured products to the coffee producing coun-
tries worth over $15 billion. We are good customers of the coffee producing
countries, and they are good customers of ours.
We and the other consuming countries have constructed a unique coopera-
tive relationship with the coffee producing countries within the framework of
International Coffee Agreements. We have attempted, with a good measure of
success, to find constructive solutions to the problems which affect the production
and trade of coffee. I strongly urge this mutually beneficial effort as represented
in the new Agreement be continued.
I am also transmitting the report submitted to me by the Department of
State on the International Coffee Agreement of 1976.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to this
Agreement and its advice and consent to ratification. The Secretary of State
will submit legislation to implement the Agreement through September 30,
1979.
The White House,
April 5, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The agreement and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive H (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
967
