February 29
[164]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
America? Aren't we sick and tired of these skeptics and cynics and critics who
downgrade and undercut what has been so beautiful in America for 200 years?
America needs our support, and we are proud of it, and we are proud to be
Americans.
I think it is time we remembered that we are the most richly blessed nation in
the history of the world. We have special gifts and special resources and very
special responsibilities greater than any other nation in the world.
The social security system, obviously, is something that has to be good,
strong. It must be kept secure for this generation and future generations. We
must think of the kind of country that we will leave to those future generations
in our time.
America, we all recognize, has had its share of problems, but we are going to
solve them. We will solve the social security problem. We will solve the eco-
nomic problem. I am an optimist about our great country, and we will be a
great country in the future. In that future that we must chart, at least a part of
it is predicated on what happens in the election of 1976. The American people
will make crucial and far-reaching decisions this year. Each of you must decide
what role you want your government to play in your own life and in the life of
your Nation.
Let me sort of simplify something I believe in very deeply. We must never
forget that a government big enough to give us everything we want is a govern-
ment big enough to take from us everything we have.
But in the process of deciding what what we all do in 1976, you must decide
what qualities and what characteristics of leadership you expect in your public
officials. You must decide what course you want our national economy to follow
in the years ahead—a firm, steady course of growth and stability or a course of
drastic turns, costly experiments, and increasing government control.
It is the strength and the genius of the American political system that you
can make those decisions, each and every one of you, for yourself, and how lucky
we are. Election day is a celebration day for freedom. I hope that you will join
in that celebration, and I hope that you will give me your support on March 9,
November 2, and in the 48 months ahead.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. at the
Sarasota Shrine Hall. In his opening remarks, he
referred to William Korp, campaign manager for
the Sarasota County President Ford Committee, and
Andrew Sandegren, Sarasota County commissioner.
491
