January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to the States, as has been proposed, rather than have the money come to Wash-
ington and ship it back in block grants?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the other approach is totally impractical. I can't
imagine 50 States having all of these programs dumped on them and then have
to increase taxes if they want the programs continued. The better approach is the
one that I have recommended. It provides an equal or greater amount in toto of
funding from the Federal Government to States, but gives to the individual
States the authority to decide at that level what programs they want continued
and how they want individual programs to be handled.
I have talked on many occasions to Vice President Rockefeller, who served
15 years as Governor of the State of New York, and he has repeatedly indicated
to me that if the approach that we are recommending was in effect, that a sub-
stantial percentage of the Federal funds could be saved by better administration.
Perhaps the Vice President, who has had some practical experience in this
area of managing State and Federal programs, would be a better witness than
myself.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER. I think you ask a very fundamental question.
And for those of us who come from States where there has been a long tradition
of social responsibility and where we have increased taxes, particularly the in-
come tax, and where our neighbors have no income tax and where other States
don't have income tax, we find ourselves able to finance the programs.
But those States which don't have the income taxes, don't have the programs,
and, therefore, we attract those who need help and we lose those who are trying
to manufacture or do business and who move to the States where the taxes are
lower.
And there is no chance of the States on their own voluntary effort developing
uniform tax structures. And we are Balkanizing America. And therefore, I think
the President has followed a course which the Governors for 15 years to my
knowledge, have urged that we go to block grants, that we give the States the op-
portunity to develop their programs with the assistance from the Federal Gov-
ernment, because the Federal Government, since the time that the Federal Gov-
ernment was authorized to collect income tax, has the fast-growing tax source.
Now, some States have adopted it, but a great many haven't. And therefore,
we have a tremendously difficult situation as far as the tax structure of the 50
States of this country is concerned.
Q. May I follow that, sir? In that case, why are you dropping the matching
fund requirement? In that case, the wealthy States will continue to match funds
55
