February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
recommended, we can have a balanced budget in 3 years. The Federal budget
has been growing at the rate of 11 percent per year for the last 10 years. In
the budget that I submitted it cuts that in half—it cuts the growth in the Fed-
eral budget, expenditure-wise, by 50 percent.
And if we can, instead of going up like that, can cut it in half, we can have
a balanced budget in 3 years, and that will include another tax cut. So, it is
the kind of a budget that is, I think, responsible. It puts the main emphasis on
the private sector, and it gets some of these uncontrollable programs in the
Federal Government under control.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, why didn't you take stronger leadership on the question
of conservation, really lay it on the people, if you will? We have to start saving
more of this energy—we are running out.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that I think it is unfortunate that America has
not done as well as most other major industrial countries throughout the world.
I was looking at some statistics just yesterday. Virtually every Western European
country since the oil embargo of 1973 has done better than we have in conser-
vation. Now, the American people will always respond to a crisis, but, unfortu-
nately, once the oil embargo was lifted the American people mainly went back
to many of their old habits.
Now, I do have to say this: Prior to the oil embargo, the rate of growth
in energy use in this country was about 6 to 7 percent per year. At the present
time, that has been cut to a rate of growth of about 1 percent, so we are doing
better but, compared to many other countries, we are not doing as well as we
should.
Now, in order to conserve energy I have recommended to the Congress a
number of proposals: One, to increase the efficiency of our automotive indus-
try in the cars that they produce; another, to provide a tax incentive for people
to insulate their homes, a proposal of $80 million to get individuals who were
in the disadvantaged groups to have insulation provided by their Govern-
ment so that we could save energy in that way. We are trying to get more
utilization out of our railroad system rather than relying on the automobile
and the airplane. We are doing some things, but I happen to agree with you
that we ought to do better.
Q. Mr. President, it is nice to see you here this evening. My question is, a
few weeks ago the Boston Globe stated that Margaret Chase Smith of Maine
387
