March 13
[215]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
lost faith in the system of private enterprise and personal initiative which
earned that wealth in the first place and gave us the highest standard of living
in the world. I will do all that I can to see that government regulations and
redtape do not enslave free enterprise and personal freedom in America.
The heavy hand of government has found its way in far, far too many areas
of our national life. If there is one thing we must never lose sight of—that a
government big enough to give us everything we want, is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have.
We have the best system of government in the world. It is a system laid out
with great care and paid for at great, great price by patriots yearning for
freedom. It is a system that can be a powerful instrument of progress and an
enduring source of strength and security, but it must always be the servant
and never the master of the American people.
We want the freedom to choose our own course and our own lives, to chart
our own future on our own terms, without having the government tell us every-
thing we can and cannot do. The elections of 1976 will play an important role
in deciding what course we chart for America's future.
The future, as I see it, is one which finds Americans living in dignity and
security and harmony and in peace. I see people taking pride in their work
and finding pleasure and purpose and prosperity in their lives. I see an America
which cherishes the old values of compassion and determination and courage.
I see an America which continues to stand tall and strong and free among the
nations of the world. I see an America which rises to its challenges, fulfills its
responsibilities, and takes advantage of its opportunities for progress in every
field of endeavor. These are my goals, and this is why I am asking for your
support in the challenging years ahead.
I thank you, and now I would be delighted to answer your questions.
QUESTIONS
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Boone, North Carolina, the town that is
the hometown of the best Governor North Carolina has ever known, Jimmy
Holshouser.
THE PRESIDENT. That is an easy question to answer. [Laughter]
Q. This is the first time I have ever had the opportunity to say this. I would
701
