March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Just a little old straight talk. [Laughter]
Q. I think the exciting thing is that you are here. At your recent news confer-
ence at which you brought in and identified Mr. Bush as the head of your new
organization, I know that you had some reporters who questioned your ability
in selecting a man who apparently did not have that kind of background. I
would like to compliment you on having enough guts to select an American to
do some jobs and find out that they can do it, and he will do it, I am certain. I
have a suggestion, and then I have a question.
My suggestion is, in that same news conference somebody asked you about
when the price of food was coming down, and we got the same old historic
answer. “Well, you know, agricultural prices are going down so the commodity
index is down.” Why don't we just tell the people that agriculture has to have a
living wage and that our big culprit is the cost of fuel, which drives up the cost
of tires? That brings me to my question.
What is the possibility of gasahol plants throughout the Corn Belt to produce
alcohol to mix with oil? They tell me, people—I am not an oil expert-they tell
me alcohol added at the rate of 10 percent is competitive now with oil and it
produces such an efficient and nonpolluting type fuel that it also improves the
corn marketing situation. And we don't care at all if we can make it in alcohol.
THE PRESIDENT. After you have been so kind about how much I know, this
is one question I can't answer. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you very much.
Q. Mr. President, I am here representing the Illinois Department of Agricul-
ture, but probably more importantly I am a Rock Island County farmer, which
happens to be Tom Railsback's area, and I would like to recognize Tom.
The President. Let me say Tom and Ed and Bob Michel, as well as Paul, I
think are the cream of the crop in the House of Representatives.
Q. We at the department receive numerous calls expressing concern that the
agricultural community is not well represented at decisionmaking sessions re-
garding EPA and pollution control board regulations. Would you care to ad-
dress yourself to what seems to us to be a problem in this regard?
THE PRESIDENT. The EPA was set up with a high degree of autonomy. I have
to agree to that. It was established during a period about 3 to 4 years ago when
there was this great rush to resolve all the past evils of pollution in a period of a
couple of years. So, bureaucracy being what it is, and with the authority they
have had, I think they have gone too far in some cases, although I think there is
a better understanding today.
541
