[163]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
163
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Sarasota,
Florida. February 28, 1976
WE HAVE had one of the finest days that I have ever experienced in politics.
It started with just a tremendous meeting in Miami, and it has ended with 14
stops, and here we are in Sarasota. It is delightful to be here in Skip Bafalis'
district.
I think it is one of the outstanding days I have ever spent in my political life,
and I thank everybody. They have been great. The weather has been good by
Washington standards. So, it is great to be here,
Go ahead.
REPORTER. Mr. President, you said today that you will have nothing to do
with Castro's Cuba. Does that mean there is no chance for normalization of
relations as long as he is in power?
THE PRESIDENT. When you look at the fact that he took the initiative to try
and upset the problems in Puerto Rico, when he took aggressive action in Africa
some 4,000 or 5,000 miles from Cuba where he sent 12,000 mercenary forces,
I see nothing but an aggressive, anti-freedom movement. And so, under Fidel
Castro, unless there is a 180 degree turn, I can't imagine any change from what
I said this morning.
Q. Do you expect a victory next Tuesday, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very optimistic.
Q. Mr. President, under the present funding system, the State of Florida's
interstate highway system won't be completed until almost the year 2000. Would
you consider changing that funding formula?
THE PRESIDENT. We are working with the Congress in trying to accelerate
some funding in the interstate system, and I think Skip Bafalis and others have
worked on trying to get some extra money down here in this area. I hope we
can move more rapidly. I think we can, and I will try to work out something.
Q. Mr. Reagan has said this is a time for leadership not tied to the Washing-
ton establishment. How do you respond to that?
THE PRESIDENT. The Washington establishment has achieved peace. The
Washington establishment under my leadership has accomplished the recovery
from the worst recession. We are licking the problem of inflation. We are achiev-
ing more employment. We are licking the problem of unemployment. I think
at least the White House is making substantial progress in winning the battle
486
