[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
15 or 20 major problem cases, we have put out about 30,000 cases in that. And we
are in the process now of trying to evaluate whether or not-one of the agencies
was trying to decide just how much fuel we were going to save as a result of this,
and they told us it looked like we would save, as I recall, about 3 million gallons
of fuel.
THE PRESIDENT. Three million a year?
MR. STAFFORD. I believe that was every month, but we are now going out to
find out actually what is happening on this. We are asking for their figures be-
fore and their figures afterwards. I must admit, this has gone the other way on
your other requirement to cut down on reports to be filed. But this is a one-shot
affair in order to try to just find out if it really was the kind of a saving, because,
if you recall, if it was less than 20 percent circuitry, we let them stop; if it was
more than 20 percent circuitry, we said you could not operate that way any
longer. We are making very good headway.
THE PRESIDENT. I will be very interested in that report because, at the time of
the oil embargo, it was called to my attention on several occasions how much in
the way of diesel fuel on a particular run they had to waste because of the
problem.
MR. STAFFORD. Then our favorite word, "backhaul," got involved at the same
time on waste of transportation. Of course, backhaul is really a catchword that
a lot of people use and it just really means how much empty mileage do these
regulated carriers have.
Our studies, there are two different studies we have had and it comes up to
about an overall 7 percent, but we are spending a whole year-this year, actu-
ally-going out to weighstations all across the United States, and we are check-
ing very scientifically. We are working with the Department of Transportation
and with one or two of the other agencies to have something really worthwhile.
So, we will know, and you will know, whether our figures have been right or
not-and we want to know.
THE PRESIDENT. How soon will you be actually utilizing the new rail revitali-
zation and regulatory reform, if that is the right title?
MR. STAFFORD. As you know, there are many deadlines and many studies that
have to be made. In the rail area alone, we have some 20 studies or definitions
that we have to work out. In that bill, it gave us certain time limits, we have to
work those out. We are on time so far in most of those. We think it is a good
bill. We may not think so after we finish making some studies to find out what
some things may mean or not mean in the context of running a railroad.
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you very much, George.
1014
