[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
U.S. MILITARY CAPABILITY IN INDIAN OCEAN
[5.] Q. I am a citizen of Australia, and I wonder, in light of that, if you
could tell me the attitude of your government and your naval forces to the Indian
Ocean, especially Diego Garcia ¹ and things like that?
THE PRESIDENT. The policy of the United States Government in reference to
the Indian Ocean is that we should have a minimal military capability on the
island of Diego Garcia, minimal military capability. This objective of our Gov-
ernment is strongly supported by the new Fraser government in Australia. It was
opposed by the Whitham government that was just thrown out in the last
election.
The reason we feel a minimal military capability on Diego Garcia Island is
essential is, that if we don't have it, the United States has no other military
operating base of any consequence. And with the Soviet Union having the
capability of operating out of Somalia, out of other Indian Ocean bases, it is
essential that we at least have this operating base there, so that we can coordinate
our activities with our friends and allies, such as Australia, in making certain
that no other nation seeks through military force to dominate the Indian Ocean
and to dominate the land-based areas around there.
WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON LIBRARIES AND INFORMATION SERVICES
[6.]_Q. My question is, when will you be appointing 15 citizens to the ad-
visory board for the 1977 White House Conference on Libraries and Informa-
tion Services, since a college student has already been recommended to you by
the Wisconsin National Committeeman Harvey J. Fish?
THE PRESIDENT. The Personnel Office of the White House is in the process of
trying to collect the names of citizens all over this country that will make up the
advisory board. I can't give you the precise time or date that those recommenda-
tions will come from the White House Personnel Board [Office], but I will
check on it. I know they are in the process. I think we ought to have the kind
of a White House conference you are talking about. Whether we can do it this
year or not, I can't make a commitment, but libraries are an essential part of
our intellectual, academic areas, and we ought to have a White House confer-
ence. We will, but I can't give you a precise time schedule either on the names
or on the conference.
¹An island approximately 1,000 nautical miles south of India. It was part of the British Indian Ocean
Territory, and the U.S. Navy maintained a communications station there.
840
