[138]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Half of the trip is nonpolitical and half of it is political. She enjoys it, and she is a
big help and assist. So, I don't have to urge her.
DÉTENTE AND ITS RELATION TO ANGOLA
[14.] Q. Mr. President, in the area of détente, your critics at home say that it
is all our give and their take. Certainly the leadership of China believes this.
Russian expansionism is at the highest peak as it has ever been, and as we see
what they have done in Angola through supplies and help with Cuban man-
power, it seems that their point is right. I would like to know how you feel that
we're getting anything out of it and they're not getting everything?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I categorically deny that in our relations with the
Soviet Union they have benefited more than we. That just is totally inaccurate.
Now, if we are going to talk about Angola, the blame should not be laid
at the White House. The blame should be laid at Capitol Hill because I strongly
said that we had to meet the challenge without U.S. military personnel in
Angola.
I signed a necessary document that said we would use certain amounts of
money to provide arms to the FNLA [National Front for the Liberation of
Angola] and to the UNITA [National Union for the Total Independence of
Angola] forces-two out of the three forces in Angola. With the release of that
money those two forces were beating the MPLA [Popular Movement for the
Liberation of Angola]. And until the Congress said no, the forces we were sup-
porting were prevailing. But the minute the Congress said no, and we couldn't
provide our allies with what they needed, then the Soviet Union and Cuba won.
It is just that simple.
That is not a fault of the administration or the executive branch. The Con-
gress just failed to stand up and do what they should have done. So there can't
be any blame of the executive branch in failing to challenge the Soviet Union.
The Congress bugged out. That is just what it amounted to.
So I can assure you, whether it is in Angola or any place else, we are going
to meet forthrightly the challenge of any nation that has aggressive interests
beyond what we think are reasonable and fair. We challenged them in Angola,
but we were precluded from doing what was necessary.
I hope the Congress, if it happens again will have a different attitude. And if
they will, I think we can prevent expansionism any place throughout the world,
as I think we should.
What really worries me—and I was talking to a very astute person this morn-
ing about this—if you will refresh your memories, you will recall in the 1930's
444
