[137]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
about its total development on the basis of isolation and in the search of a self-
sufficiency which ever-increasingly becomes more sterile because of its impossible
nature and because of its utopian nature.
Throughout these conversations among friends, President Ford, we are going
to bear in mind this fundamental fact of the increasing interdependence of the
contemporary world. And we will discuss the ways how, within the framework
of this situation, we can reach a better understanding and help each other better.
We will take up bilateral problems that once more will bring us to insist on
our own points of view. We shall speak about the United Nations and the in-
postponeable necessity of guaranteeing and enriching its existence.
We will make reference to the Organization of American States and to its
adaptation to the new times. We will review our joint efforts to control, combat,
and banish this calamity for the contemporary world represented by the traffic
in drugs. We shall analyze the basic concepts on the Law of the Sea and, very
particularly, the one pertaining to the economic exclusive zone.
We will, once again, take up the protection of human rights under all types
of circumstances, and we will speak of democracy and of its destiny within this
Western Hemisphere. And we will also take up the economic problems both on
a bilateral and international level.
President Ford, you-who have been a Member of Congress and know the
real worth of politics, understood in its deepest and most noble sense—at the
same time know that our efforts are not sterile and are aware, as you have said,
that our conversations will not lead to executive agreements but will lead to
the formation of opinions and points of view and concepts that one way or
another will contribute to a better direction for the public affairs of both this
great country and of Mexico.
The United States are celebrating this year the Bicentennial of its inde-
pendence. This independence was for many peoples of the Americas and of the
entire world a guide and a model for their own struggles for freedom.
Mexico, like the United States, believes that there is nothing of more im-
portance than national independence and, therefore, as you do, we recall with
veneration always the forefathers and the founders of the Mexican nation, those
who were capable of overcoming and winning over colonialism at the beginning
of the 19th century in order to establish the basis of our own national sovereign
life.
On behalf of the Members of the Lower House, the Congress and the House
of Representatives and the Senate, President Ford, who are members of this
Mexican delegation and, especially, the cochairman, Deputy Luís Danton Rod-
436
