[297]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
reliable partner in the struggle for peace. We are a people who are true to our
friends and to our bonds. We take pride in the way that Europe and America
have joined to overcome adversity in the past. We shall continue now in building
a new era of peace and rising prosperity in the future. To our many allies in
Europe and elsewhere around the world, our hand is outstretched with hope
and with confidence and with faith in our future together.
Now, let me ask Ambassador Catto to perform the swearing in of our new
Ambassador to the North Atlantic Council.
Ambassador Catto?
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:40 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Ambassador
Henry E. Catto, Jr., Chief of Protocol for the White
House, administered the oath of office.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, Secretary
of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, and Assistant to
the President for National Security Affairs Lt. Gen.
Brent Scowcroft.
Ambassador Strausz-Hupé's response to the Presi-
dent's remarks is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 572).
298
Remarks Upon Signing the Naval Petroleum Reserves
Production Act of 1976. April 5, 1976
Secretary Rumsfeld, Secretary Kleppe, Secretary Middendorf, Administrator
Zarb, distinguished Members of the House and Senate:
Just over 2 years ago, the Arab oil embargo taught the United States a lesson-
that we should not be too dependent upon other nations for our oil supplies.
We learned all too well the high price of energy dependence, both in the terms
of inflation and lost jobs.
Over a year ago, in my first State of the Union Message, I set forth goals for
regaining our energy independence and a comprehensive program for achieving
those goals. Shortly thereafter, I submitted to the Congress my comprehensive
energy independence plan which contained specific programs to encourage
conservation and increase domestic production.
One of my proposals called for development and production of our naval
petroleum reserves. This step is especially important because it is one action we
can take to get immediate increase in domestic oil production, thereby lessening
our dependence on foreign oil.
Accordingly, today I sign into law the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production
Act of 1976. This act directs the Secretary of Navy to begin full-scale production
from the two petroleum reserves in California, including Elk Hills, and one
970
