[192]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
QUESTIONS
CONSOLIDATION OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
[1.] Q. Mr. President, is it economically feasible for Mr. Carter, if he is
elected, to consolidate all Government agencies into just a few?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me see if I understand the question. If Mr. Carter is elected
President, would it be feasible for him to consolidate all Federal Government
agencies into just a few? Is that the question?
Q. Yes, sir, that's right.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it's practical. I happen to believe that the basic
structure—the basic structure-of the Federal Government is good. I think
there must be some realignments, but I don't think we have to tear it asunder
and throw a lot of different departments into one or more that don't have any
relationship to one another.
It may be desirable—let me put it this way—it may be desirable to establish
what was done in 1947 or '48, with what they call the Hoover Commission.
The Hoover Commission was a group of outside, primarily, experts with a few
Members of the Congress, and they studied about 2 years the overall organiza-
tional setup of the Federal Government. They made some recommendations.
Congress approved roughly 75 percent of them.
It may be desirable to take a look, but just to say you can have a quick fix,
as some people have suggested, I don't think is very practical.
BASIC EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY GRANT PROGRAM
[2.] Q. Mr. President, according to the national student lobby and the
Association of Illinois Student Governments, the basic educational opportunity
grant has devastated billions of dollars. This has hurt students throughout the
State in Illinois, because, with the Illinois State Scholarship Commission, stu-
dents are now being billed to pay back 14 percent of these funds.
We would like to know if a bill passed—a supplemental bill for the basic
educational opportunity grant through Congress or Senate—if you would sign
it or not sign it? We would like to know if you would veto it. Also, we would
like to know what the chances are, or what you would propose to change the bill
from being where students would have to pay the money back?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I recollect, in the budget for fiscal 1977, I recom-
mended about $1 billion in basic opportunity grant funding, which is a sub-
stantial increase over the present. Now, we have a wide variety of programs in
addition to the basic opportunity grant program. We have the loan guarantee;
586
