[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
this program, perhaps make an optional one, or else use general revenue funds to
finance it in order to shift the burden to those who can afford to pay it.
After you answer that question, I would just like an opinion on who do you
think is going to win-Michigan or Indiana?
THE PRESIDENT. I will answer the last question first. I am delighted that two
Big Ten teams are in the finals of the NCAA basketball championship. But if
you review the history of the two times Michigan and Indiana played this year,
Michigan lost the first game by six points, and they forced Indiana into an over-
time in the second game, so don't count Michigan out.
But let me answer the other question, and I am glad you brought it up. It is a
very serious problem that we are facing. The Social Security Trust Fund this
year will have a deficit between income and outgo of $3 billion. Next year it will
have a deficit of $3.5 to $4 billion, the next year it will be closer to $5 billion. At
the present time, we have a trust fund of about $40 billion, so if we do nothing,
you are bound to have, in a relatively short period of time, some time early in the
1980's, a deficit. There won't be any trust fund. So you really have about three
different answers. You can either do as I recommended, which I think is the
honest and straightforward approach, to say that we have got to increase the
taxes three-tenths of 1 percent or one-sixth of 1 percent on the employer and the
employee.
What does that mean to the average, to the employee who would be taxed the
most? It is less than $1 a week, less than $52 a year, I think it comes out to $49
a year. That is one answer. The other answer is, well, we can increase the earn-
ing base. It is now $15,400 as I recollect. Some people want to raise that to some
$25,000 or $30,000. Another one is the suggestion that you have made, to take it
out of the general funds, to destroy the concept that people on social security
earn it and have a right to a payment out of it. I disagree with that approach.
I think you can take one of the two other approaches—the one I recommended
is the better. But let me answer the question of regressivity. You argue that
under my approach it is regressive in its tax method. That is partially true as to
the taxation, but let's turn the coin over. When the people start to get the bene-
fits, the people in the lower income area get the most benefits. So, they pay less,
but they get more, so it balances out in the end. And for that reason, I recom-
mended the approach that I did. I think it is an honest and a sound approach.
कै
842
