[197]
March 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
that time, I had the pleasure of announcing to the convention that I was support-
ing Dick Roudebush, my former colleague in the Congress and a past national
commander of the VFW, to be head of the Veterans Administration. I said
then that I was completely confident that Roudy would be a first-class Adminis-
trator, and 18 months later I am glad to say we can all agree he has done an
outstanding job in that great responsibility. Roudy's fine work as an Adminis-
trator assures that veterans are going to get the most out of their new VA budget
for fiscal year 1977 as they did in 1975 and in 1976.
Now despite the fiscal constraints that we have to be realistic about, the budget
that I submitted to the Congress includes a record amount of over $4 billion for
VA medical care. The budget includes requested funds for more than 9,000 new
VA medical personnel in the budgets for fiscal year 1976 and 1977.
What it proves is precisely this: We in this Government, the executive as well
as the legislative, will provide more funding, more people, and even better facil-
ities to give eligible veterans the highest quality and fastest possible care that we
can provide.
One of our very distinguished Members of the Congress who shares my con-
cern for veterans is my very good friend, Eddie Hébert, whom all of you are
rightly honoring tonight. I have respected Eddie's enormous talents and tremen-
dous capabilities ever since I entered the Congress in 1949. At that time, he had
already spent almost a decade in the House of Representatives, and he had been
serving the American public even longer than that as a gifted and courageous
journalist in his home State of Louisiana.
We have served in the Government together, and it has been a great experi-
ence, Eddie, for more than a quarter of a century. Over that period, we have
always enjoyed—and I mean really enjoyed— a very close, personal relationship,
which I cherish.
I have always had a very special respect for two things that Eddie Hébert has
stood for throughout his career. He has always been a strong supporter of re-
sponsible fiscal responsibility and sensible restraints on government spending,
and he has always stood for something else—and I know all of us in this room
tonight believe in—a strong and secure United States of America. And I salute
you, Eddie, for that policy.
Eddie and I have fought shoulder-to-shoulder for high defense dollars and
the strongest military capability for all of our forces. And in retrospect, it has
been right, and we should be proud of the fact that that policy has generally
prevailed. Our administration's foreign policy and our Government's defense
602
