[272]
March 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, we have to, in the broadest sense, stimulate more domestic production. We
have to do everything we can for conservation. There are some things that we
are doing but they are really minimal. We have to, in the long run-this is no
tomorrow solution-put as much money as we can in a practical way in re-
search and development for solar energy, geothermal, three or four of the other
more exotic fuels, but those won't come into any serious production until prob-
ably the early 1980's.
Now, there is one other, and I speak here of nuclear power. We have now 55
operating nuclear powerplants in the country. In January of 1975, I said by 1985
we had to have 250. For a wide variety of reasons, there has been a slowdown in
nuclear powerplant development. The environmentalists have gotten into it.
Other people have raised questions about safety, and then we had some problems
last year in trying to finance them. Now, I am a firm believer that nuclear power
has to we just can't abandon it. We have to expand it.
And for the benefit of those of you from California-how many are here
from California? There are two of you-I was prepared to answer when I was
out in California but nobody asked me last weekend—[laughter]—I am very
opposed to Referendum Number 15. I think it would be tragic because Cali-
fornia, like 49 other States, does need nuclear power. In preparation for going to
California last week, I had the head of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, Bill
Anders, in and one of his associates on that Commission. I had Russ Train of
EPA and Russ Peterson of the Council on Environmental Quality. I had two
or three other people who could give me the information as to the three ques-
tions that are raised in this referendum.
And, for the benefit of the rest of you, there is a referendum on the June 6 [8]
primary—that is what I know more about but it is on the same ballot—that
says in effect that if it is passed, no more nuclear power development can be
developed in California. There is some exceptions and it is a little more compli-
cated than that, but that is the net effect. If California passes that, California,
for all intents and purposes, precludes subsequent nuclear power installations.
The next question I would have to raise is, where will they get their power?
California today does import some coal from Idaho or Utah or that four-corner
area there, and if they can't have nuclear power they will have to import more
coal. And California does not like dirty air, and coal is a lot dirtier than nuclear
power. And if they don't want nuclear energy and more coal, then they will
have to go to Outer Continental Shelf oil development, and I know there are
some people in California who don't want that. So, I just don't know where
California will get its power.
862
