[38]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the case of child nutrition, it is a little different, but there are some 15 pro-
grams there. What we found was that under the programs as they exist currently,
around 700,000 children who come from families above the poverty line are get-
ting benefits, and more or less a corresponding number of children below the
poverty line are not getting the benefits. Now, I don't think you can defend that.
Giving money to the families above the poverty line and depriving children
from families below the poverty line-will anybody stand up and defend that?
I can't.
So, what we want to do is to make certain and make positive that the children
of those families that are below the poverty line get the benefits. It is just that
simple. It is a better program, and it won't go through the redtape of some 15
categorical grant programs.
And the same is true in social services. Again, we are trying to make sure that
the recipient gets the benefit as intended by the Congress with Federal money,
no matching money. We are trying to help you so you will have responsibility
and the ability and the capability to run the programs.
We need your help to convince Congress that this is not the way to do it and
what we are proposing is a better way to do it.
Let me recapitulate the benefits. We are taking the services that are now being
provided with Federal dollars requiring matching and saying to all of you
elected officials and your administrative helpers, we will give you the Federal
dollars, not require matching, and expect you to run these programs properly
and effectively.
Oh, I know there are some people who say you can't trust local officials, you
can't trust the Governors. I don't believe that. I have a lot of faith in you people,
and I happen to think that if you don't do the job, your constituents will reflect
that—but I think you will. And I believe not in taking a Federal program,
removing the Federal money, and dumping the requirement on State and local
units of government. That is not the way to solve the problem. The way to
solve it is to give you the money, give you the responsibility, and know that
you will carry out what the American people really believe in.
I just walked over with Secretary Coleman, and we have some good news on
legislation that finally got through the Congress—finally—yesterday. It is the
rail bill that involves around $6,800 million that gives us the opportunity to help
railroads, particularly in the Northeast corridor, gives us the opportunity to get
some regulatory reform.
One thing that Secretary Coleman told me as we walked over was that in this
104
