[207]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Secondly, on my recommendation, the Congress did two things in unemploy-
ment compensation. One, they extended the benefits from the 26-week period to
65 weeks, and secondly, on my recommendation we expanded the coverage.
Under the previous traditional unemployment compensation, there were certain
restrictive limitations on who could qualify for unemployment compensation. In
order to take care of the abnormal unemployment that we had starting a year ago
in January, we expanded the criteria so that virtually anybody could draw unem-
ployment compensation and the limitations on that were, in effect, removed. We,
as I recall, doubled the number of people who were on unemployment just by
that one act.
Number three, if I was a person who wanted food stamps, who was in a cir-
cumstance below the poverty line, under my proposal those individuals would get
more money in food stamps. The ones we cut off are the ones who are above the
poverty line, and I happen to think that if we are going to help the needy, we
ought to concentrate our emphasis on those truly in need and not help and assist
those who are not in need. I think that is a responsible position.
JACK FORD
[4.] Q. Mr. President, on behalf of many of the Wheaton College women
students, we are interested in the status of your youngest son, Jack. [Laughter]
Seriously, though―—[laughter]—
THE PRESIDENT. He is some competition.
MEDICAL MALPRACTICE AND CATASTROPHIC ILLNESS INSURANCE
[5.] Q. Well, what do you see as a solution to the malpractice dilemma in
California? Do you think we are heading towards socialized medicine?
THE PRESIDENT. I have two unmarried sons. [Laughter] Jack will be 24 next
week, and Steve will be 19 in May. And Steve is the one that likes horses and is
out cleaning stables and going to Cal Poly, but he is a pretty attractive kid, too.
But to talk about the serious question that you asked, the malpractice problem
is not limited to the State of California, although it was made much more dra-
matic there by the action that some or a good many doctors took in the State of
California. It is a problem in virtually every State, caused primarily by the very
substantial increase in malpractice insurance premiums that result from the very
high claims that have been allowed by our court system.
I would prefer that the issue be solved in this limited area at the State level.
But if we are going to have what happened in California repeated in 49 other
States, I think we may have to take a very hard look at some solution in that
638
