February 17
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
has to address itself to. The Constitution protects a Member of the Congress,
but it does not protect the illegal making of such information public for a staff
member. But I think the Congress has to clean up its own house, and I have
urged them to do so. And I hope they will.
Q. Mr. President, until they take some steps in that direction, will this affect
your providing classified information to Capitol Hill?
THE PRESIDENT. In the case of most committees, we have had no trouble
whatsoever. There has been good cooperation. The arrangements have been
lived up to. On the other hand, even after the House of Representatives, by
almost a 2 to 1 margin, said a report that had highly classified information in
it should not be released, it was leaked to certain individuals and to certain
publications.
I think the House of Representatives ought to take some action. We have
agreed to cooperate with them in whatever legal way they would ask us to do
so. But I think it is a very serious matter, what happened in this one case.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OVERSIGHT BOARD AND THE 40 COMMITTEE
[10.] Q. Mr. President, will your new Oversight Board supersede the 40
Committee?
The President. No. We have an Oversight Committee composed of three
members: Ambassador Murphy, Steve Ailes, and Leo Cherne. That is a group
that looks to make certain that there are no violations of the new restrictions
and has an oversight responsibility working with the inspector generals in
each of the intelligence agencies.
The 40 Committee is having a name change and some change in personnel.
It will now be given a new name, but it will have on it the following people:
It will have the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, it will
have the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of Intelligence,
George Bush, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. It will have two
observers―one, the Attorney General and, two, the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget.
So there are two separate organizations—the one I just described to handle
covert operations recommended to the National Security Council and to me as
President, and the Oversight Board, which will check up on any abuses.
PROHIBITION OF ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS ON FOREIGN LEADERS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, in your opening statement on intelligence, you
said that you would support legislation that would prohibit attempts on the
355
