[140]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
be forthcoming otherwise. The legislation also provides for expediting the regu-
latory process at the Federal level for critical energy projects.
I also urge Congressional action on legislation needed to authorize loan guar-
antees to aid in the construction of commercial facilities to produce synthetic
fuels so that they may make a significant contribution by 1985.
Commercial facilities eligible for funding under this program include those for
synthetic gas, coal liquefaction and oil shale, which are not now economically
competitive. Management of this program would initially reside with the En-
ergy Research and Development Administration but would be transferred to
the proposed Energy Independence Authority.
My proposed energy facilities siting legislation and utility rate reform legisla-
tion, as well as the Electric Utilities Construction Incentives Act complete the
legislation which would provide the incentives, assistance and new procedures
needed to assure that facilities are available to provide additional domestic en-
ergy supplies.
Energy Development Impact Assistance
Some areas of the country will experience rapid growth and change because
of the development of Federally-owned energy resources. We must provide spe-
cial help to heavily impacted areas where this development will occur.
I urge the Congress to act quickly on my proposed new, comprehensive, Fed-
eral Energy Impact Assistance Act which was submitted to the Congress on
February 4, 1976.
This legislation would establish a $1 billion program of financial assistance to
areas affected by new Federal energy resource development over the next 15
years. It would provide loans, loan guarantees and planning grants for energy-
related public facilities. Funds would be repaid from future energy development.
Repayment of loans could be forgiven if development did not occur as expected.
This legislation is the only approach which assures that communities that need
assistance will get it where it is needed, when it is needed.
Energy Conservation
The Nation has made major progress in reducing energy consumption in the
last two years but greatly increased savings can yet be realized in all sectors.
I have directed that the Executive Branch continue a strong energy manage-
ment program. This program has already reduced energy consumption by 24
percent in the past two years, saving the equivalent of over 250,000 barrels of
oil per day.
452
