[95]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Government should put its money in the brick and mortar of State and private
colleges and universities. I think the Federal Government should help students
go to school. And the net result is that, again in this budget, I have recom-
mended $1,100 million for what we call the basic opportunities grant program
so that needy and deserving students can go to colleges and universities, plus
other various programs such as the work-study program, the loan guarantee
program, and there are two or three others.
I think we ought to, from the Federal level, concentrate in making it possi-
ble for students to have help to get an education. I think it is the responsibility
primarily of the State to finance the construction and the operation of State
universities and State schools.
Q. Do you think there will ever be a woman President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, maybe you would-
Q. I don't want to—
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say this. I think it is perfectly feasible. I don't think
it is going to come in the relatively short future, but we have got some very
brilliant, outstanding women, and I am certain that at some point we will have
a lady or woman President. I better say that or my wife, Betty, would really
give me a hard time.
Q. Can I shake your hand?
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Can I take two more
AID TO THE DISADVANTAGED
Q. My name is Richard Cronk and I'm from Ft. Myers, and I would like to
know if you think that we should have better Federal aid going to Americans,
such as helping orphanages and needy people, instead of going out of the
country to other people?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we ought to do all we can to help the needy at home,
but let me just raise a very fundamental question with you, which you have
raised yourself, whether we should help other nations throughout the world.
Many people in the audience recall the devastation that existed in Western
Europe following World War II. If we had not helped Western Europe reha-
bilitate itself, I am confident today that all of Western Europe would be
behind the Iron Curtain.
I think that for humanitarian reasons we ought to help disadvantaged people
in other areas of the world. We have to have a greater consideration for our
own citizens, but a country as rich as ours, a country that has, I think, the
322
