[185]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
ROTC PROGRAM AT BRADLEY UNIVERSITY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I'm a student at Bradley University from Spring
Valley, New York.
In an announcement made 2 days ago, the Air Force informed Bradley Uni-
versity that our Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps program will be
closed down, effective in the spring of 1977. For the past 27 years, through thick-
and-thin, Bradley has supplied the Air Force with highly qualified personnel.
The loss of this program will cost Bradley approximately a quarter of a million
dollars annually.
In your opinion, Mr. President, is it possible for the Air Force to justify this
action as a suitable reward for Bradley University's continuing support for over
a quarter of a century?
THE PRESIDENT. Based on what you told me, I'm disgusted with the action of
the United States Air Force. Quite frankly, it's incomprehensible, and we will
do our darndest to rectify the error. And I will let Dr. Abegg know. I just don't
understand it. It sounds ridiculous.
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO CITIES
[3.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President, I'm from Ridgewood, New Jersey,
and I'm also a student here at Bradley University.
Recently, Mayor Young of Detroit made statements expressing not only his
city's fears but also those of Philadelphia, San Francisco, and several other major
cities concerning their somewhat suspect present financial stability and that of
the future and also the ability to continue to provide for the necessary public
services.
Has your administration formulated a program to help prevent fiscal crises
in other cities besides New York, prior to that crisis or, if not, will the tactics
or methods used in New York's fiscal crisis also be used in other cities?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, my administration has strongly supported the gen-
eral revenue sharing program, which gives to our States and to cities and to other
local units of government about $6 billion a year which, in effect, is free for
those cities to utilize as they see fit, for whatever programs or policies that they
determine at the local level.
That's a good program; I fully support it. And in addition, we have many
other categorical grant programs that go to State or local units of government. It
seems to me, having been somewhat closely associated with the conflicts involved
in the city of New York, that communities around the country have to learn that
they have to manage their fiscal affairs in a responsible way.
550
