[278]
March 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
As I see it, if the American people want limits on Federal Government—and
they do, as I see it—they want a Republican majority in the Congress of the
United States. If they are ready for an additional $10 billion tax cut, which I pro-
pose to start July 1 of this year, but which the Democrats refuse to give, then they
are ready for a Republican majority in the United States Congress. If they are
ready to support my budget proposal, that cuts by 50 percent the rate of growth
in Federal spending, while the Democrats propose a budget which would be in-
creased between $20 billion and $30 billion higher than the spending that I
recommended, then they are ready for a Republican majority in the United
States Congress.
I think most of you know that since August of 1974, I vetoed 46 bills in the
past 19 months. Thanks to the strong and often courageous support of the Re-
publican Senators and Members of the Congress and with the help from some
discerning Democrats on the other side of the aisle, we were able to sustain 39
of those vetoes. And thanks to our going to the mat for fiscal integrity, those 39
sustained vetoes will have saved the American people a minimum of $13 billion.
But, I add parenthetically and with some sadness, the seven vetoes that were
overridden will cost the American taxpayers an extra $7 billion and, just to bring
it right close to home, that averages out 32 extra tax dollars for every man,
woman, and child in the United States.
Now, if the American people want sound fiscal management, they want a
Republican majority in the United States Congress. If the American people want
a balanced Federal budget in 3 years, plus another additional tax reduction, they
want a Republican Congress in 1977 and 1978.
Today, while America's dependence on foreign energy supplies continues to
grow, while we approach the point where we will import more than 50 percent
of oil from foreign sources, the majority in this Congress are pursuing an
energy policy of politics and delay. Their position on the energy crisis is to take
the most politically palatable course and hope the problem will go away after
election day.
The American people should know that it is a Republican administration
that has proposed every one of these major energy initiatives—deregulation of
natural gas, creation of an energy independence authority, the Nuclear Fuel
Assistance Act, tax incentives for accelerated petroleum exploration, and the
budget proposals for increased energy research and development. If the Ameri-
can people want energy independence—and we must absolutely have it—we
need a lot more Republicans in the United States Congress.
874
