February 20
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
HOUSING
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you what are you going to do to boost
the housing program?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, first, that in the budget that I submitted in Jan-
uary, on the basis of the persuasion of the Secretary of HUD, Carla Hills, I
added approximately 400,000 more housing units that rely primarily on the
Federal Government to get going. She made a very good case. I agreed, even
though money is tight in the Federal budget. But it is a homebuilding program
where the Federal Government can really move in and help. So, that is one point.
Number two, if we are going to really get a massive, nationwide housing
program underway, we have to make money available to borrowers at reason-
able interest rates. We cannot have the Federal Government, therefore, have
such a huge deficit and have to borrow so much money that they crowd out the
home buyers in the money markets of this country.
So what we are trying to do is hold down Federal expenditures, reduce the
deficit, and make more money available in the money markets of this country.
And the net result is we have had the greatest inflow in deposits in savings
and loans in the last 9 months I think, in the history of the country, which
means there is money now available in the private market. And it has been
quite encouraging that there is a slight turndown-very slight, but the trend
is right-in conventional mortgage money rates.
I think with the money available and the optimism concerning the economy,
you are going to see the homebuilding industry do a great deal better in calendar
year 1976 than they did in 1975. I would hope that we would build or start
approximately 1,600,000 homes which would be about 300,000 more homes this
year than last year, and maybe even better.
And if you saw the statistics that came out last week, we had a tremendous
upsurge in permits being granted which, I think, is indicative. So, between
responsible Federal funding and the management of our expenditures and the
kind of programs that I indicated earlier, I think the homebuilding industry
is going to be actively moving upward.
IMPACT AID
Q. Mr. President, Bernard F. Ryder, superintendent of schools, city of Dover.
Kittery is in Maine, the Portsmouth Navy Yard is in Maine. I think it is uncon-
stitutional that impact aid will only go to that State. We, in New Hampshire,
have many workers there.
399
