March 31
[278]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that we all felt were significant. And I am proud of the fact that I have met so
many wonderful people in each of these 50 States, whether we won or lost.
As Guy has told me, in last year alone I sent a letter out that he had to
raise some $2 million-plus for the Congressional Campaign Committee. I know
it will be well spent and it will produce results. As Ted indicated tonight, I feel
strongly that this same kind of a letter ought to go maybe to some of you, and
I hope you will respond, for the Members of the United States Senate who are
going to be candidates this year. Last year, because I think it is vital that we
get our State party organizations and local party organizations strengthened, I
traveled to some 23 States and raised approximately $6 million for the National
Committee and our State organizations. This is the way we have to build, from
the grass roots up, a party organization so that we can actually execute our phi-
losophy which we all believe in so very deeply.
I must say that as I have talked to many of the people like Guy and Ted and
others, I don't think we seek to elect Republicans simply for the sake of our
party's pride. More importantly, as I have seen it over the years I have partici-
pated, we seek victory to secure our country's future.
Franklin D. Roosevelt once said: "The future lies with those wise political
leaders who realize that the great public is interested more in government than
in politics.” That lesson has apparently been forgotten by too many of today's
Democrats. In the last 15 months, far, far too many Democrats in this Congress
have steadfastly refused to bite the bullet or to make the tough decisions on major
issues facing our country today. The American people, as I travel around, are
seriously concerned with these basic issues, and they have every right to expect
that Congress should deal with them very seriously and very effectively because
they are of deep concern to them.
Expediency and complacency cannot really reflect the American mood in 1976.
Our situation today demands a new birth of the creative spirit, the courage, the
sacrifice, and the determination with which other generations have met their
challenges in America. That example should be set rightly by those of us in
public life.
I am proud that the Republicans in the House and Senate have accepted this
responsibility and set this example so forcefully during the 94th Congress. I am,
too, proud of the record of peace and rising prosperity which this Republican ad-
ministration is presenting to the American people in 1976. A Republican ma-
jority in the Congress, working with me, would make progress for America so
much easier and so much more certain in the years ahead.
877
