[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. I have a two-part question, Mr. President. What is your position on re-
placement of Lock and Dam 26 at Alton, Illinois? [Laughter] If that lock and
dam is not replaced-
THE PRESIDENT. Isn't that enough? [Laughter]
Q. If that lock and dam is not replaced, how will Illinois farmers get their
4,400,000 bushels of grain to the gulf ports for export that went through Lock
and Dam 26 in the year 1974 and 1975? And how would vital materials like
coal and crude be transported up the river if Lock and Dam 26 becomes inoper-
ative? Mr. President, I am sure there is going to be legislation come before your
desk in the not too near future because we are working strong for that, and we
would like to know your position.
The President. The problem of Lock and Dam 26 is one that I have looked
into because I was down in St. Louis with the Farm Bureau a month or two
ago, and as I understand the facts that particular lock and dam is way overage
and is incapable of meeting the current traffic.
On the other hand, there are individuals or organizations that allege that if a
new dam is built, it will have serious environmental impact. There is a struggle
going on within the departments. The Corps of Engineers are in the process of,
as I understand it, updating the necessary impact statements. As I understand it,
the larger dam, according to the Corps of Engineers, is already authorized. It
does not have to come in special legislation. Am I correct on that? That is my
understanding. So, it is really a decision that has to be made in the first place by
the Corps of Engineers. They have to recommend whatever should be done,
and that recommendation will come to me. They have not finalized their answer,
and for me to tell them today what they ought to do when they have a respon-
sibility under the law to take a look at the contending forces, I think would be
wrong, in my position. I am pretty well informed on it, but I am going to let
the Corps of Engineers make their recommendations and then I will make the
decision after that.
Q. Mr. President, I am representing Illinois pork producers. We want to join
in welcoming you to central Illinois and the land of Lincoln. The area I want
you to touch on, Mr. President, is the area of our Nation's animal agriculture.
We feel that if we are going to compete and efficiently supply high quality pro-
tein to this country and the world, there is a need for more animal research funds
within the Department of Agriculture and also the experiment station.
Our question is in two parts, also. One, have you reviewed and studied your
reasons for vetoing the animal research bill of 1975, sponsored by Congressman
Melcher?
534
