[174]
March 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are moving steadily toward making federally owned and federally leased
buildings physically accessible to every American. A recent meeting held at the
White House on the subject of architectural barriers explored this particular
problem with architects, builders, engineers, and contractors. By removing physi-
cal barriers, we can also help to remove social barriers which all too frequently
confront the disabled.
And as we dedicate this building, let us dedicate ourselves to protecting the
freedom for which veterans gave an important part of their lives. Let us also
dedicate ourselves to understanding and to responding to the special needs of
the disabled veterans. A free society owes an enduring debt to those who fought
to keep it free. Let us match that sacrifice with our determination that all vet-
erans shall indeed live a life that is secure, satisfying, and truly independent.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:37 p.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Lyle C. Pearson, na-
tional commander of the Disabled American Vet-
erans, Richard L. Roudebush, Administrator of Vet-
erans Affairs, Mary Beth Schulze, national com-
mander of the Disabled American Veterans Aux-
iliary, and Rev. Edward L. R. Elson, chaplain of the
United States Senate.
175
Remarks on Greeting a Bicentennial Delegation from
Broward County, Florida. March 4, 1976
LET ME welcome all of you from Broward County here in the Rose Garden.
I have had two wonderful trips down to Florida in the last month. I was in
Broward County last Saturday. There was a little dew, but the skies opened up
and the sun came out, and I can say that it was a very delightful, wonderful
day.
I had the good fortune to visit Fort Lauderdale, Deerfield Beach, Hillsboro
[Highland] Beach, and Coral Springs, along with some 10 other communities
from West Palm south. I have to think about the geography down there, but it
was a delightful Saturday and Sunday.
We are extremely happy to have you from Broward County up here to look
at the White House, to visit the Capitol. I hope you will have an opportunity to
see the Supreme Court. This gives all of you who are so interested in Bicenten-
nial matters a wonderful exposure to what I think is the finest government that
man has ever put together, predicated on a constitution that is unbelievable
when you think that some 200 years ago 50-some individuals labored from May
until September and gave to us this document that protects us individually, and
512
