[105]
February 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
These are alarming trends for any nation to face. They are especially disturb-
ing to us now as we speak of rededicating ourselves to the enlightened spirit of
our country's founders. This is a new challenge to education and this is a new
challenge to you and to me, and everybody else concerned with our Nation's
future.
If we find this trend distressing, can we, in all honesty, say we find it sur-
prising? Our Nation has undergone severe shocks in the last quarter century.
Our children face a world at once richer and more threatening than had ever
been imagined—certainly during my lifetime. Our children are less naive,
I think, than any previous generation of young people. I know my children
have different views about a lot of things than I did at their ages. Yet our classes
in government and in so-called civics tend to continue along the same out-
moded lines.
In 1971, the American Political Science Association reported that courses
presented-in this area—a naive, romanticized approach. The American Bar
Association found civic students to be widely alienated by platitudes and chau-
vinism and the methods of learning by rote. As Emerson said, the secret of edu-
cation lies in respecting the pupil. This is just as true for teaching them social
values as for teaching them anything else.
We cannot perpetuate our value system merely by telling our children that
it is good. We can only assure its future by educating our children to admire its
strengths, correct its faults, and to participate effectively as citizens as they
mature and become a part of our active adult society. Only then will they under-
stand why our social values are worth preserving even though much in our
society has changed. Only then will they understand why we still hold these
truths to be self-evident.
The growing movement to supply such education gives us reason to be
greatly encouraged, yet most of the work in this field clearly remains before
us. We must find new ways to teach students about the institutions of law and
government which will affect their lives so much and so long. We can perform
no finer service for the individual student and for American society than to
provide them with this necessary understanding.
One problem is that in this field, as in others, we do not yet really know how
to measure the quality of education. Many of the standards we had relied on,
I think many believe, have failed us. We thought we could measure quality by
the student-teacher ratio. I, for one, did. Yet some studies suggest that class size
within a wide range may have no effect on student achievement. We thought
we could buy quick miracles in education by spending much, much more
346
