April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Your call for competition as an alternative to economic regulation is sweet
music to the commission's ears. We believe that is what the FTC is all about.
Perhaps the most attractive areas for reform are regulatory delay and consumer
underrepresentation. As we are often reminded by the bar and occasionally the
courts, one man's delay can be another man's due process. We have made progress
here both by changing our procedural rules and by better management, and that
has resulted, for example, in a 33-percent reduction in the average age of pending
investigations during the last year.
Effective consumer participation in commission proceedings is made very diffi-
cult by the high costs that such participation entails. And although we are open
to suggestions from sister agencies who face similar problems, I confess that we
don't yet have all the answers on that one.
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you, Cal.
Dick Simpson, may we hear from you on the Consumer Product Safety
Commission?
MR. SIMPSON [Richard O. Simpson, Chairman, Consumer Product Safety
Commission]. Our Commission is about 3 years old, and we have authority over
about 10,000 products. We have undertaken several initiatives over the last 3 years
to increase and involve consumers in our activities, and it works throughout our
agency. We have a meeting policy that requires every meeting with any official
in our agency, down to the lowest level, with outside parties to be open to the
public, to be announced in advance, and anybody in the United States is invited
to attend. It really does work and isn't very expensive. Generally, no one else
shows up, but there is no speculation as to what went on and what arm-twisting
there was.
We have also had very effective volunteer efforts from consumers. We asked
for help and have trained over 4,000 citizens from all walks of life-retired citi-
zens and students who have helped in surveillance projects in industry. We have
tried to improve our ability to set priorities in a rational way and measure cost of
the activities we undertake and the benefits. We have not completed our esti-
mates on that job, but we stand behind our estimates.
The regulations by the industry that will be completed this year will prevent
about 65,000 injuries this year, and included in those are injuries by ingestion of
aspirin by children; a similar reduction in deaths of children under age 5 in pre-
scription medication deaths.
We have undertaken from the outset several activities to encourage self-regu-
lation. I particularly believe in that. I am not cut out to be a regulator, but here
I am. We have encouraged our technical staff-technical and scientific staff, to
1021
