[273]
March 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
And, Rog, I thank you for undertaking this responsibility. You've got about
5½ months. I am absolutely confident we are going to win not only in Kansas
City but I think we are going to win in November.
So, I thank Bo for the fine job he has done, and I thank you for undertaking
the responsibilities. And I reiterate what I said earlier—I am most grateful for
your unselfishness, Bo. And our friendship, which is predicated on a long-
standing relationship, is one that I have cherished, and I certainly look forward
to continuing as it has in the past.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:09 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
274
Toasts of the President and King Hussein I of Jordan.
March 30, 1976
Your Majesties and honored guests:
It was in 1959, that President Eisenhower had the honor of welcoming you,
Your Majesty, to the White House on your first visit to Washington, D.C., and
to our country. Fifteen years later, it was my great privilege to greet you as the
first chief of state that I had the honor of having at the White House in my
administration.
In that time span, the world political scene has changed very profoundly.
Yet throughout this process of change, there have been reassuring elements of
stability and constancy in the relationship between countries and the peoples of
the world. A particularly noteworthy example is the friendship and the very
great mutual trust between the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan.
Your Majesties, our people share many, many goals. Together we aspire to
economic as well as overall well-being of our fellow countrymen, to the universal
betterment of human kindness and conditioning, and to closer cooperation
between states. We aspire to the ideals of freedom and dignity for the individual.
But there is one very special, particular goal which we look upon, we both
deeply wish to attain—it is a just and a very lasting peace for all nations and for
all peoples in the Middle East. Our two countries are determined to work
together to overcome all obstacles that stand between us and that end.
I believe that Americans are most fortunate to have you as a very staunch and
steadfast friend. I know that you share our hopes for peace as well as freedom.
866
