March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Together we have come through wars, depressions, droughts, riots, assassina-
tions, scandals, practically everything that fate could throw at us. But we have
also enjoyed some phenomenal economic, technological, and social progress in
America, and that progress has made America the envy of all people and all
nations throughout this world.
Despite all of the problems we have had, I don't think any of us-I have talked
to few, if any, Americans who would trade places with the people in this coun-
try with people in any other country, and for very, very good reason.
We hear a lot of talk these days about America being in a state of decline.
We hear that America's best days are behind us. We hear that America is only
a second-rate power in this area or in that area. That is dead wrong. And frankly
I am sick and tired of hearing people who are always running down America.
I am proud of America, and I am proud to be an American, just like every one
of you are. I believe very deeply in the people of America, in the kind of gov-
ernment we have. I believe in its values, its traditions, its institutions. I believe
in America's future.
We have the capacity in this country to do just about anything we want that
we set our minds to accomplish and to achieve. America today remains the best
hope of peace, the strongest guardian of freedom. We are pursuing a policy of
peace through strength. And all of us in America cherish the peace that Amer-
ica enjoys, the peace that finds no Americans in combat anywhere in the world
tonight. But to maintain that peace, to deter aggression, to protect our national
security, America must be strong. I happen to believe, as we look at the total,
America is number one.
America's industry is unsurpassed. American agriculture is the most produc-
tive, the most efficient. We produce more food and fiber than we can eat or
wear, and we do it with the finest hands and the greatest lands and the best
equipment. We have the greatest science and technology capability in the his-
tory of mankind. Our military capability is second to none. But there is one
thing that is even more important than all of that. America is morally and
spiritually number one, and that will be the driving force to keep us moving
so that America and all its people, its government, will be number one forever.
As I said, America's agriculture—its agricultural power is the most prolific
producer of food and fiber in the history of mankind. That is a credit, in large
part, as I see it, to the dairy farms and other farms right in this area and through-
out the Middle West, and, well, just all over this country. And La Crosse and
Wisconsin play a very significant part in it.
835
