February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in fuel oil and gasoline and so forth. Forty percent of our current oil supply
comes from overseas. We don't control those prices. Those prices are controlled
by the cartel, not by us. What we have to do is give an incentive to increase
our own domestic oil production, and we will be free of the stranglehold that the
foreign oil cartel has over us.
Now, if you take food, the farmer gets a lot of blame. I don't think he deserves
it. The real problem is from the time it leaves the farm until it is bought
by the consumer. The middleman, from the time it leaves the farm until it is
sold to the consumer, that is where the problem is. And if there is a monopoly,
whether it is in labor or management, the Department of Justice will go after
them.
Q. Mr. President, because of the time I think we have time for one more
question, if you would.
THE PRESIDENT. Three more, four more-I like this.
NEW HAMPSHIRE
Q. Mr. President, my name is Phil Martin. You said 2 weeks ago that you
were going to let the voters vote on your record. Why have you come back to
New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. Pardon, sir?
Q. Why have you come back to New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it is very wholesome for me to have an opportu-
nity to see, what-3,000 people here in Keene. I think I can benefit from the
questions that are being asked, and I hope that my answers are helpful to those
that want to get some information. I am back here because I think it is important
to win in New Hampshire, I think we are going to win, and it will get us on the
road to victory to win in August in Kansas City and to win November 2 in the
general election. I like people from New Hampshire, and that's why I am here.
BUSINESS OWNERSHIP
Q. Mr. President, my name is Steven Payne. Before I state my question, sir, I
would just like to state briefly my premises. To me, freedom is intimately con-
nected with work. The two are inseparable.
THE PRESIDENT. Work?
Q. With work, yes, sir. For a man to be free he must be able to determine the
kind of things he produces, the way he produces them, the way he advertises
them, the people to whom he sells them. Now my question is this: Has your
administration under consideration any legislation that would grant representa-
383
