[59]
February 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
make the reorganization of the bankrupt railroads a success. We expect that
within 5 years ConRail will overcome the unprofitable legacy of the bankrupt
lines. If ConRail is to succeed, however, the continued cooperation of all of you
who have made this legislation possible is absolutely essential.
The bill also provides needed financial assistance to help the railroads improve
their physical plant and encourages desirable restructuring of rail services both
in the Northeast and nationwide. The bill explicitly provides $1.6 billion to
rehabilitate and improve worn out plant facilities and directs the Secretary of
Transportation to provide the necessary leadership in making our Nation's rail
system more efficient. It may be that the reorganization of the bankrupt rail-
roads in the Northeast and Midwest can be finally successful only as part of a
further restructuring of the rail industry through private sector initiative.
This act also permits us to begin a program of overdue improvements in rail
passenger service in the densely populated Northeast corridor. Passenger service
between Washington, New York, and Boston will be made both reliable and
comfortable, with trains traveling at speeds which are as high as technologically
feasible and financially realistic. Within 5 years we should have trains traveling
at speeds of up to 120 miles per hour. In addition, through a joint effort by the
Federal Government and the States and local communities involved, we will
refurbish the stations along the way to make train travel more attractive and
convenient. All of the work done as part of this program will provide a base for
further improvements and developments. I have asked Secretary Coleman to
make the implementation of improvements to the Northeast corridor a high
priority.
In addition to providing short-term financial assistance, Congress in approv-
ing this legislation has taken a fundamental step to restore the long-term
economic health of this vital American industry. The regulatory reform pro-
visions in this bill are long overdue, and I commend the Congress for this far-
sighted and necessary action.
This kind of fundamental change in government policy takes time. Every
President since Harry S. Truman has called in vain for increased competition
and reform of our regulated industries. For example, the Landis Report com-
missioned by President-elect Kennedy in 1960 recommended major policy
revisions in transportation regulation. But for more than a quarter of a century,
the Nation has had no results. In contrast, the Railroad Revitalization and
Regulatory Reform Act is the first significant reform of transportation regula-
tion by any administration-or Congress.
An equally important task facing us now is to extend the principles of reform
148
