[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
the State do its own planning and that the State do its own auditing and that the
responsible people at the State level simply certify to the Federal Government
that they have met the intent of the statute. And that would be the end of it.
Q. And we would be hiring those 23,000 [2,300] people. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Let me tell you how it works with general revenue sharing.
In the first year or two the Federal Government did have its own auditing proce-
dures. But I think in most States today, the Treasury Department, the U.S.
Treasury Department, has worked out with the respective States their own
auditing system.
How many States? There must be 40 or more-have now worked out a sys-
tem under general revenue sharing so there isn't a Federal investigator coming
and checking on how general revenue sharing money is spent. And as Paul
O'Neill has indicated, that is the same concept we would hope to have in this
area.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Charles Pugster. I am the mayor of the city of
Claremont from the other side of the State.
Your interest in skiing seems to elicit comments, and I would be remiss if I
didn't bring to your attention a community-based skiing area we have in Clare-
mont called Arrowhead. And its unique position is that the operation of this ski
area is volunteer based amongst our citizens.
But coming to the question that I have, the environmental and safety legisla-
tion that is prevalent amongst us—I am not concerned with the objectives; I
support the objectives of these pieces of legislation. But I am concerned with
problems that are arising out of the implementation. And in particular I can go
back to our own area and community. Some industries and some businesses, not
just industries, the manufacturing people, have had to curtail employees and
employment. Others have had to completely cease their operation simply
because they were not large enough in capital to support an investment in these
areas or they had to so increase the cost of their product that they became
noncompetitive.
This meant losses of jobs, losses of local revenue, and a tremendous problem
locally. My question is, in terms of trying to assist these small- and medium-
sized commercial and manufacturing establishments throughout the whole
country, what can the administration do to influence the administration of
this legislation to perhaps influence immediate and total tax concessions that
would provide immediate capital that they could make at least an investment
into this problem area, or influence amendments to the law so that both the
178
