[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
ANGOLA
[6.] Q. Mr. President, first of all, I would like to apologize for some of the
people in our audience.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, sir.
Q. About the situation in Angola, if that had developed into another Vietnam,
would you have sent aid in the form of manpower and money over there?
THE PRESIDENT. I want to be very careful how I answer this, so will you
repeat the question again, please?
Q. If Angola had developed into a situation such that was in Vietnam, would
you have sent manpower and money over?
THE PRESIDENT. There was no possibility that this country would, in any way
whatsoever, get involved with U.S. manpower in Angola.
ANTITRUST POLICY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Dee Dee Blair, and I'm with the New
Hampshire People's Bicentennial Commission. Last night I was part of a very
peaceful, very well-organized demonstration in Nashua, where you were speak-
ing in front of the Chamber of Commerce. We were restricted to a parking lot a
mile away from where you were speaking and kept there by the Secret Service.
I believe this is an infringement of my rights and the rights of 500 other demon-
strators, and I would like a comment on that, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. You know, I have always learned—and I learned it in the
hard way—that you can disagree without being disagreeable.
Q. I don't think I was being disagreeable at all.
THE PRESIDENT. I respect your right to ask a question, whether we agree or
disagree, and I think in deference, good politeness dictates that everybody listen,
whether they agree with your question or my answer. So, would you ask the
question?
Q. What, in 25 years of public service, have you ever done to challenge the
power and influence of multinational corporations and big business?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that I have an Attorney General by the name of
Mr. Edward Levi, who is very firm and a very forthright lawyer who has been
very tough on major corporations in antitrust areas, including multinationals,
and he asked for additional manpower to carry out that responsibility. And in
the budget that I submitted, we gave him additional money and additional man-
power, and I think you will find that he will carry out his responsibilities as
Attorney General under the Constitution, under the law, against anyone who
violates our antitrust laws, including multinationals.
220
