[68]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
I would like a simple yes or no answer, please, if that is possible. According
to a recent Hart survey, it showed a majority of the American people to believe
that there should be a major political movement to challenge the influence of
big business. Do you agree or disagree?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to defend-
Q. Yes or no?
THE PRESIDENT.
-or criticize big business.
Q. Agree or disagree, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I was about to say that a question of that kind deserves more
than a yes or no answer.
PRESIDENTIAL CLEMENCY PROGRAM
[20.] Q. I have been informed by the gentleman sitting next to me that this
will be the last question.
There seems to have been a great deal of criticism on your now terminated
clemency program, that it was too limited and restricted in its scope and its
effectiveness. The small number of applicants in the program out of the larger
number who are eligible seem to bear out this criticism, in my mind, as being
valid. Do you have any plans to institute a real, substantive, total, and complete
amnesty to those young men who in good conscience refused to fight in the
Southeast Asian war?
THE PRESIDENT. Shortly after I was sworn in, I instituted a program that said
that individuals, draft evaders or draft deserters, could return and, after consid-
eration by an impartial panel, would have an opportunity to earn the restoration
of their rights. There were approximately 105,000 who fell in that category. As
I recall, roughly 20,000 applied. I wish that more had, because roughly 18,000
were given an opportunity and have restored their rights.
I think it was a good program. I think it was tragic that more didn't apply.
You should read some of the letters that I have gotten from individuals who
returned from a foreign country or came out of hiding, took part in the program,
and have just felt that it was a great program, the ones that tried it.
And I think it was just tragic that more didn't. But we have no immediate
plans at the present time for any extension of the program or a change. I wish
more had taken advantage of it. What happens in the future, we will have to
wait and see.
ABORTION
[21.] Q. Mr. President, one more question. Would you support or oppose a
constitutional amendment on abortion?
230
