[94]
February 14
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
94
Remarks at the Veterans Administration Center Hospital in
Bay Pines, Florida. February 14, 1976
Thank you very much, Bill, Mr. Haile, Dr. Burke, all of you wonderful people:
Let me reiterate what Bill Young said-Happy Valentine. I hope you have
many, many more.
I have spent a good many hours with Bill Young talking about Bay Pines.
When I was in the House of Representatives, Bill kept telling me about the
great need, and I was also pushed a little bit by Skip Bafalis and Lou Frey and
the rest of the Florida delegation. So when I became Vice President, the desire
on the part of Bill and all of his colleagues was even greater and, as a result
of their interest—and to some extent, my effort—we undertook a very compre-
hensive study, not only of this facility but seven other veterans hospitals where
the need was quite obvious.
The report that has been developed over the last months is going to be sub-
mitted to me officially within the next week or so. I have been briefed by not
only Bill and the others but with the knowledge that I have had in the past,
when I was coming to St. Petersburg, I decided that rather than to rely on just
some words on a piece of paper that I wanted to come out and see you and to
see the facility and learn firsthand what the circumstances are.
On the way down, I was talking to the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget—you know he controls all the money—[laughter]—and I said that if
I found conditions the way I understood them to be, we had to get going on Bay
Pines.
It is obvious that there is a tremendous need. You have an unbelievably high
veterans population in this part of Florida. You have, as I understand it, a very
high age category among veterans.
So, with the combination of the circumstances plus the need to construct a
new modern facility, I don't think you are going to be too disappointed with the
kind of results that you are going to get.
Let me, if I might, pay tribute to the doctors and the directors and the per-
sonnel that try to do a first-class job for the veterans here. I understand you
have about 600 beds. The new one would be some 900, and you would end up
with not only this facility modernized but a new facility up to the highest
standards.
309
