1
Veto of a Bill To Amend the National Security Act
of 1947.
January 1, 1976
[Dated December 31, 1975. Released January 1, 1976]
To the Senate of the United States:
I return without my approval S. 2350, a bill "“To amend the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947, as amended, to include the Secretary of the Treasury as a
member of the National Security Council."
The National Security Council is one of the most important organiza-
tions in the Executive Office of the President. The Council's function, under
the law, is to advise the President with respect to the integration of domestic,
foreign, and military policies relating to the national security. The President,
the Vice President, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Defense are
the statutory members of the Council. In addition, the President may, under
the law, appoint by and with the advice and consent of the Senate the Secre-
taries and Under Secretaries of other executive departments and of the military
departments to serve at his pleasure. No President has ever exercised this latter
authority.
In my judgment, enactment of S. 2350 is not necessary. From its estab-
lishment in 1947, each President has invited from time to time additional
officers to participate in National Security Council deliberations when matters
specifically relating to their responsibilities have been considered. In line with
this practice, the President invites the Secretary of the Treasury to participate in
Council affairs when issues of substantial interest to the Department of the
Treasury are involved. Thus, existing arrangements provide for adequate par-
ticipation of the Secretary of the Treasury in National Security Council matters.
Furthermore, additional mechanisms exist to assure that the President receives
advice which takes into account the proper integration and coordination of
domestic and international economic policy with foreign policy and national
security objectives. Both the Economic Policy Board and the Council for Inter-
national Economic Policy provide the President with high level advice on
economic matters. The Secretary of the Treasury is the Chairman of these two
bodies on which the Secretary of State also serves.
1
