[189]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
would skyrocket, and that grim word “depression,” that some of us remember,
was heard more and more.
This was a time when it would have been easy to stampede, to forget or to
ignore the inherent strength of the world's greatest economy, to turn instead
to some quick-fix gimmicks. This administration didn't panic nor did we
abandon our principles or our convictions under fire.
We set a very firm and steady course and stuck to it. What happened?
Doomsday never came. The American farmer, the American businessman,
the American consumer, the American investor, American workers regained
their confidence in the future of this great country as they should and as they
have and as they will in the future.
We preserved the integrity of the American dollar and the American econ-
omy. Inflation was cut in half, employment has risen by 2,200,000 over last
March. We have now recovered all of the jobs lost in the recession, and we
are going to do better and better, month by month, because we have the right
courses.
And the leading indicators for our economy released last week registered
the sharpest rise in 6 months. Investments from abroad in American stocks
and bonds grew dramatically. We wound up 1975 with the strongest balance
of trade in America's history.
American businessmen and farmers exported more than we imported from
abroad, and as many of you know, Illinois earned more than any other State
in farm exports last fiscal year-$1,700 million. The doomsayers, the cynics,
the skeptics were wrong last year-way, way wrong. Their gloomy predictions
never came true. None of them.
America has returned strong from the recession of last year. And this admin-
istration consistently recognized and encouraged the tremendous natural
strengths built into this great economy in all 50 States.
What the doomsayers tend to forget is that our private free enterprise
system is built on the character and the spiritual resources of a pioneering
people. We have not grown flabby. We are tough, and we know how to sur-
mount our difficulties through hard work and determination.
No one should underestimate the greatest source of our resources, our people.
And no one should shortchange the vitality and the strength of the free enter-
prise system. We resisted the temptation to tinker with that free enterprise
system. We kept a steady hand on the tiller. Quick remedies, bigger spending,
bigger deficits, bigger government intervention were rejected in favor of a
balanced, steady approach.
564
