April 3
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Mr. Butz has sought to get rid of them. We have gotten rid of them, and farm
prices are better now than they were when he took over.
And all I can say is we are going to do everything we can to keep surpluses
from getting accumulated and depressing farm prices. We are not going back
to those old farm policies which in many, many cases contributed significantly
to the flow of family farmowners from the farm to the city. We want to reverse
that policy and get more people owning family farms in this country.
Now, on the second question that you asked. I have established what we call
the farm policy board. It is a Cabinet policy-a policy committee. The chairman
of it is Secretary Butz. It has three or four other Cabinet members, plus other top
advisers. That Agricultural Policy Committee will recommend to me policies
as to farm decisions of one kind or another.
I think that incorporates the best thinking of the people in the executive
branch of the Government, but I am sure that Secretary Butz himself, in the De-
partment of Agriculture, consults freely with the Farm Bureau, the various dairy
organizations, the Farmers Union, the Grange, and all of the others to get their
considered judgment as he recommends farm policy to the board and they to me.
We want the input of agricultural people at the grassroots level, and I am sure
the Department is getting them. And by the meetings that I have held in Illinois,
the one in Wisconsin last week, and the one here this week, I am getting a pretty
good input, too, and I like it.
Q. Well, Mr. Ford, I will agree with what you said about the opposite of the
policy that we have, but I think somewhere in between there must be a policy
where we can make more stability in agriculture. The dairy portion of agricul-
ture has been hurt extremely, along with the livestock portion. We cannot
tolerate peaks and lows when we must live in these lows for-now the last time
was an 18-month period—and particularly the young farmer with a huge amount
of borrowed money has found it nearly impossible. And this is what I mean, that
we have to have something different than that.
I thank you for the privilege of talking to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Q. Mr. President, I am a dairy farmer from Fairwater, Wisconsin. It might be
of interest to you to know that I am also president of the Ripon Republican Club,
birthplace of the Republican Party.
I want to, first of all, commend you on all your vetoes that you have made in
Washington and even the dairy support veto. But it bothers me. I am wondering,
what do you plan on doing about labor? They keep on striking, and they get
higher and higher wages, and the cost is passed on to those of us who buy the
941
