[284]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
And you put your finger right on it, Senator. If that is not enacted by the Con-
gress, the State of Wisconsin will lose a substantial amount of money, and every
county, every city, every township-and some money also goes to the Indian
tribes here in Wisconsin-will lose what they have been getting for 5 years. And
if you look at how States and local units of government have used the money,
they have used it for public safety, they have used it for education, they have used
it for a wide variety of things.
And if Congress does not act, they will either have to cut the services at the
State and local units of government or increase the taxes. And Congress has been
negligent. Congress has failed to do what they should have done. I know some
people say that this is not a good program. Some people allege that there is too
much overhead. Let me tell you how much overhead there is.
In the case of general revenue sharing, it has been distributed roughly at the
rate of $5,400 million a year for the last 5-plus years. It costs the Federal Govern-
ment one-twelfth of 1 percent to handle these transactions to 39 [39,000] local
units of government and 50 States. Now, that is not bad overhead. And it does
exactly what it is aimed to do, to give money collected under our Federal tax
system back to the States and to the local units of government so the decisions
are made at the local level. And I think it makes a lot of sense, it has worked well,
and if Congress does not extend the existing law, you are going to find either a
great loss of services at the State or local level or you are going to have to increase
taxes.
So, I urge you to twist the arms and telephone and write your Members of the
House and Senate and tell them to get moving, they have had plenty of time to
act on it, and the sooner the better.
Let me tell you why. I had 12 mayors from Ohio in the other day, and under
their State law a mayor of a city in Ohio has to publish his budget for the next
calendar year by July 1. And if Congress has not enacted this by July 1, whatever
the city of Dayton or the city of Akron or the city of Cleveland would get, they
cannot include it.
So, they either have to reduce services and publish that in their budget, or on
the other hand, they will have to say if you want the same services, we are going
to have to increase your real estate taxes, your city income tax or city sales tax.
Bill Steiger is a real authority on this because he was a great pusher of it for a
good many years, along with Mel Laird and others from Wisconsin.
Well, that is the story, I am sorry I took so long, but, boy, get your people from
Wisconsin moving.
912
