April 3
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is just wonderful to come here on this occasion, the home of the Green
Bay Packers. It is a thrill, and let me say, Bart, it was a special thrill for me to
participate just a few moments ago in the dedication of the Green Bay Packers
Hall of Fame. It is a great, great opportunity and a great thing for me, a “has-
been" football player, to see all the greats from Green Bay and participate in
that. Thank you for the opportunity. But let me say at the outset, I really don't
mind if the Green Bay Packers have a linebacker by the name of Jimmy Carter,
it is a great team anyway.
If I might transgress for a minute, I did participate in this dedication, and it
gave to me an opportunity to think of the great traditions of the Packers and
the wonderful struggles they have had and the games that they have won. And
then I began thinking, as I flew up here, of the association that I have had with
some of the people, the greats of the Green Bay Packers.
Back in 1935, in August, I played in the Chicago Bear All-Star game and Don
Hutson was on the team, the All-Stars, and we lost it to the Chicago Bears 5 to 0.
You would not remember that—many of you. As you know, Don went on to
become one of the peerless ends of all time in professional football.
Then in December of 1934, I was a member of the East team of the Shrine
East-West football game, and we met down here at Northwestern University
campus, practiced for a week or two, and then took the train out to San Francisco.
And on the way out Curley Lambeau, your great coach for many, many years,
was on the train, and he was looking around on the East squad, and I think we
had 24 members, and he didn't spend much time looking at me because we
had seven games and won one at Michigan that year. And we didn't have many
good ballplayers.
Anyhow, we got out to San Francisco, and we were playing the Western
team, and the other center, Brooks Atchinson from Colgate, who started, got
hurt in the first minute. So I played 59 minutes and had a pretty good game.
And all the way back from San Francisco to Chicago, Curley Lambeau spent an
awful lot of time talking to me about coming up and playing for the Packers,
and he offered me $200 a game and 14 games during the season of 1935.
Now, that does not sound like a lot of money to some of you, but in 1935, 200
bucks a game or $2,800 in what-3 months, Bart-was an awful lot of dough. I
decided to go to Yale and, frankly, I have always had a lot of interest in and spirit
for the Green Bay Packers just because of that incident.
And then, I did have an opportunity over the years to meet Bart Starr, know
him, and I think he exemplifies not only perfection on the football field but
the kind of outstanding leadership that is needed in a community, on the foot-
953
