[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have been President now for almost 19 months. When I took office in
August of 1974, America was faced with some of its most pressing and serious
problems in our country's history. Our economy had gone haywire with prices
going up at an annual rate of more than 12 percent and everything else slow-
ing down. Our national resolve to meet our international commitments was
being called into question by both our allies and our adversaries. There was
great danger to peace in many, many areas throughout the world.
Underlying these serious problems was a crisis of confidence in our Gov-
ernment, a crisis of the spirit among our American people. With the under-
standing of the American people, with your prayers and your support and
your help, I set about to do what I could to meet those challenges, to put Amer-
ica at peace with itself and throughout the world. The past 19 months have
seen many of these efforts succeed. I believe my policy of common sense and
a realistic approach to America's problems has helped restore confidence in
our great Government.
As I said on my first day as President, "truth is the glue that holds government
together," and as long as I am President, I intend to be forthright, candid, frank
with all of the American people and make this system work the way it should
work.
America's economic picture is considerably brighter today than it was 18
months ago. The inflation rate that was over 12 percent has been cut almost
in half. That's still not good enough, but that is progress by any standard and
we're going to keep making that kind of progress in the months ahead with
the right kind of policies that we are pursuing right now.
We have recovered 2,100,000 jobs since last March. That is 96 percent of all
the jobs that we lost during the recession. Unemployment is still too high, but
we are headed in the right direction. The Commerce Department announced
just yesterday that personal income has risen by 9.2 percent in the past year,
well above the current inflation rate. That means real earnings, real purchasing
power is climbing; that's good news for every American. We're on the attack,
and we will stay on the attack and win this important victory over inflation
and unemployment and every other economic enemy of the American people.
In foreign affairs, we have pursued a policy of peace through strength. That
policy has been successful, so successful that tonight we can say that America
is at peace with every nation on Earth, and we will keep it that way in the
future.
We will keep it that way by keeping our defenses strong. As long as I am
President, America's defenses will be strong and ready without equal in the
372
