[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
participate in activities. They have been doing that for 3 years. It does not in-
fringe on our ability to regulate.
We have been citing voluntary standards that have been developed and are
being followed. We are pleased to do that.
The apparel industry is one that Jim is aware of from our mutual time in Com-
merce with the Inflammable Materials Act. The apparel industry has not only
gone way beyond the Federal efforts—we have mandatory regulations on chil-
dren's sleepwear—they have extended, voluntarily, the fire retardant regulation
to other apparel.
In my personal opinion, there is no longer any need for any additional manda-
tory standards in this field. In 3 years I wouldn't have believed it possible. It is an
example of what can be done.
In deregulation, I think last July, Lou Engman was the first speaker, and he
suggested if there was a trapdoor under about 50 percent of the chairs and some-
body pulled a lever—and we have been working on efforts in a sense to fashion
our own trapdoor. We have put together a plan—a 6-year plan—and we have
submitted it last September to OMB and the Congress and that plan predicts the
ability to abolish this agency, an agency only 3 years old, in 6 more years. It would
abolish it because we believe our task is a finite task, and we believe rational
people would come to the conclusion consumer products no longer present a
grave risk.
It is a bit of a change, and we haven't gotten acceptance of it, but I would sug-
gest that every agency put forward such a plan because not only is it beneficial to
keep from going into a counterproductive mode but it makes possible some
meaningful oversight by the Congress. Right now, I am of the feeling the over-
sight is not very meaningful.
On another line, I might mention we share in common with Bill Anders—our
agency does, FDA and OSHA, and some of the other agencies not here—that is,
nuclear safety; similar problems-fluorocarbon ozone, Red Dye 2 and Red Dye
40-the whole matter of carcinogens associated with the environment.
I have been trying to create a mechanism called a science court as a regulatory
forum to help agencies make better social decisions in these kinds of areas. The
social decision is: How safe is safe enough and is the risk worth it? Implicit is
economic risk, and risk to citizens.
But in these problems I have outlined, they are the kind of areas where the
technology is very, very important and the technology is being debated in the
public domain, and we are getting trial by PR. Secretary Morton was briefed on
this. I talked to Ed Schmults about it, and Secretary Morton was briefed, and I
1022
