[124]
February 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have sought to achieve accountability so that individuals in the various
intelligence agencies will know precisely what their responsibilities are and to
whom they are accountable. But the main new addition, which, I think, is
fundamentally necessary, is the Oversight Board.
And you, Mr. Chairman and Steve and Leo, are to act as an independent
auditor on what takes place within the intelligence community. You are not
to be influenced by the White House on the one hand, and you are not to be
influenced by the intelligence community on the other. And your responsibility
is an independent area of responsibility.
I just want to thank the three of you. I know you bring together a good many
years of Government service, but also of dedication to what is in the best interest
of the country. So I am delighted that you have accepted, and I am confident
that the role played by this board will be reassuring to the American people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:53 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House. In his remarks, he re-
ferred to Robert Murphy, Chairman, and Steve
Ailes and Leo Cherne, members, Intelligence Over-
sight Board.
125
Remarks at the Combined Convention of the National Religious
Broadcasters and the National Association of
Evangelicals. February 22, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dr. Zimmerman, Dr. Van Der Puy, Dr. Toms,
members and guests of the National Religious Broadcasters and the National
Association of the Evangelicals:
It is a very special honor for me to address for the third time in as many years
this great convention of National Religious Broadcasters. I welcome, of course,
the participation of the National Association of Evangelicals, and I salute both
for your outstanding organizations as you follow the great commissions
of Jesus, to go into the world and to preach the gospel.
of
you
My good friend, Billy Zeoli, makes the point that we may know the number
of churches, radio and television stations involved in religious broadcasting and
mission work. Only God, however, can count the number of lives that have been
changed by the gospel you preach throughout the world.
I like the theme that you have selected for your Bicentennial convention, “Let
Freedom Ring." Nowhere on Earth has freedom rung so loud and so long as
412
