[192]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
like it, but the system is good. All we have to do is correct it, and we're working
at it.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S VISIT TO CHINA
[6.] Q. Mr. President, what are your feelings about Mr. Nixon's recent trip
to Red China, and do you feel that that hurt your campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. The question, as I understand it, was, how do I feel about Mr.
Nixon's trip to China and has it had an adverse impact on my campaign?
I have said—and I think I should repeat—that Mr. Nixon was invited by the
People's Republic of China. He went there as a private citizen. He didn't go there
to carry out any foreign policy directives that I would issue as President of the
United States. He went as a private citizen, as their guest.
I do feel that the timing of the trip probably had some adverse impact in the
New Hampshire primary-not enough, fortunately, but at least it may have had
some. But overall, we haven't been able to come to any concrete conclusion as to
whether it was good or bad. I'm glad he is back safely, and we are just going on
with our program in the Government and in the campaign, because we've got a
lot of things to do.
Q. Mr. President, as long as we're talking about former President Nixon, do
you think it's right that the United States Government spent $250,000 while he
was over there?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me repeat the question so everybody knows it. The ques-
tion is, was
right for the Federal Government to pay $250,000 for Mr. Nixon
to go to the People's Republic of China? Is that the question?
The Federal Government didn't pay 1 penny for his transportation, for his
lodging, for his food, the cost of—whatever it was. And I don't know whether it
was $250,000 or not, but by law-by law-it's mandatory that all former Presi-
dents and all widows of former Presidents are given Secret Service protection.
That's what the law says. So, whatever the cost was, it was required by law. I
don't think it was that much, but whatever the cost was it was a matter of law.
And I happen to think we ought to obey the law.
BLACK LUNG LEGISLATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my question is on the new liberalization of the black
lung act or law. Being a coal miner, I'm concerned about this and about your
stance, and also Senator Percy and maybe some of the other men up there, what
their opinion is on the new liberalization of the black lung act?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I understand the legislation that passed the House a
week or so ago by a vote of some 240 to 183 against it, what it would do is—say
590
