March 20
[235]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity to
address this great convention of the North Carolina Association of Future
Homemakers of America. And, Ann, I wish to thank you for that very beautiful
rose that you have just given me as your symbol. As I understand it, the rose
represents the search of future homemakers for beauty in everyday living, and
you certainly started out by making my day today more beautiful, and I thank
you very much.
I intend to take this rose, with all that it represents, back to the White House
with me later today. But I am a little concerned about what will happen when I
get there. I am afraid that my daughter, Susan, will want to take a picture of the
rose and that my 24-year-old son, Jack, and 18-year-old son, Steve, will try to get it
from me so they can give it to one of their girlfriends. [Laughter]
But to solve the problem without any difficulties, I will give it to the most ap-
propriate person that I know, the finest homemaker that I know-my wife,
Betty, and she will really appreciate it. Betty makes the White House, as far as
we are concerned, a real home. Her homemaking for 27½ years is fully con-
sistent with your ideas of preserving the great tradition of the American family.
Betty started her career as a professional dancer with a fine group that many
are familiar with. When we were married, she added another dimension to her
career—that of homemaker. Betty has since told me that she found the home-
making career equally as rewarding as appearing on the stage. She made home-
making for the Ford family a profession. She served simultaneously as mother,
cook, interior decorator, chauffeur, telephone operator, nurse, psychologist, and
political adviser and, I might add parenthetically, always a helpful critic with
always some very good ideas of her own. For that I am deeply grateful. But now
that our children are grown, Betty has expanded her horizons as First Lady.
This morning, I happened to see some of your conference material. I noticed
that you are being encouraged to discuss such topics as getting along with sisters
and brothers and getting along with parents. I don't know where you stand with
your sisters, your brothers, and your parents, but there is one thing I have learned
this morning, and I appreciate it to no end-you certainly know how to get
along with Presidents.
I commend very forcefully the work that you and your teachers are doing to
strengthen our homes as well as our families. They are essential to a strong and
healthy America. You, as future homemakers, are just as important to our Na-
tion as the men and women who serve in our military forces. To make America
a land of happy homes and happy families is patriotic in the best sense of the
word. This Nation could not thrive and survive without you.
755
