[207]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me repeat what I have said many times before, that I strongly support the
principle of private volunteer giving to help finance higher education. If these
institutions should close their doors shifting the burden from private donors to
public taxpayers, the tax load would be heavy indeed. It would add billions and
billions of dollars a year to the national tax burden, hundreds of millions of
dollars each year in the State of Illinois alone.
Therefore, I repeat here this morning as I have said on other occasions, I would
oppose any legislative proposals which would discourage private financial sup-
port for our colleges and universities. We must never threaten this vital educa-
tional resource.
Once students have graduated from colleges, private or public, and I have been
the beneficiary of both, we want to make sure that there are rewarding jobs
available for all of you. The government can help, not by providing temporary
make-work jobs, but by encouraging a healthy economic climate in this country.
When I came to the White House 19 months ago, our economy was in bad
shape and, unfortunately, getting worse. There were those who said that gaso-
line would be a dollar a gallon by now and unemployment would be sky-
rocketing over 10 million Americans. Well, they were wrong. It was not a time
for panic, it was a time for strong, affirmative action. The statistics show that the
administration's economic policies have been the right ones. Inflation has been
cut in half. All jobs lost during the recession, numerically, have been recovered,
and they have been recovered primarily through the demands of the private
sector where five out of six jobs are found in the United States. The unemploy-
ment rate has fallen significantly; it is still falling. It is still too high.
Nine hundred and twenty-five thousand real jobs have been created in the
first 2 months of this calendar year. That is good news, but it is best reflected,
I think, in the fact that consumer confidence and a host of other economic indi-
cators are up, and we are going to keep them up. We are going to make sure that
there are enough real jobs created by our economy so that all of you can use
what you have learned for a rich, rewarding, and challenging life.
An important part of that life will be your participation in our government's
great democracy. Let me tell you that I was impressed by the petition that
accompanied your invitation to speak here today. That petition had some 1,700
to 1,800 names on it. I think that shows very clearly how the students of Wheaton
College intend to get involved in their Nation's affairs.
Here at Wheaton, you know a great deal about commitment. You have all
committed yourselves to living a purposeful, Christian life. That is a funda-
mental, lifelong commitment, and I salute you for it. I am very well acquainted
634
