[291]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
had that tremendous career. And those of us who saw him in the All-Star game
could not help but know that he was going to be a star for a long, long time and
establish the kinds of records that he did.
Then I played in the Shrine East-West game on January 1, 1935, and that is a
long time ago, back when the ball was round. On the way out to San Francisco
we were on the train—we traveled by train then—and Curley Lambeau was
along. The Michigan team that I played on that year won one game and lost
seven, and Curley didn't think there were many ballplayers from Michigan
that were worth looking at, and there probably weren't.
But anyhow, out at the ballgame on New Year's Day there were two cen-
ters on the team, and I didn't start. And the other center got hurt, so I played
59 minutes and had a pretty good ballgame. From San Francisco back to Chi-
cago, Curley spent an awful lot of time talking to me, and he finally offered me,
as was said, 200 bucks a game for 14 games.
Well, I had a hard time deciding whether to take that job or try to get it or
whether to take a job coaching football at Yale, so I could go to law school. Well,
I finally made the decision to go to law school and coach at New Haven.
Then, later, I got to know Bart Starr, who I think by any standards is one of
the alltime great quarterbacks in the history of professional football. Few, if
any, quarterbacks will ever achieve the success that Bart has had. You know,
good players like Bart have the capability of being great coaches, so I am con-
fident that Green Bay is going to be at the top, as it was for so long, very quickly
under Bart's leadership.
Now, I also had the privilege in Washington, D.C., of knowing Vince Lom-
bardi and also had the opportunity of getting to know his wonderful wife,
Marie. Bart knows, I am sure even better than I, the great inspirational char-
acteristics of Vince Lombardi. I think Vince sort of epitomizes what is the need
and necessity of this country today to meet the challenges that we face, just
like there were great leaders in all kinds of activities starting some 200 years
ago to give this country the kind of leadership that has taken us from 13 small,
struggling colonies of some 3 million people to the greatest nation in the history
of mankind. And we are going to keep it there.
But the main thing is that through tradition, through the great successes—
winning three consecutive football championships, the first two AFL-NFL
championships—here in Green Bay you have developed a character and a leader-
ship and an inspiration and a tradition that are the envy of all of our 215 million
Americans, and I am among them.
I congratulate you. I am honored to participate in this.
950
