February 20
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
As we look at home I think the bitterness that existed some 2 years ago
or more has actually been dissipated and all Americans, whether they are
Democrat or Republican or Independent, are pulling together basically to make
this the kind of a country that we all want.
As I walked in and shook hands with many, many people I saw some older
people and some younger people. We owe a great deal to the older people
in this country. They took this Nation through the most difficult times economi-
cally in the thirties and they met the challenge of World War II as well as
World War I. And our country is better off because of their sacrifices and their
capability to do a first-class job.
And then I saw some younger people who are the beneficiaries and they
have a great responsibility in America-the responsibility to carry on and do
for their children what their parents and grandparents did for them.
But I have a lot of faith in young people. They are better educated I think,
they have more opportunities to see the country and to see the world, and the
net result is America's young people are going to carry the torch for freedom
as well if not better than any previous generations.
But now we have got some big decisions to make, not only in New Hamp-
shire but elsewhere throughout the country. Then, of course, the big final
decision on November 2. I am here and Betty is with me because we want
your help on next Tuesday. We can do a better job for you if you can help us.
And we pledge to you the same honest, frank, candid efforts that we made
in the past, which I think is the way our country ought to operate-frankness
and candor and forthrightness between a President and the American people
and between them and him.
I thank you for your consideration. I thank you very much for your prayers,
and I hope and trust that we can continue to do a job for you which I think
is in the best interests of this country.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:58 p.m. at the Newington Plaza Shopping Center.
409
