[284]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
proved, and I hope that your industry and the Teamsters would work with us
because I think we can strengthen your industry, and we can help the economy
overall rather than just keeping something because it is that way.
And we find the same thing in the airlines. I am being very frank, you know.
The airlines don't want their current situation with CAB changed. They got
used to it. They got a lot of lawyers who enjoy it. [Laughter] And the net result
is we are in the status quo even though the circumstances have changed
significantly.
So, just to sit by and accept the status quo I don't think is the way to approach
the problem. Now, maybe you have got a better answer, and, if you have, come
on up and we will talk to you.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:32 p.m. in the
Crystal Ballroom at the Marc Plaza Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Orville Mertz,
chairman of the board, and Paul Hassett, president
of the association, and Gov. Warren P. Knowles of
Wisconsin 1964-71, chairman of the Wisconsin
President Ford Committee.
285
Remarks to President Ford Committee Volunteers in
Milwaukee. April 2, 1976
LET ME just say a word or two to give you some thoughts if you are doing
telephoning or if you are meeting people and trying to be helpful. What we have
tried to do in the 19 months that I have been President is to restore a balance in
the Federal Government so that you get a better balance between the taxpayers
on the one hand and the people who are beneficiaries from taxpayers on another.
We have been trying to get a better balance between the role of the Federal Gov-
ernment and the responsibility in the role of the State governments and local
units of government.
1
As Governor Knowles ¹ knows, there was a period of time, over a period of
some 20 years, when the Federal Government grabbed everything, and the net
result was there was a corresponding loss in responsibility and decisionmaking at
the State and local level. I have faith in your local government; I have faith in
your people that are at the State level—they are certainly a lot more qualified to
decide the problems in Wisconsin than somebody sitting on the banks of the
Potomac.
1 Gov. Warren P. Knowles of Wisconsin 1964-71, chairman of the Wisconsin President Ford Committee.
918
