[177]
March 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
and neither nuclear power nor coal can be eliminated from this program with-
out making up for it with foreign oil.
We can't make up for nuclear power with more coal production in the next 10
years. We have to have both at a maximum capacity. They are not very easy
questions, but as I said earlier, the solutions are within our grasp.
Bob Seamans¹ is continually asked the question, “Why don't we have a man on
the Moon program in energy and get it all done and over with?" I've heard
him answer that question so many times I'll answer it as he would.
If we use reasonable judgment and maximum funding in all of the major
areas such as synthetics and as geothermal and solar, we will only be up to about
a little over-that's the equivalent of 1 million barrels a day by 1990.
Now that might be improved some with some breakthroughs, but I think
that's a reasonable judgment. And even if we were to just bury that problem in
money without any regard for sensible economics, the maximum that we could
produce is something close to 3 million barrels a day.
The answer here is that we're not going to, with space age tactics, solve our
energy problem between now and 1990. Thereafter, it's going to be awfully im-
portant, and if the Congress approves your Energy Independence Authority,
your synthetic fuels bill, then these technologies will move along and move along
very nicely. If they don't, we won't even achieve that much of a result during that
time period.
How are we going to do it with money? It's going to cost some $600 billion to
do it in the production side alone. We anticipate an additional $200 billion that's
not shown on that chart for conservation technology. But that is so intertwined
in the rest of our economy that it is hard to show separately. But the point is that
we are going to need the investment dollars primarily in the electric sector, but
also in the oil and gas sector.
Electric utilities are going to have to have the wherewithal to make substantial
commitments to energy in the future. Now, while $600 billion seems like a lot
of money, it's no more in terms of the percent of total capital investment that the
private sector has made in the energy area than has occurred over the last 10 or
20 years. So that, if we provide the right inducements, if deregulation provisions
are allowed to occur, if the regulations at the State level are taking into consid-
eration the needs of the future in their ratemaking, then there is going to be
sufficient capital investment in this sector to get the job done.
Six hundred billion dollars is not an unreal number. On the other hand, it's
1 Administrator, Energy Research and Development Administration.
520
