February 2
[53]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
your very generous comments. I wish you all the very best in our third century
of a great history of a great Commonwealth in a great country.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 10 p.m.
in the Virginia Room at the Williamsburg Lodge.
The dinner was hosted by the Colonial Williamsburg
Foundation.
The President spoke in response to a toast by Gov-
ernor Godwin, who spoke as follows:
Mr. President, distinguished friends one and all:
It seems to me that in the two centuries that have
passed, which we celebrate today, that this Com-
monwealth has had many great days. It had many
great days two centuries ago. It has had many in the
intervening years. But by any comparison, today and
tonight must certainly rank with one of the great
days in the history of the Commonwealth. We have
been truly honored by the presence here of the
Chief Executive of the greatest land in the world
today.
Suffice it for me to say no more than to express
to him the appreciation of us all for his presence
here.
Now will you rise and join with me in giving a
toast to the President of the United States of
America.
53
Remarks at the Swearing In of Elliot L. Richardson as
Secretary of Commerce. February 2, 1976
Mr. Chief Justice, Secretary-designate Richardson, members of the Cabinet,
Members of the Congress, distinguished guests:
It is a great honor and privilege for me to have the opportunity of saying a
few words and then introducing to you the new Secretary of Commerce.
Elliot Richardson is a favorite son of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
He, of course, served with distinction as attorney general and lieutenant gover-
nor. He has served successfully and successively as Under Secretary of State,
as Secretary of HEW, as Secretary of Defense, as Attorney General, and then,
of course, as our Ambassador to Great Britain. And now he is about to embark
on his sixth major Federal appointment.
In that capacity, he will have a great responsibility in carrying out the
administration's programs and policies in the economic field. He will, of course,
work with me in trying to implement the programs we set forth in the State of
the Union Message, the budget message, and the economic recommendations.
We all know that in the last year we went through the deepest recession since
the end of World War II, but we are now on the upswing, and I think we are
moving ahead very well and very solidly and very constructively.
The fact that we had this recession was something that we didn't like, but we
showed strength as a country and as people, and the net result is we are moving
ahead and moving ahead properly.
The programs that I have tried to set forth are realistic. They are common
141
