[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
research increases, across the board, we increased them—or I increased them,
with the submission of my budget—by 30 percent. That is not bad—geothermal,
exotic fuels, solar, et cetera. So, we actually went beyond what many of the
experts told me we ought to do in research and development-in fossil fuels,
across the spectrum.
So, for research, for the new things that can be done to produce more energy
other than gas and oil, which in the main we get from foreign sources, we have
put forth the biggest research and development budget in the history of the
country for energy progress.
Q. But are you still giving more priority to nuclear energy instead of some-
thing like recycling?
The President. We, quite frankly, did put more money in for nuclear
research and development, for two reasons. We want to make any nuclear
reactors in the future safer, and we want to make them more reliable, and
Government research and development is the best way to do it. That is why we
put the extra money in for R. & D. for nuclear experiments. I think it is a good
investment.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S VISIT TO CHINA; DESIGNATION OF ACTING CHINESE
PREMIER
[17.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Stewart Powell, and I am with UPI.
Can
you tell us, please, what are the domestic and international consequences
of the change of power in China, and whether you are upset by Nixon's visit
there and, thirdly, whether you plan to consult with him personally or have
any member of your administration consult with him when he returns?
THE PRESIDENT. President Nixon, former President Nixon, is going to China
as a private citizen. He was invited by the Government of the People's Republic
of China. He called me Thursday or Friday, I guess Thursday, notified me of
his invitation from the Chinese and his acceptance. I am delighted that his
health is such that he can go.
I asked him to extend to Chairman Mao and the other leaders my very best.
We talked generally about his trip in 1972. There is no commitment on his part
to report to me or on my part to ask him to report to me. We will wait and see
what happens on his return.
Some 10,000 Americans have visited the People's Republic of China in the
last 3 or 4 years. I think it is wholesome and healthy that private citizens under-
take these trips.
212
