February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I do not support the better known amendment that would
preclude any abortion whatsoever. I want to add this because I think it is a
subject that deserves more than the simple answer that you might have gotten.
I have many reservations and oppose the decision of the Supreme Court of 1973. I
think there can be a moderate, middle-ground position.
Now, in our own family, my dear wife, she differs substantially with me. But
let me just say I don't take the extreme position on either side. I think it is a
matter that has to find some better solution than what we have at the present
time.
VETERANS BENEFITS
[22.] Q. Hello, Mr. President, my name is Dennis Moore, and I am not from
the People's Bicentennial Commission. I want to compliment Mrs. Ford tonight.
She looks pretty well, a little old-fashioned, but okay. [Laughter]
My question has to do with veteran benefits. I used to be a veteran, and while
I was in the service I saw the benefits just decrease at an amazing rate. And now
that I am out of the service, I don't know how I stand, because benefits are-
sometimes they are there, sometimes they are not. I just want to know how they
are going to stand under your administration-excuse me, I am nervous.
I want to know, under your administration, now that we are an all-volunteer
force, what is going to happen to our benefits? Are we going to keep them or
are they going to be still decreased? Like our commissary—what is going to
happen to it?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me take one at a time.
Our prime responsibility is to provide the finest medical care for those who
were injured in wartime, and we have 170 or 180 USVA hospitals, and we have
substantially increased the medical and nursing care personnel so that we give
quality care to those veterans who are in these hospitals. Number two, there is
not going to be any elimination of the GI educational benefits for those veterans
who have served in wartime.
Let me make one alternative comment. The GI bill was passed during World
War II for those 16 million Americans who served so when they got out they
could get an education. It expired after World War II. Korea came along, again
combat, and it was reenacted.
After the end of the Korean war-combat having ceased-it expired. When
the Vietnam war came along, it was reenacted. The Vietnam war has now been
over for a year or more, as far as we are concerned.
231
