March 22
[245]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
•
our economy, to the quality of our lives and to the strength of our defense. Today
there is mounting evidence that science and technology are more important
than ever before in meeting the many challenges facing us.
I fully recognize that this country's future—and that of all civilization as
well—depends on nurturing and drawing on the creativity of men and women in
our scientific and engineering community.
The 1977 Budget which I submitted to the Congress on January 21, 1976, is
one measure of the importance I attach to a strong National effort in science
and technology. My total budget restrains Federal spending to $395 billion—an
increase of 5.5 percent over 1976. But my Budget requests $24.7 billion for the
research and development activities of the various Federal agencies, an increase
of 11 percent over my 1976 estimates. Included within this total of $24.7 billion is
$2.6 billion for the support of basic research, also an increase of 11 percent. Such
long-term exploratory research provides the new knowledge on which advances
in science and technology depend. I urge the Congress to approve my budget
requests.
I also urge the Congress to pass legislation to establish an Office of Science and
Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President. This will permit us
to have closer at hand advice on the scientific, engineering and technical aspects
of issues and problems that require attention at the highest levels of Government.
On June 9, 1975, I submitted a bill to the Congress that would authorize crea-
tion of such an office. The director of this new office would also serve as my
adviser on science and technology, separating this responsibility from the many
demands of managing an operating agency. On November 6, 1975, the House of
Representatives passed an acceptable bill, H.R. 10230, which authorizes the new
office. On February 4, 1976, the Senate passed a similar bill which, with some
changes, would also be acceptable. Those bills are now awaiting action by a
House-Senate Conference Committee. Early agreement by the conferees on a
workable bill will permit me to proceed without further delay in establishing the
Office of Science and Technology Policy.
In addition to its direct support of research and development, the Federal Gov-
ernment has a responsibility to ensure that its policies and programs stimulate
private investments in science and technology and encourage innovation in all
sectors of the economy-in industry, the universities, private foundations, small
business, and State and local Governments. We pursue this objective through
our tax laws, cooperative R&D projects with industry, and other incentives.
Industry and other elements of the private sector now support nearly 50 percent
785
