January 31
[49]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is a great national debate, not only between our two great political parties but
within both of them, over the role of government in the lives of individuals,
how much government can or should do for the people, and how best to go
about it.
It is very fitting and it is profoundly encouraging that Americans in 1976
are still so deeply concerned and still as heatedly arguing the basic questions
that faced the founders of our Republic in 1776.
And these are not philosophical abstractions any more than they were then.
The political decisions which the American people will make this year will
determine our Nation's future course in the kind of a country our children and
our grandchildren will inherit just as surely as the decisions made by the colonial
legislatures and the Continental Congress in Philadelphia 200 years ago.
The new realism that I spoke of in my State of the Union Message is not the
property of any political party, but the prevailing mood of the American people
the length and breadth of our country.
Realism requires that continuing economic recovery and the creation of more
meaningful and rewarding jobs must have our highest priority in 1976 and
beyond. Here the issue has already been joined, and this is how I see it. Without
wartime mobilization, there are two main ways the Federal Government can
act to put more people to work. The question is which way should we go?
The Federal Government can create the economic climate and the incentives
through changes in its tax policies and other programs which encourage and
expedite the creation of productive, permanent, and private jobs; this is what
I propose to do. Or the Federal Government can try to create jobs itself. This is
what the opposition proposes.
The Congress can vote more money to pay people directly for doing things
such as the public works projects of the Great Depression. It can provide funds
to State and local units of government to perform public services, as spokesmen
for the other side of the question say we should be doing on a more massive scale.
Such programs, of course, add substantially to our Federal deficits with all the
evils that flow from that danger.
I am not here to argue the opposition's case, but the main objection I have
heard is that my proposals to encourage job creation in private business and
industry would take too long to show results; that the economic loss we suffer
through high unemployment levels justifies much greater Federal spending for
Federal job programs.
It is true what I am proposing is not going to get the unemployed back to
129
