March 5
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and 1,320 MIRV missiles-isn't that better than having 4,000 or 5,000 launchers
or 2,000 or 4,000 MIRV missiles? Isn't that better for all of us? It really would
be better if we could go below 2,400 and 1,320 as long as we had rough equiva-
lents between the two superpowers.
If we had an open thermonuclear arms race, that's not in the best interest of
the United States or the world as a whole. We have an obligation to have rough
equivalency that will deter aggression, either by us or by them, and permit us to
do some things that are needed and necessary for the world as a whole, as well
as for the United States.
Any of these people that challenge us in these kinds of day-to-day negotiations,
issue by issue, problem by problem, haven't been in the ballgame. They have lots
of rhetoric, but I don't think they understand the problems.
SELECTION PROCESS FOR SUPREME COURT JUSTICES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student at Bradley University. Mr. President,
would you please state the criteria you used in the selection of Mr. [John Paul]
Stevens as a Supreme Court Justice, and would you use the same criteria in the
selection of future Supreme Court Justices?
The President. I'm very proud of the selection of Supreme Court Justice
Stevens. We went through a very constructive process of soliciting names from a
wide variety of individuals or organizations that wanted to maintain a very
high quality on our Supreme Court.
We had a number of highly qualified individuals. The Department of Justice
solicited views from the American Bar Association. They interviewed, as I recall,
some 10 individuals whose names had been submitted to me. They came up with
three or four that seemed to fit the requirements of the day and, after looking at
the recommendations, the backgrounds, and all of the other qualifications, I
came to the conclusion that Justice Stevens would be an outstanding member
of the United States Supreme Court.
And I was delighted to see that a Democratic Congress, dominating the Sen-
ate by about or better than 2 to 1, almost unanimously approved him. So, I think
we went through a good process. It was proven that he had the qualifications to
be an outstanding jurist, and that's what we want. And to the extent that I can
do it in the future, that's exactly the process I will follow in the days ahead.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S VISIT TO CHINA
[7.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I am from WWCT here in the great
city of Peoria. I'd like to ask you what significance Mr. Nixon's recent trip to
553
