March 17
[223]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Multilateral Trade Negotiations
The Multilateral Trade Negotiations in Geneva have gained momentum since
early 1975. At the Rambouillet Summit we unanimously agreed to seek a suc-
cessful conclusion of these negotiations by 1977. The United States will continue
to provide strong support and leadership to the effort to reduce trade barriers
and otherwise improve the world trading system.
Energy
The establishment of the International Energy Agency by the United States
and its OECD partners constituted a major response to the economic imbalance
in the vital area of energy. The IEA has developed the details of an International
Energy Program designed to limit the vulnerability of the participating nations
to supply interruptions. Agreement was also reached on longer-term coopera-
tion to reduce consumption and develop alternative energy sources in order to
lessen dependence on imported energy. We have established emergency arrange-
ments providing for energy reserves, consumption restraint measures, and allo-
cation procedures.
Developing Countries
The United States is committed to assisting developing countries in their
efforts to achieve economic progress. Our response to the needs of the less
developed countries was expressed clearly and positively at the Seventh Special
Session of the United Nations in September. We proposed a new development
security facility in the IMF to stabilize overall export earnings in developing
countries, and numerous other ideas—including trade preferences—to achieve
mutually beneficial solutions to the problems of economic development.
Commodities
At the Seventh Special Session of the United Nations we indicated that we
will consider participating in various commodity agreements on a case-by-case
basis. We also announced that we intend to join the Fifth International Tin
Agreement, subject to Congressional approval. The need, value and structure
of commodity agreements vary for different commodities. In considering com-
modity agreements on a case-by-case basis, we will oppose concerted efforts to
manipulate supplies and prices which ignore the interests of consuming coun-
tries while seeking to assure developing countries adequate income from their
natural resources.
Food and Agriculture
The United States in 1975 continued its vital leadership in seeking strength-
ened cooperation to increase world food production and trade. We proposed
727
