February 7
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
65
Remarks at a Chamber of Commerce Dinner in Nashua,
New Hampshire. February 7, 1976
Thank you very, very much. Mr. Chairman, Congressman Jim Cleveland,
Mayor Sullivan, Ross Tait, my old friend, Norris Cotton, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
Let me at the outset thank Mayor Sullivan for the key to the city of Nashua,
to congratulate Mary Sullivan for the wonderful recognition she has gotten
for the long and devoted and successful service to the Greater Nashua Chamber
of Commerce.
I am deeply honored to have the opportunity of being here on this wonderful
occasion—a chamber of commerce which has done so much to make the Gate
City the gateway to progress.
Obviously, I wish to congratulate Sam Tamposi, your 1975 Citizen of the
Year. I understand that Sam has served not only your community but the entire
Nation by the example of what local initiative can do for government.
The distinguished honoree has also done some recent development in another
capacity throughout your State, but discretion suggests I confine myself to the
achievements for which you have already cited him. [Laughter]
I also am more than delighted to meet my former colleague of a good many
years in the Congress and a very dear friend of many, many years, Norris Cotton,
your 1974 Citizen of the Year.
I hope it is not inappropriate, and I hope it is somewhat obvious, but I have
come to New Hampshire to ask for your support on February 24. But whether
or not you help in that regard, you have already given me great, great encour-
agement by showing what Americans can do.
In recent years, when many leaders of communities, large and small, voiced
despair and turned to the Federal Government to open its gates to solve local
problems, the Gate City opened its gates to traditional Yankee initiative. You
built a showcase of industrial growth, new jobs, new homes, new hopes for the
thousands of new residents. Your vigorous growth helps to tell the Nashua story.
Your community is highly productive and has generated many, many new
jobs. Your story is in the finest American tradition of how local people can solve
local problems, of how individuals can respond to possibilities rather than sur-
render to pessimism, and how this is not only the State of the Great Stone Face
but of granite fortitude and granite character.
187
