March 6
[188]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Bob said, good policies aren't enough; it's good people that make the difference.
I went through a number of political campaigns where those who worked hard
calling on the phone, helping to get people with their absentee ballots, doing
all kinds of hard chores where little recognition is accorded-I always felt that
they did more than their share, and the net result was we won.
And so I thank all of you who are doing that hard, nonglamorous labor,
because you believe in a policy, you believe in a cause, and I won't let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 a.m. in the Cotil-
lion Room at the Peoria Hilton Hotel. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Representative Robert H.
Michel, Governor Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois
1969-73, chairman of the Illinois President Ford
Committee, and Mary Alice Erickson, chairman of
the President Ford Committee for the 18th Con-
gressional District of Illinois.
188
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Champaign, Illinois.
March 6, 1976
GOOD MORNING. How are all of you?
We had a great 2 days in Illinois, and we are looking forward to coming back
next week. I feel in Illinois, as we have felt elsewhere, that the momentum is
really rolling. We had some excellent meetings, not only with farm group
leaders but we had a tremendous meeting last night at Bradley University. You
just get that feeling, not only that the crowds are good and warm and friendly
but the main thing is the real intensity of the feeling that we are on the right
course at home as well as abroad.
Reporter. Do you believe, Mr. President, that the real political showdown
will be in central Illinois between you and Governor Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is a very important area, that is why I am here,
and to make some new friends and get reacquainted with many, many old
friends that I have seen over the years as I have traveled in this part of Illinois.
Q. But do you believe the vote will be close?
THE PRESIDENT. I always assume it will be close, but I think our momentum
is good, and I think we will win.
Q. Is Nelson Rockefeller going to campaign for you?
THE PRESIDENT. He has been very helpful in a number of areas throughout
the country and I presume that as the campaign continues he will.
Q. Mr. President, during your campaign we now have more evidence of
incursions in Mozambique and that area into Rhodesia. I am wondering
561
