[126]
February 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is what we call a mess chart. It is the most complicated, I think, irresponsible,
unsuccessful way to deliver health services to the American people with the
Federal tax dollar.
After looking at that mess chart and knowing that services are badly delivered
to the recipients or the beneficiaries—too expensively, too long delayed—I was
convinced beyond any doubt whatsoever that we had to simplify it.
If you look over here on the other side, and if you will note those x's, you will
find that under the proposal that I have made for a block grant program of
health services, those x's indicate the removal of the Federal excess baggage. It
would simplify, it would improve the delivery system of health services to the
American people. And, with your cooperation, I think this program is infinitely
superior to the one we have.
I can say that in the other three block grant proposals we could substitute the
same chart here and it would look virtually identical whether it was in educa-
tion, child nutrition, or social services. And the alternative chart would be even,
in each case, as impressive, if not more so.
Now, I frankly am encouraged by the way the States and localities are re-
sponding to the challenge of balanced federalism. Behind the block grant con-
cept is the conviction that you can do a far, far better job in many ways than the
Federal Government, and your performance in the past gives me renewed faith.
But we have to do a lot more. The State and localities can lead the way. These
block grant programs provide a dramatic and effective way to serve local
priorities. Under one such block grant-the Community Development Pro-
gram, enacted into law in late 1974 after a long and controversial struggle,
resulted in the following:
Federal regulations which a community must follow have decreased from
2,600 pages-2,600 pages under the categorical program—to 25 pages for the
block grant program.
Under the community development act, a community need file only one
application consisting of 50 pages, rather than the previous average of five
applications consisting of 1,400 pages.
Under this change from categorical to block grant, the processing and approval
of a community development block grant application average 49 days, although
under the categorical urban renewal program, processing took over 2 years.
Due to the success that we have had in simplifying the Community Develop-
ment Program, as I said a moment ago, I am recommending that we use the
same approach in other Federal problems involving social services, health, edu-
cation, and child nutrition.
418
