[216]
March 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I do promise you to do all that I can to secure the passage of this bill and to get
you the money you need to operate this program.
Another program of proven value to your cities is the community develop-
ment block grant program we began last year. Success stories abound, and let
me cite several examples.
In Muskegon, Michigan, the city combined community development funds
with local funds to finally complete a downtown urban renewal project that
had been underway for 7 years. And I suspect as I look around the audience we
can find many other examples quite comparable to that one. In Salt Lake City,
local officials used block grant funds to match other Federal funds and establish
a park in a low-income area of the city. Using community development funds
the city of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is stimulating renovation of the old
neighborhoods by offering a cash payment of some $2,000 to people willing to
move into the area and to renovate the homes. There have been many, many
others-good examples of innovation and progress in cities throughout the
country.
Because there has been so much success with this program, I have proposed a
$446 million increase for community development in my fiscal year 1977 budget,
bringing the total to $3,200 million. I think this is the way to attack some of
these problems that were logjammed, roadblocked, stymied by the old seve
categorical grant programs. And I think we have made a lot of headway in this
direction.
And let me cite one or two examples. One of the best success stories of all
in the community development field is this: Federal intervention and control
has been drastically reduced, with very favorable results. Federal regulations
governing program activities have been reduced-incidentally, on my orders—
from the 2,600 pages required for categorical aid to 25 pages for the block grant
approach.
A community has to file only one application consisting of 50 pages rather
than the previous average of five applications consisting of 1,400 pages. Process-
ing and approval of community development block grants averages 49 days.
Listen to this: Under the categorical urban renewal program, processing took
more than 2 years. I don't blame you for being frustrated, and we are going to
do better than the 49 days if we possibly can.
The success of the community block grant program, like the success of the
general revenue sharing program, points to one central fact-you know what to
do to improve your cities and you know how to do it, and with the proper tools
712
