[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. SCHMULTS. I think we are going to have to step up the pace a little to
keep on schedule.
Karl, could we hear from you next?
MR. BAKKE [Karl E. Bakke, Chairman, Federal Maritime Commission]. Mr.
President, when talking about the subject of regulatory reform, I think we need
to distinguish between administrative reform and substantive reform in the
administrative process. Administrative reform, by and large, is susceptible of
unilateral action by the agency, whereas substantive reform is a matter that is
in the hands of the Congress, by and large.
What I would like to do today is to discuss the two conference topics in those
terms. I think in doing so our most significant reform effort has been in the ad-
ministrative side through creation of an internal committee on expediting the
hearing process. That is under the guidance of Vice Chairman Morse, who is
sitting right behind me today, one of our administrative law judges, the Com-
mission's secretary, and the deputy commission counsel and the hearing coun-
sel. We are publishing a proposed public procedure reform in the Federal
REGISTER and inviting comments.
This committee has been active since its inception, and some of its recom-
mendations to date have resulted in the promulgation of sensitive target dates,
the sequential steps, discussion and final decision in commission proceedings, de-
cisions, and interlocutory appeals.
In addition, there have been amendments to the Commission's General Order
16 which includes establishment of a date by which evidentiary hearings before
administrative law judges shall commence filing of complaints and motions,
specification of what must be contained in pleadings in matters subject to the
Commission's expedited procedures, and early commencement of first round
discovery and establishment of uniform procedures, such as depositions, inter-
rogatories, demands for production, and request for admissions.
There are additional procedural reforms that the committee has proposed, and
I would hope in the very near future to see those promulgated, as well. These in-
clude pleadings comparable to those required by many district courts for the
purpose of narrowing the issues and identifying statute or case law.
Also under consideration are special expediting procedures for domestic rate
cases and liberalization of authority of our administrative law judges to interpret
or modify commission orders of investigation in light of circumstances arising
as the proceeding goes forward.
Finally, requirements of a more detailed specification at the outset concern-
1018
