[212]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
[16.] Q. Mr. President, Mr. Kissinger this week made some statements
critical of some of the other Presidential candidates for the statements they
have made concerning your administration's foreign policy. Senator Jackson
says this is the first time that he recalls any Secretary of State becoming
involved in a political campaign. First, can you say if the White House had
prior knowledge of the statements Mr. Kissinger made in his speech, and
secondly, do you agree that they are political in nature?
THE PRESIDENT. Over the years, from my own personal knowledge in Presi-
dential campaigns, most candidates, Democratic or Republican, have adopted
the attitude that it was in the best interests of the United States not to make
foreign policy a political football. I have always adopted that attitude, I think
it is the right one. But for the last year, and right up to the present, there have
been some political attacks made against foreign policy.
I think that is the wrong approach because we had great success following
World War II when there was a true bipartisan foreign policy. I can recall
vividly when Senator Arthur Vandenberg worked with President Truman, a
Republican and a Democrat, to have a truly bipartisan foreign policy. That
was good for the United States. But for about a year now, we have had political
sharpshooting from individuals who seek the Presidency, as to foreign policy.
I can simply say this: I think we had a good foreign policy. We are at peace.
We have been successful in the Middle East. We have reassured our allies in
Western Europe. We have continued to have a proper dialog with the Soviet
Union on the one hand, and the People's Republic of China on the other. We
are solidifying our foreign relations with countries all over the world. It is
an affirmative, constructive policy in the area of foreign affairs, and we are
at peace.
And I can assure you that we are going to continue that kind of a foreign
policy. When people attack us, when they attack a policy that is successful,
I think we have the obligation to speak up frankly, candidly, forthrightly to
say that this is a good policy. And I intend to do it, and I see no reason why Sec-
retary Kissinger should not have the option when he is personally attacked,
and the policies that he carries out are attacked, because they have been under
attack from politicians for the last 12 months.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[17.] Q. Mr. President, you say that you support Mr. Kissinger. Can you
say unequivocally that he will be the Secretary of State if you are elected?
690
