[4]
January 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
There are intense differences between union and nonunion contractors and
labor over the extent to which this bill constitutes a fair and equitable solution
to a long-standing issue. I have concluded that neither the building industry nor
the Nation can take the risk that the bill, which proposed a permanent change in
the law, will lead to loss of jobs and work hours for the construction trades,
higher costs for the public, and further slowdown in a basic industry.
The White House,
January 2, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The House of Representatives reconsidered H.R. 5900 on January 19, 1976, and referred the bill to
committee.
5
Statement on Signing the American Folklife Preservation
Act.
January 3, 1976
I HAVE signed H.R. 6673, the American Folklife Preservation Act.
H.R. 6673 establishes in the Library of Congress an American Folklife Center
to preserve and present American folklife. The Center is to be directed by a
Board of Trustees composed as follows: four members appointed by the Presi-
dent from among Federal officials concerned with folklife; four members ap-
pointed each by the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the
House of Representatives from among private individuals noted for their in-
volvement in folklife; the Librarian of Congress; the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian; the Chairmen of the National Endowments for the Arts and the Hu-
manities; and the Director of the Center.
The Center is authorized to enter into contracts for activities including re-
search, scholarship, training, publications, exhibits, workshops, and educational
projects for classroom and general usage. It will also establish and maintain a
national archive and center for American folklife, collect specific types of works
for preservation in the archive, and loan such works to the public.
I have serious reservations concerning the constitutional propriety of placing
the functions to be performed by the Center outside the executive branch and
the assignment of executive duties to officers appointed by Congress. However,
given historical practice and custom in the area of cultural and educational
6
