February 26
[140]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We must reduce our vulnerability to the economic disruption which a few
foreign countries can cause by cutting off our energy supplies or by arbitrarily
raising prices. We must regain our energy independence.
During the past year, we have made some progress toward achieving our
energy independence goals, but the fact remains that we have a long way to go.
However, we cannot take the steps required to solve our energy problems until
the Congress provides the necessary additional authority that I have requested.
If we do not take these steps, our vulnerability will increase dramatically.
In my first State of the Union Address last year, I pointed out that our vulner-
ability would continue to grow unless a comprehensive energy policy and pro-
gram were implemented. I outlined these goals for regaining our energy
independence:
—First, to halt our growing dependence on imported oil during the next few
critical years.
-Second, to attain energy independence by 1985 by achieving invulnerability
to disruptions caused by oil import embargoes. Specifically, we must reduce
oil imports to between 3 and 5 million barrels a day, with an accompanying
ability to offset any future embargo with stored petroleum reserves and
emergency standby measures.
-Third, to mobilize our technology and resources to supply a significant
share of the free world's energy needs beyond 1985.
In pursuing these goals, we have sought to provide energy at the lowest cost
consistent with our need for adequate and secure supplies. We should rely
upon the private sector and market forces since it is the most efficient means of
achieving these goals. We must also achieve a balance between our environ-
mental and energy objectives.
These goals were reasonable and sound a year ago and they remain so today.
Since January of 1975, this Administration has initiated the most compre-
hensive set of energy programs possible under current authority. This includes
actions to conserve energy, to increase the production of domestic energy re-
sources, and to develop technology necessary to produce energy from newer
sources.
During this time, I have also placed before the Congress a major set of legisla-
tive proposals that would provide the additional authority that is needed to
achieve our energy independence goals.
Thus far, the Congress has completed action on only one major piece of
energy legislation—the Energy Policy and Conservation Act—which I signed
447
