[212]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I acceded to his request which I thought was the proper
thing to do. I am not totally familiar with the allegations and since they are
now or will be shortly under investigation, I think it would be inappropriate
for me to discuss them because I could hear one side without getting the bene-
fit of the others. And, so, until the proper authorities in the executive branch
of the Government have heard the allegations and the refutations by Mr. Calla-
way, I think it is totally inappropriate for me to even discuss the matter as
to substance.
Q. Does that include, sir, not commenting on just what Mr. Callaway said
to you about the situation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Callaway has said to me that he is fully confident
that the net result will be that he will be cleared, and until the charges have
been fully investigated, I don't think I should pass judgment on it.
EMPLOYMENT OUTLOOK
[9.] Q. Mr. President, despite recent figures that reflect decreases in infla-
tion and unemployment, millions of Americans are still without jobs and are
forced to pay very high prices for goods. In your opinion, what is viewed as an
acceptable limit or level of unemployment and inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't be satisfied until every person who wants a job can get
a job. That is the acceptable limit as far as I am concerned. I am encouraged by
the fact that since March of last year when unemployment was 8.9, that it has
been reduced to the level of 7.6.
I am encouraged by the fact that since March of last year we have gained
2,200,000 jobs, that we are up to the level of 86,300,000 jobs, which is the same
as an alltime high of gainful employment in the United States. I do say, how-
ever, that we have to continue the pressure as we have had to reduce the unem-
ployment. It is unacceptably high now, but the trend is right. And I can assure
you that the policies we are following will continue to reduce unemployment,
and I am confident of that result.
PRIVATE SECTOR EMPLOYMENT ROLE
[10.] Q. You have stated that the primary concern of yours is forcing pri-
vate enterprise to bear the brunt rather than Federal funding for jobs. Do you feel
that private enterprise will continue to hire unemployed persons rather than look
first at the bottom line and maintain their profit level?
The President. First, five out of six jobs in our economic society are in the
private sector, so that is where the greatest potential is. I believe that the private
686
