[192]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
192
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at John A.
Logan Community College in Marion. March 6, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dr. Tarvin, President Abell, President Klaus, Sen-
ator Percy, Congressman Findley, Congressman Simon, students, faculty, and
guests of the three great educational institutions:
It's a very great privilege and a very high honor for me to be here in William-
son County with all of you this afternoon. It's very, very good to be in the heart-
land of America where the people are great, and I thank you very much for the
very warm welcome.
The purpose of my visit can be summed up in just a very few words. As
much as I believe in a strong and prosperous American automobile industry, I'm
here to say that this year, there is absolutely no reason whatsoever to trade in
your Ford for a new model—especially one that hasn't even been road-tested.
[Laughter]
I look forward to answering your questions, but first let me make a very few
brief remarks. I am delighted to see the growth and the progress you've made
here in this part of Illinois. As you know, not so long ago the economic picture
here wasn't all that bright, and some people had lost faith in this great area of
the Land of Lincoln. Well, it's obvious that those doomsayers were wrong. Your
future is bright. It's as full of strength and hope as you are.
The signs of economic growth are here in Marion, for instance, where you
have a growing population, a growing tourist industry, a new bank, a new
supermarket and, I'm told, even a new movie theater. I'm as confident, if not
more so, that your growth will continue. Your confidence, your drive, your ini-
tiative, your faith in progress will make it happen.
In this great Nation as a whole, we can also see a far, far brighter future ahead
because we've steered a very steady, a very firm, and a very good course.
There were those who had lost faith in our country. They were doomsayers,
cynics, skeptics. They didn't believe in America. They had lost faith in this great
country, in its economic system. But they were dead wrong. There were those
who said gas would be a dollar a gallon by now. They were wrong. There were
those who said the only way to beat unemployment was to have government-
supplied jobs, one on top of another, and they were wrong.
It was not a time for panic, but it was time to take strong, affirmative action.
;
582
