[24]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the problems and to find solutions, which is equally important, as you go
down the road.
Then, one of the problems which faces a politician always, of course, is ɔu
may find a solution, but is that solution palatable from a political point of view.
What I admire about the President is, his interest in finding what is the best
solution for the American people for the long pull. When he finds that, that is
what he stands for—no concern about the short-term political considerations.
That is the kind of political leadership I think this country needs and that we
have.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding you are going to have a tour of the
White House following this get-together. It is a wonderful place. It is the nicest
public housing I know. [Laughter]
So, I am sure you will enjoy the wonderful opportunity to see the historic
places of interest in the White House, and I just wish you a very good year
in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:50 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Mary Mullen, president of the
National Retired Teachers Association, and Douglas
O. Woodruff, president of the American Association
of Retired Persons. They presented him with a copy
of "The Power of Years," a compilation of essays
and speeches by Ethel Percy Andrus, founder of the
two organizations.
25
Remarks Announcing Intention To Nominate W. J. Usery, Jr.,
To Be Secretary of Labor. January 22, 1976
I WOULD like to say, however, that I am very delighted that Bill Usery is going
to be the nominee for Secretary of Labor. His long experience as head of the
Mediation Service and the tremendous record that he built up over a period of
time of working very successfully with both labor and management in the settle-
ment of some of the most difficult disputes in this very controversial area qualifies
him superbly to be Secretary of Labor.
I want to thank Bill for assuming this responsibility, and express to you, Bill,
the gratitude of not only myself but, I think, the American people. We are very
fortunate to have you available and willing to assume this very tough job here,
in which we have a number of prospective disputes, legitimate labor-manage-
78
