February 14
[92]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
strain on your lifetime savings and on your peace of mind. And that strain
is felt by your loved ones as well.
All of us know of cases in which someone in the family or a close friend
or a member of your church has been stricken with an illness that lingers
on and on and on. We know of the pain and of the heartache associated with a
prolonged illness. We know that being sick and bedridden for a long, long
time is bad enough without having a person's income and life savings dwindle
away as the medical bills keep piling up. This must not continue, and it won't
with my program.
Let me put it this way. There is no reason that older Americans should have
to go broke just to get well or stay well in the United States of America.
Under my proposal the individual's contribution would go up slightly, but
consider what the increase would provide.
Nobody eligible for Medicare would have to pay more than $500 a year
for hospital or nursing home care. And this does not mean that you pay the
first $500 of your total cost. You would pay only 10 percent of the total cost,
or $500, whichever is less. And the maximum annual cost to you for covered
doctor's services would be $250, or 20 percent, whichever is less. Medicare
would pay the rest, whether it costs $1,000 or $10,000 or $50,000. It is a good
program, and we are going to make it.
If the Congress passes my program, the ruinous economic burden of
catastrophic illness is one thing you will never have to worry about again.
Another of my programs would consolidate 16 Federal health programs, in-
cluding Medicaid, into a single $10 billion block grant program to the States.
If we can consolidate these programs, we can make them more humane
and more effective. We can improve the services that they provide to you and
millions like you, and we can get those services to more people who really,
really need them.
Programs of this kind, despite some abuses, do a tremendous amount of
good. For some of our neighbors, they provide the means for life itself. They
provide the food, the services, the health care, without which some people
would not be able to enjoy this beautiful sunshine today in St. Petersburg and
in Florida.
It is all too easy to say that the Federal Government is too big, that this
program and that program ought to be cut out of the Federal budget, tossed
back to the States to cope with, if their taxpayers will permit it. It is not that
simple, and you know it and I know it.
303
