[212]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. They will be made by the proper authorities. The proper
authorities could include the Department of Defense where Mr. Callaway was
when the charges have been made. It could include any one of the other
agencies that might have jurisdiction, but that is a decision to be made by
those departments in the investigations that they will undertake.
CAMPAIGN CHARGES CONCERNING WATERGATE
[5.] Q. If those investigations are not beneficial to your campaign or to
Mr. Callaway, what do you think that will do to your campaign especially with
Mr. Reagan saying that you were connected with Watergate and scandal?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I think the best answer to any alleged
connection that I have with Watergate is the fact that after my nomination
for the Vice-Presidency the House Committee on the Judiciary and the Senate
Committee on Rules held extensive hearings, and the volumes of testimony
that were taken absolutely cleared me of any charges connected with Water-
gate, whatsoever. And then when the nomination went to the floor of the
House and to the Senate-in the Senate I think I got 90-some votes and 3 were
against me. And bear in mind that is a Democratic or was a Democratic-dom-
inated Senate. When the vote went to the House of Representatives, again totally
dominated about 2 to 1 by Democrats, 37 House Members voted against me
and 375 or 380 voted for me. So, I think I have a pretty good endorsement of
Democrats and Republicans in the Congress that cleared me of any allegations
whatsoever of any connection with Watergate. So, there is no validity to those
allegations whatsoever.
Now, the charges against Mr. Callaway will be properly investigated by
the proper authorities. And when the decisions will be made as to those allega-
tions, I can't give you the precise time schedule.
NATIONAL SECURITY WIRETAP INVESTIGATION
[6.] Q. If Secretary of State Kissinger is indicted in the current investiga-
tion concerning the possibility of illegal wiretapping concerning Morton Hal-
perin,* will you ask him to resign?
The President. That is a matter of private litigation, and since it is now
before the courts, I think it would be totally inappropriate for me to make
any comment whatsoever, either as to the issues or as to what I might do
following the decision of the court authorities.
Q. Have you thought about that at all?
4 Former staff member of the National Security Council.
684
