March 5
[180]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
House of Representatives, who, without any asking by me, went over and
testified before the Senate Committee on Rules on my behalf when I was
nominated for Vice President, and Martha tells a story, and I will repeat it
because it is from her.
In the days when we needed about 17 more individuals in the House to sign
the discharge petition, Martha came over to our side of the aisle and asked if I
could round up a few more signatures. Within a relatively short period of time
we got those 17 and the petition came to the floor of the House and it was ap-
proved in the House and, subsequently, in the Senate. And now you need, what,
four more States? So, I wish you the very best in this effort.
I know that you have had a great gathering here. I am honored to be invited
and very, very pleased to have a chance to say a few words. The organization I
have known for a long time, and I know the quality of people that are in your
organization, whether it is in Grand Rapids or any other community through-
out our country. I compliment you for the quality of the people and the kind of
efforts and programs that you espouse and support. They are all good for
America. And I thank you very, very much for the chance to be here tonight and
to say hello.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. at the
Sheraton Park Hotel. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Maxine R. Hays, national president, Jane
Culbreth, president-elect, and Lucille Shriver, ex-
ecutive director, National Federation of Business and
Professional Women's Clubs.
180
Remarks at the Cornerstone Unveiling Ceremony for the
Lincoln Home National Visitor's Center in Springfield,
Illinois. March 5, 1976
Thank you very, very much, my good friend, Paul Findley. May I acknowledge
my former colleagues in the House of Representatives, Congressman Michel,
Congressman Railsback, Congressman Madigan and, of course, one of my out-
standing members of the Cabinet, Secretary Butz, Bishop McNicholas, Mr. Ban-
ton, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I was very interested, Paul, in the story you told about Mr. Lincoln's experi-
ences in the great State of Michigan. I am sure the heroic efforts of Mr. Lincoln
in eliminating mosquitoes in Michigan have made Michigan a better and better
place to live.
523
