March 12
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
HEALTH BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
[10.] Q. Mr. President, during the 1974 Health Planning and Resources De-
velopment Act in the designation of health systems agencies nationwide,
will your program of block grants through HEW force a scrapping of HSA's,
and, if so, what will replace the planning structure?
THE PRESIDENT. No, my health block grant program seeks to consolidate—
I think it is 15 or 16-various federally financed health programs into one
block grant to the State and to the local units of government. What that would
do is to give no less money than they have this year, in fact we promised them
about a half billion dollars more each year for the next several years. It is now
$10 billion and it goes up to $10.5 billion, $11 billion under our proposal. What
it does is to give the same amount of money or more to the States and to the
local units of government for all of these programs and then it depends on
how the local or State officials want to utilize that money.
In some States they might want to put more money in Program A and less
in Program B. It is a matter of local determination at that point. So, there is no
denial of the amount of money, it simply transfers the decisionmaking process
to the local unit of government and it does away with an immense amount
of redtape because if you have 15 or 16 categorical grant programs, the red-
tape is unbelievable. If you have one block grant program, you save an awful
lot of man hours in the applications and you can reduce correspondingly, I
think, a number of Federal employees.
Q. Then is part of the redtape you proposed to dispense with the proposed
health systems agencies under HEW?
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me, I didn't hear you.
Q.
-the health systems agencies under HEW that is being formulated
right now.
THE PRESIDENT. No. Well, the Federal agency would be reduced because
instead of Federal agencies making the decisions you would have the decisions
made at the State or local level where I think they can be done in a far better
way. I don't think we have any sanctity about the wisdom of Federal authori-
ties. I think there is just as much, if not more, practical wisdom at the local
level.
CONSOLIDATION OF CATEGORICAL GRANT PROGRAMS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, earlier you praised the Federal revenue sharing pro-
gram, but small communities are finding it increasingly more important to
make use of other Federal programs and increasingly more difficult to meet the
659
