March 30
[272]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, there are really three basic questions: One, safety—and the safety record
of nuclear powerplants is higher, really, than any other powerplant production,
whether it is coal or oil or any of the others. So, on the safety side, nuclear power
has a good safety record.
Number two is safeguards. That is the question of whether some terrorist
group could come in and seize the product and utilize it for some evil purpose.
Well, I think that can be taken care of if it has not been.
A third one is what do we do about the discharge? Where do we put it and
how do we handle it? The Energy Research and Development Agency [Ad-
ministration] is about to come up with very—according to them—sound
methods of disposal. And once that is taken care of—and my impression is that
is the most serious question—I see no reason why we shouldn't proceed with a
nuclear plant.
Q. Mr. President, I think farmers have generally indicated their disfavor at
last year's decision to stop wheat sales to Russia. I was wondering under what
conditions, if any, you would impose such actions again?
THE PRESIDENT. In looking at the carryover, whether it is corn, wheat, or soy-
beans, and looking at the prospective production for 1975-76, I foresee no cir-
cumstances that would prompt me to have any limitation on export sales.
Now, I want to be quite specific in that. The chances are nil—but I am not
going to stand up here and say “never," because there are some unbelievable
things that might happen-but I don't think they are within the realm of pos-
sibility when I look at the overall. So, as far as I am concerned, the chances are
nil for any limitation in '75-76 or '76-77, I guess.
Q. Mr. President, should there not be a set level at which farmers would know
that export controls will be put into effect, a production level?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as far as I am concerned, I would rather not have any
limitation, period, and rely on the good judgment of whoever is President and
his commitment to have as much in the way of exports as we can. I think as a
result of the limitation last year we ended up with an excellent deal with the
Soviet Union. We ended up with a minimum sale for the next 5 years, beginning
September of next year, of 6 million tons. And that is a firm market with no
problem going above that until we reach 8 million tons. And for all intents and
purposes, that is not a limitation.
So, I just think it makes more sense to have a 5-year agreement of that magni-
tude with a set procurement by the Soviet Union and not impose any mandatory
figures such as has been suggested.
863
