April 2
[286]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We are all disturbed about the crime problem. I think there has been an over-
emphasis in the last 10 or 15 years on not being too harsh on the criminal. I be-
lieve that we have got to put the emphasis on the rights of the victim. We have
got to look after the victims of crime and prevent crime from being undertaken.
And so this balance has to be restored. I think we have to restore better balance
between domestic programs on the one hand and what we invest in our national
security on the other.
So, we have tried to do this. We have made a lot of headway. We have taken
ourselves to a great extent out of the worst recession in 40 years. If we just keep
cool, don't succumb to all these quick-fix, panic propositions, we are going to end
up with the healthiest, strongest, most equitable economy in the history of the
United States.
Then, we have to make absolutely certain and positive that we are unsur-
passed militarily, that we maintain our superiority in the productivity of our
industry, the productivity of our agriculture, the superiority of our science and
technology. When we put it all together, the United States is number one, far
ahead of everybody else. And our responsibility, mine and 215 million other
Americans, is to maintain that strength so that we can make it easier and better
for all of us at home and to protect our national security from outside forces.
We have the strength agriculturally, industrially, commercially, scientifically.
But the one thing that is even more important than anything else—I happen
to believe as I travel around the world, on occasion traveling one country to an-
other, that the great strength of America is its moral and spiritual leadership.
We can't lose it because that is what ties everything together.
Thank you for your help. We are going to work with you, and I can't thank
you enough.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:05 p.m. in the English Room at the Marc Plaza Hotel.
286
Statement on Shooting Incident at the Soviet Mission to the
United Nations. April 2, 1976
I AM deeply disturbed by the gunfiring into the Soviet Mission to the United
Nations that took place last night. This is the latest of a series of uncivilized acts
carried out by the extremist groups who are acting in a spirit totally contrary
to the American tradition. The people of this Nation are repelled by terrorism
and demand that it end. It is ironic that those responsible for endangering lives,
919
