[157]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
it, everything looks good. But it is not good enough, and we are going to make
it better with your help.
America has a great responsibility to keep it in the leadership that it has
worldwide. We have a responsibility to deter aggression, to maintain peace, and
to protect our national security. The only way we can do that is to have a suf-
ficiently strong military capability so that our allies respect us and our adversaries
know they hadn't better fool around.
Right now, America is strong, and we are going to keep it that way. Let me
assure you that with your help on March 9, your help on November 2, we will
keep it that way in the next administration. What looks good today will be far,
far better in 1977, 1978, 1979, and 1980.
I thank you for coming. I promise you to do the very best I can. It has been
good, it will get better, and with your help we can have a great administration
for the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:25 p.m. at the Del Ray Beach Park.
158
Remarks in Highland, Florida. February 28, 1976
Mr. Mayor and all of you wonderful people of Highland Beach:
Gee, I see some wonderful signs and I see some wonderful people, and I just
met an old and very good friend of mine, Russ Fuog, who lives here now, I guess.
He used to push me around on the football field up at Ann Arbor all the time.
[Laughter]
Let me say this is a great stop. We have been, I think 12 places since we arrived
early this morning, and every place the welcome seems to get better, and the
weather has improved. [Laughter] Maybe that is a special blessing you all have
here in Highland Beach. But let me express my deep gratitude for all you com-
ing, being here, and being so friendly and so nice.
But let me take just a minute with a group, such as yourself. Nineteen months
ago when I became President, this country was faced with some very difficult
problems. There was some disillusionment about Washington, D.C. Inflation
was 12 to 14 percent per year. We were on the brink of the worst recession since
the end of World War II. Our friends abroad had some questions about whether
we were going to stick to the course and our adversaries were probably tempted
to challenge us because of the experiences that we had had.
476
