March 12
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
example, I came into the White House facing what some people called a veto-
proof Congress. But I used my veto, in fact I used it 46 times and had an 85 per-
cent batting average on those vetoes. Those 39 successful vetoes which were
upheld by the Congress—you, the American taxpayer, have been saved $13 bil-
lion in Federal spending, and that is progress by any measure. I think my
opponents or adversaries in the Congress of the United States know that
I fully intend to keep pressure on the budget-busters. If they send down more
veto-prone bills, they know that if they have excessive spending in them, they
will be vetoed one after another.
And with the same kind of sensible approach to Federal spending we have
taken this year, we can have a balanced Federal budget in 1979. That means
that additional Federal income tax cuts will be possible, putting money back
into your pocket instead of having it spent by the Federal Government for
programs that, in many cases, cannot be justified. A balanced budget is only a
very important part, but a part of the balanced policy which I intend to
pursue throughout the Federal Government.
As I see the picture today, we need a new balance of power. between Federal,
State, and local authorities; a new balance of responsibility between the indi-
vidual citizen and the government which serves him; a new balance between
those who pay taxes on the one hand and those who benefit from them on
the other.
All of these elements of a new balance will give our great Nation a new
strength and a new stability. We will have a sound and very solid base on
which to build an even greater America, an America that will continue to be
a source of inspiration for the best hopes of the entire world. And that is what
we want for this generation and for the next generation and for the genera-
tions that follow.
Now I look forward to the opportunity to answer the questions. The gentle-
man on my right, I guess.
QUESTIONS
GENERAL REVENUE SHARING
[1.] Q. I have one question. In the topic of revenue sharing, do you antici-
pate any changes in the manner in which the funds are distributed to the
States, counties, townships, and cities?
667
