[272]
March 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
America's farmers has been at an alltime high. There has been a minimum of
Federal regulation as far as the Department of Agriculture is concerned. The
more or less full production concept has been a tremendous beneficiary to the
United States, especially with the problems we have had with increasing de-
pendence on foreign oil and a higher price for foreign oil.
So, when I look at the last 3 years under existing agricultural legislation, I
think it is better than anything I have seen during my 27-plus years as an official
of the Federal Government. So, without preempting every detail of what might
be submitted next year, I think the general concept of the present law certainly
appeals to me.
Q. Mr. President, we talk as though the estate tax reform would apply only
to farmers and small business. Is this the intention, and how will we disarm the
opposition, people who are not farmers who will feel that they are coming out on
the short end in the deal?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course the law would be applicable—the exemption would
be applicable to all payers of any estate tax. It is just that the dollar exemption
would probably have its biggest impact on small business and/or the family
farm. But any taxpayer who has an estate would have the same benefits as the
individual family-owned farm or the small business. It is an attempt to try and,
in the case of small business, force the sale of a family-owned business, corporate
organization, in order to prepare for any tax liability following the death of the
principal owner. But the law would have to be applicable to all estate taxpayers
in order to be valid or constitutional.
Q. Mr. President, farmers have a big stake in the cost and availability of
energy. Are you happy with the progress that has been made up to date on
getting more self-sufficient in energy?
The PRESIDENT. The answer to this is no.
Q. Then what can we do about it?
The PRESIDENT. The biggest disappointment probably this year in the energy
field was the failure of the House of Representatives, I think by three votes to de-
regulate natural gas.
In December of last year, the Senate passed the Bentsen-Pearson bill which
would have deregulated domestic natural gas. When the bill went over to the
House of Representatives, in a close vote-three margin, as I recollect, 207 to 210,
something like that—they substituted a proposal which had a good title but is
really a step backward rather than a step forward.
And the net result is, you have got the House bill which is incompatible with
the Senate bill. And we are trying to find a parliamentary procedure whereby
860
