March 20
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
laws, you are going to make it. I can just tell you, you can't go wrong. Good
luck to you.
CONSUMER PROTECTION AND ANTITRUST LEGISLATION
[7.] Q. Mr. Ford, in recent months you have made two crucial decisions on
consumer affairs: one, your threatened veto of the agency for consumer protec-
tion, a nonregulatory agency which would have provided legal representation
for consumers before regulatory agencies; and, two, a story which just came
out this week, that you have apparently reversed your position on a bill cur-
rently before Congress which would permit State attorneys general to repre-
sent consumers in Federal antitrust cases.
Would you please explain your apparent reluctance to place consumer rep-
resentatives on a more equitable footing with industry representatives before
both regulatory agencies and in antitrust litigation?
THE PRESIDENT, Well, let me answer the first one first.
We hear continuously that we ought to reduce Federal interference, that
we ought to cut down on bureaucracy, we ought to get rid of one bureau after
another. Under the consumer protection agency legislation you are talking about,
we would add another one, another layer.
And that agency, if it had been approved by the Congress—and it hasn't yet,
and I hope it won't—if that legislation were to go through, you would have
that group in that independent agency interfering with the orderly processes
in every agency of the Federal Government today. If you think things are slow-
and that gentleman was talking about redtape—the consumer protection agency
would slow it down 100 percent more.
Now, Jim Broyhill knows more about that legislation in the Capitol, because
you are on that committee, aren't you, Jim? But Jim is an authority on the leg-
islation. It is bad. It would have added to redtape, added to bureaucracy, and it
cannot be justified.
Now, what we have tried to do—which I think makes a lot more sense—we
have told every Cabinet officer and every other administrative officer that in
each Department there should be a consumers subdivision, so that if a consumer
has an objection to a ruling or a regulation of that Department, that complainer
can go to that agency and get an opportunity to get a fair hearing. I think that
is a better solution than adding more bureaucrats and another bureau in Wash-
ington, D.C.
Now, on the other one, it is called the parens patriae bill. It was legislation
first approved in May of 1974, by the previous administration. It never came to
777
