March 5
[183]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to their limbs and there were those who had other serious injuries, disabilities,
and they had many young people who were in the process of getting very initial
instructions in how to become active participants in the mainstream of our
society.
The group that appealed to me the most was the group of young tots, boys
and girls who were deaf-and several could not hear or see. And the young
people who were 25 or thereabouts of age were trying to take these young boys
and girls and get them to understand and see or to hear by a wide variety of
techniques that are used.
I came away with a feeling that we ought to make as big an investment as we
possibly could in helping those young people, not only the group that I men-
tioned specifically but others.
So, I just thank you for the jobs all of you do, because I know that all of you
do what we have seen at home or Betty has seen in Washington or we saw in
New Hampshire. You make a great contribution to a better life and opportunity
for people who have misfortunes of one kind or another.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:10 p.m. in the Apollo Room at the Forum 30 Hotel to the teachers attending
a convention at the hotel.
183
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Springfield. March 5, 1976
FIRST, I want to thank all of you for coming and the help and assistance not
only with the fundraising but also with the support that you give otherwise.
I'm absolutely convinced we have the momentum going.
We had a rather close race up in New Hampshire, but we came from behind
and we prevailed. We had a good victory in Massachusetts. I didn't spend any
time up there, but we had a good organization. And, of course, we entered in
Vermont and our opponent didn't, so we came out of that in good shape. I have
been down to Florida twice, and the momentum has turned around. And even
the campaign manager for the opposition, who originally said they were going
to win by 2 to 1, has conceded that it was 55 percent and 45 percent, so we made
a 12-point gain almost overnight.
But, then, I think the momentum is even going better than that. At the present
time, it is neck and neck. But I'm certain that with our people, with the mo-
543
