[202]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
The President. I have indicated that we have a number of very outstanding
potential Republicans for the Vice-Presidency. I think he would have to be
included.
Q. Reagan has said he would fire Secretary Kissinger if he got to be President.
What do you say to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place, I don't think he will be nominated,
and I doubt if he will be elected. But I happen to believe when you look at the
results of our foreign policy, where we have achieved significant success in the
Middle East with two agreements that have laid the foundation for success in
settling the vast differences and the controversial differences in that area of the
world, I think that is a tribute to the statesmanship of Henry Kissinger. When
you look at the other things that have been done and, mainly, the fact that we
are at peace, I think a Secretary of State, who achieves peace, ought to be compli-
mented rather than criticized.
REPORTER. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:23 p.m. at the Greater Rockford Airport.
203
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a
Farm Forum in Rockford. March 11, 1976
Thank you very much, Del, Senator Chuck Percy, Congressman John Ander-
son, your fine former Governor, Dick Ogilvie, Bob Winters, and all of the
Farm Bureau members of Winnebago County and any other areas in the State
or surrounding States:
It is really a great pleasure to be in Rockford and again back in the State
of Illinois. I enjoyed myself so much last weekend, I couldn't resist the tempta-
tion to come back to Illinois again this weekend. And may I say parenthetically
that I have spent a good bit of time at Farm Bureau community group meetings
at night in my old congressional district. The only trouble was—and I suspect
it is the same in Winnebago County—that is, the food is always so plentiful and
so well prepared that those of us who have to watch our weight come away
with some fear and apprehension that our clothes won't fit the next day.
But before I take any questions, let me make one or two very brief comments
first, about where we stand in agriculture. Last spring or last week, in Spring-
610
