March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Is there present a situation, sir, in which you would consider military
action in Cuba?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would not speculate on any possible diplomatic or
military actions because we hope that the words we have said will be understood
and it won't be necessary or required.
Q. Mr. President, would you support reconstruction aid to North Vietnam in
exchange for names of POW's or MIA's?
THE PRESIDENT. All we have said—and I said it in Honolulu when I came
back from China in December of last year—is that we look to the future rather
than to the past and that as a result of a congressional delegation that went to
Hanoi several months ago, it looks like there is a distinct possibility that we
will start talking. But there are no commitments, and anything that was done is
absolutely predicated on a full accounting of our MIA's. And where we go
from there is a matter of discussion.
Q. Do you support further study on solar energy?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly do. When I was considering the makeup of the
budget for the next fiscal year I increased research and development funds in
the solar energy area by about 40 percent. In fact, as I recall the figures, in this
current fiscal year we are spending around $80 million, and I increased it about
40 percent for the next fiscal year. This has a great potential long-range payoff,
and I think we have to get on to the basic and the applied research as quickly as
possible. And the figures that I put in the budget for the next year indicate my
strong support for that program.
Thank you all very much.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 7:05 p.m. at the La Crosse Airport.
266
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in La Crosse.
March 27, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dr. Gunderson. Governor Knowles, Mayor Zielke,
reverend clergy, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me say first of all, it is great to be in God's country tonight. This is just
an unbelievable reception, and I thank all of you who are here in the Sawyer
Auditorium, and I hope and trust that the PA system is working outside. I want
833
