March 31
[278]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I found that you do have to bite the bullet occasionally and sometimes you do
it in programs or in areas where politics might dictate otherwise. But let me
bring up one subject that I think ought to be mentioned very specifically, very
categorically. Today, while 32 million social security recipients wonder whether
their Social Security Trust Fund will run out of money in the next few years,
what are the Democrats in the Congress doing to maintain the integrity of the
Social Security Trust Fund? Just because it is an election year, will they face up
to the growing deficit in the social security fund while there is still time to take a
very positive action and do it so that the fund will take in as much as it pays out?
If the American people want to be sure there is a strong and solvent social secu-
rity fund in the future, then they want a lot more Republicans in the United
States Congress.
And, finally, today while the American people seek continued assurance that
America's defenses are second to none, while I have proposed the two largest
peacetime defense budgets in the history of our country to bolster that assurance
and to guarantee our security, some Democrats in the Congress seek to cut the
defense budget by some $6 billion. In fact, over the last 6 years anti-defense
majorities of the Democratic Congresses have slashed national defense pro-
grams-expenditures, if you will-by a total of $32 billion, and let me say we are
not going to let that happen in 1976.
I am very encouraged by yesterday's actions by the House and Senate Budget
Committees in substantially approving the defense requests that I had made—a
total availability of funds of $112 billion-plus and some $100-plus billion in ex-
penditures. And I compliment both the Republicans and the Democrats who
hung in there and voted for a strong national security program. But the record
shows that those votes were very, very close, and we are a long way from final
passage. If these early threats of major defense cuts are revived along the legisla-
tive way and Congress sends me a bill that fails to meet our essential national
defense expenditures, I will veto that legislation without hesitation at all.
The American people know that we have no choice but to match strength
with strength; that we must maintain our capability to deter aggression, to keep
the peace, and to protect our national security. If the American people truly
want assurance that America's defenses are unsurpassed, they want a lot more
people like what we find here tonight in the United States Congress.
In every single one of the issues that I have sought to mention tonight, and
there are more that we could mention by name, the Democratic 94th Congress
has demonstrated that it is out of step and out of touch with the American
people. Our task in this election year, and it is a very crucial one, is to make sure
875
