February 12
[82]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
82
Remarks at the Swearing In of Mitchell P. Kobelinski
as Administrator of the Small Business
Administration. February 12, 1976
Mr. Justice Stevens, Mr. Kobelinski, Mrs. Kobelinski, Secretary Kleppe, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and pleasure to see all of you here and have you partici-
pate, as I am, in the swearing in of Mitchell Kobelinski to be the Administrator
of the Small Business Administration. Because of the importance of the role of
the small business organizations throughout the country, the part they play in
the growth, the vital economy, I greatly welcome a man of Mitchell's outstand-
ing talent and accomplishment to head the Small Business Administration.
Many of you know, since July of 1973, Mitchell has served as a member of the
Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Before that,
he distinguished himself in business as well as in banking in the communities
in and around the city of Chicago, and now he brings his expertise and experi-
ence to this very key position in the Federal Government.
In addition, I will designate Mitch as a member of the President's Economic
Policy Board, which oversees the formulation, coordination, and the implemen-
tation of all of our governmental economic policy. This Board, as I think most
of you know, is the focal point for economic policy decisionmaking—both
domestic and international.
The son of Polish immigrants, Mitchell Kobelinski is a fine example of the
American dream come true. It is especially significant that he is being sworn in
on a day when many, many Polish Americans commemorate the birth of Gen-
eral Kosciusko, who served the United States with such distinction during our
War of Independence.
I am very pleased and delighted to see so many leaders of other ethnic com-
munities here today to share this very, very important moment with Mitchell,
his family, and the Polish-American community.
We all know that the small business sector of our economy is vital to job cre-
ation, competition, and technological innovation. In this era of bigness, our Na-
tion absolutely needs to maintain an environment in which small businesses
providing economically valuable products and services can flourish, now and
in the future.
253
