March 2
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
welfare and minimizing Government interference with the normal operation
of the market. I have also outlined some further work necessary to permit a more
comprehensive assessment of the recommended program activities and targets.
I look forward to working with the Congress on these matters in the coming
months.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
171
Statement of Policy Under the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974. March 2, 1976
THE FOREST and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974
was one of the first bills I signed upon entering the Office of the President.
It is important legislation. It provides a process which should permit better
informed choices to be made in the management of the Nation's vital renew-
able resources. It provides for periodic review of the present and prospective
demand and supply for the various uses of the Nation's 1.6 billion acres of
forest and rangelands. This, together with sound evaluation of alternative Fed-
eral programs—in terms of their economic and environmental implications—
will provide the Congress and the Executive Branch with information needed
to select appropriate National goals and effective programs to attain these goals.
The findings of the first Renewable Resource Assessment—the first principal
task required by the Act-are encouraging. The Nation's forest and rangeland
areas are presently making major contributions to the Nation's welfare. More-
over, the Assessment identifies extensive opportunities to increase the production
of a wide variety of goods and services to meet projected demands in the future.
I am confident that an appropriate combination of public and private actions
can meet our demands for the foreseeable future.
The second principal task of the Act—preparation of a Renewable Resource
Program-involves:
selection of a particular combination and level of uses over time from the
many alternative ways to use the 187 million-acre National Forest System,
with full consideration both of environmental values and of all competing
503
