March 5
[181]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and we have a requirement that they must be cut by at least 10 percent from the
time that I found out about it about a year ago.
Let me add something as to how we are doing it. We are going to have, or we
have right now, as a matter of fact, task forces that go into every department.
And they make every department pull out all the forms that have to be filled out,
and they ask the people from those departments why, in each case. And if they
can't justify them, there won't be another one of those forms printed and sent
to you and to others.
It is a terrible problem. It wastes money. It wastes your time, and it accom-
plishes virtually nothing. So, we are in the process of trying to do precisely what
you are talking about.
Let me say a word about OSHA. It got off the ground about 4 or 5 years ago,
when Congress passed the legislation. The legislation is very rigid, and all of us
in the executive branch are only carrying out what Congress passed. Now, un-
fortunately, to compound the problem, the first group of inspectors that went
out to carry out the responsibility under law felt that they had some police powers,
which they don't have, and they got off on the wrong foot. And we are now in
the process of making certain that those people who were carrying out the law
come to your elevator or to anybody's factory with the point of view that they
want to help and not come in trying to beat somebody down.
We are going to make darn sure that they have the right attitude and not the
wrong attitude. In the meantime, I think the Congress ought to take a look at
some parts of that law because we are simply carrying out what Congress passed.
Q. Mr. President, I am from southwestern Illinois, the great territory of Rep-
resentative Findley, our good Congressman.
THE PRESIDENT. He is a darn good one, but you have some other good ones
down here, too. [Laughter]
Q. I realize that, but he happens to be from our district. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You look after him.
Q. We will keep him on his toes. Thank you, sir.
I am also pleased to hear that you have appointed Secretary Butz on this most
important and vital committee. And when somebody mentioned here before
that he should be at elbow's length, I think the vast majority in this audience
would agree to that fact because almost all farmers, I am certain, have a lot of
trust in Secretary Butz.
THE PRESIDENT. So do I.
533
