[92]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
us from the wisdom of years: "America is not good because it is great,”
the President said, "America is great because it is good."
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 a.m. at Williams
Park. In his opening remarks, he referred to Repre-
sentative C. W. Bill Young, Martin J. Roess, honor-
ary judge and chairman of the Pinellas County
President Ford Committee, Mayor Charles Schuh of
St. Petersburg, and Florida State Senator John Ware.
93
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
St. Petersburg. February 14, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Bill, and Lou Frey, and Skip and all of the others
who have done so much. But before I say a few other words, I want to wish
you a very, very Happy Valentines.
I met a young lady over here who is 97 years old, and I hope she has many,
many more Happy Valentines.
As I look at this tremendous group here, I can't help but be unbelievably
encouraged. You are the phone callers, you are the door knockers, you are
the people that do all the hard work, and there is no way I can express my
appreciation any better than to try to do the best job I can as President of
the United States.
You won't believe it, but the first Presidential campaign where I was a
worker like you was back in 1940 when I was trying to help elect Wendell
Willkie. And I have helped every other Republican candidate for the Presi-
dency since then. And I appreciate what you are doing for me on this occasion.
Let me take about 5 minutes to say a very few words about the problems
we have had and what we are trying to do to solve them. I spoke over in
Williams Park and talked about some of the particular problems that affect
our older Americans. I will talk a bit about that, but I want to look at the
picture a little broader here, if I might, because we are all one country. And
the young people, as well as middle-aged people and the older people, all have
the same great love, the same dedication, the same desire that they can say—
every one of us can say that we are proud to be an American and proud
of America.
If you will go back about 18 months, this country was having serious
problems. And all of us have prayed a good many times that the problems
we have had for the last 18 months could be solved, and I think our prayers
are being answered.
306
