February 14
[92]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am happy to be here today with so many people who are enjoying a long
and sunny day in the sunshine city of St. Petersburg in the Sunshine State of
Florida.
The careers of Winston Churchill and others who rose to prominence in their
later years, reminds us all, if we need to be reminded, that advancing years
need not mean a retreat from an active, eventful, and enjoyable life, and all of
you represent the best of that.
Nor should advancing years be the certain bearer of poor health, a meager
income, or social isolation. The ancient philosophers taught us that the measure
of civilization's advancement can be found in the treatment of its elders.
For more than 40 years, through the vehicle of social security and other pro-
grams, America has made a firm commitment of support for older citizens of
our society.
I pledge to you this morning that I will continue to uphold that commitment.
In recent years, there has been dramatic progress in our efforts to meet the con-
tinuing needs of America's older generation. But I want to do better, and with
your help and with the help of the Congress, I will, and I am sure we will.
As President, I intend to do everything in my power to help our Nation
demonstrate its deep concern for the dignity and the well-being of our older
generations. For those who need our help we have already a number of Federal
programs providing assistance in a variety of ways.
The social security program, the largest of its kind in this world, will pay
almost $83 billion to more than 32 million Americans in fiscal year 1977. That
is more than a $10 billion increase over the current year.
Here in Florida the Social Security Trust Fund will pay an estimated
$4,400 million to participants in the next fiscal year. In my budget for fiscal
year 1977, I am recommending that the full cost-of-living increase in social
security benefits be paid during the coming year.
Now let me assure you of one thing very emphatically: My administration
fully intends to preserve the integrity and the solvency of the social security
system for your benefit and that of all working Americans, men and women,
now as well as in the future.
I think that is good news, but now let's have some bad news.
This year it is projected that the Social Security Trust Fund will run a deficit
of about $3 billion. Next year, unless my reforms are adopted, we will run a
deficit of $3.5 billion. If this trend continues, there will be no social security
for old or young. As long as I am President, we are going to keep social security
301
