[189]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
down, inflation has been cut in half. And the budget I submitted in January,
and those I plan to submit in the next 4 years, will bring fiscal self-control to the
Federal Government.
You can't operate your farm or your business or your lives paying out more
than you take in. You have every right to expect your Federal Government
will behave in the same responsible manner, and it will under this administra-
tion. In short, we are moving-we are moving in the right direction. We have
proved that the doomsayers were dead wrong.
I am proud of our record, and I am proud of the American people. And with
your help we will build an even greater and greater and greater America to-
gether. Thank you very, very much.
Thank you very much, and I will take the first question.
QUESTIONS
AGRICULTURAL TRADE AGREEMENTS
[1.] Q. I am a farmer and hog raiser. My question, Mr. President, is: The
world demand for food is great and the American farmer can produce more
food than can be consumed in this country. Still, our question is the number one
question. What assurances do we have for free, uninterrupted access to the
world markets, which are so important to our livelihood and to our country's
balance of payments?
THE PRESIDENT. We have increased our agricultural exports significantly over
the years. We have great trading arrangements with Japan, with Eastern Europe,
with Western Europe, and we now have a 5-year trading agreement with the
Soviet Union. I would say that the circumstances are literally nil that we will
have any interference with our export operations in the years ahead. I want to
be honest and frank with you. I don't believe in kidding anybody. I don't think
any President should say categorically, no. Catastrophes come up that we can't
forecast or can't anticipate. But as we look at our programs, as we look at the
demands, I would say today as I said yesterday to a group of farmers, the chances
of any interference with our export programs in the future are literally nil. And
I think that is pretty good assurance, under the circumstances.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY PROGRAM
[2.] Q. Good morning, Mr. President. As a member of the highway
construction industry, I compliment you on your position on the common situs
legislation.
566
