[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
people lined the motorcade and so forth, despite—well, perhaps not despite, but
up to this time you are coming to New Hampshire, many political experts in
this State and also within your own organization are saying that the race with
Governor Reagan is going to be right down to the wire, an unusually tight
situation for an incumbent executive.
I am wondering, as a politician, as President, from your viewpoint, what is it
that Ronald Reagan is saying that seems so attractive to apparently so many New
Hampshire voters, and what is your response to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't comment on what the former Governor has said that
seems, under your analysis, helpful to his campaign. I have a record. We can't
say one thing and then do another. We have to deal with reality, and we have.
In acting with reality, we have been successful in turning the economy around,
being successful in foreign policy.
When the chips are down, I think the people will want a proven quality rather
than one who hasn't had those hard decisions to make or those difficult actions
to take. I will just wait until February 24.
CAMPAIGN ISSUES
[15.] Q. Jerry Vaillancourt, WFEA in Manchester.
Mr. President, a number of supporters of yours, both locally and from across
the country, have come to New Hampshire to criticize Ronald Reagan on such
topics as his proposed $90 billion Federal budget reduction plan, his stands on
the equal rights amendment, the status of cities in California when he was Gov-
ernor. But the campaign between the two of you has been rather squeaky clean,
if I may say.
Do we have any reason to assume that what the supporters of your candidacy
here in New Hampshire say against Ronald Reagan are merely echoing what
you really believe or what you would like to say?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think you can get into a political debate and have it at
a right level if you indulge in personalities. I certainly never have, and I never
will. I hope that the people that have represented me or been interested in my
candidacy have asked factual questions, have raised legitimate factual issues.
There are plenty that ought to be raised.
I have often wondered over my experience in politics—and I ran 13 times for
reelection, or 12 times for reelection, once against an incumbent—and I always
believed, and I believe today that when you apply for a job, your prospective
employer—in this case, the voters—ought to look at your record. What is wrong
210
