March 15
[217]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and the necessary resources, you can do the job that needs to be done. I have faith
in you, and I think your constituents have faith in you.
But today, no single man, no single level of government can be expected
to transform America's cities overnight or all alone. The cooperation of Fed-
eral, State, and local governments, of Presidents and Congressmen, of Gover-
nors and mayors and councilmen, is essential to the success of the long term
effort.
Our goal is to improve the quality of life in America's cities. The monuments
we hope to raise are monuments not of stone and steel, but of the human spirit.
We can make America's cities the thriving, forward-looking centers of com-
merce and culture that they ought to be.
We can make the streets safer and the traffic flow better and the air and water
cleaner. We can revitalize city neighborhoods and improve city schools and other
services. The administration is fully prepared to join with you in these great
enterprises, and more.
In fact, we have already begun. This conference can help to ensure the con-
tinued success of one program, one sign of hope and progress we have already
struggled for and won. Let's get general revenue sharing extended and go on
from there and make our cities gleam again with the glow of new life and the
brilliance of a hopeful future for the United States of America.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:09 a.m. in the In-
ternational Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Mayors
Moon Landrieu of New Orleans, La., and Hans
Tenzler, Jr., of Jacksonville, Fla., and Representative
L. H. Fountain of North Carolina.
217
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Members of the Ohio Farm Bureau Federation.
March 15, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Earl, and Bud Brown and Bill Swank and
all of you from the Ohio Farm Bureau. Earl forgot to add one final qualifica-
tion that I have—I am about a 25-year associate member of the Michigan Farm
Bureau.
I can't tell you how many Farm Bureau community group meetings that I
have attended during my 25-plus years in the Congress. But I always ate well,
713
