March 18
[226]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
been extraordinarily successful on the race course.
I see them all around me here. [Laughter] In fact,
I am very glad to see that they have turned up, be-
cause I am sure it is only a prelude to further suc-
cesses in the future. [Laughter]
Mr. President, Vera and I would like to thank
Mrs. Ford and you and all your colleagues for the
very kind invitation to share with you in celebrating
the Bicentennial events in this year, to pay tribute to
your Government, your country, to all the people of
the United States, and to wish the same success in
the future as you have had in the past, and to invoke
in wishing you that, the blessing of God and St.
Patrick on your efforts.
I will ask you to rise and drink to the health of
His Excellency, the President of the United States,
and Mrs. Ford.
226
Joint Communique Following Discussions With Prime
Minister Cosgrave of Ireland. March 18, 1976
[Dated March 17, 1976. Released March 18, 1976]
1. THE PRESIDENT welcomed the Prime Minister and stressed the sig-
nificance he attached to the visit in connection with the celebration of the Bicen-
tennial of American independence. The Prime Minister agreed with this view
and thanked the President for his invitation. Both the President and the Prime
Minister expressed the conviction that the visit would help to strengthen the
ties of kinship, friendship, affection and mutual interest which bind their coun-
tries so closely.
2. The President and the Prime Minister discussed matters of common con-
cern including international political developments and economic matters. The
two leaders also discussed the development of the European Economic Com-
munity and Ireland's place in its progress.
3. On economic matters, both welcomed the close relations that exist between
their two countries, and the Prime Minister indicated in particular the welcome
of his Government for American investment in Ireland and the benefits to the
two countries which could accrue from it. The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed the improving economic picture on both sides of the Atlantic and, in
this connection, the President underscored the importance of close consultations
and cooperation between the United States and the European Community.
4. The President and the Prime Minister noted with regret the continued
violence arising from the Northern Ireland situation. They deplored all sup-
port for organizations involved directly or indirectly in campaigns of violence
and reiterated in particular their determination to continue and to intensify
their cooperation in the prosecution of illegal activities. They appealed to the
American and Irish people to refrain from supporting, with financial or other
aid, this violence.
735
