[282]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Did you in any way discuss his role in the campaign, or what he might do
for you in Texas?
THE PRESIDENT. We discussed the campaign, both as far as the country was con-
cerned in the primaries as well as the runoff in November of this year. Governor
Connally indicated to me that—something he said before—that he thought I
would win the nomination. But other than that specific, I don't think I should
divulge the content of the discussion.
CAMPAIGN ISSUES
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Jimmy Carter says the biggest issue in this campaign
is restoring integrity to government; Morris Udall says it's jobs; Henry Jackson
says it's détente; and Ronald Reagan says it's eliminating the Federal bureauc-
racy. What, in your opinion, is the most specific, biggest issue in this campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the issue of integrity of government, I think, is settled
as far as my candidacy is concerned. A House and Senate committee went into
my background, my record in great, great depth, more than any other person
has been investigated in the history of the United States. And so as far as I am
concerned, I have a proven record of integrity as far as my own life is concerned.
But from the point of view of the issues, I think it is the building up and the
strengthening, the fortifying of our economy to restore the kind of permanent
prosperity that we must have so that anybody who wants a job can have a job
and, secondly, that we can get the rate of inflation down in the range of 2 to 3
percent or less.
I also think it is vitally important that we maintain the peace that we have, a
peace through strength, a peace through negotiation not confrontation, a peace
that will not take us back to the cold war era like some people want. If we can
keep peace and maintain or achieve prosperity—and my policies do it—I think
those are the issues.
ANGOLA AND VIETNAM
[8.] Q. Mr. President, one other question. How do you justify Secretary of
State Kissinger's logic that Cuba should not send their troops to Angola, in
light of our own recent involvement in Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no comparison whatsoever. In the case of Vietnam,
there was an established government. We were invited in to participate in Viet-
nam. In the case of Angola, there were three forces that were competing—the
MPLA [Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola], the FNLA [National
Front for the Liberation of Angola], and the UNITA [National Union for the
Total Independence of Angola]. There was no government in Angola after
886
