March 30
[273]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is my impression that if Illinois agricultural areas are indicative of agriculture
areas generally, I think we will do all right.
Q. How about against an old farmer like Jimmy Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. I understand Jimmy is a one-crop farmer. He is not a full
production farmer. [Laughter] He is not like those wheat and corn and soybean
producers. But, be that as it may, I think we will do all right with agriculture.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. in the
Family Theater at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Earl L. Butz, Secretary of
Agriculture, and Richard Krumme, president of the
association.
273
Remarks Announcing the Resignation of Howard H. Callaway
as Chairman of the President Ford Committee. March 30, 1976
I HAVE asked Bo and Rog Morton to come and to participate in an announce-
ment. Bo Callaway, in his typically unselfish way, has submitted his resignation.
Let me say very firmly and with deep conviction, first, I have known Bo Calla-
way for 15 years. I knew him before he got into government. I knew him as a
Member of the House of Representatives. I campaigned with him in Georgia.
I knew him well when he was Secretary of the Army. I certainly knew him ex-
tremely well while he was running the Ford for President campaign.
So, on the basis of this accumulation of very close personal experiences, I know
very deeply in my own heart that Bo Callaway is an absolutely honest person
and one who would not, under any circumstances, undertake anything that was
improper.
Bo, as I said, in his own unselfish way, recognizing that a campaign is a rela-
tively limited, time-wise affair, felt that for him to stay on while these investiga-
tions were being completed would not be helpful to the campaign. I am abso-
lutely sure that Bo will be completely exonerated, and I know that Bo feels that
personally. So, I thank him for his unselfishness. I thank him very much for his
total dedication.
As Rog Morton takes over the President Ford Committee, he inherits an out-
standing group of individuals that Bo Callaway assembled. He inherits an orga-
nization that is a going organization, that's got a pretty good batting average of
five out of six. So we thank you, Bo, for getting the people, putting the organiza-
tion on the road, and the success that it achieved.
865
