February 18
[110]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In carrying out my Constitutional responsibilities to manage and conduct
foreign policy and provide for the Nation's defense, I believe it essential to have
the best possible intelligence about the capabilities, intentions and activities of
governments and other entities and individuals abroad. To this end, the foreign
intelligence agencies of the United States play a vital role in collecting and
analyzing information related to the national defense and foreign policy.
It is equally as important that the methods these agencies employ to collect
such information for the legitimate needs of the government conform to the
standards set out in the Constitution to preserve and respect the privacy and
civil liberties of American citizens.
The Executive Order I have issued today will insure a proper balancing of
these interests. It establishes government-wide direction for the foreign intelli-
gence agencies and places responsibility and accountability on individuals, not
institutions.
I believe it will eliminate abuses and questionable activities on the part of the
foreign intelligence agencies while at the same time permitting them to get on
with their vital work of gathering and assessing information. It is also my hope
that these steps will help to restore public confidence in these agencies and en-
courage our citizens to appreciate the valuable contribution they make to our
national security.
Beyond the steps I have taken in the Executive Order, I also believe there is
a clear need for some specific legislative actions. I am today submitting to the
Congress of the United States proposals which will go far toward enhancing
the protection of true intelligence secrets as well as regularizing procedures for
intelligence collection in the United States.
My first proposal deals with the protection of intelligence sources and methods.
The Director of Central Intelligence is charged, under the National Security
Act of 1947, as amended, with protecting intelligence sources and methods.
The Act, however, gives the Director no authorities commensurate with this
responsibility.
Therefore, I am proposing legislation to impose criminal and civil sanctions
on those who are authorized access to intelligence secrets and who willfully and
wrongfully reveal this information. This legislation is not an "Official Secrets
Act”, since it would affect only those who improperly disclose secrets, not those
to whom secrets are disclosed. Moreover, this legislation could not be used to
cover up abuses and improprieties. It would in no way prevent people from
reporting questionable activities to appropriate authorities in the Executive and
Legislative Branches of the government.
363
