[306]
April 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
And what also makes it significant is, since the inception of the summer youth
placement program, which also started in 1968, 1,475,000 young people have
found work through your efforts. This coming summer I am told that your
goal or your objective is another 200,000 youths for your placement program.
This is an unbelievable, an excellent way to help guarantee that our disad-
vantaged youths won't grow up to be disadvantaged adults.
So, let me take this opportunity to thank you and the many thousands of others
associated with your organizations who have really made this program work.
You have made an invaluable contribution for the betterment of all America.
I think it is also encouraging to note—and you probably know it as well as my-
self—we have had a very steady improvement in the economy, and that is a relief
to each and every one of us. But it must be particularly gratifying to all of you,
gratifying to know that more Americans are working now than ever before in
the history of the United States-86,700,000, an alltime record—gratifying also
to you as well as to myself, that we gained 375,000 more jobs in the month of
March alone; and gratifying to you as well as to myself, to know that the jobless
rate dropped again, in the report that came out last Friday, to 7.5. Now, that is
not good enough, but it is a substantial improvement over what it was less than
12 months ago.
But the principal task for all of us—it continues to be the creation of meaning-
ful, rewarding, and permanent jobs for more and more Americans. And I am
delighted to have an opportunity to say to you directly that this administration
will work with you wholeheartedly to achieve that objective.
Now, the fact that spring is brighter, far brighter this year than last year, is in
no small way, in my judgment, due to the efforts that many of you here and
literally thousands associated with you have accomplished over this period of
hard-going for this country. I think it also depends upon your devotion to and
dedication to the free economy that has been the backbone of America from its
inception.
As a result of what you have done, your dedication to it, your belief in it, I
expect you to pay the price for having done the job so well. I am asking you to
keep on doing it. And I know, and I think you also know, that next year America
will be even stronger because of your determination, because of the pride that you
have shown in the job that you have done, because of the success that has been
achieved and accomplished. And if we come back here next year—and I hope we
are all here-[laughter]—we can say that April of 1976 was good, but April of
1977 will be even better.
984
