[225]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, now I ask all of you to join with me in a toast to the Prime Minister of
Ireland and to the special, the very special, relationship between Ireland and the
United States, past, present, and future, and to all of the Irish everywhere.
To you, Mr. Prime Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:17 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Prime Minister
Cosgrave responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, distinguished guests:
On behalf of my wife and mys:lf I would like to
say how very grateful we are to Mrs. Ford and you,
Mr. President, for your very kind invitation to come
here and, particularly, for your extremely generous
and cordial remarks tonight.
I can assure you we feel very much at home. In
fact, we have felt completely at home since our
arrival in the United States. Our American friends
have lived up to their great reputation for hospitality.
And while we claim to have played some part in the
development of the United States, and it is customary
on this day each year to commemorate St. Patrick,
I don't think even in his most optimistic and spiritual
experiences that he ever thought he would be com-
memorated in this fashion here tonight. [Laughter]
You, Mr. President, remarked on the Irish con-
tribution in military terms and in politics and in
science and medicine and law and in the other
learned professions and, also, in scholarship and
learning, generally. Again, we have had some polit-
ical experiences, but I don't think these either came
from St. Patrick, although we would often like to
avail of his aid in settling some of our problems.
As you remarked, we indeed sometimes have a
theory in Ireland-some of the historians, but I don't
vouch for the accuracy of it-that there were two
St. Patricks. Up to now though, we have had to get
along with one. [Laughter]
As you remarked, we do claim that Saint Brendan
the Navigator reached America. Sometimes we think,
or like to think, that he got here before Columbus.
I hope that the craft which comes here to celebrate
your Bicentennial Year later this year will reach the
shores of the United States safely.
I would like particularly to stress the very great
honor which Ireland has felt at being invited to
commemorate, thanks to your invitation, Mr. Presi-
dent, the second bicentenary of American independ-
ence.
As I said today, in speaking to the very gracious
invitation from the Congress of the United States,
we value the American contribution not merely to
democracy but to the defense of freedom. And we
appreciate the immense contribution which America
and American influence, help and assistance, both
financial and otherwise, has made to the rehabilita-
tion of Europe and, indeed, the free world, after
World War II.
We in Ireland are deeply conscious of the help
which your great country gave to us. And we have
many happy recollections of the substantial economic
and social benefits that flowed from the help received
under Marshall aid and the generous assistance.
We are at present particularly interested in the
extent of American investment in Ireland, because
we believe that it affords America an opportunity to
expand in Europe, to get a foothold in Europe from
Ireland, as a member of the European Economic
Community and, at the same time, to enable Ireland
to develop on a scale and to an extent which we have
never known in the past.
In the past, as you remarked, Mr. President, many
of our countrymen came to America, came to Amer-
ica because it provided not merely freedom from
oppression but freedom to work and freedom to
develop. Indeed, I recall the words of a well-known
Irish politician 100 years ago, in which he said, when
he came to America, "I have found a greater Ireland
here than I have left behind."
Indeed, I couldn't help recalling, Mr. President,
when you talked about the fact that this great house
was designed by an Irishman that it has some similar-
ities with the house which my colleague, the Foreign
Minister, and I spend a lot of our time working in
Dublin-Leinster House. It is where Parliament
meets. There is one similarity that I think we cer-
tainly share, and that is that there are generally more
people looking to take our places and yours outside
a house than in it. [Laughter] I am sure, Mr. Presi-
dent, I have not to speak for you, but speaking for
myself, at any rate, I will endeavor to try and at least
look after my own place. [Laughter]
On behalf of all of my colleagues, we would like
to express our very sincere congratulations not merely
to you, Mr. President, and to your gracious wife and
to the Government and all the distinguished people
who have come here tonight, but to the people of
the United States, all the people, particularly those
who have sprung from an Irish background and who
have come in the past, in the distant past as well as
in the more recent past, from Ireland, to help make
a contribution to building up this country.
They are proud of that tradition. We are proud of
their place in politics, in peace and war, in trade and
commerce. And we are particularly proud, Mr. Presi-
dent, that in recent years, a great many of your
countrymen have come to Ireland, and they have
734
