[57]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
vince the Congress that it must act promptly. I believe that he will work with
Governors, with State officials in general, with county officials, and with city
officials to convince the Congress that delay or a failure to act would be catas-
trophic in the meeting of local needs or State needs.
The Vice President knows how it was done in 1972. I am sure that he will be
successful. But time is rapidly running out, and Congress has an obligation to
move now if we are to save cities, counties, and States from a serious financial
setback.
So, Mr. Vice President, would you tell them how you are going to do this?
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:55 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
58
Remarks Upon Signing the Railroad Revitalization and
Regulatory Reform Act of 1976. February 5, 1976
Mr. Secretary, distinguished Members of the Congress, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and pleasure for me to participate in the signing
of the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976.
As all of you know, this act provides for a comprehensive restoration of the
health and the vitality of our Nation's railroads. This legislation is the product
of lengthy negotiations and, I think, intelligent cooperation between the Con-
gress and the executive branch of the Government.
I commend you, Secretary Coleman, as well as the Members of the Congress
who participated, for your very farsighted and effective efforts.
This bill, fortunately, encourages the revitalization of our deteriorating rail
freight system, both in the Northeast as well as nationwide. It provides badly
needed financial assistance to help the railroads improve their physical plant
and encourages the desired restructuring of our railroad system. It makes sub-
stantial improvements possible in rail passenger service in our densely populated
Northeast section.
Congress, in approving this legislation, has taken a very fundamental step to
restore the long-term economic health of this very essential and necessary part
of our economic system.
The regulatory reform provisions in this bill are long overdue. Every Presi-
dent since Harry S. Truman, both Republican and Democratic alike, have called
in vain for increased competition and reform in our regulated industries.
146
