[44]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
44
Remarks at the Swearing In of George Bush as Director of
Central Intelligence. January 30, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Bill. And may I say at the outset that I fully
concur with your observations and comments concerning the quality of the
people, and I have no question whatsoever that they will give to George Bush,
as they have to me, the fullest support and the greatest dedication.
Bill, as I told you and your family on Monday of my high regard for your
25 years of dedicated and distinguished service with the CIA at the time that I
gave you the National Security Medal, I meant every word of it. You fully
deserve it, and I wish to congratulate and compliment you for this outstanding
record.
For good reason, obviously, you have the full support and deep feeling of all
of the people here, and those of us not in the intelligence community are just as
grateful for the fine service you have given to your agency and to your country.
General Douglas MacArthur once said that in war there is no substitute for
victory. Let me assure you that in peace there is no substitute for intelligence.
The time is long overdue for the men and women of the American intelligence
community to receive the praise and the gratitude of the Nation that you have
so conscientiously served. I have and I will continue to give voice publicly to
that gratitude.
As every President since World War II, I depend on you as one of America's
first lines of defense. Every morning, as a result of your efforts, an intelligence
report is delivered to my desk which is complete, concise, perceptive, and
responsible.
As a result, I am fully aware of the tremendous effort, the tremendous team-
work that goes into it and all of the other intelligence reports that I receive that
are so vital to the making of sound policy decisions on national security. And let
me express my personal gratitude for this fine work.
The appointment of George Bush as your new Director matches a good man
with a good team. George Bush assumes the leadership of the intelligence com-
munity at a very critical point in its history-critical because national and inter-
national attention is focused on your work now as never before.
Because much of your work depends on secrecy and because secrecy adds a
new aura of mystery and intrigue, there is the natural tendency for extraordinary
112
