January 2
[4]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
burdens result from the implementation of this program, I shall not hesitate
to recommend amending legislation.
I also trust that the Congress will join with my administration in working
to solve the capital shortage problem which our country faces. Over the years
our expanding capital markets have helped keep the American economy
strong, because sufficient capital-for housing, industry, consumer credit, and
other purposes-has been available to sustain economic growth. Rather than
support capital allocation, my administration is committed to improve and
strengthen the free market mechanisms used for raising and investing capital—
particularly for housing. To this end I have urged Congress to enact the admin-
istration's Financial Institutions Act of 1975 (S. 1267), a bill which will permit
banks and other thrift organizations to offer competitive yields on savings
deposits and a wider range of services to customers and home buyers. This
legislation will offer new incentives to all mortgage lenders and should help
alleviate shortages of mortgage money in every housing market of our Nation.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1281, approved December 31, 1975, is Public Law 94-200 (89 Stat. 1124).
4
Veto of a Common Situs Picketing Bill. January 2, 1976
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my approval H.R. 5900, commonly known as the
Common Situs Picketing Bill.
The bill before me represents a combination of H.R. 5900, which would
overturn the United States Supreme Court's decision in the Denver Building
Trades case and the newly proposed Construction Industry Collective Bargain-
ing Bill, S. 2305, as amended. During the development of this legislation, I
stipulated that these two related measures should be considered together. The
collective bargaining provisions have great merit. It is to the common situs
picketing title that I address my objections.
I had hoped that this bill would provide a resolution for the special prob-
lems of labor-management relations in the construction industry and would
have the support of all parties. My earlier optimism in this regard was un-
founded. My reasons for this veto focus primarily on the vigorous controversy
surrounding the measure, and the possibility that this bill could lead to greater,
not lesser, conflict in the construction industry.
5
