February 6
[62]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
wants the Federal Government to create jobs directly through make-work pro-
grams similar to those established in the 1930's, and through public service
jobs in State and local governments for which the Federal Government pays
the bill.
We already have on the books and operating a responsible public service jobs
program, and it is working as well as such a program can. We also have public
works programs providing employment on needed priorities such as rebuilding
roadbeds, new housing, construction of sewage treatment plants, land reclama-
tion, and others. But Government-sponsored jobs have not solved America's
unemployment problems and never will.
Even make-work programs, when they were operating on a massive scale
in the 1930's, national unemployment stayed astonishingly high. It was World
War II, demanding an economy operating at full speed, that brought America
back to full employment.
The WPA [Works Progress Administration] of the 1930's is not the answer to
unemployment in the 1970's. And, obviously, war is not the answer to anything.
To create jobs, real permanent jobs with a future, we need to stimulate growth
in private business and industry where five out of every six American jobs are to
be found. We need to rev up the mighty engines of the free American economic
system, which has given this country the greatest prosperity and progress
the world has ever known.
The tax cut and incentive programs that I proposed would give the private
sector the encouragement and the assistance it needs to expand, to grow, to
build, to create jobs, and to recover its prosperity.
One of my proposals is targeted on those areas where unemployment exceeds
7 percent, and it requires that plant and job expansion begin now, this year, so
that Americans can get back to work faster. There is so much work that needs
to be done.
There are diseases to be conquered, new technologies to be developed, new
sources of energy to be found. To accomplish these and other objectives, my ad-
ministration is making a major investment in America's future.
The budget I proposed for fiscal year 1977 contains record funds, over $24½
billion for research and development in a wide variety of fields—from desalin-
ization to defense. This is an 11-percent increase in research funds over the
present fiscal year.
This money will be used to develop new varieties of wheat and other farm
products, to improve our agricultural capacity and export earnings. Some of
155
