[240]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
not only to your city but to your whole State. North Carolina is one of the best
balanced States of all the Union. It is a State with mountain ranges, ocean
beaches, with industry as well as agriculture. It is a great State to work in, a great
State to relax in, and a great State to live in.
Well, I like a well-balanced approach as well, like the Federal budget. And
we can balance the Federal budget by 1979, and we will balance it by 1979 with
your help and, incidentally, with the help of the Congress. Quite frankly, that
would make possible further major tax cuts. What we really want to do is put
more money back into your hands for you to spend for the purposes of your
family and your future.
I happen to believe, also, in a balance between Federal and local government
that will give more freedom to your State and to your local authorities, not hun-
dreds of miles with the authority up in Washington, D.C., where the people
don't understand the problems of Hickory or Catawba County or the other
counties that are represented here. I believe we should strike a new balance be-
tween Government responsibility and private initiative, a new balance between
those who pay taxes on the one hand and those who benefit from taxes on the
other. To me, balance means stability, and stability means a firm foundation for
the future of the United States of America.
In fact, there is only one place I don't like an even balance, and that is in
election results. [Laughter] I like to see solid victories, the same kind of vic-
tories, that put men like Jim Broyhill and Jim Martin and Jim Holshouser to
work for you in the State government or in the Congress, the same kind of solid
victories that we have won in the last few weeks in New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Florida, and Illinois-five times in a row-and the same kind of
solid victories we are going to keep on winning and winning from March 23
right on through November 2, 1976.
I am asking for your help to make sure that we keep up this momentum, to
make sure that we keep a realistic, responsible government, a government that
promises only what it can deliver and delivers everything that it promises. That
is my trust to you. I am asking for your help so that we can work together to
build an even greater America. And I am asking you here in North Carolina to
give me your support, because when a Tarheel decides to do something, it sure
gets done.
Thank you very, very much. And now, I will be glad to respond to the ques-
tions, but I sure wish we were going to have one of those Balls Creek fish fries so I
could get some dinner. [Laughter]
Okay, who is number one here?
772
