January 22
[26]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ment problems, in the rubber industry, in the automotive industry, in the truck-
ing industry, as well as others. The department will be in very good hands.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Oval Office at the White
House.
Mr. Usery's response to the President's remarks is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 12, p. 73).
26
Letter to Ambassador Laurence H. Silberman on United
States Participation in the International Labor
Organization. January 22, 1976
[Dated January 21, 1976. Released January 22, 1976]
Dear Mr. Ambassador:
I want to express my appreciation for your willingness to undertake a special
mission to European capitals as my personal representative to review our rela-
tions with the International Labor Organization. Your background in labor
affairs and your diplomatic experience will be particularly valuable in carrying
out this important task.
When the United States notified the ILO on November 6, 1975, of its intent
to withdraw unless significant change took place, there were several key issues
which were, and still are, of grave concern to us: the erosion of the tripartite
principle on which the ILO was founded; the denial of due process to some
member states; the application in some instances of a “double standard” when
the ILO considers alleged violations of human rights; and an increasing trend
towards politicization of the ILO. We have long supported the ILO and its
objectives, and our notice of intent to withdraw does not mean that the United
States has decided irrevocably to take that step. It is our hope that the problems
we see in the ILO can be resolved and that U.S. membership in the Organization
will continue. Success in achieving our goal will depend in large measure on
obtaining the cooperation of other members.
In the course of your special mission, you should convey to the governments
with which you consult the importance and urgency that I attach to these
issues. I hope that when the depth of our concern is understood, other ILO
members will join with us in bringing the Organization back to its original
goals and purposes.
79
