March 27
[266]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
PRESIDENT'S VIEW OF ECONOMIC DEMOCRACY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, my question is that the People's Bicentennial Com-
mission has come out with a platform on economic democracy, and I was
wondering what your opinion is of economic democracy?
THE PRESIDENT. What is my opinion of economic democracy? I must confess
I have not read what the Bicentennial Commission has used in its definition.
But I would say that economic democracy means that we have an opportunity
in our economic system for an individual to make his way up the ladder on the
economic scale. He is not frozen forever once he starts into a certain area of
employment. He has the right to move around the country, to move from one
job to another, to determine for himself what he, as an individual, is best at and
wants to do the years of his employment throughout the country.
From the point of view of the business community, economic democracy to
me means that the business community is not run by the government. The busi-
ness community is run for the benefit of its stockholders, its employees, and for
the public as a whole, and that the heavy hand of government does not run it.
And if we can get the freedom of the individual and the freedom of the indus-
trial sector, we can keep what I like to believe is the greatest economic system in
the history of mankind.
THE FEDERAL BUREAUCRACY
[11.] Q. Mr. President, what do you plan to do about bureaucracy? There
are so many agencies, and it seems that it gets so knotted in redtape it is not
getting anything done.
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure glad you asked that question because I have got a
good answer. [Laughter] In the first place, we have got to stop adding agencies
to the Federal Government. And let me give you one that I have said I am going
to veto if the Congress is so unwise to send it down to the White House. I don't
think we need another fat bureaucracy called the Consumer Protection Agency.
But we also have the responsibility of trying to make sure that those agencies
that do exist do a better job. When I became President, I told the Office of Man-
agement and Budget that they had to cut 40,000 out of the projected increase
in Federal employment. Actually, we cut out 56,000 and the total employment
for the Federal Government in the next year's budget, as I recall, goes down
about 22,000 more. So, we are gradually squeezing the existing bureaucracy so
843
