March 13
[212]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The President. Well, I have answered that question a number of ways all
with the same purpose and intent. Secretary Kissinger has done a fine job.
I have asked him to stay. He can stay as long as he wants to, as long as I am
President, because his policies in my administration, under my direction, have
been successful.
RONALD REAGAN'S CAMPAIGN CHARGES
[18.] Q. Earlier, in response to a question about charges from Governor
Reagan that you were misusing the powers of your office to your political
advantage, you said you paid no attention to last minute political charges. Do
you consider the Governor that desperate a candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I really should not pass judgment on whether he is
desperate or not desperate. I have never found that last minute political alle-
gations are ever very helpful—the public understands them. And as a candidate
who has always run an affirmative campaign, never getting into those kind of
charges, I am just not familiar as to when you do it or don't do it because
I have never participated in that. That is a judgment he will have to make and
the public in North Carolina will have to make.
EFFECT OF PRESIDENT FORD'S PRIMARY VICTORIES ON RONALD REAGAN
[19.] Q. Sir, one of the judgments he has made in Illinois is that there is
word being spread by your people that if he is unsuccessful in the initial
primaries, he will no longer be a valid candidate for the Presidency in your
party. I wonder how you assess the record so far, primary success—yours. And
you do succeed, as you hope you do, of course, in Illinois, North Carolina,
and New York, where does that leave you with reference to Mr. Reagan?
if
THE PRESIDENT. Let me put it in the context of where I think I will be. We
started in New Hampshire behind; we won. We started behind in Florida;
we won. We were successful in both Vermont and in Massachusetts. I think
these successes have, beyond any doubt whatsoever, disposed of the myth that
I could not win out of the State of Michigan. I have never lost an election out-
side of the State of Michigan in 1976 or any other time, so that myth is gone.
I happen to believe that we will be successful in Illinois on Tuesday. I think
we will be successful here in North Carolina. I always assume they will be close
but the momentum is going, and the people in the other four States have given
us that momentum and they have given it to us because we have good programs.
We have run a good campaign. What the impact will be on my opponent, that is
for him to decide, not for us to determine.
691
