February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
QUESTIONS
CATEGORICAL GRANT PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, Tom Baird, president, Keene Jaycees. It seems as though
there is a lot of duplication of effort and expense in the Nation's Capital today
with various agencies and governmental departments competing to serve the
same needs. Do you as President have any plans to avoid that duplication of
effort and to provide better local control over programs to assist consumers,
which will also decrease the cost of programs to the taxpayers?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do, and let me tell you what we have done and then
tell you what we plan to do.
Two years ago, we consolidated seven categorical grant programs that gave
aid to cities and metropolitan areas around the country. The new legislation
provided for one single block grant instead of seven categorical grant programs.
It meant that the city of Keene, for example, instead of having to make up about
20 applications, could make a single application and get the same or more
money. But the best impact, at least from our point of view, was that when
they had the seven categorical grant programs, there were 2,300 Federal em-
ployees in Washington, D.C., and now that we have a block grant program
instead of categorical grant programs, we have less than 200 people in Wash-
ington handling the same amount of money. That's what we have done.
Now that that has proven to be a very sound program, we are recommending
or I have proposed to the Congress that we take 27 educational categorical
grant programs-27 of them-combine them into one, give to the school dis-
tricts the same amount of money and let them decide how they on the local
level-here in Keene or in Manchester or in Los Angeles or in Seattle—let them
decide how that money can be best spent under local decisionmaking by Charlie
Burns and others who know something about the educational problems right
here in Keene. I think that makes a lot more sense and it will in effect deliver
the Federal dollars more effectively to the local level.
And we propose the same thing in 15 health areas—15 categorical areas involv-
ing health, in 15 social service programs. The whole effort is to reduce the
Federal bureaucracy and to make the money available at the local level so that
the services are delivered under local control and jurisdiction, and I think we
are going to get the Congress to go along with some of those programs. We
certainly think it is in the best interest of the recipients as well as the Federal
Government.
375
