[203]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
we ought to be proud of it. We shouldn't condemn it. We ought to compliment
the people who are involved in American agriculture.
We are lucky, and others are not as fortunate, so you don't have to sell me
to be an advocate for the productivity and the results of American agriculture—
it is the best in the world by any standard.
Q. Mr. President, the committee that you have appointed on agricultural
policy that has Secretary Butz as the Chairman-he only has one vote—just
how much power does this committee have?
The President. I have the final vote. [Laughter] But I do get the recom-
mendations, and if you know Earl Butz like I know him—he is a pretty persua-
sive guy—and their recommendations will come to me. It is a broad-guaged
committee, but I have the final answer in making any recommendations to the
Congress or in any other manner. So, Earl Butz, I think, knows food policy for
the United States as well, if not better, than anybody I know. So, his words will
be very persuasive with me.
Q. Mr. President, I am a soybean producer, and I am concerned about the
AID programs, plus U.S. bank financing of soybean production in Uruguay and
Brazil, also palm production in Indonesia and Malaysia in, I believe, the area of
about $200 million. At the same time, our Government funding for soybean
utilization and research is being reduced to less than $5 million. I am concerned
whether we will continue to fund our competitors and, at the same time, reduce
our own expenditures for research in the United States. I am basically concerned
with-why do we keep funding the competitors?
The President. As I understand the facts, in the period from 1965 to 1975,
the World Bank and other international loaning organizations made loans to
approximately 25 different developments in a number of countries throughout
the world. Those loans, about half of them were what we call soft loans, and the
other half were legitimate loans at the world interest rates. There have been
none approved since December 31, 1975. There are no loans that are con-
templated by the Federal Government, our Government, to any overseas pro-
duction facility or development-none.
Now as I understand it, there are several applications before one or more of
these international loaning organizations. We are a part of some of those—I
guess all of them-but there is no direct loan application pending and, as I
understand it, no loans would be made of U.S. funds directly.
Now, whether these other loaning institutions which are international in
character do it, it is a matter for them to decide. We have a voice, and I think
the question you raise is very legitimate, but our Government isn't going to do it.
618
