April 3
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
288
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Farm
Forum in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. April 3, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bill, Governor Knowles, Mel Laird, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and a pleasure to have been in the greatest dairy
State in the whole Union for the last day and a half, and the warm welcome and
the wonderful reception, I deeply appreciate. And to see this great crowd here
this morning, touches me very greatly.
But just as Wisconsin and my own home State of Michigan share the upper
Great Lakes, Michigan also shares your great attachment to America's bountiful
dairy and pasture lands. We cannot compete in the production, but we have the
same warmth and affection toward the dairy production and all the things that
make your State so great.
And I also congratulate Wisconsin on all of its great achievements and its
accomplishments, its production, and warm and fine people.
I think all of us recognize that America's future depends upon America's
farmers. Our national heritage was created by farmers. All Americans—actually,
the entire world-today depend more than ever upon all of you.
Abraham Lincoln signed the Homestead Act, which embodied our funda-
mental belief in the importance of the American family farm. Lincoln was so
right.
Thomas Jefferson, George Washington had shared the same great vision. They
were convinced-so am I—that a man with a stake in his own land is a free man.
His family is a free family, and together the family farm is the basis of our free
society.
There is a saying in Michigan that the only way a young person can get started
in farming is to marry one or inherit one. [Laughter] And it is getting much
harder to do either—[laughter]—particularly the latter.
Not only in Michigan but in Wisconsin, throughout our country, we have got
to do something about this problem. That is because the individual who inherits
a farm is often too severely pressed to pay the estate taxes on it. Our outdated in-
heritance laws, which have not responded to inflation, are a very real threat to the
family farm. And that is why this administration is working so hard for new
laws to solve this serious problem.
We must maintain the continuity and the strength of our family farm. Too
933
