[284]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
prehensive program, and I can assure you come January of next year, if I am in
the White House we will have one for you.
DEFENSE SPENDING AND THE BUDGET DEFICIT
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my question to you, sir, may have two points to it.
Our deficit for this year will be very heavy. The Government debt is extremely
heavy, and as I see it as this moment, Mr. President, this is bound to continue for
some 2 or 3 years at least. I think one of the problems in connection with the
deficit is, number one, that we have spent a great deal of money for defense
spending, and from what you have said before, this is justified under the
circumstances.
I am wondering, Mr. President, if the circumstances are such with our country
that conditions will improve to the point where the expenditures for defense
spending will be greatly lessened, and in that way help curtail the expenditures
of our Government in that regard.
May I add one more point, Mr. President? The other point is I heard that the
deficit for this fiscal year would be about $50 billion. That sum of $50 billion,
Mr. President, is enough money to employ 5 million people at $10,000 a year.
I have read your account as you first spoke here tonight, and it is very encourag-
ing to see the improvement in that regard. But these are problems that you in-
herited, Mr. President, and I am just wondering if, one, you could tell us what
the circumstances really are so far as our country is concerned to give us an idea
as to whether in the very near future circumstances or conditions will improve,
that those expenditures for armaments or defense will be lessened, and secondly,
if the current economic situation will be such that our deficits will be decreased?
In other words, Mr. President, I just don't want to see the national debt keep
on going and going until it gets to the breaking point.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me take the first part of your question. The rate
of growth in Federal spending for the last 10 years has been approximately
11 percent per year. And when we were putting together the budget for the
next fiscal year beginning October 1, 1976, we found that if we didn't recom-
mend a change in the law, everything stayed as it was, there would be a $50
billion increase in Federal spending just because of the growth factor. It would
go from $370 billion up to $423 billion, as I recollect.
I decided that if we were going to get to the root of the problem, we had to
cut the growth in Federal spending from 11 percent per year down to 5½
percent per year. So, I recommended a budget for the next fiscal year of $394.5
billion, and I cut a lot of things.
914
