[95]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
None of you, as I look across this great audience, would run a household
the way the Federal Government has been run in the past. You just could not
get away with it. You have to balance your budget at home or you are in
darn serious trouble.
When government doesn't make ends meet year after year after year, it
breeds inflation, and that is real trouble—and you know it right in your
own pocketbooks. You know it precisely every time you buy a very simple
item like a jar of peanut butter and compare the price stamped on it with
the one jar in your cupboards. Boy, it is obvious-we have trouble. And those
of you on fixed incomes really know when you are giving up not only luxuries
but, unfortunately, in many cases, necessities.
I happen to believe, and believe very strongly, we can win this battle against
inflation. When I took office, as Skip Bafalis said, the rate of inflation was
over 12 percent per year. We have already cut it in half from what it was
just a year or so ago, and with the support of hard-working taxpayers, we
can cut it even more in the future.
Yesterday, we got some good news. The Department of Labor announced
that wholesale prices were unchanged in January. The facts are wholesale
prices have shown no appreciable gain or change, I should say, since last
October. And if we can lick the battle against wholesale prices, it will have
a tremendously beneficial impact on consumer prices—the cost of living for all
of you. And we are going to keep that pressure on.
In my State of the Union Message, which I delivered to the Congress and
to the American people, I spoke of the need for more commonsense and a
better balance between government activity and private efforts. These are not
just slogans—they are underlying themes and commitments of my admin-
istration, and they are necessary ingredients for the Nation's success in its
third century of independence.
Government will do its part, but it is time we face the fact that government
must stop trying to do everything. That won't work-never has. I have said
it before, some of you may have heard it, but it sums up so cogently my basic
philosophy. I live by this principle, I think it is sound, and let me phrase it
for you very rapidly: A government big enough to give us everything we
want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
This Federal budget that I proposed for fiscal year 1977 reflects that truth.
It arrests the rapid growth in Federal spending, cutting in half the average
annual increase or growth rate for the last 10 years.
It strikes a better balance between those who pay taxes on the one hand
312
