March 26
[261]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Attacking our new defense budget, the House Budget Committee, the com-
mittee I mentioned a moment ago, now wants to cut the budget that I submitted
in January by about $7 billion. This could damage our ability to match Soviet
weapons and to maintain technological superiority.
I will not accept that reduction, which could also reduce our readiness by
cutting the flying hours of our pilots, reduce the steaming time of our ships,
deplete our war reserves, and lessen the combat readiness of our equipment and
our personnel.
This group in the Congress, if they have their way, could ground tactical
aircraft that would have to await repair. They could strain our Navy's capacities
by having too many ships waiting too long for overhaul. They could jeopardize
the training of our forces and America's ability to respond quickly in
emergencies.
This trend in the Congress, which has started just a few days ago, must not
continue, and as long as I have the opportunity we are going to prevent it from
continuing.
As I think is obvious, I am particularly disturbed to find that the chairman
of the influential committee in the House of Representatives has recommended
this $7 billion reduction.
It is my fervent hope—and I make a plea to two Members of the House,
but I don't think you have to worry about them—Clair Burgener and Pete
McCloskey—it is my fervent hope that he and those who want to cut our
defense appropriations will reconsider this very serious prospective action.
America's highest priority, as always, is the preservation of peace through
strength. It is mandatory, if we want to reduce world tension, especially between
thermonuclear powers; and I am determined that we make an honest effort to
do so because there is no other rational alternative. Dave and I were talking
about it here at the luncheon table. He knows, I know, many of you here may
know, that if we don't get a responsible handle on the growth of thermonuclear
weapons, the prospective problems-particularly if you have irrational people—
are unbelievable.
But to reduce tension we must maintain a defense so adequate and so power-
ful that no potential aggressors will see America as lacking the will or the
capacity to protect its freedom and to secure the peace.
As I have said before, under this administration, under my Presidency, I
can assure you that the United States will never, never be other than at the
very top. And when I say the top, I mean not only in military capability but
817
