April 2
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ABORTION
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you expressed some concern that the Supreme Court
went too far in its decision legalizing abortion and allowing abortion on demand,
for any reason, on the mother. Yet, you have been reluctant to support a human
life—or to call for a human life amendment. Mr. Ford, does it not concern you
that over a million human beings are killed each year in the United States by
abortion?
THE PRESIDENT. The facts are that I do think that the Supreme Court deci-
sion went much too far. I also happen to believe that all or most of the amend-
ments that I have seen introduced in either the House or the Senate likewise are
too inflexible and also go too far. And furthermore, as I am sure that others
who are familiar with the legislative process know, as a practical matter you
won't get two-thirds of the Members of the House of Representatives and 75
percent of the States to pass it anyhow.
But the more important point-and this is the point that I make--I think we
can get reasonable remedies in this area that reflect the moral conviction of the
individual, that protect the mother in case of rape, in case of any health problem.
In my judgment, there is an area between the two extremes that will protect a
good share of those that you are talking about—the 1 million. I don't think you
can get it by a constitutional amendment, and I think the Supreme Court went
too far. But, in my judgment, this is a very personal moral decision, and I think
working in the legislative way and working with the Court we can come up
with a better solution than the one we have at the present time.
TAFT-HARTLEY ACT
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am concerned about the economic stranglehold
labor union bosses now have on large segments of the working population.
While it is not adequate by any means, it does seem to me the Taft-Hartley law
is the last bulwark or buffer preserving the job-related liberties of the individual
worker.
I would like to extend my congratulations and sincere appreciation for your
veto of the common situs picketing bill and ask the following question: Exactly,
what is your position concerning future attempts by the union power structure to
destroy or further weaken the Taft-Hartley law?
THE PRESIDENT. In 1949 or 1950, I voted against an attempt to repeal or weaken
the Taft-Hartley Act, and my attitude today is precisely the same. I believe in
the Taft-Hartley Act. I would not vote to weaken it or to rescind it.
I
925
