[67]
February 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
plants in the United States. In January of 1975, in my State of the Union Message,
I said it was mandatory that the United States undertake the construction of
some 200 additional nuclear powerplants all over the United States in order to
free us from the oil cartels in the Middle East. Unfortunately, that program has
been slow in materializing.
There have been some questions raised as to reliability and safety of some of
those nuclear powerplants. In order to make certain that powerplants built in
the future are safe, are reliable, I have recommended in the budget for fiscal
year 1977 substantial additional funds for the Energy Research and Development
Agency [Administration], called ERDA.
I think we can still meet the goal of 200 nuclear powerplants throughout the
United States and a fair proportion in the State of New Hampshire.
But, I repeat, this President is not going to undertake any unethical or illegal
pressure on any independent regulatory agency in the Federal Government. It
would be wrong, and I don't intend to do it.
CONCORDE
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Allen Bridges, WKBR Radio.
When Secretary Coleman announced his decision this past week on the
Concorde, is that not an indication that your administration is turning its back
on environmentalists?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. Anyone who has read Secretary Coleman's very
sizable opinion granting temporary authority for 16 months under very tightly
prescribed restrictions-they cannot land or take off before 7 a.m. in the morn-
ing, and they cannot land or take off after 10 o'clock in the evening, and there
can only be a very limited number of flights per week. And in the meantime, he
reserves to himself the total authority to stop any flights if there are any viola-
tions of his particular order.
In addition, he has urged the British and the French and the United States to
undertake a comprehensive, coordinated effort to study the problems of the
ozone. Many environmentalists have raised theoretical problems as to the impact
of Concorde's flying at the speed and at the level as it might affect the ozone.
I think Secretary Coleman has written a very excellent, constructive decision.
And if this 16-month trial period is carried out, as I believe it will, it will give
us some very important information that will permit us to make a final decision.
And I would like to add a postscript. The very limited number of super-
sonic aircraft that will be flying the so-called Concorde flights are a minuscule
200
