[185]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
China had, and has it in any way undermined your recent journey there several
months ago?
The President. Under no circumstances has that trip by Mr. Nixon, as a
private citizen, invited as a private citizen by the People's Republic, undermined
my trip to China, my negotiations with Chairman Mao and the other Chinese
officials. Under no circumstances did it undercut, undermine, or interfere with
the relations of our Government with that Government.
INVESTMENT TAX CREDIT
[8.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I'm an economics major. Do you
believe, with the present state of the economy, that tighter investment spending
with the reduction of taxes will boost the economy to preinflationary levels?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm convinced that it's far better to give tax reductions to
stimulate the economy, to increase employment and decrease unemployment,
than to put programs through the Congress where you increase Federal Govern-
ment spending and where you provide temporary employment for individuals,
whether it's at the State or local level. That's the policy of this administration,
and that's one of the problems I have with the Congress. They want to go the
other way. But we're going to fight them; we're going to win, because we are
right.
EFFECT OF WATERGATE ON 1976 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I'm a journalism major from Bethany, Connecticut.
My question is, Mr. President, what effect do you feel the Watergate incident
will have on the upcoming Presidential election? That is, do you feel that many
Americans will vote Democratic because of Watergate?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no authoritative way of making an accurate determina-
tion on that. I can only say that I, as a candidate, had absolutely nothing what-
soever to do with Watergate, so it has no relationship to my background, my
qualifications. I would hope that the performance of the last 19 months would
indicate that I have an administration that's open; it's frank. It doesn't promise
more than it can produce, and it won't lie to the American people under any
circumstances.
These are the fundamentals by which my administration has tried to operate.
And everybody that works for me understands what those rules and regulations
are. So we are different. We have no connection with Watergate. And so I
would hope that the American people would look at me and those that work
with me in that light, rather than remembering a sad and tragic past in Ameri-
can history.
554
