[48]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. That $60,000 limitation probably ought to be adjusted, but I
think in lieu of that, or as a part of that, what we have recommended makes
sense. There is a 5-year moratorium on such taxes. In other words, for 5 years
there would not be any Federal estate tax paid, and then for the next 20 years
they could make annual payments with 4 percent interest. Now, that is a pretty
good way to finance the transfer of a farm from a father to a son. I think that is a
reasonable, fair method to permit a family to keep a farm in the family. I think
it is fair to the rest of the taxpayers as well.
Now, there probably ought to be an increase in the $60,000, because that was
established a number of years ago and there has been an escalation or an increase
in the cost of living—but that ought to be for everybody, farmers included. But
the main problem that farmers have is they have a $300,000 or $500,000 farm
and that is not unusual in this day and age—some of the big farms in Iowa, Illi-
nois, Montana, et cetera—the son can't afford to pay the existing taxes as required
under our estate tax laws.
And the proposal I made permits a 5-year moratorium while he gets his house
in order, so to speak, and then he gets a 20-year span, and he pays it on annual
installments at 4 percent interest. So, I think it is a good proposition.
SCHOOL BUSING
[15.] Q. Mr. President, busing is very definitely in some States an issue in
this year's campaign. You said previously that you didn't think it was the most
agreeable answer to desegregation. Do you plan to propose any other alternative?
THE PRESIDENT. I have never felt that court-ordered busing was the proper
answer to quality education. On the other hand, as President, I am obligated to
see that the law is enforced. We have proposed—or I signed a bill, rather, in 1974
or early 1975, that provided a list of steps that should be taken by the executive
branch and the court as guidelines in resolving the problem of segregation in
school systems. I think that the courts ought to follow those guidelines. I think
the executive branch ought to follow those guidelines. If they do, I think it is a
better way to achieve desegregation and to provide quality education.
Q. Do you have any other alternative to forced busing as we now know it in
several States?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the courts themselves are beginning to find some better
answers. They have implemented, beginning this last week, a modified plan in
the city of Detroit, and to my knowledge there has been a minimum of difficulty.
Now, what happened was the original order of 2 or 3 years ago was a very
harsh order. It called for massive busing, not only in the city of Detroit but in
126
