[19]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
not the complete answer to energy independence, but still a start in the right
direction.
I again urge the Congress to move ahead immediately on the remainder of
my energy proposals to make America invulnerable to the foreign oil cartel.
My proposals, as all of you know, would reduce domestic natural gas short-
ages; allow production from Federal petroleum reserves; stimulate effective
conservation, including revitalization of our railroads and the expansion of our
urban transportation systems; develop more and cleaner energy from our vast
coal resources; expedite clean and safe nuclear power production; create a new
national energy independence authority to stimulate vital energy investment;
and accelerate development of technology to capture energy from the Sun and
the Earth for this and future generations.
Also, I ask, for the sake of future generations, that we preserve the family
farm and family-owned small business. Both strengthen America and give
stability to our economy. I will propose estate tax changes so that family busi-
nesses and family farms can be handed down from generation to generation
without having to be sold to pay taxes.
I propose tax changes to encourage people to invest in America's future, and
their own, through a plan that gives moderate-income families income tax
benefits if they make long-term investments in common stock in American
companies.
The Federal Government must and will respond to clear-cut national needs—
for this and future generations.
Hospital and medical services in America are among the best in the world,
but the cost of a serious and extended illness can quickly wipe out a family's
lifetime savings. Increasing health costs are of deep concern to all and a powerful
force pushing up the cost of living. The burden of catastrophic illness can be
borne by very few in our society. We must eliminate this fear from every family.
I propose catastrophic health insurance for everybody covered by Medicare.
To finance this added protection, fees for short-term care will go up somewhat,
but nobody after reaching age 65 will have to pay more than $500 a year for
covered hospital or nursing home care, nor more than $250 for 1 year's doctor
bills.
We cannot realistically afford federally dictated national health insurance
providing full coverage for all 215 million Americans. The experience of other
countries raises questions about the quality as well as the cost of such plans.
But I do envision the day when we may use the private health insurance system
36
