January 26
[31]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
advanced in recent months have sought such a balance, and I will continue this
course in 1976.
Striking a new regulatory balance is likely to entail some economic and social
costs during a period of transition, and changes must therefore be phased in
carefully. In the long run, however, a revitalized market system will bring
significant benefits to the public, including lower prices.
While our policies focus primarily on the economy of the United States, we
recognize that the range of our interests does not stop at our shores. The other
major countries of the world are also recovering from the most serious recession
they have experienced since the 1930s. Their first economic priority, like ours,
is to put their economies on a sustainable, noninflationary growth path. Success
in this endeavor, more than anything else, will help developed and developing
countries alike achieve higher standards of living.
In recent years the economies of most nations suffered from extraordinarily
high inflation rates, due in large part to the quintupling of the world price for
oil, and then moved into a deep recession. The simultaneity of this experience
demonstrated once again the strong interdependence of the world's economies.
Individual countries have become progressively more dependent on each other
as a freer flow of goods, services, and capital has fostered greater prosperity
throughout the world. Because of this growing interdependence, however,
domestic policy objectives cannot be achieved efficiently unless we also take
account of economic changes and policy goals in other countries.
In recognition of our growing interdependence, I have consulted closely with
the heads of other governments, individually and jointly. At the Economic
Summit at Rambouillet last November, I met with the heads of government of
five other major industrial countries. There we laid the foundation for closer
understanding and consultation on economic policies. During 1975 we also
began discussions on international cooperation with both the developed and the
less developed countries. This dialogue will assure a better mutual understanding
of our problems and aspirations. Finally, I have agreed with my foreign col-
leagues that, in order to create the proper conditions for lasting and stable
growth, we must take important, cooperative steps in monetary matters, trade,
and energy. We have directed our trade officials to seek an early conclusion to
the continuing negotiations on liberalization of trade. This month in Jamaica
we reached significant agreements on strengthening the international monetary
system and providing increased support for the developing countries. We have
89
