April 1
[280]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
look to all of you, and it is a very distinguished group under the leadership of
Leo Cherne, to provide me with very candid, very frank, and very wise advice
as to the quality of our foreign intelligence effort. Your diverse backgrounds and
individual records over a long period of time will make this Board an excep-
tional asset in efforts to strengthen our foreign intelligence.
I am confident that you, individually as well as collectively, will serve America
with great distinction. And I will meet with the Board immediately after the
swearing in by Justice Powell. And I ask you, if you would please, Mr. Justice,
to swear in this distinguished group.
[At this point, Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, administered
the oath of office.]
The President. Thank you very, very much, Mr. Justice. I appreciate it.
JUSTICE POWELL. It is my privilege. I am very interested in the work of this
Board. I think it is a very distinguished Board, quite obviously.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Leo, do you want to say anything, or do you just want to come in and-
MR. CHERNE. Let me just add very briefly, what an extraordinary privilege it
is for me to serve as Chairman of this Board. But the particular privilege includes
not only the opportunity to serve the President but to have a group associated
with this effort as distinguished, as varied in its extraordinary capabilities as are
represented on this Board.
Mr. President, we will, with every resource available to our minds, give you
the very best of judgment we are capable of.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:07 a.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
For the announcement of the membership to the
Board and the designation of Leo Cherne as Chair-
man, see the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 12, p. 376).
280
Memorandum on a National Swine Flu
Immunization Program. April 1, 1976
[Dated March 31, 1976. Released April 1, 1976]
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
Last week I announced plans for a national immunization program to inocu-
late Americans against a swine-type influenza virus. Because of the serious nature
879
