[253]
March 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
But it is an obligation that all of us have, Democrats or Republicans, to make
certain that we continue this strength in the months and the years ahead. That
is the way we can keep America safe. It is the way we can preserve the peace,
and it is the way we can deter aggression.
I know all of you support that viewpoint. But it is a mission that I have and
you have in a constructive way, to make certain that this country has the
strength, as I have indicated, for the purposes that are essential to our security
for peace and the deterrence of aggression.
One final word. I have known from 13 congressional campaigns that it
is important that volunteers participate. No candidate can win on his own. You
in Texas, and you, particularly, in Dallas County, have been a tremendous help
to Jim Collins and to Alan Steelman. I know that you will be equally signifi-
cant in the months ahead in making certain that we get more Congressmen,
that we keep those who are there, there, and that we broaden our total con-
gressional effort so that we can have a Congress that will be easier to work with
when we have a Republican President for the next 4 years.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:20 a.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to William A. McKenzie,
chairman of the Dallas County Republican Party.
254
Special Message to the Congress on the Federal Civilian and
Military Retirement Systems. March 24, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
My 1977 Budget recommends a program of tax reduction and spending
restraint designed to reduce the growth of Government, help sustain our eco-
nomic recovery, and give our citizens a greater say in managing their own affairs.
It proposes changes in many programs in order to hold Federal spending below
the levels that would otherwise occur in 1977 and in later years.
One of these changes, as indicated in the budget, is elimination of the provi-
sion in Federal civilian and military retirement systems which over-compensates
retirees for cost-of-living adjustments. Since 1969, these retirees have been paid
$1.6 billion more than the amount needed to adjust their retirement pay for
changes in the cost of living. Unless the law is changed, the taxpayer will be
798
