[305]
April 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
grams. My proposal would, on the other hand, eliminate State matching require-
ments altogether.
Moreover, H.R. 9803 would create an unfair situation in which some child
day care centers would operate under a different set of standards than other
centers within the same State. Those day care centers in which fewer than 20
percent of those served are eligible under Title XX could be exempt from
Federal day care standards. This provision would have the probable effect in
some instances of reducing the availability of day care services by encourag-
ing day care centers to reduce the proportion of children in their care who are
eligible under Title XX in order to meet the "quota" set by H.R. 9803. In
those centers not choosing to take advantage of this loophole, the effect could
well be to increase day care costs to families who use these centers on a fee-
paying basis. In effect, they would be helping to subsidize the high costs im-
posed on day care providers serving Title XX-eligible children.
There is considerable debate as to the appropriateness or efficacy of the Fed-
eral day care standards imposed by H.R. 9803. In fact, the bill recognizes
many of these questions by postponing their enforcement for the third time,
in this case to July 1 of this year. Fewer than one in four of the States have
chosen to follow these standards closely in the administration of their day
care programs. The Congress itself has required by law that the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare conduct an 18-month study ending in
1977, to evaluate their appropriateness.
Rather than pursue the unwise course charted in this bill, I urge that the
Congress extend, until October 1, 1976, the moratorium on imposition of Fed-
eral day care staffing standards that it voted last October. This would give the
Congress ample time to enact my proposed Federal Assistance for Commu-
nity Services Act, under which States would establish and enforce their own
day care staffing standards and fashion their social services programs in ways
they believe will best meet the needs of their citizens.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
April 6, 1976.
NOTE: The House of Representatives overrode the President's veto on May 4, 1976. On May 5, the Senate
sustained the veto.
982
