[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
we were anxious to help two out of three to give them arms for them to solve
the problem themselves. The Congress wouldn't go for it and the net result
is the Soviet Union and 12,000 Cuban Communist mercenaries are in effect
running that country. I don't think that's good.
Q. How long do you want to be President? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would like to be President until January 20, 1981.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT; NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. I need to ask you what your stand is on nuclear powerplants—the aware-
ness of the internal large agencies supporting and regulating these plants.
They're dangerous, they create, if nothing else, a lot of anxiety-some good in
different ways. And it seems to be that there's some very economical and free
ways to-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer the latter part first. I know of no prospec-
tive energy source that our Government isn't supporting. I have increased
the research and development in solar energy by about 40 percent, from about
$80 million to $120 million in the next fiscal year. We have increased the money
for geothermal research and development. We have put around $160 million
into coal research so that we could make it cleaner and that we could make it
a more productive fuel.
If you know a source of energy that we are not supporting, I would like
to hear about it and we will look into it. But every scientist that can come
up with a responsible source of energy for us to seek to develop, we have got
money in it.
Now, talking about nuclear energy, there is an agency or a commission called
the Nuclear Regulatory Agency [Commission]. It has the responsibility of
taking the applications for nuclear plants, analyzing the design and the con-
struction, the site, and determining whether that plant should be built in
that area. We now have roughly 50 nuclear plants in this country.
I saw some statistics the other day—and these are undisputed—that the
chance of any nuclear accident to an individual is 1 in 2 billion, something like
that, and the chances are far, far less according to the statistics than being struck
by lightning. Now, that doesn't mean we cannot improve the safety, and I
added to the budget for the next fiscal year a substantial amount of money to
make nuclear reactors safer and to make them more reliable. I think we
need nuclear energy under the right conditions, and they will only be approved
by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency [Commission] if they are.
This lady has the last question.
390
