March 16
[219]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I know that he will work, as he has in so many past endeavors, to improve the
efficiency of the United Nations and its agencies.
The challenge facing Bill Scranton is immense; conflicts are inevitable in the
United Nations. In recent years, the world has witnessed unfortunate and ex-
cessive concentration on irresponsible resolutions and the manipulation of pro-
cedures. This has happened at a time when the legitimate and crucial issues on
the United Nations' agenda require all the dedication and statesmanship the
world can muster.
Our new Ambassador, with the people and the Government of the United
States firmly behind him, will demonstrate the good will, determination, and
serious purpose that have characterized American participation in the United
Nations.
We will listen with respect to all genuine grievances. We will deal with all
problems on their merits. We ask only that others show reciprocity and coopera-
tion. The United States will defend the United Nations against any effort to
use it for cynical tests of strength that subvert the ideals of the United Nations
Charter.
I am grateful that our Nation will have such an able spokesman. I know Bill,
as I have said before, as a very close personal friend and have called him Gover-
nor for many years. Today, I address him as Mr. Ambassador and ask all of you
to join me in wishing Ambassador Scranton every success.
Now, I will ask Justice Potter Stewart to come up and administer the oath,
and I would like the Secretary of State to join me while the oath is administered.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:10 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Mary Scranton, Ambassador Scranton's
wife, and Gov. Robert D. Ray of Iowa.
Potter Stewart, Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, administered the oath of office.
Ambassador Scranton's response to the President's
remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 431).
219
Remarks Upon Presenting the National Teacher of the
Year Award. March 16, 1976
Thank you very much, Governor. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bell, Virginia Trotter and,
of course, the person being honored here today, Mrs. Ruby Murchison, and all
of the guests who are here:
I was looking over your biography, and I was greatly impressed, of course,
with one fact that I understand you are very proud of. You don't teach subjects,
you teach children, and I think that is really what education is all about.
719
