February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have proposed is to take those 15 categorical grant programs, give you the same
or slightly more money, and let each State decide how it wants to spend its
share of that $10 billion.
Now, if in the State of New Hampshire they want to take its proportionate
share of that $10 billion and put its money on the programs you have described,
the State of New Hampshire could do it.
We have not cut back the dollars in the health categorical programs. We
have simply said, eliminate the categorical grant programs, take the same
amount of money or slightly more, and then each State can decide whether
they want to put more or less money in any one of the 15 categorical areas.
There is no less money. In fact, we have promised that in fiscal year '78 we
would add a half a billion dollars, in fiscal year '79 we would add another half a
billion dollars, so there is a hold-harmless provision. But we think the State of
New Hampshire is better qualified to make its decision on how it wants to
distribute its share of the health block grant program. And I am sure with your
persuasion you and your associates in this program would be very fortunate to
get at least what you have gotten in the past and possibly more.
Q. Mr. President, I am Martin Gross. I am mayor of the city of Concord. I
very much appreciate your comments in connection with general revenue shar-
ing. It is a very, very important program for us here in this city. And your
endorsement of its continuation is very much appreciated.
I think, frankly, you are speaking to the converted in this room about general
revenue sharing. The question I have for you, sir, is where is the opposition
coming from? This program makes so much sense it's almost like endorsing
motherhood to say you are for general revenue sharing. But where is the oppo-
sition coming from, and how can we help combat it?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't imagine any really legitimate opposition. But bear in
mind that I, in a message to the Congress last summer, recommended its exten-
sion. I thought there would be no problem. It has so much merit. But here it is
January, or February now, and there hasn't been a bill reported out of either a
committee or a subcommittee for its extension.
I can tell you where the opposition comes from. It is the same group, pri-
marily, that didn't want it in the first place in 1972. There are those who like to
build their own little fiefdom so that they can take credit for this program, and
the net result is it's a terrible maze. But it gives to individuals or groups that
have a particular interest in a certain program almost total control and juris-
diction. They want expanded categorical grant programs. They want the
decisionmaking made in Washington, not in Concord.
163
