April 1
[281]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Initial efforts are now underway by the Public Health Service.
Our goal is to ensure that the flu vaccine is available at public health facilities,
hospitals, schools, and physicians' offices throughout the country and that a
maximum number of Americans avail themselves of it. Clearly we have the
scientific and medical resources to undertake this action. We will only succeed,
however, by effectively mobilizing all units of government, including Federal,
State, and local officials, the medical profession, hospitals, clinics, and the manu-
facturers of the vaccine.
Because the health of our nation is at stake, I intend to give this matter my
direct and continuous attention, and I am asking each of you to make a similar
commitment within your own organization.
GERALD R. FORD
281
Remarks Upon Presenting the Presidential Medal of
Freedom to Arthur Rubinstein. April 1, 1976
Mr. and Mrs. Rubinstein, distinguished members of the Cabinet, guests:
Let me welcome each and every one of you to the White House this afternoon.
Many of you, as I look around the room, have been here from time to time over
the years; and as long as Betty and I are here I hope that you will regard the
White House as a home away from home.
As most of you know, the Medal of Freedom is the highest civilian honor that
is within the power of the President of the United States to bestow. I feel very
deeply privileged on this occasion to act on behalf of all Americans in presenting
that medal to one of the giants of our time.
The legend of Arthur Rubinstein has been built upon many, many pillars.
Critics have acclaimed him the greatest master of the piano living today, a mu-
sician as thoroughly familiar with Chopin and Beethoven as with the interpreta-
tions of more modern Spanish and Impressionist pieces.
It is difficult for many of us to believe that Arthur Rubinstein made his New
York debut in Carnegie Hall some 70 years ago. He was a young man and by
his own account he was not yet the artist that he knew he could be; but in the
years that have passed then, through his extraordinary dedication and through
the support of his lovely wife and family, who are here with us today, he has
turned his vision and his interpretations into an uncompromising standard of
musical excellence.
881
