[205]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
to put together the greatest document for the governing of people in the history
of mankind.
There is a wonderful story that is told about Benjamin Franklin who left
Constitution Hall in the city of Philadelphia, and as he walked down following
the last meeting of that great Convention, he was accosted on the street and he
was asked by a bystander, "Mr. Franklin, what have you given us—a republic?"
And Mr. Franklin responded by saying, "We have given you a republic if you
can keep it."
Our forefathers for 200 years have kept this Republic for us. This Republic
has gone through difficulties unbeknownst to us. We have met challenges from
abroad, and we had a war between us in America. We have had depressions,
panics; we have had all kinds of difficulties at home. But through that span of
time with the kind of government that we have, America has met the challenge,
and America is great today.
I happen to have the belief that America will be kept great by the people here
in Rockford, in Michigan, and Wisconsin and the other 47 States. All of us of an
older generation know that we inherited from our forefathers a great country.
They worked and they labored and they did much to make America the great
country that it is. And as I look through this audience and see some of these
wonderful young people and those Girl Scouts and others here of a younger
generation, I think everybody who has a chance to participate in government—
whether it is an elective office or a party worker or as a voter-feels a sense of
obligation in the decade of the seventies to make sure that this country is good
to these young people. These young people deserve what we inherited from
our forefathers. It is our solemn obligation to keep us strong at home and to
keep us strong so that we can deter aggression, so that we can keep the peace,
so that we can meet a challenge against our national security.
Let me say this country is strong. We have a Department of Defense-the
Army, the Navy, the Air Force, Marines—some 2,100,000 of them; some sta-
tioned here in the United States, many of them stationed around the world,
who are alert, who are well-equipped, who are well-trained, who are well-led.
They are giving us the kind of security that protects America against aggression,
preserves the peace, and protects our national security.
So, let me close by simply saying we are making headway at home in keep-
ing America strong, and we have the military capability to make sure that our
security and our lives are not in jeopardy.
This is a team effort the workers, the managers, the people in public office,
the professional people, the young people, and the old people. America's 215
626
