March 26
[262]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
publicans. And that is why we are going to meet the Democrats in November,
no matter who their nominee is—whether it is Jimmy Carter, Scoop Jackson,
Hubert Humphrey-because we have had a lot more experience with and dedi-
cation to the ideas that they are now espousing.
They have just changed their tune, but we have been singing the same song
a long, long time. And that is the song that the American people believe in now
and they will believe in, because it works, and they want success and progress.
The Democrats are just beginning to recognize the basic truth that I have
maintained, and others have, for a long, long time, that a government big
enough to give you everything you want is a government big enough to take
from you everything you have.
It is my full intention to keep on giving the American people straight talk
instead of empty promises. The administration is going to continue its policy of
promising only what we can deliver and delivering everything that we promise.
The only promise I am going to make here tonight is that we are going to win
in Kansas City in August of 1976, but we are also going to win in November—all
across the land.
May I say a word about a subject that John McCone mentioned—I have talked
about the bread and butter. As John indicated, I served most of the time that I
had the privilege of being in the Congress on the Defense Appropriations Com-
mittee—some 14 years—and had the opportunity during that period of time to
listen to all of the top witnesses, Secretaries of Defense, Assistant Secretaries, and
Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and on down. And I can say from that ex-
perience and as Vice President and now as President, that the United States of
America has a capability that all of us should be proud of.
We are number one. When you take into consideration our great economic
system, our industrial capacity, our agricultural production, our commercial
strength, and our military capability, this country is number one in competition
with anybody else. And when you add to that formula of military strength,
economic power, and agricultural production, the one great ingredient of moral
strength that we have in America, we have no fear whatsoever as to the future
of our country.
But let me close by simply saying that anyone who doubts that we will win in
Kansas City and finally in the country in November-let me quote the words of
the distinguished conservative philosopher, Edmund Burke, who said, “He that
825
