[282]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
I will not pass judgment on any one court order because that is a responsibility
of the judicial system, and I will, of course, under the oath of office that I took,
have to enforce the law as decided by the courts. But if you want quality educa-
tion, which I think we all want, court-ordered, forced busing is not the best
remedy.
WISCONSIN PRIMARY ELECTION
[2.] Q. Every indication we have says that you will win in Wisconsin. How
do you predict that you will do on April 6?
The President. I always assume—and I think it is true here in Wisconsin-
that we will win, but I am not going to get in any numbers game. It is a hard
battle. I think we have the affirmative programs and affirmative policies both
at home and abroad, and I believe that a majority of the people voting in the
Republican primary in Wisconsin will support my candidacy.
TRUCKING INDUSTRY NEGOTIATIONS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in regard to the good job news, now there is a
Teamsters strike that might cloud up the job picture. How long will you wait
before invoking the Taft-Hartley Act if the talks don't progress?
THE PRESIDENT. We are counting on the labor-management negotiations to
settle the differences. I have been in constant communication with the Secretary
of Labor, Mr. Bill Usery, who is working with both labor and management
trying to get an agreement. As a matter of fact, I talked to him last night, late,
and he called me this morning as we arrived here in Milwaukee. And no settle-
ment has been agreed to, but progress is being made, and I don't think it is
advisable for me to comment as long as the two parties are negotiating.
I am optimistic and hopeful and, therefore, it is my belief that the proper
procedure is to let the negotiations take their course, and I think a settlement
will be accomplished.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Governor Reagan has raised questions about the sov-
ereignty of the Panama Canal. Will you tell us who owns the Panama Canal, and
who will own it in 10 years?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the United States made an agreement a good many
years ago for the utilization of a strip of land and for the construction of a canal.
The United States over the years has maintained the national security of that
strip of land and the operation of that canal, and we have operated the canal.
884
