April 6
[307]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:11 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Carl E. Hartnack, 1975 chairman,
307
John P. Condon, past president, and V. J. Skutt,
chairman, National Alliance of Businessmen.
Telephone Conversation With Warren P. Knowles, Wisconsin
President Ford Committee Chairman, on the Wisconsin
Primary Election Results. April 6, 1976
WARREN, Betty and I are sitting here. We just heard the very, very good news
of 56-43, a very fine lead not only in numbers but very encouraging news on the
delegates. And we wanted to call and thank you and thank all of the wonderful
workers who helped and assisted and express our deepest personal appreciation.
WARREN P. KNOWLES. Mr. President, we are here with about 300 of the vol-
unteers in the Marc Plaza awaiting the final returns, and while there is a good
showing at the present time, I have never counted my chickens before they are
hatched.
We do want to say to you and to Mrs. Ford that we are so appreciative of the
fact that you did come to Wisconsin and give such a lift to all of us during the
final stages of the campaign. It was a tremendous boost, and both you and Betty
did just super jobs. We also want to say that your brothers, Jack and Tom, were
just wonderful when they were here with your friends from Grand Rapids,
Michigan. And Jack's ¹ efforts, too, were very much in evidence on the college
campuses.
1
All in all, it was a real team effort and, Mr. President, we want to pledge to
you, regardless of how this comes out, we are going to be in Kansas City, and we
are going to see you through to victory in November.
THE PRESIDENT. Warren, that wonderful applause kind of gives me goose
bumps because you know Betty and the kids and my brothers and others from
home helped, but it was your leadership and all of those great people all across
the State of Wisconsin that put in time on phone banks, that did all of the other
hard chores that put it all together. And I don't know of any group that we have
worked with who have done a better job. They have all, from the beginning to
end, under the kind of leadership you have given and the kind of support they
have given to our family—well, it just gave us the inspiration to come out there
and work like the devil, which we did.
1 Jack Ford, the President's son.
985
