February 28
[148]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ment should intervene only where there is a clear and substantial Federal
interest.
I have been advised by the Department of Justice that, in enacting Act 1-88,
the D.C. Council exceeded the authority which the Congress had delegated to it
under the Home Rule Act; therefore, I disapproved it. I have chosen not to dis-
approve Act 1-87, however, because while I have serious reservations about the
merits of the act, I believe my disapproval of it would violate the sound pre-
cepts of home rule. The Federal interest involved here is not clear and substantial.
148
Remarks in Miami, Florida, at a Naturalization Ceremony for
New American Citizens. February 28, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Judge Fay, distinguished members of the judiciary,
my former colleagues and very good friends from the Congress, Congressman
Pepper, Congressman Burke, and Congressman Frey, Reverend McCormick,
newest citizens of our very great country, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me join Judge Fulton in congratulating and complimenting the fine sing-
ing group, The New Direction singers, for their meaningful and wonderful
rendition of songs that mean so very much to all of us.
I am very proud and extremely honored to have the opportunity to participate
in the proceedings which tell 1,121 eloquent stories of you-new Americans of
many origins, who have today become citizens of the United States of America.
You have demonstrated, as required by our laws, that you are attached to the
principles of the Constitution of the United States and well disposed to good
order and happiness of the United States.
As President, I am extremely proud to welcome you as Americans who now
share our common bonds and our common glory. These proceedings are special,
very unique, because every single one of you is giving the United States of
America the finest Bicentennial gift that you could possibly bestow.
You offer to us yourselves, your love, your patriotism, your courage, your
energy, your determination, and your ability. You are showing the world and
all of your fellow citizens how much you believe in America. You have chosen
United States citizenship in preference to that of any other nation in the world.
You have chosen well, and I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart.
Just as there was no courtroom in Miami big enough to accommodate all
463
