[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we say that the ceiling is $394.2. Now, there are
uncertainties that take place as we move along, and we have got 5½ months
before July 1, 1976. So, there has to be some flexibility.
I have picked a ceiling. I have said that we can, with that ceiling, as of
today, have a $10 billion additional tax reduction over that that Congress has
approved. We will have to wait and see how economic conditions develop
in the coming months. But the concept of dollar for dollar was set forth in
the message last night.
Q. Mr. President, wouldn't one way to help the States and cities the most
be to establish comprehensive welfare reform and take most, if not all, of the
financial burden off the States and welfare cities? I notice that you are just
remodeling the present structure without going into any extensive welfare
reform.
The President. That is a possibility, and there are a number of options
for complete and total reform of welfare. When I was in the Congress, on two
occasions I voted for what was known as family assistance programs. But it
didn't seem to us, as I said last night, that this was the time, as we are coming
out of the recession, to make a massive reform of welfare.
We believe that the better approach at the present time is to get legislative
authority from the Congress in order to take specific actions to remedy defects
in the various individual programs. I do not rule out the possibility of a total
reform of welfare in the years ahead, but I think at the present time it would
have been unwise.
Q. Mr. President, I wanted to follow up on the bitter pill question about
Medicare. As it stands now, under Medicare you get $104 Medicare—there is a
$104 deductible for the first 60 days. That is my understanding of it. But
under your plan it would be 10 percent of that in that first 60 days.
I checked with Social Security Medicare and your people up in Baltimore,
and it turns out the average stay for a Medicare patient is 12½ days. Using
your formula, instead of getting $104 in a Medicare payment for that first 60
days, you would get almost $240. Is that your understanding, that this would
be an upfront cost to Medicare recipients, that they would have a doubling of
cash out of their pocket?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't recall the precise figures, but as I said last night,
there is an increase in the front-end costs—but the 3 million people who are
saved from the horrendous costs of catastrophic illness are protected.
And anyone who has known a family or had someone in a family who had
catastrophic care problems knows that that is the worst thing that could possibly
58
