[71]
February 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
fiscal year 1977 budget, not only applied science but also basic science. The
overall increase in funding for science research and development is about 11
percent with certain emphasis in those areas-energy, particularly, because that
is the thing we have to work on to a maximum degree to achieve energy inde-
pendence by 1985.
But there is also the continuation of our space program with the space shuttle,
our climate analysis programs that are vitally important for agriculture as well
as otherwise, the basic research from which applied research comes. And Dr.
Stever is a firm advocate of that with the National Science Foundation.
Of course, the Department of Commerce has a very significant role here, be-
cause industry and commerce are the beneficiaries of what we do with our
research and development in the stages where the Federal Government is a
participant.
And of course, to bring all of these things together under the aegis of the
Bicentennial commission, I think, is one way where we can show to America
what we have done and what we are going to do with Federal funds and the
ingenuity of our scientists and the drive and foresight of our private sector.
I am very encouraged that a good many million Americans will have an op-
portunity—beginning May 30 and running through Labor Day—will see first-
hand the best in America, not only in the past but in the future. And I congratu-
late everybody, John, for working with you. And you are playing a very vital
role, but it is a team effort that I think the American people will greatly respect
and thoroughly enjoy.
So, I congratulate you all and wish you the very best. I think it will have a
a great impact not only on all that see it but it will have a significant impact on
the Cape Canaveral-Kennedy Space Center operations.
I thank you for your cooperation, and let's make sure it is the very best we
can possibly do.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:35 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House where he was
meeting with James C. Fletcher, Administrator, Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration, John
W. Warner, Administrator, American Revolution Bi-
centennial Administration, H. Guyford Stever, Direc-
tor, National Science Foundation, and Lee Sherer,
Director, John F. Kennedy Space Center.
For the President's telephone remarks on the dedi-
cation of the exposition at the Kennedy Space Center
in Florida, see Item 591.
240
