February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In the past year, we demonstrated the ability to experience severe difficulties,
to emerge then even stronger than before. We did so because of America's vigor
and America's determination.
We believe in ourselves and in our traditional values. Self-confidence in
America is vital to our national security and survival. Acrimony and antagonism
left over from another day only undermine our capacity to face the future with
better results. Blind criticism is no better than blind faith. The President, acting
in consultation with the Congress, must be able to maintain our world status
from a position of strength. This is impossible unless we can speak to the rest of
the world with one voice. American foreign policy is motivated by the will of the
American people.
Americans have an enlightened and determined spirit which combines firm-
ness with frankness. It is in the spirit of our past, and it will remain the spirit
of our future.
I thank you, and now some questions.
QUESTIONS
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
[1.] Q. President Ford, my name is Ann Maloney. Do you plan to support
health care insurance?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, do I plan to support national health care in-
surance?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. I do not believe that we can, at the present time, embark on
a broad Government-organized, financed, and directed health insurance pro-
gram. I believe, however, that we should immediately, as I indicated in the State
of the Union Address, move to what is best known as catastrophic insurance for
those who have extended illnesses, whose resources are drained, and who have
no means whatsoever of adequate health care, doctor care, hospital or nursing
home care. I think we must take first things first, make that program work
and move from there after we are sure that program is operating properly.
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
[2.] Q. Mr. President, my name is John Vose, and my question concerns
gun control. What is your opinion on the control of all handguns, and how do
217
