February 18
[110]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
so that the Congress and the American people whom you represent can be
assured that the foreign intelligence agencies are adhering to the law in all of
their activities.
Congress should seek to centralize the responsibility for oversight of the
foreign intelligence community. The more committees and subcommittees deal-
ing with highly sensitive secrets, the greater the risks of disclosure. I recom-
mend that Congress establish a Joint Foreign Intelligence Oversight Committee.
Consolidating Congressional oversight in one committee will facilitate the
efforts of the Administration to keep the Congress fully informed of foreign
intelligence activities.
It is essential that both the House and the Senate establish firm rules to insure
that foreign intelligence secrets will not be improperly disclosed. There must
be established a clear process to safeguard these secrets and effective measures
to deal with unauthorized disclosures.
Any foreign intelligence information transmitted by the Executive Branch
to the Oversight Committee, under an injunction of secrecy, should not be
unilaterally disclosed without my agreement. Respect for the integrity of the
Constitution requires adherence to the principle that no individual member
nor committee, nor single House of Congress can overrule an act of the Execu-
tive. Unilateral publication of classified information over the objection of the
President, by one committee or one House of Congress, not only violates the
doctrine of separation of powers, but also effectively overrules the actions of the
other House of Congress, and perhaps even the majority of both Houses.
Finally, successful and effective Congressional oversight of the foreign intelli-
gence agencies depends on mutual trust between the Congress and Executive.
Each branch must recognize and respect the rights and prerogatives of the other
if anything is to be achieved.
In this context, a Congressional requirement to keep the Oversight Commit-
tee “fully” informed is more desirable and workable as a practical matter than
formal requirements for notification of specific activities to a large number of
committees. Specifically, Section 662 of the Foreign Assistance Act, which has
resulted in over six separate committee briefings, should be modified as recom-
mended by the Commission on the Organization of the Government for the
Conduct of Foreign Policy, and reporting should be limited to the new Over-
sight Committee.
Both the Congress and the Executive Branch recognize the importance to
this Nation of a strong intelligence service. I believe it urgent that we take the
steps I have outlined above to insure that America not only has the best foreign
365
