[21]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me add, if I might, a further comment. I alluded to it in the remarks I
just made, but I have considerable appreciation of the fine job that you have all
done. And I believe I know how many long hours all of you have worked. I
have had the privilege of working with Jim Lynn and Paul O'Neill and Dale
[McOmber]ยน and the others who are the Section Directors, but I know from
what they have told me about your efforts that what they presented to me
couldn't possibly have been done without what all of you have done. I know
what it means in not only the hours but the personal sacrifice that you and your
families have made.
You can't get the information that we have requested as quickly as we wanted
it unless each of you, in one way or another, have interrupted your personal
plans, interrupted your family plans, and I thank not only you but your families
for being understanding. It is not an easy job. You are career people who have
contributed very significantly to what I think is a fine budget, one that we can
honestly and, I hope, effectively defend, not only to the Congress but to the
American people.
For your efforts, for your sacrifice, for your understanding, I express my
deepest gratitude and greatest appreciation.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:08 a.m. at a cere-
mony in Room 450 at the Old Executive Office
Building attended by staff members of the Office of
Management and Budget.
22
Annual Budget Message to the Congress, Fiscal Year 1977.
January 21, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
The Budget of the United States is a good roadmap of where we have been,
where we are now, and where we should be going as a people. The budget
reflects the President's sense of priorities. It reflects his best judgment of how we
must choose among competing interests. And it reveals his philosophy of how
the public and private spheres should be related.
Accordingly, I have devoted a major portion of my own time over the last
several months to shaping the budget for fiscal year 1977 and laying the ground-
work for the years that follow.
ยน Director, Deputy Director, and Assistant Director for Budget Review, respectively, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
46
