[234]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
As the first North Carolinian to serve or to sit on the House Ways and Means
Committee since 1950 when Mulie Doughton left, Jim has proven beyond any
doubt whatsoever that he is a dedicated, powerful advocate of fiscal responsi-
bility in our Federal Government, and I honestly wish that we had a good many
more Jim Martins serving in the House of Representatives. I can assure you
that my job would be infinitely easier and the country would be far better off.
But, in addition to his duties as a Member of that prestigious Committee on
Ways and Means, Jim is also the chairman of a Republican conference commit-
tee, or task force, as we call them, on health. And he is seeking through that
group to study the problems in the broadest possible sense and to find some
answers where we have had difficulties in trying to get the best care and the
best arrangement and to stop some of these crazy schemes that are coming from
some sources where they want to destroy the doctor-patient relationship. Here
they want the Federal Government to actually take over the health of this coun-
try and run it, as some would propose, as it is being run and not being run very
well in some of the countries in Western Europe.
Now, Jim has an interest in, as I do, in a subject matter in health where I think
we have to do something, and I speak here of catastrophic or prolonged illness.
Jim takes a slightly different approach to trying to find an answer to that prob-
lem than I do, but we have the same goal. And I appreciate Jim's interest and
his involvement in this very critical and very serious matter.
Jim knows, as you and I do, that there is no reason people should have to
go broke just to get well or to stay well in this great country that we all are
proud to be a part of.
Jim is also one of the very few—just a handful in the House of Representatives
or in the Senate-who is a scientist in his own right. And, as a result, he recog-
nizes perhaps better than most anybody in the House or in the Senate how
serious our energy problem is in this country.
Jim had several amendments to the energy legislation which was considered
by the House, amendments which were very significantly important to the State
of North Carolina, and, as a result of his efforts, at least some progress was
made in meeting your unique problems here. And, of course, because of his role
as a scientist and a statesman, he has been able to give special emphasis to the
role of research and development in trying to develop some of the exotic fuels
that aren't the answer for tomorrow in the energy field, but can and will be in the
decade of the eighties.
Jim is also a strong supporter of a program that I think is tremendously
important, and I speak now of general revenue sharing.
750
