April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have also placed considerable priority during the past year on alleviating
prime difficulty for the nuclear industry and the affected public; that is, the diffi-
culty in planning in the face of uncertain governmental regulatory policy.
We are continuing our efforts not only toward eliminating unnecessary time
in reaching regulatory decisions but also toward stability and predictability in the
decisionmaking process. It is in this latter area of stability and predictability that
I believe greatest potential payoff to the consumer exists. As an example, we pub-
lished a complete description of how the NRC staff is going about its safety re-
view of nuclear powerplant applications. These so-called "standard review plans"
are enabling industry to plan with greater certainty and have resulted in a more
disciplined and predictable review.
Furthermore, when industry knows what is and what will be expected of
them, they can plan and utilize their resources more efficiently, thus providing
the consumer more cost-effective energy and a safer product.
I believe we established a number of organizational structures and probably,
more importantly, enthusiastic staff reports which will assure that the concepts
of both efficiency and effectiveness are built into the ways we carry out our every-
day business. These can be expected to have significant benefits to both the tax-
payer and consumer. Much of this benefit will not become directly evident as it
will consist simply in avoiding unnecessary bureaucratic growth and unjustified
requirements.
Additionally, Mr. President, we are strongly supporting legislation which your
administration has proposed on the Hill and which we are in favor of for new
licensing procedures for nuclear powerplants, particularly related to nuclear
safety and regulatory efficiency.
After I leave, Marc Rowden, our Chairman-designate, is particularly interested
in this and will continue the efforts that we have already begun.
Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, that is about all I have to say.
THE PRESIDENT. You mentioned the meeting we had here several weeks ago
where I got the full briefing on safety, safeguards, and other matters involving
nuclear power, primarily because of a situation involving California, I noticed
the other day in Michigan-my home State-petitions are being circulated to
get a referendum on the ballot in Michigan. I assume many of the same pro-
visions are included in the California ballot. They are striving to get it on by the
election this fall, but apparently they are not getting as enthusiastic responses as
they did in California. But if not, they will certainly aim for 1978. So, this prob-
lem in California is obviously going to be a problem in other States.
MR. ANDERS. California will be the bellwether of this whole affair and is the
1009
