February 26
[140]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Nuclear Power
Greater utilization must be made of nuclear energy in order to achieve energy
independence and maintain a strong economy. It is likewise vital that we con-
tinue our world leadership as a reliable supplier of nuclear technology in order
to assure that worldwide growth in nuclear power is achieved with responsible
and effective controls.
At present 57 commercial nuclear power plants are on line, providing more
than 9 percent of our electrical requirements, and a total of 179 additional
plants are planned or committed. If the electrical power supplied by the 57
existing nuclear power plants were supplied by oil-fired plants, an additional
one million barrels of oil would be consumed each day.
On January 19, 1975, I activated the independent Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission (NRC) which has the responsibility for assuring the safety, reliability,
and environmental acceptability of commercial nuclear power. The safety record
for nuclear power plants is outstanding. Nevertheless, we must continue our
efforts to assure that it will remain so in the years ahead. The NRC has taken a
number of steps to reduce unnecessary regulatory delays and is continually alert
to the need to review its policies and procedures for carrying out its assigned
responsibilities.
I have requested greatly increased funding in my 1977 budget to accelerate
research and development efforts that will meet our short-term needs to:
• make the safety of commercial nuclear power plants even more certain;
develop further domestic safeguards technologies to assure against the theft
and misuse of nuclear materials as the use of nuclear-generated electric
power grows;
provide for safe and secure long-term storage of radioactive wastes;
• and encourage industry to improve the reliability and reduce the construc-
tion time of commercial nuclear power plants.
I have requested additional funds to identify new uranium resources and
have directed ERDA to work with private industry to determine what addi-
tional actions are needed to bring capacity on-line to reprocess and recycle
nuclear fuels.
Internationally, the United States in consultation with other nations which
supply nuclear technology has decided to follow stringent export principles to
ensure that international sharing of the benefits of nuclear energy does not lead
to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. I have also decided that the U.S. should
make a special contribution of up to $5 million in the next five years to
strengthen the safeguards program of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
449
