[11]
January 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is our approach to the multilateral trade negotiations to commit to improv-
ing the world trading system in a way that will enhance and further the interests
of all Americans. I have not mentioned consumers, but the efforts that will be
made on our behalf for consumers supplementing that of businessmen, workers,
and farmers will be extremely important.
Because I believe that these negotiations offer the best prospect for an im-
proved world trading system, I am determined to resist, within our own country
and worldwide, trade restrictions. While recession, unemployment, and infla-
tion have intensified protectionist pressures in many, many areas in this country,
as well as in other countries, I think it is extremely important that for the better-
ment of all that we resist those pressures.
As I told the American Farm Bureau Federation convention in St. Louis on
Monday, American agricultural exports are essential to a thriving American
economy. Our exports of manufactured goods, now 68 percent of all U.S. exports,
are another dynamic factor which contribute very significantly to domestic
jobs, those jobs here in the United States.
As a Michigander, I am especially proud of the strength and competitiveness
under some difficult circumstances of the American auto industry, compared to
others. I don't believe that we can sit idly by in any industry in any segment of
our society and let these pressures pick us off one by one. We can stand together,
expand our trade, improve the opportunities at home for all parts of our society,
and become, as we move ahead, an even greater leader in the world economic
picture.
I thank you for your help and assistance, and I wish you well in the informa-
tion and the guidance and the stimulation that you can give Fred Dent and his
associates.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:52 p.m. in the Family Theater at the White House.
12
Statement on the Death of Premier Chou En-lai of the
People's Republic of China. January 8, 1976
PREMIER Chou En-lai will be long remembered as a remarkable leader who
has left his imprint not only on the history of modern China but also on the
world scene.
24
