[208]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
in America still live by the principles set here some 200 years ago—that all men,
not just Americans, but all men and women everywhere are endowed by their
Creator with inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I
told them plainly, and I am proud to say it again here today, that we Americans
still believe in those principles; that they remain the guidelines of our national
policy, and they continue to give hope to millions of people who long for liberty
in Europe and around the world.
Twice as President, I have traveled to Asia to strengthen our vital partnerships
with postwar Japan and our other free allies and to further improve our rela-
tions with Mainland China, which are essential to peaceful progress under our
Pacific doctrine.
I also met in Vladivostok with General Secretary Brezhnev, where we reached
preliminary agreement on limits to the uncontrolled strategic nuclear arms race
between the Soviet Union and the United States.
As you know, we are still negotiating the details of such an agreement, and I
cannot say when or even whether this will be completed. But I can say that ever
since the Russians set off their first nuclear explosion in 1949, every President
of the United States has been trying to slow down or stop this deadly duel, and
this is the closest we have ever come. And I will say, also, without hesitation, that
I will never agree to any such treaty or submit it to the United States Senate
for ratification unless I am totally convinced that it is in the best interests of the
United States and of the peace of the world.
If we do get a good SALT II agreement, it will keep a lid on strategic arms
for the the next 7 to 10 years. It will compel the Russians to cut back on their
current strategic military capability.
To fully verify any such agreement—and that is absolutely essential—we will
have to maintain our United States intelligence capability as the finest in the
world. That is why I have ordered a basic reform to strengthen and to improve
our foreign intelligence operation and, at the same time, stop any future abuses
of the rights of all Americans. Both these duties are the job and the responsibility
of the President of the United States, but I will not let anybody wreck our world-
wide intelligence capability.
I happen to believe it is time we stopped downgrading America and its price-
less institutions. I have faith in this country, in the goodness of its people, in the
rightness of its purposes. Because we have used our great strength and our great,
great abundance to help others, the United States is able to play a positive role
as peacemaker in the world.
646
