[49]
January 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
work overnight, but it will get them back to work with lasting and secure jobs,
not dead end jobs supported by the Government.
Public service jobs or programs have the ring of an instant solution, but they
won't solve the problems and may very well inhibit the restoration of a healthy
economy. First, the record shows that public service jobs largely displace State
and local government jobs which would have been filled anyway. After a year,
less than half of such jobs actually add to the total national employment, and
after another 1 or 2 years, the net additions to jobs is negligible. The record
also shows that these make-work programs take months and years to get started,
and once begun, even when they fail or are no longer needed, the programs go
on and on and on. Such dead end jobs seldom lead to regular promotion or a
meaningful career in the way private employment usually does. Even with the
immense growth of governmental levels in recent decades, the fact remains that
five out of every six jobs in this country are still in the private sector.
Simple arithmetic tells us this is the place to look for new jobs and for better
jobs. This is where the people have been laid off and where they must first go
back on the payroll.
I don't need to say that twice here in Michigan, where automobile workers
and all the other jobs that depend upon them have been especially hard hit.
The good news, however, is that the United States automobile industry is turning
around. And in the first 20 days of 1976, new car sales were up 37.2 percent over
1975. But even the most sincere proponents of Federal public works and public
service job programs don't contend that the cure for unemployment in the
American automobile industry is to build Federal factories to make Federal cars.
[Laughter] I doubt that the United States Government could make a Model T
for less than $50,000. [Laughter]
But that is where the argument leads you when you take it to extremes. Com-
mon sense, however, avoids extremes of arguments or action. One thing the
Government in Washington certainly can do, and the Congress should do
quickly, is open up more jobs through my tax incentive proposal for high unem-
ployment areas. Where unemployment is over 7 percent, employers would be
given tax incentives for new plant expansion and equipment. This would create
new jobs both in the plants that are built and among those who construct the
plants and supply the equipment.
And to make sure of prompt results, expansion and modernization would
have to start right away, this year. I know this plan will make better jobs faster
than another quick fix public jobs program. The clinching argument for stimu-
130
