[309]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
more particularly, we congratulate Robert and the other nine regional
participants.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House where he greeted the
regional finalists in the 30th annual "Boy of the
Year" competition, which is sponsord by the Boys'
Clubs of America. He presented Robert Lee Fisher,
of Pasadena, Calif., with a walnut plaque proclaim-
ing him the boy who best typifies juvenile decency
in action.
In his opening remarks, he referred to John Burns,
national president of the Boys' Clubs of America.
310
Remarks Upon Signing a Special Message to the Congress and a
Memorandum on the Federal Summer Employment Program
for Youth. April 8, 1976
Governor Ray, Secretary Usery, Chairman Hampton, distinguished mayors,
and county officials:
We have all been very encouraged by the steady improvement in the econ-
omy in the last several months. The Secretary of Labor also advises me that
the youth employment situation has shown some gain in the past few months
and is optimistic about the future. Nevertheless, with the advent of summer
vacations it is very, very clear that more young people will be seeking jobs than
the private sector will be able to provide.
I am, therefore, formally transmitting to the Congress today, an urgent
supplemental request that would provide $528 million to support jobs for over
888,000 disadvantaged youths this summer. If the Congress will act promptly
on my request local CETA [Comprehensive Employment and Training Act]
sponsors will be able to provide meaningful work and training opportunities
for substantial numbers of young people this summer.
I am also sending a memorandum today to the heads of all Federal Depart-
ments and Agencies calling upon them to cooperate fully with the efforts of
the Civil Service Commission to provide summer jobs in Government for an
additional 54,000 needy youths.
Finally, on a related matter, let me again urge the Congress to act on my
request of January for $1,700 million to continue the existing public service
employment program. Many local prime sponsors of CETA are running very
short of funds and will have to lay off people if Congress does not act readily.
Whatever differences of opinion may exist on the job creation issue, there
996
