February 6
[62]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
next 5 years. I think our party can be very proud of the role that we played
in securing passage of the original revenue sharing program 5 years ago. And if
your memory doesn't bring up this, let me remind you of it.
A great deal of the credit for this program being enacted by the Congress in
1972 goes to then-Governor and now Vice President Nelson Rockefeller.
That program has provided your Northeastern States and subdivisions alone
with more than $6,700 million since 1972. If the Congress passes my bill that I
recommended last July to extend the program, your States will get about
$11,500 million more in the next 5 years.
New York State will get $42 billion; Pennsylvania will get more than $2
billion; New Jersey more than a billion; and there are proportionate amounts
for all of the other States represented here.
To mention only one-strictly at random-let's take New Hampshire.
[Laughter] New Hampshire will get more than $125 million in addition to
the over $75 million it has already received from revenue sharing since 1972. I
don't want to cut it out. I want to make sure it goes to New Hampshire.
[Laughter]
The whole foundation of revenue sharing is to return Federal tax dollars as
well as decisionmaking power to the local level. The better balance we see in the
government and in the economy is not a slogan for election year. New realism
and commonsense are not magic words that will work miracles for our people.
They are plain ideas and simple words that speak to the needs of 215 million
Americans who are looking for a better life for themselves and for their children.
They know, as we know, that government has certain obligations and powers
and abilities to help bring about progress in many, many areas.
As President, I will fulfill each of these obligations as fully and exercise those
powers and abilities as justly and as responsibly as I can. Yet we must never
lose sight of one very simple truth that a government big enough to give us
everything we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we
have.
The Republican Party is in tune, in touch, and in stride with the mood of
America. And I am confident that we as the Republican Party are on the road
to victory in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:58 p.m. in the Persian
Room at the Twin Bridges Marriott Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Mary Louise Smith,
Republican National Committee chairman, and
Richard Rosenbaum, New York State Republican
chairman and Northeast regional chairman.
157
