March 17
[222]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
relations between the Community and the United States during the Irish Presi-
dency of the European Community.
Just as we value Ireland's constructive and distinguished role in international
relations, we greatly appreciate our own ties with your country, Mr. Prime
Minister. We cherish our cultural and historical associations and the steady ex-
pansion of mutually beneficial trade. Our economic cooperation is increasing,
and American investment in Ireland is substantial and growing.
We meet today to honor our long and mutual tradition of Irish-American
friendship and to build upon it for the future. I look forward to our discussions,
and I am delighted to welcome you on this magic day.
Mr. Prime Minister, the top of the day to you, to Mrs. Cosgrave, and to all of
your party and to all the Irish everywhere.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where the Prime
Minister was given a formal welcome with full
military honors. The Prime Minister responded as
follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford:
My wife and I would like to express our sincere
gratitude to you and Mrs. Ford for the very gracious
welcome that you have given us.
We are deeply honored to receive your invitation
to make an official visit to the United States to be
with the people of America as they celebrate the 200th
anniversary of the Declaration of Independence.
It is particularly appropriate that our visit should
commence on St. Patrick's Day, which has an especial
significance for Ireland and, indeed, also for the
United States. It is also a great personal pleasure for
us to be here in this beautiful city of Washington,
where we have so many friends.
For me, Mr. President, today has a further per-
sonal significance. Almost half a century ago, in 1928,
my father, W. T. Cosgrave, then head of the Irish.
Government, visited this country, accompanied by
his Minister for Defence, Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald,
whose son, Dr. Garrett Fitzgerald, is Foreign Minister
in my government and is here with me today. I
wonder whether in the history of such visits to this
great country there has been any parallel. I am
indeed gratified that history should repeat itself on
this auspicious occasion.
We are indeed greatly honored to have been
invited here during your Bicentennial Year, a year
which highlights the remarkable achievements of
this truly great Nation. We are proud that through-
out American history the Irish people have been
closely identified with your endeavors. What you
have accomplished and the ideas for which you stand
have served as a source of inspiration to us and to
other nations. Indeed, the ties that were forged be-
tween us in the early years have not lessened with
time. On the contrary, I believe they are today
stronger and firmer than ever.
Mr. President, on this St. Patrick's Day in this
historic year, it is, I think, appropriate for me to
bring you a special message from the Government
and people of Ireland.
Today, when the challenges which confront us in
almost every field of our activities-both national
and international-appear daunting, it is timely to
reflect on this dedication of our forebears, to whom
we owe so much. In Ireland, we look back over
1,000 years and more to the work of St. Patrick and
those who followed him, who kept alight in Europe
during the centuries of the Dark Ages the torch of
civilization.
They were men of peace in times of violence.
Their principles of freedom, justice, and truth are
part of our heritage. They remain the values by
which we must seek to conduct our affairs today.
These principles are enshrined in the charter of the
United Nations, and Ireland has pledged its en-
deavors towards their observance throughout the
world.
Mr. President, I am deeply touched by your warm
welcome, and I am certain that our visit will fur-
ther strengthen the warm bonds of special friend-
ship which have always characterized the relation-
ship between our two countries.
Mr. President, there are many ancient traditions
associated with St. Patrick's Day. And one of the
best known of these is the wearing of the shamrock,
which has a special significance for the Irish people,
both at home and in the countries of their adoption.
Today, which is symbolic of so much that the
Irish and American people share in common, it is
a great source of pleasure to me to have been able to
present this shamrock to you, to pin it on the Presi-
dent's lapel as a symbol of the friendship and the
close ties which bind our two countries together.
Mr. President, I thank you.
725
