March 11
[202]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best response as to whether or not I have connec-
tion with Watergate is the fact that the Congress of the United States, the House
and the Senate-a Democratic Congress-overwhelmingly approved me as
the nominee for Vice President. I think there were 3 votes against me in the
Senate and 90-some for me; in the House of Representatives, 30-some against
me and 300 or thereabouts for me. And this overwhelming vote in both the
House and the Senate came after very intensive, extensive investigations by the
House Committee on the Judiciary and by the Senate Committee on Rules.
So, the Congress, a Democratic Congress, was absolutely convinced I had no
connection whatsoever with Watergate. So, I think that ought to lay that
allegation to rest once and for all.
Q. Mr. President, you vetoed the program to help the unemployed areas that
Congressman Anderson so supported. This area has a 12-percent unemploy-
ment rate. You vetoed it. How do you feel about it now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well I have, of course, talked to John Anderson about this,
and I am very familiar with the very high unemployment rate here in Rock-
ford. But as John and I have agreed, the substitute which we have proposed,
that I have endorsed, would give some $500 million to the Rockford area in con-
trast to the countercyclical portion of the bill that I vetoed where only some
$225 million would be available. So, under the proposal that I support, that
John, I think, also endorses, there would be over twice as much cash or Federal
money coming into the Rockford area under our bill in contrast to the bill that
I vetoed.
Q. The U.S.S. Monterey, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. We won the war. [Laughter]
Q. What importance is the Illinois primary? And if Mr. Reagan loses here in
Illinois, what does that mean for the rest of the race?
THE PRESIDENT. We are confident that I will win in Illinois. I always assume
it will be a close contest, and I do today. But I think the good organization that
we have in the State under former Governor Ogilvie and the strong endorse-
ment of Chuck Percy and the Illinois congressional delegation plus great, great
support throughout the State among party people as well as others convinces
me that we are going to win. Illinois is very critical. It is the first primary in the
Middle West and, of course, it is a great State in this area of the country. Now,
a win here would be very encouraging to me, and I suspect it might be rather
discouraging to my opponent.
Q. Do you think you would choose Ronald Reagan as a Vice-Presidential
running mate?
609
