April 2
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
close ties of culture as well as blood by every proper and by every peaceful means.
I stated my hope and expectation that my visit to Poland, Romania, and Yugo-
slavia would again demonstrate the friendship and the interest in the welfare and
progress of the fine people of Eastern Europe. This remains my policy, regardless
of what any Washington experts or anti-Washington experts may say or write.
On July 29, 1975, in the market square of Kraków, Poland, I told a good many
thousands who were assembled there that I was standing only a very few feet
from the plaque marking where General Kosciusko stood and took his very
famous oath to fight, to regain the independence of Poland and the freedom of
all Poles. I said I was very proud to be in a place so rich in Polish history and so
closely associated with the Polish hero in our own struggle for independence in
the United States.
During my visit to Belgrade, I said that Americans particularly admired
Yugoslavia's independent spirit. I said whenever independence is threatened,
people everywhere look to the example of the struggle of Yugoslavian people
throughout their history. They take strength and they take inspiration from
that example. America's interest in Yugoslavia's continued independence, integ-
rity, and well-being, expressed often in the past, remains undiminished.
In the joint communique which President Ceausescu and I signed in Romania,¹
we emphasized our support for a just and equitable international order which
respects the right of each country, regardless of size or political or economic or
social system, to choose its own destiny, free from the use or threat of force.
When I returned from Europe, I told the American people that I was able
to deliver in person a message of enormous significance to all Europeans. My
message was very clear: America still cares. And the torch in the Statue of
Liberty still burns very brightly. We stand for freedom and independence in
1976, just as we stood for freedom and independence in 1776.
I have recalled these events because they underline the fact that my policy,
America's policy toward Eastern Europe is fully, clearly, and formally docu-
mented. It is a creative and cooperative policy toward the nations of Eastern
Europe. It is the policy that embraces our most important ideals as a nation.
It is a policy that I have repeated in messages to Americans of Estonian, Lith-
uanian, and Ukrainian ancestry—and I add the Latvian people, that I know so
well in my hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan, know of my deep concern
and devotion and friendship with them.
What it amounts to-there is no secret Washington policy, no double standard
by this Government.
1
¹ See 1975 volume, Item 465.
893
