[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
out from her why it is not done. And, if she has got a good reason, okay,
if she does not, we will do it.
Q. It sounds good.
THE PRESIDENT. I have to talk to her first; she's tough. [Laughter]
Q. Yes, we know that, but she's good.
THE PRESIDENT. She is a very good, outstanding member of the Cabinet.
Q. Secondly, sir, you are probably aware that the Greater Miami Chamber
of Commerce and the people of south Florida are in a process now
of preparing a celebration for our Nation's birthday, which we plan to
celebrate during the month of July, the whole month of July. Elaborate plans
are being made presently to have this celebration covered nationwide. I under-
stand that all three major networks will cover this, and we look forward to
having a wonderful celebration in this area.
And even though I have not been authorized by anyone to do this, I just
can't resist the opportunity to extend to you, sir, on behalf of the Greater
Miami Chamber of Commerce and the people of south Florida, an invitation
to participate with us—if your schedule will permit you-in this celebration
during the month of July, and I am sure that we would be delighted if you
would accept.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I am grateful. Let me assure you
that if the situation is such that I can do it, I would be delighted to come
down to Florida to visit all of you who are celebrating that great circum-
stance, our 200th birthday. And we will look into that, too. You give me your
name and address and we will answer the one question and we will try to
answer the
Q. You know our former president, Sidney Levine. I think you know him
very well. I will tell him, and he will get in touch with you.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Boy, there's a promoter. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, my name is Van Poole, from Ft. Lauderdale. We want
to thank you tonight for taking the time out to come down and visit with
us. And as a concluding question, I would like to know what can be done
about the reports that are being leaked, for instance, the CIA reports?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me preface a direct response. I think it is completely
wrong, what has happened with some people trying to destroy the CIA and
our intelligence community. The intelligence community is vitally important
in wartime, but it is equally important in peacetime. It is the best insurance
policy we have that we won't get caught napping. So, we have to keep it
strong, and I will resist to the utmost any dismantling of it, believe me.
294
