March 20
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
everything, and he comes in cussing every night about how hard he has to
work.
Also, I want to ask you why you like to be President so good and when do
you ever plan to quit and rest some? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I like the job of being President, because I like the challenges
that come across that desk every day. I like the challenge of working on prob-
lems, whether they are domestic or international. I like the opportunity to serve
people and to do what I can to improve the lot of America, both at home and
abroad. It is a great challenge. I have always responded to challenges, and every
working day is a better day, and I think every working day is going to be better.
Thank you very much.
Q. There is one more thing I want to say. I got to thinking about you yester-
day, so I made a piece of antique furniture and brought it to you. And when you
get tired of going all over the United States and working yourself to death, I
want you to take a rest. I brought you a big chair with a hard rock bottom, and it
has a back in it where you can lay your head back and sleep up a storm—
[laughter]—
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much, sir.
Q.—and get shaded with a big tree over the top of it. I wish I could bring it
out and show it to the crowd of people.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
PRESIDENTIAL DECISIONS AND PUBLIC OPINION
[9.] Q. What have you done because of a strong personal belief that you
thought might have opposed public opinion?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what have I done where I had a strong per-
sonal conviction where I recognized that there was substantial or majority oppo-
sition on the part of the public?
Probably the one that is most recent is the initial reaction to the decision that I
made to support the two elements in Angola. I don't think that was a popular
decision at the time, but I think now that the public recognizes the conse-
quences that Cuba sent 12,000 mercenaries into Angola and the Soviet Union
now controls that very rich country—I think the American public wishes we had
made that investment. But at the time I knew it was right.
There was a great similarity—and this is important—in the 1930's, the United
Nations did not respond when Italy went into Ethiopia. That didn't seem very
significant. It didn't seem like it was anything that related to Western Europe
or to the United States. But most historians will agree, that if the League of Na-
779
