[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, I think this illustrates why the current categorical grant programs
don't work. This is what I call a mess chart. Now, what it shows is-I was
wrong, instead of 15 categorical grant programs, there are 27-but that shows
how the money goes from each subdivision of several Departments and eventu-
ally gets down to the poor recipients.
The administrative cost is unconscionable. What we want to do is give a
block grant to the State of Florida with a pass through to the local units of gov-
ernment, so that the people down at the bottom who we are trying to help will
get better delivery of what Uncle Sam wants to do for them in the way of health
programs.
You know, that kind of looks like one of these computer things that I don't
understand and, frankly, I don't understand that either, except I know it doesn't
work. [Laughter]
Q. I think that is the reason for my concern.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me give you an illustration of 2 years ago. We got through
the Congress a consolidation of urban renewal and all those programs. There
were seven of them. They compressed them into one, a community develop-
ment grant program.
Previously, when they had the categorical grant programs, they had 2,300
Federal employees handling it. Now, if my memory serves-is correct, they
have less than 300, and the cities get far better service. You have more flexibility.
You get the same money. In fact, in the community development program for
the next fiscal year, I recommended $440 million more, so you will not only be
held harmless, you might do better. But we can do that with less overhead, fewer
employees, and far better cooperation with all of you at the local level.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I think that is the reason for my concern.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. We're going to try to remedy that. Help us.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Eason Dobbs, I'm from the city of Ft. Lauder-
dale. My question is: People say that we were taken by the Russians at Vladivos-
tok-what is your opinion of that agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. Anyone who says that doesn't know what he's talking about.
What we did at Vladivostok was to get a cap on strategic nuclear launches—
2,400 for us and 2,400 for the Soviet Union. And, incidentally, they now have
more than 2,400, so they have to cut back; we have less than 2,400, so we can
go up. So we got them to come down, and it gaves us flexibility to go up. But we
put a cap for a tentative period to 1985.
We also got an agreement for equivalency in what we call MIRV's—of 1,320.
Here we were ahead, but not up to 1,320. But they were behind, but their pro-
278
