[95]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
MALPRACTICE INSURANCE
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. I'm Clifton Bowen from north Ft. Myers,
and I would like to know the difference between these different bars or as-
sociations and the difference between unions which continue to raise our prices
mandatorily through the years. They need an increase, but we need a reduction,
such as medical malpractice. The insurance rates have soared to the extent
that the poor doctors cannot even operate. What is your opinion on this, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let's take the problem that affects doctors, the mal-
practice insurance that they want to have for their protection. The judgments
that have been granted in court cases have increased rates very substantially.
It's really a State matter, not a Federal matter. Some States have moved in-
in Michigan it has been solved by some cooperation between the medical
profession and the State. I can't give you the details except I know it has
been settled.
In contrast, we have had a controversy in California between the doctors
and the State. Apparently, they can't find an answer. Since it's not a Federal
matter, I can't give you any specific solution to it. I do think that we, in the
typical American fashion, are getting some reasonably better settlements be-
tween labor and management as competition has increased in our economic
situation. And if we can keep these settlements down and increase productivity,
that's the main thing. I don't think we'll have an inflationary impact from
the wage settlements in 1976.
Q. Thank you for coming to our fair city and welcome back any time.
THE PRESIDENT. I'd love to. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President, we welcome you to Ft. Myers. We thank you for coming
here, we are rooting for you, and we are also praying for you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I appreciate both.
Q. This is not a very nice question, but I think it is one that should be
asked. What is your opinion, Mr. President, of Richard Nixon as President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best answer to that will come when the his-
torians write the pages of history.
Q. Hi, my name is Brent Horn. I was just wondering when you played
football, what team did you play on? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that was so long ago, it was back when the ball
was round, and I've forgotten. To be serious, I played high school football
in Grand Rapids—South High—and at the University of Michigan after I
got through South High School.
320
