April 3
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that more and more of them for a wide variety of good reasons are indicating
that they want to move to our small towns and into rural America. That is one
trend that I think will help solve the problem you are discussing, particularly
with more doctors. There are so many of them in most of our major metropoli-
tan areas that it is not a good ratio, and we need the ratio changed.
But the other problem of how to get our Federal funds for health care properly
distributed—I recommended a change from the 26 categorical grant programs
that we now have in the Federal Government for health care in one block grant
program. And what does that mean? It means that the State of Wisconsin, for
example, that has many rural health problems, will get a total sum, as much as
they have gotten in the past from the 20-some categorical grant programs.
That money will go to the State agency, and the State agency can then decide
how they want to distribute that money. And how it is done in Wisconsin
will probably be different than how it is done in Pennsylvania or in South
Carolina or in Florida. So, your local people at the State and local level can
decide how that Federal money will be spent. And I suspect that people in Wis-
consin will have a little influence on how your State people make those deci-
sions, so a greater proportion of those funds can go to rural Wisconsin. But
that is a local decision with the same or more Federal money made available.
Q. Mr. President, my wife and myself and family operate just a medium-sized
dairy farm, I would say. You touched on the transferring of estate before and
the amount of exemption involved and so on, and this is a concern that I am
very interested in. I feel that it is extremely outdated.
The modern family dairy farm has an investment of anywhere from $250,000
to $300,000—many of them are much larger, some are smaller, but I would say
a good share of them come in that category. And I feel that the exemption
should be raised so that this property could be transferred to a spouse who is
remaining, at least, I would say, to the area of $240,000 to give them a little
opportunity to transfer this without being taxed out of existence. I would like
to hear your views a little more extended.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the present law which was passed in 1942 provides for
a $60,000 exemption and no real provision for any relief in the payment of the
estate tax moneys that are owed. I have recommended that that $60,000 exemp-
tion be increased to $150,000 and, in order to help those who have an estate or
more than $150,000, the remainder that is taxed, the payments for that can be
spread over a 5-year period with no payments. And the payments that are
left would be spread over a 20-year period at 4-percent interest on annual
increments paid.
939
