February 14
[97]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The Law Enforcement Assistance Administration is vital in this compre-
hensive national effort. Since 1969, the LEAA has given more than $153
million in Federal funds to the State of Florida to fight crime. I have asked
that Congress extend the existing law. I repeat those requests today and call
upon Congress to act rapidly so there is no indecision as to our total effort
by the executive, the legislative, and the judicial branch to move forward.
I continue to urge the Congress to enact legislation to compensate victims
of Federal crimes who suffer personal injuries. This is somewhat controversial,
but I have been convinced, after looking at all of the evidence, that it is a
step forward. And I hope that the Congress will respond. The money would
come from a fund consisting of fines paid by convicted Federal offenders,
promoting the concept of restitution under criminal law.
I hope and trust that the Congress will follow what has happened and what
has proven to be, in my judgment, sound in a number of our States. As I have
said, some 17 States in the country have already tried it, and it is working.
And I would hope that the Federal Government's action would promote
some 33 other States to do the same.
While money and technical assistance have limitations, they can help our
overburdened judges, prosecutors, and public defenders. If the blockage in the
court systems is broken, cases will flow more swiftly through the courts. We
will come closer to our ideal of justice, and this will bring new order to our
social system.
I believe in America, as all of you do, and I am convinced that a united
America is once more going to have safe streets, secure homes, and the dignity
and the freedom from fear which is the birthright of every American.
To secure this end, I have proposed what I think is a sound program to the
Congress. Today, with your help, I call upon action.
And I would appreciate the chance to meet with so many of you, as I have
tonight, who follow the profession of the law, who know the problems, and
who know from a practical experience what can and what ought to be done
in the process of defeating crime.
Our concern should be for the victim of crime. Our concern should be for
domestic tranquillity. Yes, we understand the problems of the law violator,
but here in Florida you can take the lead, as you have in many cases, to be
on the side of the victim and for domestic tranquillity. I hope and trust that
we, on a national level, can take the same strong stand, which is essential for
the benefit of all law-abiding citizens in our country.
331
