[215]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT'S SECURITY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student at West. I was wondering, in all
your dealings with the public, do you ever live in a constant fear that your
life may be taken?
THE PRESIDENT. I never think about it, because in the first place, I have a lot
of faith in the American people. I have a great deal of faith and trust in the
Secret Service and all of the other people who do a fine job in helping us as
we travel around the country. And I just never think about it. There are much
more important things to think about.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I am retired from the U.S. Air Force, a Pearl Harbor
survivor. What I would like to know, sir, is do you have any program with
relation to pay for the retired service people of the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I recognize the problem that all people who are retired
have with the inflationary difficulties that we have had in the country for the
last 18—well, the last 3 years, really. We are making headway on that, but with
the escalator clauses that we have in military retirement, social security, railroad
retirement, and so forth, I think we can honestly say that those who are retired
are considered to get an adequate amount for the benefit of their future. And
I intend to see that those escalator clauses are maintained.
I believe that as we attack, effectively, inflation, that those who are retired,
whether it's military retirement or social security, railroad retirement or gov-
ernment retirement, can feel a security and a sufficiency in their older years.
And I will fight to maintain those.
MARIJUANA
[15.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know how you stand on marijuana.
And will you legalize it?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not believe in the decriminalization of marijuana, period.
There are many studies that are going on, but I have seen insufficient evidence
to change the existing laws which make the sale or use or possession of mari-
juana a crime.
Thank you very, very much. It has been a privilege and a pleasure to be here.
I love you all. It has been a great evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:24 p.m. in the
gymnasium at West Wilkes High School. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Bill Anderson, sheriff
of Wilkes County, and Hal Green, principal of the
high school.
708
