[212]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
FEDERAL AID TO HIGHER EDUCATION
[20.] Q. Mr. President, in the event that your administration wins the
Presidential election, what kind of social proposals will you consider for
improving programs for higher education?
THE PRESIDENT. For higher education?
Q. Yes, sir, beyond the secondary level.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the programs that we have carried out since I became
President and the programs that I think we will carry out in the next 4 years
are aimed at giving financial assistance both in grants and loans and work-
incentive programs to students.
I believe the student ought to get the aid and assistance. The student is the
proper beneficiary. Those programs, I believe, have been successful, and they
certainly will be carried out. What programs beyond those for the next 4 years,
we will have to wait and see, but we are pushing hard those programs that aid
the student. And they have been successful, and I think they will be.
Q. One more question, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
FEDERAL GRANT PROGRAMS FOR ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS
[21.] Q. You are not speaking on the point on the form of block aids or
grants, are you, insofar as you consolidate all of your monetary plans in one form
such as you proposed?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have proposed a block grant program for elementary
and secondary schools, which is, I think, a forward looking step because at the
present time we have roughly 27 elementary and secondary categorical grant
programs. They really keep the decisionmaking as to lower education in Wash-
ington, not at the local or State level.
So, I have recommended to the Congress that we consolidate those 20-plus
elementary and secondary school programs into 1 block grant program, and then
let the same or more amount of money-in fact, we have recommended more
money—the decisionmaking be determined at the State and the local level. I
believe that the problems of North Carolina elementary and secondary educa-
tion are quite different than those may be in Alaska or the ones in Maine may be
different than those in Florida. So, they end up with the same or more money
but the decision as to how that money from the Federal Government should be
spent would be made locally.
I think that makes a lot of sense. I know it cuts down on redtape. I know it
would cut down on Federal bureaucracy. And I think it would be good for
692
