February 7
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Central, Penn Central; it provides for reorganization of the Northeast rail
system.
We have an excellent Secretary of Transportation, who I talked to before I
signed the bill, and he has promised to move as rapidly as possible to get the bill
totally implemented.
I can't give you the precise timetable, but he understands the urgency. And I
can assure you that we are going to press very vigorously. The Northeast corri-
dor rail system must be rebuilt, must be vigorously updated with new equip-
ment, running equipment, with roadbeds that permit the traffic to move much
more rapidly, improved station facilities, rail freight yards. It is a comprehensive
program. It is the first one ever approved in this country.
In addition to that, of course, we do have the Amtrak program, which is
primarily— —or if not primarily, exclusively aimed at passenger traffic. That pro-
gram-I think if Congress would not impose on it some of the totally uneco-
nomic lines, we could do a better job.
But we will carry out the law. And that ought to provide in the areas where
it is needed and justified improved passenger traffic. The real problem in the
freight traffic area is a roadbed that is not sufficiently strong, if that is the right
term. In some areas of the country, freight traffic has to go at 5 miles per hour.
Q. Right here in New Hampshire. [Laughter]
The President. It is uneconomic from the rail point of view, and it's not
good service from the point of view of the customer. But this legislation I signed
will significantly increase the roadbed improvement operation.
Q. Mr. President, I am Hilda Fleisher, a representative from Manchester. I
am on the health and welfare committee, and I am concerned because there is a
Federal program that is giving the State a good deal of trouble. This is title 20
of the Social Security Act, which replaces title 4-A of the Social Security Act, and
it has to do with supportive services for people who are on welfare or nearly on
welfare, low-income people. These are services like day care, transportation for
the elderly, Meals on Wheels for the elderly, homemaker services, and so on.
As I understand it, Congress replaced title 4-A with title 20 and there were
two purposes, aside from the general purposes of it, and one was that we should
be accountable for the funds that are distributed, and the second is that we should
broaden the group of people who may be eligible for these supportive services.
They are not money payment programs. They are really supportive services.
Now, we have found that the accountability part is enormous. In fact, it is
causing so much trouble that we can't expand the base at all. I am concerned as
175
