[140]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
1985 and Beyond
As our easily recoverable domestic fuel reserves are depleted, the need for ad-
vancing the technologies of nuclear energy, synthetic fuels, solar energy, and
geothermal energy will become paramount to sustaining our energy achieve-
ments beyond 1985. I have therefore proposed an increase in the Federal budget
for energy research and development from $2.2 billion in 1976 to $2.9 billion in
the proposed 1977 budget. This 30 percent increase represents a major expansion
of activities directed at accelerating programs for achieving long-term energy
independence.
These funds are slated for increased work on nuclear fusion and fission power
development, particularly for demonstrating the commercial viability of breeder
reactors; new technology development for coal mining and coal use; enhanced
recovery of oil from current reserves; advanced power conversion systems; solar
and geothermal energy development; and conservation research and develop-
ment.
It is only through greater research and development efforts today that we will
be in a position beyond 1985 to supply a significant share of the free world's
energy needs and technology.
Summary
I envision an energy future for the United States free of the threat of embar-
goes and arbitrary price increases by foreign governments. I see a world in which
all nations strengthen their cooperative efforts to solve critical energy problems.
I envision a major expansion in the production and use of coal, aggressive ex-
ploration for domestic oil and gas, a strong commitment to nuclear power,
significant technological breakthroughs in harnessing the unlimited potential
of solar energy and fusion power, and a strengthened conservation ethic in our
use of energy.
I am convinced that the United States has the ability to achieve energy inde-
pendence.
I urge the Congress to provide the needed legislative authority without further
delay.
The White House,
February 26, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
454
