February 16
[104]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
104
Exchange With Daniel Parker, Administrator of the Agency
for International Development, on U.S. Disaster Assistance to
Guatemala. February 16, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. First I want to thank you, Dan, for going to Guatemala as
rapidly and as quickly as I asked. And I want to thank you and all of your
assistants for doing a good job. I think we also owe a debt of gratitude to the
private organizations in this country that have likewise responded.
But if you would, I would appreciate your impressions and your recom-
mendations at this time.
MR. PARKER. Thank you, Mr. President.
This map shows all of Guatemala and it shows within the blue line that
area which was most devastated, and within the red lines that which was
virtually totally destroyed. It puts the disaster into overall perspective.
Out of 5.8 million, there are over a million who are homeless and 76,000
who have been injured, and over 22,000 that the Government of Guatemala
indicates are dead.
To focus in on the severely damaged area—a million people live within this
blue area of which 925,000, 90 percent, are homeless; 69,700 of the injured
are within this area-21,600 of the dead.
This area of virtually total destruction I toured and there is no way to
describe it, Mr. President, other than the fact that it is just incredible.
The impact of the disaster is basically in two ways. It is a disaster upon the
poor and it is a disaster, basically, on the rural people.
The people in Guatemala City that were affected were the poor people who
lived in shanties and shacks that just came tumbling down. By the nature of
the rural construction of the adobe with the heavy tile roof, the walls came
down which caved in these heavy tile roofs crushing the people who were
sleeping.
THE PRESIDENT. Do I understand that this part here is roughly the size of
the District of Columbia?
MR. PARKER. Yes. I would say it would be somewhat larger, and this is
part of the problem we are getting in trying to reach it. The terrain is very
rugged, very mountainous, and the communications under normal circum-
stances are not good. When I say communications, I mean roads, telephones,
even radio. Under the disaster conditions they were virtually wiped out. So
341
