February 17
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
believe for any alleged political purposes that I should intervene with the invi-
tation of a foreign government to have a private American citizen visit that
country.
Q. But do you think if the Chinese Government sends a special plane which
lands at a military airport, asks for the top media in this country to cover
him—some 20 representatives—you send your special briefing books on the
change in leadership, and it still is a private trip in their eyes?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer several of those questions. You have asked a
good many of them.
First, there has been no special briefing given to Mr. Nixon. He has received
periodic briefings or information concerning world affairs from the national
or Federal Government. There was no special briefing given to him in relation-
ship to this trip.
Whether or not he will land at a civilian or a military airport has not been
determined. It is a decision on the part of the Chinese Government as to where
they would like to land and they have to ask us which of several airports. If
and when we get a specific request, we will act on it.
PRESIDENTIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, at first reading on your reform of the Central Intelli-
gence Agency, you seem to be putting the Agency more under the dominance
and more under the control of the office of the Presidency, and we know that
office has abused the CIA in the past. And I am wondering what you have done
to make sure that does not occur again since you are not apparently making an
outside agent, outside of the White House, responsible for the CIA ?
THE PRESIDENT. I think a President ought to be accountable. And what we
have sought to do in this case is to make the process and the decisionmaking fall
on the shoulders of the President, and he will be held accountable by the Ameri-
can people. In each of the cases of the Director of the Central Intelligence or
any of the other intelligence agencies—the directives or the guidelines will hold
special individuals accountable for what happens in their particular area of
responsibility. But the final and the ultimate responsibility falls on the shoulders
of the President. In my case, I am willing to assume that responsibility, and I
can assure you it will be handled in the most appropriate way.
Q. If you are setting a precedent, though, for future Presidents by giving them
more authority over the CIA, would you agree that it also invites the prospect
of a temptation for abuse of the CIA?
THE PRESIDENT. It should not happen. And I would hope that the American
351
