[215]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
years, the percentage of Federal expenditures for national security has gone
down. The expenditures in real dollars for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines has gone down.
At the same time, the expenditures by the Soviet Union for their national
security forces have gone up. Our position today is sound. We can deter aggres-
sion; we can keep the peace, and we can protect our national security. But if we
don't approve the military budget that I submitted for the next fiscal year and
the one that I will submit the next year—and all of them will be going up a bit—
the national defense of this country could be in jeopardy.
Now, we have to get the Congress this year—instead of cutting national se-
curity as they have, instead of cutting the funds for the Army, Navy, Air Force,
and Marines as they have been doing for the last 10 years, they have to approve
the budget that I recommended this year, next year, and the following years,
because we have to maintain our forces ready. They have to be well equipped,
they have to be trained, and they have to be led. And that kind of a budget that
I submitted will obtain those objectives.
Now, if we turn to the space program, we have the space shuttle, which is
going to give us a lot of benefits outside of just exploration in space. The space
program we have had has had a great many benefits in agriculture, in weather,
in scientific achievements. We will have a good space program. I don't say it is
going to increase. I think we can say it will maintain its present momentum
and give us the benefits in science, in agriculture, in weather, and all of the
other things.
But the main point I want to make is that we have to have adequate funding
so we can buy new ships, so we can buy new weapons to protect the national
security of America in the future as we have in the past.
U.S. SECURITY AND DEFENSE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, my question has much to do with the same thing that
the gentleman just asked about defense. Since our involvement in Vietnam, and
it is over with, in case of aggression in another country where our security is in-
volved, you would not let the Vietnamese involvement influence you in any way
in protecting our defense?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly would not. We had many differences in this coun-
try over our involvement in Vietnam, but I can assure you the traumatic ex-
perience that we went through will have no impact on any decision that I make
that would involve the security of the United States.
706
