January 31
[51]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
All of you make a great team, a great team that makes all of us as civilians
secure and able to carry out our responsibilities to make a better America.
All of you do sacrifice, all of you are in the frontline of preserving the peace
and and making certain that freedom exists around the world.
I can say without any hesitation or qualification that some 215 million Ameri-
cans know that we are safer and better because of the competence and the capa-
bility, the readiness of all of you who are so important in preserving peace.
Let me simply conclude by saying that Langley Air Force Base has had a long
and wonderful history, going back some 60 years. It now performs a very vital
function as a part of the Tactical Air Command.
Last fall—or the fall of 1974—I was in Arizona and saw the delivery of the
first operational units of the F-16 [F-15]. And I can tell you that that meant a
great deal, not only to those who were there in training but to all of us who
know that that equipment is vitally important for our national security.
It is the same for any of the other equipment that is used by the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force, Marines, or the Coast Guard. We need to make certain
and positive that you have the best in hardware so that your capabilities can be
utilized to the fullest. And I pledge to you that we will provide the funds in
order that you do have the best equipment, that you can perform your job in
a military or civilian area for the protection of our great country.
I thank you again for the efforts that you make in the pursuit of peace and
the success that you have had in the preservation of freedom.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Gen. Robert J. Dixon,
Commander, Tactical Air Command, and Col. Jo-
seph D. Moore, Base Commander, Langley Air Force
Base.
51
Address Before a Joint Session of the Virginia General
Assembly in Williamsburg. January 31, 1976
Mr. Speaker, Governor Godwin, Mr. Justice Powell, members of the Virginia
congressional delegation, delegates to the General Assembly, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am highly honored to speak before this special joint session of the Virginia
General Assembly-my first address of 1976 devoted to the national Bicentennial.
Your assembly is the most appropriate forum in America for a discussion of self-
135
