January 29
[40]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
not exclusively or predominantly on the part of government. And this system
has worked. This system will work. We should not lose faith in it.
If you travel abroad, whether it is in Europe or the Pacific or in Asia, you
come back with a feeling that we are fortunate to be Americans, and being
fortunate to be Americans, I think we should be proud of America.
As I conclude, let me make this observation. This is a vitally important election
year. You may have heard my State of the Union Message. You probably heard
the one that came 2 days later by a representative of the other party. [Laughter]
I didn't see it. I read it. [Laughter] I had a lot more fun going to the theater
and watching that wonderful person, Pearl Bailey.
But the issue is really joined. We have the issue. We have good candidates for
local office, for Congress. We must make sure that we support those candidates.
We have to build and strengthen, make more vital the Republican Party organi-
zation. We have to raise the wherewithal to conduct the campaigns. And we
have to make that individual effort if we are going to support adequately the
basic philosophy and those principles in which we really believe.
This is the way in 1976 you can make an everlasting contribution to a better
America for 215 million of our fellow citizens.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:21 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
40
Statement Following House of Representatives Vote on the
Release of the Report of the Select Committee on
Intelligence. January 29, 1976
I AM pleased that the House of Representatives has taken proper and responsible
action to safeguard classified foreign intelligence information.
This action indicates that a large majority of House Members shares my con-
cern that our legitimate classified national security information be denied to
our enemies and potential enemies.
Today's vote shows the House Members recognize that the American people
want a strong and effective foreign intelligence capability.
As President, I have a constitutional responsibility to protect national security
information. Today's House vote demonstrates that it also takes seriously its
responsibility to protect national security secrets.
109
