January 27
[33]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
33
Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives on the
Situation in Angola. January 27, 1976
Dear Mr. Speaker:
I want to express to you and to your colleagues in the House my grave con-
cern over the international consequences of the situation in Angola. In the
absence of effective Western assistance, the two largest political movements in
the country will be destroyed by Soviet armaments and a Cuban expeditionary
force.
This imposition of a military solution in Angola will have the most profound
long range significance for the United States. The US cannot accept as a prin-
ciple of international conduct that Cuban troops and Soviet arms can be used
for a blatant intervention in local conflicts, in areas thousands of miles from
Cuba and the Soviet Union, and where neither can claim an historic national
interest. If we do so, we will send a message of irresolution not only to the leaders
of African nations but to United States allies and friends throughout the world.
The facts are clear. In the fall of 1974, the USSR began to increase its military
assistance in Angola. During the period from March to December 1975, the
Soviet Union and Cuba provided almost $200 million in weapons and other
military assistance to a minority faction in Angola. The Cubans have dispatched
more than 10,000 combat troops, which are right now actively engaged in the
effort to destroy opposing factions-factions which command the loyalties of
more than 60% of the population and occupy a major part of Angola's terri-
tory. For the United States to turn its back on requests for help from these
people would be an abdication of our responsibility to play a positive role in
international affairs.
The United States has no intention of interfering in internal African affairs.
The United States' objective in Angola is to enable the people of that land to
determine for themselves their political future. Until the late summer of 1975
the US provided no military assistance to any group. Since then the United
States has provided modest amounts of assistance to forces opposing the Soviet/
Cuban-backed effort, solely to enable the indigenous majority to stabilize the
military situation and to create conditions for a negotiated solution. As was
demonstrated at the recent meeting of the Organization of African Unity, a clear
majority of the sub-Saharan African countries clearly supported this effort to
offset Soviet-Cuban intervention. The US assistance, small as it was, began to
93
