March 13
[214]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the battle against inflation. When I took office some 19 months ago, we were on
the brink of the worst economic recession this country has had in 30 years. And
very shortly after August of 1974, unemployment started to go up and employ-
ment started to go down.
Now, there were some people who said we should make a quick fix, we should
put everybody on the government payroll, we ought to bust the budget. I said
there is a better answer. Ford's got a better idea. And so we tried to hold the line
on Government expenditures against the budget busters. As a result, I vetoed
46 bills in 19 months. That's a record. And we have 39 of them sustained by the
Congress, and we saved the taxpayers $13 billion. That's progress.
Because we didn't panic, because we didn't lose our cool, because we had a firm
hold on the tiller, we have come out of that recession. And we are on the way
up with employment going up and unemployment going down—and it is
going down more and more in the months ahead.
But now,
let me talk to you for just a moment about the problems we are
going to face in the future, and we faced some of them in the past. There are
some—I don't challenge their motives, I just think they are dead wrong-who
want to expand the Federal Government at the Federal level and who want to
take more and more power away from the States and more and more authority
away from local communities. I happen to have great faith in Governors like Jim
Holshouser, and I believe that we should give more faith and responsibility to
your good local officials. There is nothing that sanctifies the wisdom of people
in the bureaucracy in Washington, D.C. You have got good people in North
Carolina who can make good decisions if we give them the money to do it.
But there are some people who think all answers have to come from Washing-
ton, D.C. They want to expand the bureaucracy, they want to put more power
in the hands of those people who run things in Washington.
Let me give you a word of warning, and I think this summarizes it as about
as cogently as you can. And please listen. We should never forget that a govern-
ment big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to
take from us everything we have.
Now let me say a word about our circumstances as we look around the globe,
as we look at our national defense capability. There are some who want to
downgrade America, who allege that we are weak, they don't know what they
are talking about. And let me say it very firmly—America is strong today, and
it is going to stay strong for our national security.
There have been some charges made that we don't have enough of this and
enough of that. Let me just be very specific. In strategic capability we have more
697
