[217]
March 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
enjoyed the good company, and learned a lot about agriculture going to the
many community group meetings that I had the honor to attend.
Let me make one or two comments. Last week—or I guess 10 days ago now-
I made our fine Secretary of Agriculture the Chairman of the Cabinet-level
committee on U.S. food policy. I think Earl Butz will do an outstanding job
in that capacity, as well as in the capacity as Secretary of Agriculture.
I have known Earl Butz a long time. I knew him when he was down here
in the 1950's, and I couldn't have been more pleased when he agreed to stay
on as Secretary of Agriculture when I became President. I know that he is
the finest Secretary of Agriculture that we could possibly have in this very
important period of time when U.S. agriculture is so vital not only to our-
selves but to the world.
In addition to that, I am sure many of you know that the problem of passing
a fine family farm on to the next generation is a matter of great concern.
I was looking at some statistics before coming out here, and I understand
there are roughly 116,000 family-owned farms in the State of Ohio. And I
know from my experiences in Michigan that many families, because of estate
tax problems, have great difficulty in passing that family farm, which means
so much to the family, on to the next generation.
In 1942, the Congress last established the $60,000 estate tax exemption; 1942
to 1976, no change. I think the Congress ought to increase that to $150,000 and,
in addition, ought to spread out the method by which-whatever the estate taxes
might be, over a longer period of time, 25 years; 5 years a total moratorium on
paying the estate taxes, whatever they might be, and then a 20-year period
whereby the estate tax payments would be spread out with a 4-percent interest
rate, which I think would help immensely in the carrying of whatever the estate
tax burden might be.
But by increasing it from $60,000 to $150,000, I think we not only help the
family farm being retained in our society but it provides the kind of continuity
that is essential. One generation to another carries on the fine capabilities that
exist in a family for continuing America's agriculture as the vital part of our
economy.
Now last year we sold, as I recollect the figure, some $22 billion worth of
agricultural commodities overseas. We are going to keep our markets in Japan,
in Eastern Europe, in Western Europe. And the new agreement with the
Soviet Union guarantees us 6 million tons a year minimum instead of the peaks
and valleys and the fluctuations that we have had over the years, where one
714
