[293]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Kissinger to be Secretary of State as long as I am President, and I can't expand on
that. I think it answers your question. And let me tell you why. When we look
at the Middle East, probably the most volatile, the most controversial area in the
world, where 4 times in the last 20 years they have had wars, and each war has
gotten bloodier and more serious, Secretary Kissinger has had a tremendous
impact in getting the trust of the Israelis on the one hand and the Arab nations
on the other, so that we could get peace and keep peace there.
I just use that as an example—to tackle the hardest area in the world to achieve
success and to accomplish peace, he has done it with the direction and the im-
plementation and the support that I have given him. I think you don't throw
away a winning player, you keep him. And that is what he is.
LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS OF STATES AND LOCALITIES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am the vice president of the Wisconsin State Em-
ployees Union. On behalf of our 27,000 members, I would like to welcome you
to Wisconsin.
The President. Thank you.
Q. As a vice president whose constituency is composed entirely of State,
county, and municipal employees, my question will be in that direction.
Your opponent in next Tuesday's election, Ronald Reagan, has stated that
if any State, county, or municipal employee participates in a strike or a similar
job action, in his opinion he has quit his job. What is your feeling toward a
right to strike or a limited right to strike for State, county, municipal employees?
And I also would like to know what you feel or what would your reaction be
to a bill that on a nationwide basis would give State, county, and municipal
employees a right to collective bargaining? And I also would like to know
what your reaction is to the repeal of 14(b), the right to work legislation ?
THE PRESIDENT. I am vigorously opposed to the repeal of section 14(b) of the
Taft-Hartley Act. As a matter of fact, in 1950 or thereabouts, I participated in
the debate and voted on that issue in the House of Representatives. I think if
a State wishes to have the right to work, as 19 States do under our Constitution,
that is a right that they ought to be able to exercise, and I would not recommend
the deletion of section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley Act.
Number two, I don't believe that the Federal Government either has the
authority on the one hand or should exercise it on the other to pass compre-
hensive legislation involving the labor-management relations of State employees
and their government or county employees and their government or city em-
ployees and their government. Those are decisions that ought to be made at
958
