March 17
[224]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
own courts. If a state legislature, acting for its own citizens, is not convinced
the parens patriae concept is sound policy, the Administration questions whether
the Congress should bypass the state legislatures and provide state attorneys
general with access to the federal courts to enforce it.
In addition to my reservations about the principle of parens patriae, I am
concerned about some specific provisions of the legislation developed by the
House Judiciary Committee.
The present bill is too broad in its reach and should be narrowed to price fixing
violations. This would concentrate the enforcement on the most important
antitrust violations.
In addition, the Administration is opposed to mandatory treble damage
awards in parens patriae suits, preferring instead a provision which would limit
awards only to the damages that actually result from the violation. The view
that federal penalties were inadequate, which has been used to justify mandatory
treble damages in the past, is no longer justifiable given the substantial increases
in these penalties in recent years.
The Administration opposes extension of the statistical aggregation of dam-
ages, beyond parens patriae legislation, to private class action suits because this
is outside of the appropriate reach of this legislation.
Finally, the Administration prefers discretionary rather than mandatory
award of attorney's fees, leaving such awards to the discretion of the courts.
During the last two years, the Administration has sought to improve federal
enforcement efforts in the antitrust area and the resources devoted to antitrust
enforcement have increased substantially. In December 1974, I signed the Anti-
trust Penalties and Procedures Act which increased maximum penalties from
$50,000 to $1 million for corporations and $100,000 for individuals. As I indi-
cated above, I support vigorous antitrust enforcement, but I do not believe
H.R. 8532 is a responsible way to enforce federal antitrust laws.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable John J. Rhodes, Minority Leader, House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
731
