March 12
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
VIEWS ON PRESIDENT AS SOVEREIGN
[7.] Q. Mr. President, would you comment on the style of Presidential
conduct that was endorsed by former President Nixon in a recently released
statement in which he said, in effect, that it is all right for the President to
break the law under certain circumstances. Do you agree with that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree with it. I know of no experience that I have
had that would bring about any violation by me of either the Constitution or
the law, and I certainly don't contemplate violating either one.
Q. Mr. President, do you believe the President of the United States should
be looked upon as a sovereign?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly don't.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly don't. And I don't expect the public to treat
me that way. I don't understand the reason why anyone would raise that ques-
tion. It is so foreign to our whole society.
SENATOR CHARLES PERCY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, do you have thoughts of inviting Senator Percy into
your administration and, if so, in what capacity?
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Percy has been a longtime friend of mine. In fact,
in 1949 or 1950, we were jointly honored with 8 other people down in Joliet
as 10 of the young outstanding men by the Jaycees. So I have known him from
1949 or 1950. I think he does an excellent job as United States Senator. He has
been very helpful to me in this campaign. I think very highly of him person-
ally and professionally-political life. He has been helpful on many occasions
representing the great State of Illinois, and I have mentioned him as one of
a number of potential Vice-Presidential candidates, not above or below any of
the others, but as one of a number. But other than that, I have no specific
plans for having him as an active part of the administration.
SCHOOL BUSING
[9.] Q. Mr. President, you have mentioned your opposition to forced busing
previously, as have several of your predecessors, yet forced busing continues
to be a major political issue. I am wondering if you foresee any changes in the
next 4 years that will change the stance of HEW or the courts on this issue?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, the problem is forced on the country under a
judgment or a decision of the United States Supreme Court that came about
in the mid-1950's on the basis that it was a constitutional violation of the rights
of individuals to perpetuate segregation in public school systems.
657
