[299]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
energy, investment in energy facilities, and other measures needed to achieve
our goals.
One of the original 13 proposals was especially important because it permitted
immediate action to produce more oil here in the United States. There are only
a very few steps like this that are possible. Generally, it takes 3 years or more
to bring new oil production on line. Actions to increase domestic oil productions
are critical, because oil imports have grown to the point where they now account
for almost 40 percent of the petroleum we are using. We are even more depend-
ent now than we were a little over 2 years ago, when we experienced the disrup-
tion of an oil embargo.
I am, therefore, pleased to sign into law today the Naval Petroleum Reserves
Production Act of 1976, which puts in place one more element of our program
to reduce dependence on foreign oil.
The naval petroleum reserves had special importance when they were estab-
lished over 50 years ago to guarantee an adequate supply of oil for the U.S. Navy.
Today, the reserves have even greater importance to the whole Nation because
they can help reduce our dependence on imported oil and help stem the out-
flow of American dollars and jobs.
This new act directs the Secretary of the Navy to commence a vigorous produc-
tion program from the three naval petroleum reserves located in California
and Wyoming. The act also redesignates the fourth naval petroleum reserve
in Alaska as a national petroleum reserve and transfers the jurisdiction to the
Department of the Interior in June 1977. Production from the Alaskan reserve
is not authorized at this time, but the act specifically calls upon the President to
submit a development plan and appropriate legislation to the Congress. Work
has already begun on those measures.
The new act also makes it possible for production from the naval reserves
to contribute directly to the creation of the strategic petroleum reserve, au-
thorized in the Energy Policy and Conservation Act which I signed on Decem-
ber 22, 1975. Once established, the strategic reserve will provide both a deterrent
to future embargoes and a significant means to offset the effects of any future
supply interruption. The strategic reserve will permit us to have needed petro-
leum much more readily available in the case of an emergency for our armed
services and other critical national needs.
When in full production, the three naval petroleum reserves in California
and Wyoming will provide more than 300,000 barrels of oil per day. The devel-
opment and production of Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 1 in Elk Hills, Cali-
fornia, will make the biggest contribution.
972
