March 26
[261]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and I were reminiscing about the experiences when he was number two man at
the Defense Department under Mel.¹ Because for 14 years during my career of
some 25 in the Congress, I spent on the Defense Subcommittee on Appropria-
tions where we had 5 months a year, 5 hours a day, of nothing but witnesses
from Secretaries of Defense on down.
I got to know Dave far better than our previous meetings because every-
body on that subcommittee-Democrats as well as Republicans—had nothing
but the greatest admiration for him coming to Washington and devoting that
much time to try and help continue and to keep our Army, Navy, and Air
Force and Marines well-equipped, alert, ready for the protection of this coun-
try. And we all thank you very much, Dave.
I do want to express my deep appreciation for all of you, individually, who
are here. I know what you have done; I am very grateful for your support.
And let me assure you that Betty and I won't let you down in the next 4 years.
I am especially glad to be here in a year which marks not only our national
Bicentennial but also the 70th anniversary of the San Francisco earthquake.
And I learned coming in here this is the 100th anniversary of the Palace Hotel,
so we are really doing things in San Francisco this year.
But I think for those of us who have visited this great community over the
years, we have just unbelievable respect for the people who built San Francisco-
a magnificent city—from the ruins, and all of us know that this symbolizes the
best in the American spirit.
But just as San Francisco rose from the ashes, the United States of America,
within the last 20 months, began to also recover from great adversity. And under
this administration our Nation in every respect across the spectrum is construc-
tively building for the future, and I, like you, have great faith in what is going
to happen for America in the next decade.
But just as it does in San Francisco, the fog has lifted in America to reveal, as
I see the future, a very bright one—a future that will give us a dollar's value for
a dollar spent, that will provide a job for everybody who wants to work, that
will encourage the growth of business and industry, and not take enterprise out
of the free enterprise system. It will give individuals more, more, much more
control over their personal life; it will provide a cleaner environment and better
health and will positively assure the United States the continued military
strength to preserve our security as well as the peace.
¹David Packard, Deputy Secretary of Defense 1969-71, and Melvin R. Laird, Secretary of Defense
1969-72.
813
