[105]
February 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
In our second century, America's schools and colleges faced great challenges
and withstood enormous pressures. They educated millions of immigrant chil-
dren who spoke no English when they came to our shores. They met the chal-
lenging and changing academic career needs of students as the Nation grew
more urbanized and more industrialized. American schools contributed greatly
to our unprecedented economic growth and the widespread sharing of our
economic gains.
Now we are entering our third century. I see this as a century devoted to
the fulfillment of the individual citizen. In this century, education will not
only prepare young men and women to earn a living, it will also prepare them
to live a richer life. It will equip them to make their own decisions rather than
permit their futures to be decided for them by others. It will enrich our
children's lives, and it will also enrich our life, our Nation, and our life in
the future.
Throughout our history, the Federal Government has recognized the value
of education and has helped our schools and colleges. Since Abraham Lincoln
signed the act creating the land grant colleges, Federal encouragement and
assistance to education has been an essential part of the American system. To
abandon it now would be to ignore the past and to threaten the future. But
we must make Federal aid in the area of education much more effective than
it has been in the past.
In the past decade as educational problems of national scope have been iden-
tified, we have responded with a wide variety of new Federal programs to
meet those needs through assistance to State and local educational agencies.
Each of these programs was initiated to meet the goal of improved educational
opportunities for a particular segment of our population, but the result of
adding program on top of program has been a maze of complex and often con-
fusing Federal guidelines and requirements.
At Federal, State, and local levels we have unwittingly created a heavy burden
of varying regulations, differing standards, and overlapping responsibilities.
Too often we ask whether Federal forms have been properly filled out, not
whether children have been properly educated.
As President, the very first major piece of legislation that I signed 18 months
ago was an omnibus education act. It improved the distribution of Federal
education funds and the administration of Federal education programs.
Soon I will be sending to the Congress my proposals to continue this improve-
ment—and we must. The thrust of these proposals will be to consolidate Fed-
344
