[107]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
that the intelligence capability of this country is first class and, at the same
time, that the rights of individuals are adequately protected.
Q. The second part of my question, Mr. President, was whether the legislation
to prevent leaks in the third point of your opening remarks would not mean that
the United States would once again be subjected, perhaps in the future, to
abuses that had been exposed through the fact that people were not put in jail
by leaking information?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, under the organization that I have established or will
establish tomorrow, and under the legislation that I have recommended, there
won't be any abuses, and the people, if there are any abuses, will be held account-
able. So, I don't feel at all apprehensive that what happened in the past will be
repeated in the future.
THE PRESIDENT'S FINANCIAL STATEMENT
[8.] Q. Mr. President, your financial statement that was released earlier
in the week shows that despite some very heavy tax bites for Federal and State
taxes, you ended up with about $135,000 in expendable income last year. It also
showed that you made no investments and that you were not able to save any
of that. Can you tell us how you can spend $2,600 a week when you don't have
to pay any rent or any mortgage payments? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I am glad that you were scrutinizing my complete and full
disclosure of my financial activities. Let me say this: During that period of
time, I had at least three of my four children in college, and most of you know
that that is not a cheap operation. I paid for it. They didn't borrow any money,
they didn't get any scholarships, et cetera. That accounts for part of it. And,
quite frankly, I have sought to help my children so that at the time when
I am no longer in a position to help them financially, I have made some invest-
ments for them, which is perfectly permitted under our laws of this country.
So between supporting them in college and trying to help them get a start
when they get through college, I think we can account for every penny.
CONGRESSIONAL DISCLOSURE OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, you have not said anything about Members of Con-
gress who reveal classified information. Does that concern you?
THE PRESIDENT. It does, and we have had some experiences. And I am not
pointing a finger at anybody, but certain information which we supplied to the
Congress to the House of Representatives-to a committee of the House-
somehow either through a Member or through a staff member, highly classified
material has been made public. This is something that the Congress, I think,
354
