April 2
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to contrast it with what it was last spring, 8.9 percent. But perhaps the most
significant fact given out by the Bureau of Labor Statistics this morning was that
we now have, or did have in the month of March, 86,700,000 people gainfully
employed, the most ever employed in the United States in the history of this
country.
In the month of March, comparing it with the month of February, there was
a gain of 375,000, and if you go back and compare the employment figure with
last spring to the present report given out this morning, we have regained
2,600,000 jobs in a period of roughly 12 months. By any standard, as I see it,
that is real progress in what we all want: a job for everybody who wants to work.
But in addition, last week we saw the fourth consecutive monthly increase in
our index of leading economic indicators. The statistics show that our economy
is well on its way to a full recovery, and we are going to keep it moving that way.
And here is how I see the good news from the perspective of the Oval Office. I
think the story behind those statistics is every bit as encouraging as the figures
themselves. It is a story of a strong revival in America's confidence. Not only are
things getting better, the American people know things are getting better, and
they are acting on that knowledge.
The statistics say real income is rising. To American consumers that means
they have gotten off the treadmill of inflation and are making real progress. The
figures say that unemployment and layoff rates are down-way down. To
American workers that means that instead of having to worry about tomorrow,
they can look forward to it.
The figures say retail sales, housing starts, automobile sales, and new orders
received by manufacturers are up. To American businessmen like yourselves,
that means new businesses can be started and current businesses expanded and
improved.
The statistics are good, but the United States of America is not composed of
statistics. It is composed of people. When those people feel good about where
they are going, as they do now, then this country is clearly headed in the right
direction. The American people are showing their faith and their confidence in
sound, steady, long term policies that we have proposed and we have followed
for the last 19 months. We are going to keep up these realistic policies for a
healthy noninflationary economy.
We are not going to be thrown off the track. We had a good many efforts in
the last 19 months to divert us, to roadblock us, to sidetrack us. We were able
to prevail in most cases, and I can assure you, as we now see the light of day, the
905
