February 29
[164]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The past 19 months have seen many of these efforts succeed, and with your
help we will do even better in the months and years ahead. Everything I see or
hear or get from one or more of you individually—I am certain that brighter
days are ahead for the United States of America. It's inevitable with our spirit
and our determination and our background, and you are the ones that really
make it, not those of us in Washington.
Let me cite some things that I think are worthwhile for us to recollect. Our
national economy is growing stronger and more prosperous every single day.
Unemployment is going down. It is not as low as it ought to be, and it will get
lower, but we are headed in the right direction.
Consumer confidence is going up. We have had almost a 180 degree turn in
the last several months, and that feeds on itself, and that is going to get better
and better. And that is what we need to keep this momentum going.
The Department of Commerce announced just 2 days ago, that the index of
leading economic indicators rose by 2.2 percent in January, the largest gain in
6 months. It is just getting better almost every day.
That index showed improvements in the length of the average work week,
the job layoff rate, wholesale prices, vendor performance, stock market prices,
contracts and orders, net business formations, new orders and building permits.
This shows that almost every segment of our economy is rebounding in a strong,
dynamic, and encouraging way. We are on the road to a new prosperity in
America, and we are not going to be sidetracked now. We are certainly not
going to be sidetracked by some of those phony fixes that some people want to
prescribe for America.
The rate of inflation has been cut almost in half from what it was a year ago.
Real earnings for the average American have increased significantly. We have
recovered 96 percent of the jobs lost to the recession, nearly 2,100,000 job gains
since last March, and 800,000 in the month of January.
We have cut in half the annual growth of the Federal budget this year, and
if we can keep the pressure on and hold the spending down, we can balance the
budget in 3 years, cut your taxes, and give you an awful lot more economic
recovery of your own. That is our target.
The fact that we have turned the economy around is a credit to the American
people who did not panic and to the American free enterprise system which
responded to one of its toughest and greatest challenges. The forecasts of gloom
and doom were wrong again, because the false prophets among us once again
underestimated the courage and the determination and the ingenuity of the
American people.
489
