March 4
[176]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
has given this country an opportunity to move ahead so successfully in the span
of two centuries.
There is a quote from former President Eisenhower that I think is extremely
appropriate in the circumstances we face today. The quote from Ike is that,
"America is not good because it is great, but America is great because it is good."
By any standards, over a span of some two centuries, where we have gone from
13 poor, struggling colonies of about 3 million people to a nation of 50 States
and 215 million Americans, it is a history that has not been matched by any
other country in the history of the world.
We should be proud of it. Our forefathers have done a superb job. We have the
responsibility now to do as well as they did for us. I am confident that the gen-
erations that we represent will do a great job for the generations that we see in
these younger people.
I am confident—with the tools we have, both in government, the tools that
we have in our free enterprise system, but more importantly, the people—that
America can look to a greater and greater future in the generations ahead.
I hope you enjoy your trip, not only here in Washington but likewise have
an opportunity to visit Philadelphia, Valley Forge, and other very, very historic
sites and places in America's tremendous history.
I do want to congratulate the Broward County Minutemen and their spouses
and all of their wonderful children. It is good to see you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:43 a.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
176
Remarks on Awarding the Congressional Medal of Honor to
Four Members of the Armed Forces. March 4, 1976
Medal of Honor recipients and their families, distinguished Members of the
Congress, Secretary Rumsfeld, Secretary Middendorf, Secretary Reed, members
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, ladies and gentlemen:
We are gathered here today to honor four Americans for exceptional military
gallantry in the service of our Nation. All four of these men distinguished them-
selves above and beyond the call of duty. I deeply regret that one of the awards,
to the late Captain Lance P. Sijan, of the United States Air Force, is posthumous.
The other three, Rear Admiral James P. Stockdale, United States Navy; Colonel
513
