February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
There are other programs, however, that are aimed at helping the educational
problems related to migrant workers, but they are not included within the
general revenue sharing program.
Q. Is that good?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the concept of the general revenue sharing is to help
a local or State unit of government meet its financial problems and for the
decisionmaking at the local level. But at the same time, the Federal Govern-
ment does recognize that the migrant worker education problem is a serious
one, so there are certain programs that focus in directly on that. But I don't think
you ought to write into the general revenue sharing specifics as to how the
money ought to be spent, or it's not general revenue sharing.
Q. Well, I spoke of that in general, simply because I think there is a diminish-
ing of funds in that area when it comes to migrant education programs and
farmworkers.
THE PRESIDENT. In the education block grant program that I talked about
a minute ago—which is different from general revenue sharing—there would
be money to help the migrant labor education problem, including money for
bilingual education, et cetera. So there would be money either in block grants
or categorical grants for that specific problem.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Fred Maley, the city manager of Bal Harbour. I have a
general question here, sir. Your Federal budget for this year shows in excess
of a $75 billion deficit. Your projected 1977 budget, which you are promoting
tonight, shows in excess of a $55 billion deficit.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me correct you. It is $43 billion.
Q. That is counting the cuts in the trust fund. The operational funds show
in excess of $55.5 billion deficit. And it also shows a total budget deficit at the end
of fiscal 1977 of over $700 billion, $720 billion.
THE PRESIDENT. $720 billion of what?
Q. That is what your projected Federal deficit is at the close of fiscal 1977.
THE PRESIDENT. No, you are talking not about the deficit, sir. You are talking
about the Federal debt.
Q. Debt, yes, sir. That is what I meant, sir. You also show personal income taxes
increasing by $23 billion, the largest single jump in the last decade. Looking at
these pages, 56 and 57, we see a trend that is steadily and increasingly downhill,
and I just don't see how our Federal Government is going to turn this around
into a balanced budget in 3 years with these kinds of statistics.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you will take a look at the full budget-you have
the Budget in Brief there-you will see that for the current fiscal year there
285
