February 7
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But let me add this. While we must help those who need it most—and in the
United States in this category there are roughly 3 million—we cannot realistically
afford federally dictated national health insurance providing full coverage for
all 215 million Americans. It is not only the cost, but as we look around the
world, the experience of other countries raises questions about the quality as well
as the cost of such plans.
In another most important area, the time is long, long overdue for Congress
to renew general revenue sharing for the next 5 years. I have asked Congress
some 10 months ago to act on this legislation to bring power back to the people.
General revenue sharing is a program that I think best exemplifies responsive
federalism. It provides assistance to State and local units of government with a
minimum of redtape and administrative expense. It returns Federal dollars to
your community or to your State. It permits local officials elected by you in your
respective townships or communities to set priorities and to plan ahead to meet
local needs, and it doesn't require you to raise local taxes.
From the beginning of general revenue sharing in 1972, which was a real
breakthrough, the projected total for 1976—the Nashua share will be between
$4.5 million and $5 million. Mayor Sullivan, you know how important it is.
The sums expended in this community, according to the wishes of your local
officials, provided as of last year over $1.6 million for public safety, including
police and fire departments, over $1.1 million for environmental protection,
over $200,000 for health, and other sums involving social services for the aged
and for the poor. Almost $5.2 million more would be returned to this growing,
this vigorous community by 1982 under the proposed extension of the legislation
if Congress will move.
From the beginning in 1972 through the projected total for 1976, New Hamp-
shire will receive $96 million. Under the program proposed, which I hope Con-
gress will act upon, another $125 million of your tax dollars would come back
to New Hampshire between 1977 and 1982.
For many reasons—the people I have met here tonight, the people I have met
during the day—I am as optimistic about Nashua and its future as you are. I
am equally optimistic about the future of New Hampshire, in fact all of New
England, and I must add very quickly, all of our 50 States and 215 million
Americans.
Let no exaggeration of inflation or unemployment blind us to the genuine
progress we have achieved within the last year. Our economy is steadily grow-
ing stronger. Our policies are designed to keep us on a very steady and pro-
gressively better course. The course is set for a new balance in the relationship
193
