February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
people to go out and drill wells if they are not going to at least get their money
back. And if they are going to get their money back, they have to have some
incentive. Now I know some people criticize that, but I would rather have
that money go for jobs in America than for jobs over in the Middle East and the
Arab countries.
Now, I think the Congress and I have agreed to a bill that will be helpful over
a period of 40 months, will conserve more and produce more. In the meantime,
we have got to deregulate natural gas. In the meantime, we have got to accelerate
our research and development on solar, geothermal, and other exotic fuels,
because if we don't, we are going to become more and more vulnerable to for-
eign oil sources.
I think we can keep the lid on for a year on gasoline prices, but it will probably
increase slightly over the next 5 years, simply because we are buying 40 percent
of our oil from Arab nations and they control the price, we don't. If we want
the oil, we have to pay the price. The better way is to get our oil out of the
ground and use it and keep the jobs here.
Q. Mr. President, during the last Federal census, our city fell just under the
50,000 mark in population, which did not entitle us to some of the Federal funds
that are available for cities of 50,000 and over. In order to stimulate our economy,
it has been desirous within the city to take a census ourselves that we could pre-
sent to the Federal Government and prove that we have now reached the 50,000
level in order to get some of the funding that is not now available to us to stimu-
late our economy and create new jobs. And I just would like to know what you
would think of an interim type of census?
THE PRESIDENT. Isn't there a provision that if you have an authorized interim
census and the figures are verified and accepted that you can go from one cate-
gory to another?
Q. We have not been successful.
THE PRESIDENT. It's my impression that is permissible. If it is not, it ought to
be because there are unique situations. Certainly, in a State like Florida or
Arizona or, maybe, California, where you have had great growth in a 10-year
span, if there is not such an opportunity, you are penalized unfairly. So if there
is not such permission available, it darn well ought to be.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Tim Lothrop from Hollywood, Florida. There is a great
concern in south Florida concerning the Panama Canal and its treaty. I would
like to know your position on that, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, five Presidents and many administrations have been
negotiating the situation since 1964, when they had the unfortunate killings of
289
