February 19
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, I want to say two things before I ask a question. Number
one, bring your wife with you on all your campaigns. She is a real asset to you.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree. So are my kids, though, and I'm proud of them.
CLOSING OF MILITARY FACILITIES
Q. I have a good many questions. I think when people are well informed
they do right, and you have done it straight with me, and I think you have
done a good job.
I have got a little question I would like to ask. We are thinking of phasing
out Fort Devens. We have phased out almost all of our forts here in New Eng-
land, and I think that you should consider thinking it over before you phase
it out.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me respond to that. The Department of Defense is always
in the process of trying to analyze where they can get the best results from the
utilization of facilities. Three years ago we had 3,500,000 men in the armed
services; today we have 2,100,000, so we don't need as big a base. I'm not
saying that Fort Devens is going to be closed or it won't be closed. All I'm saying
is that the Department of Defense is analyzing the situation because first the
Congress cut them $7 billion in the defense bill for this current fiscal year,
and that is about 8 percent. I added money for next year but, nevertheless, I can
assure you that Fort Devens or any other facilities will get a fair shake, but
the Defense Department will make the analysis.
Thank you very much.
All right. Two more. This young lady back here.
ANGOLA
Q. Mr. President, I would like to know what you feel should be our projected
military involvement in Angola.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think our military involvement should be in Angola
at all. I never proposed that one American soldier ever go to Angola. But I did
say and I tried to convince the Congress that we ought to help in a very small
way the two organizations that were fighting the MPLA [Popular Movement
for the Liberation of Angola]. And those two organizations, UNITA [Na-
tional Union for the Total Independence of Angola] and FNLA [National
Front for the Liberation of Angola], had more Angolans in their organizations
than the MPLA did, and they were winning until 12,000 Cubans and $200
million worth of Soviet arms went into the MPLA.
I am convinced that we should help people who want to help themselves, and
389
