[261]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
particularly those in the middle-income group, greater equity, an opportunity
to spend more of their hard-earned dollars rather than coming through the
Federal bureaucracy.
And those decisions in that committee also have precluded the additional
incentives that I think are vital and required to stimulate business. I hope that
we can undo or upset what this committee has done, but it is disappointing, to
say the least, that they have already, in this critical committee, made this
decision.
But while the committee does not want to cut taxes either individually or for
business, it shows no reluctance to cut the defense budget. Now, to preserve our
rising prosperity as well as our fundamental freedom, we require, as all of you
know, a stable and a peaceful world. A strong defense is essential to achieve
that objective.
The two defense budgets that I have submitted to the Congress, one in
January of 1975 and the other in January 1976, were the largest in the history
of the United States.
With the budget I propose for the next fiscal year, which the Congress got in
January of this year, we have reversed a decline in real defense resources. The
new budget would increase our strategic nuclear forces by $2,100 million in
current dollars. It would increase our conventional forces by $6,800 million and
bolster our defense research and development programs by $1,800 million.
There are other significant increases as well.
Now, Californians are especially aware of our national security requirements.
You know them not only because of the participation of your colleges and
universities in research and development, not only because of your industry that
makes significant contributions to our defense and security programs but you
are on the border, so to speak, and everybody in this State has a great stake in
what we are trying to do, whether it is in research and development or weapons
procurement.
But what worries me and what should worry all of you is that over the last
6 years, including one budget that I submitted to the Congress, the congres-
sional anti-Defense Department group-you can call them budget cutters—
aiming only at the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, have slashed defense
expenditures by $32 billion.
Now, while slashing away at our military programs, the same group in the
Congress, with some exceptions, has added substantial expenditures in a wide
variety of marginal domestic programs.
816
