[212]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
there have been no secret deals made, and secondly, after the election, are we
going to hear that the other half have been withdrawn?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first there are no secret deals made. In 1972, when the
Shanghai communique was signed, which called for the normalization of rela-
tions between the United States and the People's Republic of China, it was agreed
that there would be a reduction from the U.S. troop commitment on Taiwan.
At that time, there were roughly 10,000 U.S. military personnel stationed on
Taiwan. It has been gradually reduced from 1972 to the present level of approx-
imately 3,000. This has come about for a number of reasons. One, the situation
in Southeast Asia has changed significantly. The war in Vietnam is over and
some of those forces there were related to our operations in Vietnam. Other cir-
cumstances have changed in the Pacific area.
We have continued, not secretly, but openly, to reduce from approximately
10,000 down to the present level of 3,000, and those present levels will probably
be decreased. I cannot give you the precise number, but whatever we have done
in that regard has been told to the Congress. It is on the record. Under no circum-
stances is it a secret deal. It is a part of what was promised in 1972 and the
changed military circumstances in the Pacific area.
Q. Mr. President, is there a long-range plan to withdraw our complete troop
commitment from Taiwan and someday scale down our recognition of the Na-
tionalist Government on Taiwan?
THE PRESIDENT. We will continue to have some forces on Taiwan. The exact
number has not been determined but there is no final decision as to the precise
number or the precise timing.
U.S. MILITARY STRENGTH
[13.] Q. Mr. President, in Illinois you said under no circumstances will we
play second fiddle to anybody militarily. Does this mean that you consider that
we are not now second when the Soviet Union has 50 percent more Polaris sub-
marines and 60 percent more ICBM's than the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. I categorically say that the United States is second to none
militarily now, and if the Congress carries out my military budget for fiscal year
1977, we will continue to be second to none militarily. I think what you have to
do is take a look at what we have, which is what our military leaders have told
me, and previous Presidents, we need for our national security.
We have far more warheads. We have far better accuracy of our ballistic
missiles. We have many, many, many more aircraft of a strategic capability—
688
