[118]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is one of our great potentials. It is not something that is going to come
overnight in a vast way, but it has a long-range potentiality where we must
do the research and development, and we are doing it right now.
I think I am always an optimist; I think we will get a breakthrough quicker
than some of the pessimists feel.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Henry Mayrand, I'm with the Dover Lions
Club. My question to you is: How can we stop the environmental freaks from
halting construction of a nuclear powerplant in Seabrook, New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that all of you recognize that once an application
for the construction of a nuclear powerplant is in the hands of a regulatory
agency—whether I want the issue before that agency to be as protracted or
contentious as it is—that it would be inappropriate for the President to interject
himself in and tell the five members of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency [Com-
mission] that they should do something one way or another.
I think it would be unethical, and furthermore, I think it probably would
be illegal. I can only say that I am a strong advocate of nuclear power. I happen
to believe that the safety record and the reliability record of the 50 nuclear
plants that we have around the country has been good.
In January of 1975, in my State of the Union Message, I said we had to
construct 200 more nuclear powerplants in the next 10 years. I have faith in
their reliability and their safety. And to make sure of that, I added money
rather significantly in the budget for the next fiscal year to make certain that
the Energy Research and Development Agency [Administration] would
proceed to make certain of safety and reliability.
So, number one, I am optimistic that we can build them on a nationwide
basis. Number two, I think it is absolutely essential that they be built and made
operative. But for me to pass judgment in the position I have and tell an agency
or an independent agency that they should do this or do that just isn't the right
thing to do.
Now, I would like to add, it is my observation that the pendulum has swung
so that we have many responsible environmentalists who are not taking the
positions they did 3 or 4 years ago, and I think that is encouraging because they
know that we now have limitations and restrictions that are responsible. And
they also know that we must free this country from being held up by the Arab
oil cartel, and nuclear energy is one way we can free ourselves.
398
