[86]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
PUBLIC WORKS BILL
[9.] Q. Today you vetoed the $6 billion public works bill that was de-
signed to create 600,000 new jobs. Are you confident that the Nation is making
a good enough economic recovery that no new Federal jobs program will be
needed?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say we have had some excellent news last week.
We got an indication that the unemployment rate had dropped by half a
percentage point, the best record in 16 years of a drop. In addition, we have
800,000 more Americans gainfully employed in January than we had in De-
cember, and 2,100,000 more since last March. The unemployment trend is
down; the employment trend is up, and we are very encouraged.
Then we had some good news this morning. The Wholesale Price Index
showed no increase, which means that no increase in January, 1.4 percent-
minus in December, and a zero increase in November. So, for the last 3
months, a quarter of a year, we have had a minus movement as far as the
Wholesale Price Index is concerned.
So, both employment and unemployment and the Wholesale Price Index
were doing very well, and I am optimistic that if we keep the economy going
the way it is going, there is not any need for a $6 billion inflationary, so-
called jobs bill.
It seems to me if you add $6 billion to the Federal deficit, which that bill
would do, all you are doing is helping to reignite the fires of inflation. In
that bill, for every job it will cost the Federal Government $25,000.
I think the better way to solve unemployment is to make certain that the
private sector of our economy, where five out of every six jobs exist, gets
some inspiration and some incentive and, if the Congress would pass the tax
proposal that I recommended, we would be a lot better off than this, I think,
inflationary, so-called jobs bill.
FLORIDA PRIMARY ELECTION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, Senator Tower, of Texas, was in Orlando cam-
paigning on your behalf earlier this week. During a news conference here,
he said your candidacy could survive a loss here in Florida, but that Ronald
Reagan's could not. The first part of my question is, do you agree with his
assessment, and the second part is, what effect would a Reagan victory here
in Florida have on your candidacy?
THE PRESIDENT. It would be a disappointment, because I think we are going
266
