[70]
February 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have made progress in recent years. We have responded, for example, to
recommendations made at the 1971 White House Conference on Aging. A
Supplemental Security Income program was enacted. Social Security benefits
have been increased in accord with increases in the cost of living. The Social
Security retirement test was liberalized. Many inequities in payments to women
have been eliminated. The 35 million workers who have earned rights in private
pension plans now have increased protection.
In addition we have continued to strengthen the Older Americans Act. I have
supported the concept of the Older Americans Act since its inception in 1965,
and last November signed the most recent amendments into law.
A key component of the Older Americans Act is the national network on
aging which provides a solid foundation on which action can be based. I am
pleased that we have been able to assist in setting up this network of 56 State
and 489 Area Agencies on Aging, and 700 local nutrition agencies. These local
nutrition agencies for example provide 300,000 hot meals a day five days a week.
The network provides a structure which can be used to attack other important
problems. A concern of mine is that the voice of the elderly, as consumers, be
heard in the governmental decision-making process. The network on aging
offers opportunities for this through membership on advisory councils related
to State and Area Agencies on Aging, Nutrition Project Agencies and by par-
ticipation in public hearings on the annual State and Area Plans. Such involve-
ment can and will have a significant impact on determining what services for
the aging are to be given the highest priorities at the local level.
The principal goal of this National Network on Aging is to bring into being
coordinated comprehensive systems for the provision of service to the elderly at
the community level. I join in the call for hard and creative work at all levels-
Federal, State and Area in order to achieve this objective. I am confident that
progress can be made.
Toward this end, the Administration on Aging and a number of Federal
Departments and agencies have signed agreements which will help to make
available to older persons a fair share of the Federal funds available in such areas
as housing, transportation, social services, law enforcement, adult education and
manpower—resources which can play a major role in enabling older persons to
continue to live in their own homes.
Despite these efforts, however, five percent of our older men and women
require the assistance provided by skilled nursing homes and other long term
care facilities. To assist these citizens, an ombudsman process, related solely to
the persons in these facilities, is being put into operation by the National Net-
238
