[97]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
stitution puts the obligation to insure domestic tranquillity in the same cate-
gory as providing for the common defense.
We recall in this Bicentennial Year that our Founding Fathers adhered
to the dictum of John Locke: Where there is no law, there is no freedom.
The overwhelming majority of Americans are law-abiding citizens. It is a
small, hard core of lawbreakers who commit a very large proportion of all
crimes.
A recent study in one major metropolitan area recently showed that within
one single year more than 200 burglaries, 60 rapes, and 14 murders were com-
mitted by only 10 individuals. Most serious crimes are committed by repeaters.
Such criminals duly tried and convicted must be removed from our society
for a definite period of time. The law-abiding majority also has its rights and,
as Chief Executive, I intend to see that those rights are given full weight on
the scales of justice in America.
With very few exceptions, I strongly advocate mandatory minimum sen-
tences for individuals who commit Federal crimes or offenses involving the
use of a dangerous weapon or who commit such grave offenses as aircraft
hijacking, kidnaping, and dealing in hard drugs, and for repeat offenders
who commit Federal crimes that harm or endanger others. Too many violent
and habitual criminals are convicted but never spend a single day in prison.
The lack of certainty tempts the mugger and, yes, even the murderer. We
must shorten their odds if we are to deter lawbreakers.
The way to reduce criminal use of handguns is not to disarm law-abiding
citizens. The way to reduce criminal use of handguns is to impose mandatory
sentences for gun crimes, to make it harder to obtain "Saturday night specials,"
and to concentrate our gun control in high crime areas.
Last July, I recommended to the Congress a bill to achieve these objectives,
and I urge and strongly advocate action by the Congress to act immediately
and without harassing the lawful gun owner.
The vast, vast majority of victims of violent crime in Florida and throughout
the United States are the poor, the old, the children—the most defenseless of
our fellow citizens.
When people fear for their physical safety, they are rightfully afraid to
use our streets. They lose their inherent freedom to come and go as they
please—a right that I think is very important to all of us.
Even the young and strong are endangered by criminals ready to maim
and to kill, but older people are especially vulnerable. A mugger, by just snatch-
ing a purse or a wallet, may actually do terrible injury to an elderly person.
328
