February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
[4.] Q. Mr. Ford, my name is David Mason from Manchester. I am a mem-
ber of the New Hampshire People's Bicentennial Commission. They are plan-
ning to build a nuclear powerplant in Seabrook, and the people around here
don't want it. Recently, three officials from GE, who have been working—they
comprised 54 years of research and technology on the nuclear plants-have stated
nuclear plants are unsafe. Mr. Reagan told me Thursday night that he wants a
moratorium on them. How do you stand on nuclear powerplants? Be careful.
THE PRESIDENT. The safety record of nuclear plants to date has been good. It
is not good enough, and in the budget that I submitted to the Congress in
January, there includes a substantial increase in research and development funds
to improve the safety and the reliability of nuclear plants.
It is my judgment that we can do better in safety and in reliability, and that is
why there has been a substantial increase in the budget that I suggested. In the
long run, I am confident that our scientific community can improve so that we
virtually eliminate any problems whatsoever in this area so that we can proceed
with the utilization of the atom for peaceful purposes.
There is no reason in the world why we should not take this capability and
utilize it so we don't have to be reliant on Arab oil for the movement of our
society.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[5.] Q. It is my feelings that nuclear power is being put in for profit. I think
we should get tons of more research into alternatives like hydropower, solar
power-
THE PRESIDENT. Let's be specific; let's not talk in generalities. Again, if I
might refer to the budget that I submitted to the Congress this year, I had a 35-
percent increase in the funding for solar research, and we had a substantial in-
crease in the funding and research and development for geothermal energy
development. We have increased very substantially the research and develop-
ment funds in the fossil fuels area. We are doing our very best to find, develop,
and utilize these various exotic fuels.
But I don't think we can totally ignore the atom when we can, through sound
research, improve safety and reliability. It is the best insurance right now in the
next 5 to 10 years for escaping complete dependence on Arab oil, and America
shouldn't be put in that position.
219
