January 19
[19]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Five out of six jobs in this country are in private business and in industry.
Common sense tells us this is the place to look for more jobs and to find them
faster. I mean real, rewarding, permanent jobs.
To achieve this we must offer the American people greater incentives to invest
in the future. My tax proposals are a major step in that direction. To supplement
these proposals, I ask that Congress enact changes in Federal tax laws that will
speed up plant expansion and the purchase of new equipment. My recommenda-
tions will concentrate this job-creation tax incentive in areas where the unem-
ployment rate now runs over 7 percent. Legislation to get this started must be
approved at the earliest possible date.
Within the strict budget total that I will recommend for the coming year, I
will ask for additional housing assistance for 500,000 families. These programs
will expand housing opportunities, spur construction, and help to house mod-
erate- and low-income families.
We had a disappointing year in the housing industry in 1975. But with lower
interest rates and available mortgage money, we can have a healthy recovery
in 1976.
A necessary condition of a healthy economy is freedom from the petty tyranny
of massive government regulation. We are wasting literally millions of working
hours costing billions of taxpayers' and consumers' dollars because of bureau-
cratic redtape. The American farmer, who now feeds 215 million Americans, but
also millions worldwide, has shown how much more he can produce without the
shackles of government control.
Now, we badly need reforms in other key areas in our economy: the airlines,
trucking, railroads, and financial institutions. I have submitted concrete plans
in each of these areas, not to help this or that industry, but to foster competition
and to bring prices down for the consumer.
This administration, in additon, will strictly enforce the Federal antitrust laws
for the very same purposes.
Taking a longer look at America's future, there can be neither sustained
growth nor more jobs unless we continue to have an assured supply of energy
to run our economy. Domestic production of oil and gas is still declining. Our
dependence on foreign oil at high prices is still too great, draining jobs and
dollars away from our own economy at the rate of $125 per year for every
American.
Last month, I signed a compromise national energy bill which enacts a part
of my comprehensive energy independence program. This legislation was late,
35
