March 1
[169]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
grant. The focus of this block grant will be on improved educational opportuni-
ties for those with special needs—the handicapped and educationally deprived.
Federal funds will be provided with a minimum of Federal regulation and a
maximum of local control. My proposal is based on the conviction that education
needs can be most effectively and creatively met by allowing States greater
flexibility in the use of Federal funds.
I am particularly pleased at the extent to which my proposal reflects extensive
consultations with individuals, organizations representing publicly elected offi-
cials and leaders in the education community. The proposal has been modified
and strengthened since the time of my State of the Union message as a result
of suggestions we received. I am convinced it represents essential changes in our
system of providing aid to education.
My proposals will consolidate programs in the following areas:
• Elementary and Secondary Education
• Education for the Handicapped
• Adult Education
• Vocational Education
To assure that students with special needs receive proper attention the pro-
posed legislation provides that 75 percent of a State's allocation be spent on the
educationally deprived and handicapped, and that vocational education pro-
grams continue to be supported. The same strong civil rights compliance pro-
cedures that exist in the programs to be consolidated are included in this
legislation.
Under the proposed legislation, funds will be allocated to States based on a
formula which takes into account the number of school-aged children and the
number of children from low-income families. No State will receive less money
than it did in Fiscal Year 1976 under the programs to be consolidated. Further,
local education agencies will be assured that the funds will reach the local level,
where children are taught and where control should be exercised.
Vocational education is an important part of our total education system.
Here, too, my proposal seeks greater flexibility at the local level while maintain-
ing Federal support. States would be required to spend a portion of the funds
they receive on vocational education, giving special emphasis to the educationally
deprived and the handicapped.
Non-public school and Indian tribal children would continue to be eligible
for assistance under this proposal. Where States do not serve such children, the
Commissioner of Education will arrange to provide funds directly, using the
appropriate share of the State's funds.
501
