April 2
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
TEAMSTERS TRUCKING STRIKE
[4.] Q. Mr. President, this is an economic forum, I am told, and the ques-
tion I have, while it is simple, has considerable economic impact today. Do you
intend to invoke the cooling-off period in the Taft-Hartley Act in the present
Teamsters strike?
THE PRESIDENT. I intend to anticipate that the negotiations between labor
and management will result in a contract, and I received a telephone call last
night late from Secretary of Labor Usery who felt that progress had been made.
I received a call from him earlier today just before landing here. He was in-
creasingly optimistic, although he said they still had one or two very difficult
problems to resolve.
I think it would be harmful as far as the current negotiations for me to say
I am going to do this if you don't do that. They are making headway. I am
optimistic that they will solve their problems, both as to money and the various
other issues, and I don't think it would be constructive for me to indicate what
I am going to do, because I think they are going to solve it themselves, which
is the best way under the American system.
Q. Mr. President, my question has just been answered. [Laughter] I thank
you.
REVENUE SHARING PROGRAM
[5.] Q. Mr. President, if the Congress fails to reenact Federal revenue shar-
ing, State and local budgets will really be wrecked, and there will be a likelihood
of substantial tax increases on the State or local level. What is the prognosis for a
reenactment of revenue sharing prior to December 31?
THE PRESIDENT. I appreciate your bringing up the subject because I think this
is one of the most essential pieces of legislation that Congress should have acted
on a few months ago. Let me illustrate the magnitude.
Under the present general revenue sharing legislation which was enacted in
1972 and expires December 31, 1976, the State of Wisconsin in toto for the State
and local units of government will have received $750 million, roughly, with the
State getting one-third and the local units of government getting two-thirds.
Now, this law expires December 31, 1976.
A year ago in April I urged the Congress to extend it for a 534-year period and
asked for a growth factor of $150 million per year. And if the Congress were to
enact what I recommended, the State of Wisconsin in that 534-year period would
get $1 billion, again divided one-third to the State and two-thirds to the local
units of government.
911
