[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
tend college, and specifically, the private institutions as opposed to the public
institutions.
THE PRESIDENT. We have a number of financial aid programs for students.
The emphasis is, I must admit, primarily at what we categorize as a needy stu-
dent, and under the Basic Opportunity Grant programs, BOG's, we recom-
mended in this budget $1,100 million.
We also have several other programs. We have a work program, a work in-
centive program, so a student on a campus can get employment under the direc-
tion of the school or the university. We also have a student loan program, which
has helped countless thousands. There are one or two other programs, but those
are basically the programs. Then, in addition—and this, I think, is a very funda-
mental question—in the tax reduction bill that I recommended last year, which
the Congress did not accept in toto, I recommended that a better tax break go
to the middle-income people, because over the years—I know from being in the
Congress—there has been an increasing burden put on the middle-income indi-
vidual, whether he is blue collar or white collar.
And in the tax reduction proposal that I submitted with the State of the
Union, the Economic Report, I reiterated that. That will help, if Congress
passes it, the kind of people who are from $9,000 to $25,000 a year. It is a seg-
ment of our society that at the Federal level has gotten short shrift compared to
others. And I think, fundamentally, in the long run that is the best way to handle
and help the problem you are talking about, plus the individual student aid
programs I have indicated.
One more.
Q. Mr. President, George Roberts, State representative from Gilmanton. In
the Northeast we are particularly concerned about the cost of oil, particularly
for home fuel oil, and I understand that under your budget you have a compre-
hensive program for independence from the foreign nations by 1985.
Could you just briefly state how the State of New Hampshire would be affected
by that in that interim, and what is your position on the use of nuclear energy as
a fuel substitute?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the last part first. A year ago in January in
my State of the Union Message, I laid out the things we had to do in order to get
energy independence, and one of them was that we had to build 200 new nuclear
powerplants in the United States between then and 1985. The unfortunate
part is that that program has slowed down for several reasons: One, financing;
two, a great many lawsuits filed by environmentalists and others and some
concern on the part of people that there was a safety factor.
184
