April 3
[291]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. The differences between Ronald Reagan and yourself, are they going to
hurt the Republican Party?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope not, but certainly some of the comments con-
cerning the United States I don't happen to think are necessarily good at all.
It is my feeling that the United States is number one. We are unsurpassed in
military capability, we have the greatest industrial capacity in the history of
mankind, our agriculture is by far the most productive in the history of the
world, we are ahead by any standards in science and technology and, besides
that, we have the greatest moral, spiritual, and religious strength.
So, when you put it all together, the United States is number one, and anyone
who says it isn't, I think is harmful, is hurtful to our overall efforts.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:10 p.m. at Austin Straubel Air Field.
291
Remarks in Green Bay at Dedication Ceremonies for the
Green Bay Packers Hall of Fame Building. April 3, 1976
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and Bart and all of the wonderful fans
of the Green Bay Packers:
Obviously, it is a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have an
opportunity to participate in this groundbreaking ceremony.
As I was flying up here today I could not help but think of the great, great
traditions that the Green Bay Packers have developed over the years—the won-
derful ballplayers, and the superb coaches that have done a great, great job.
And then I began to think about the experiences that I have had with some
of the Green Bay people. I played with one of your alltime greats. I was almost
signed to play with the Green Bay Packers by one of your coaches, your first
coach and a coach here a good many years. I have known your present coach a
great many years, and I had an opportunity to know Curley Lambeau ¹—I
mean, Vince Lombardi 2 for a number of years.
Back in 1935 in the All-Star game in Chicago, I played with the All-Stars
against the Chicago Bears, and that was the year that Don Hutson had finished
at the University of Alabama and came and played and then came up here and
¹ Founder, former general manager and head coach of the Green Bay Packers professional football
team.
2 Head coach of the Green Bay Packers 1959-67.
949
