February 17
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Intelligence, and the Oversight Board-will be responsible to me, so that the
President will continue to be ultimately accountable for our intelligence
activities.
Second, to improve the performance of the intelligence agencies and to restore
public confidence in them, I am issuing a comprehensive set of public guidelines
which will serve as legally binding charters for our intelligence activities. The
charters will provide stringent protections for the rights of American citizens.
I will soon meet with congressional leaders to map our legislation to provide
judicial safeguards against electronic surveillance and mail openings. I will
also support legislation that would prohibit attempts on the lives of foreign
leaders in peacetime.
Third, tomorrow, I will send to the Congress special legislation to safeguard
critical intelligence secrets. This legislation would make it a crime for a Gov-
ernment employee who has access to certain highly classified information to
reveal that information improperly.
I have been guided by two imperatives. As Americans, we must not and
will not tolerate actions by our Government which will abridge the rights
of our citizens. At the same time, we must maintain a strong and effective
intelligence capability in the United States. I will not be a party to the dis-
mantling of the CIA or other intelligence agencies. To be effective, our foreign
policy must be based upon a clear understanding of the international environ-
ment. To operate without adequate and timely intelligence information will
cripple our security in a world that is still hostile to our freedoms.
Nor can we confine our intelligence to the question of whether there will be
an imminent military attack. We also need information about the world's
economy, about political and social trends, about food supply, population
growth and, certainly, about terrorism.
To protect our security diplomatically, militarily, and economically, we must
have a comprehensive intelligence capability. The United States is a peace-
loving nation and our foreign policy is designed to lessen the threat of war as
well as aggression. In recent years, we have made substantial progress toward
that goal—in the Middle East, in Europe, in Asia, and elsewhere throughout
the world.
Yet, we also recognize that the best way to secure the peace is to be fully
prepared to defend our interests. I believe firmly in peace through strength. A
central pillar of our strength is, of course, our armed forces. But another great
pillar must be our intelligence community-the dedicated men and women
349
