[210]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
freedom here and to work with those who want freedom elsewhere. But the
long-range goal of this country ought to be-this is the vision or the dream
that I think we ought to have for you and those your age—we want freedom,
freedom from mass government, freedom from mass education, freedom from
mass industry and mass labor.
We want individuals to have that great opportunity, the freedom that was
enjoyed by our forefathers more than 200 years ago. That is what we want for
you and those like you when you are the age of many of the people in this
auditorium or this gymnasium. That is the long-range goal, and I think we are
making some headway toward it.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to present my thanks, on behalf of this
school and everyone in it and the entire neighborhood, for you being here and
explaining the policies that have illuminated a lot of people who may have
been in the dark about these kinds of things. It will enable us to vote in a
much more intelligent manner, so I am highly appreciative of the fact that
you came here, not just the fact that you are high in principle.
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to thank again the administration of Buffalo
Grove and the wonderful students and the fine faculty, and I would especially
like to thank the people who came who are not connected with the school sys-
tem and to offer a special compliment and congratulations to the young people
and others who have asked such fine questions. It has been a great inspira-
tion and a wonderful opportunity to be here in Buffalo Grove.
Thank you very, very much.
[At this point, the President left the gymnasium and continued the question-and-answer
session in the fieldhouse where the overflow crowd had assembled.]
THE PRESIDENT. What a wonderful, wonderful group to be so patient and to
just listen. I can't thank you enough for coming and waiting to hear me say an
extra word or two.
I am just impressed, as I said in there, with the fine facilities you have here
at Buffalo Grove, the wonderful students, and all the fine administration, in-
cluding the faculty.
I will tell you, I will make a deal with you. Now be quiet. We will take four
questions. Now wait a minute. They have to be from somebody that is close
enough so I can hear it. Now wait a minute. We will take two over here, and
we will take two over there. Now wait a minute. That young man with a good
loud voice back over there. Go ahead.
676
