[288]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, how do you justify Mr. Meany's¹ delaying action of the
grain shipment to Russia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the decision on Mr. Meany's part to embargo grain ship-
ments, I think, was unjustified. But the problem was, how do we solve it?
Now, if there had been court action—and some people had undertaken court
action to stop it—that would have been a long process. It would have taken,
under our court system, a local court decision. It could have been appealed. It
could have been appealed for a period of 6 or 8 months, and the whole ship-
ment of grain would have been held at the ports. And that would not have
helped anything, because grain would have backed up all the way to the farms
here in Iowa and Nebraska and Wisconsin and elsewhere.
So, the better way to do it was to undertake what we did—was to negotiate a
long-term grain shipment arrangement with the Soviet Union, so we have a
guaranteed minimum of 6 million tons per year and for 5 years. In that way, we
got the labor unions to back off, and we could continue to ship the grain that was
already contracted for. And we didn't have the backup that would have created
a catastrophe in transportation and a storage problem for the farmers on their
own farms.
So, in order to avoid that, we did what we did. It was not capitulation to Mr.
Meany, it was a practical solution to a practical problem. And we ended up
with a firm arrangement for the shipment or the purchase of at least 6 million
tons of American grain, an assured market, and the American farmer is going
to be the beneficiary.
Q. Mr. President, I am president of the Lake Winnebego Area Health Systems
Agency. I am very concerned, as a farmer, about rural health care or the lack of
it. Even in the best of rural areas, health care is wanting. And this situation does
not appear to be changing, since statistically the doctors in the rural areas are
older doctors, and it is questionable for their replacement. What do you have as
a program to help rural health care and the rural health care needs?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, in the last 5 years there has been a tremen-
dous increase in medical school education facilities. Mel Laird had a lot to do
with that program when he was in the Congress. We are expanding our medical
schools. We have many, many more doctors being trained all over the country.
We have a number of new medical schools. So the supply of doctors will increase.
The problem is how to get them out into the rural communities. I am told that
there is a growing trend, as they discuss with medical students what they want to
do-whether they want to be a specialist or a general practitioner, et cetera―
¹ George Meany, AFL-CIO president.
938
