March 17
[225]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And we have some good evidence of that here tonight. The Irish have that love
of people, gift of language, warmth of heart, and capacity of courage that makes
them grand and great competition.
We pay tribute to the long, long friendship as well as the kinship of the Irish
and the American people. But while honoring the past, Mr. Prime Minister, we
face the challenge of the future. As we value your friendship, so we value your
cooperation with us on these great issues that we have to face on a day-to-day
basis.
Your visit and the talks we had this morning are of great importance not only
for the American-Irish relations, but for our efforts to work together on the
issues confronting our entire world community. Ireland, not only in the past
but the present, has much to give to the world. Possessed of an ancient civiliza-
tion and very rich culture, the Irish are devoted—as we are—to democracy,
individual freedom, and constructive participation in international political
arenas.
Ireland is a leader in the quest for a just peace among nations. They have
contributed very actively and effectively in the United Nations, and you have
done much to perfect the United Nations peacekeeping effort throughout
the world.
Distinguished Irishmen have served as the Presidents not only of the United
Nations but of the League of Nations, and you should all be very proud of that
responsibility.
More recently, Ireland has taken a very effective role in the European Com-
munity. And we deeply appreciate the achievement of close consultations
between this Community and the United States during your term as President
of the European Community.
Mr. Prime Minister, I know from our discussions this morning that we are
both determined to expand the relations between our two countries. We have
dedicated ourselves to peace and to progress of not only our nations but all peo-
ples, with a firm commitment to cooperate with one another, with all humanity,
to a common purpose. Mr. Prime Minister, this is one of the finest traditions of
this wonderful day, which is dedicated to St. Patrick. I can assure you that today
is not only a great day for the Irish but it has also been a great day for Betty and
myself.
Let me say that we thank you, Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Cosgrave, for
sharing St. Patrick's Day with us. And to all of the people, some 215 million
Americans, it is a great occasion for us in our Bicentennial Year.
733
