[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
voluntarily and the poor States won't, and the same harmful effect you men-
tioned will continue.
VICE PRESIDENT Rockefeller. Yes, but what you don't—excuse me, sir. I
mean, what I would like to point out-[laughter]—is that with the require-
ment that the Federal Government has had for years, that you have got to en-
rich and improve your programs if you want to get matching funds. Well, if
your programs are already rich and improved and you want to get Federal funds,
you have to make it more rich and more improved. And the result is that our
standards in New York went higher and higher-higher than we felt they
should--but that was the only way we could get the Federal money and, there-
fore, it distorted our whole structure.
This was, I understand, Congress' attitude on this. They don't want to
give money and have it substitute for local tax money, but if you are already
doing the job, why should you increase it when there are other things you
need more or when you should reduce taxes, which is what we wanted to do,
but couldn't do because of these laws.
This is a very complex situation, and the special interest groups—and I
understand that, too—instead of going to 50 State legislatures, that it was much
easier for them to go to Congress. They get a constituency in Congress and in
the congressional staffs and in the bureaucracy of the Federal Government.
And they have got a situation going that is very powerful. And I admire tre-
mendously the President's courage in stepping up to this thing and facing it
as he has and having the confidence and the belief and the faith in the American
people and their elected representatives at State and local government. This
is what America is all about. And I think this is a very significant step and a
turning point in our country, and is going to be welcomed by the States and
local governments, and that includes cities and counties.
THE PRESIDENT. I might make two added comments. We have two block
grant programs at the present time; one, the community development pro-
gram, which consolidated seven categorical grant programs for the aid and
assistance of urban communities. That program is in effect, it works well,
and the communities were held harmless in the transition process.
The Law Enforcement Assistance Act was also a block grant program
which gives flexibility to the States in the decisionmaking process. It is working
well.
So, it can work. I believe the Congress will move. And it is a far better pro-
gram than one that dumps the responsibility on the States and doesn't give
them any assistance in the funding.
56
