[94]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
But, I know that not only the doctors that you have and the personnel that
serve you but the many veterans organizations that come out and try to be
helpful-the wives, the veterans themselves—this is a great aid and assist, I
know, to all of you who are unfortunately in the hospital.
But we have a tremendous program that started 2 years ago to upgrade the
facilities and quality care in VA hospitals. Last year, in January, when I sub-
mitted the budget for the VA, I added $404 million to carry out the recommen-
dations that we had to have more people, we had to have more equipment and,
in addition, I recommended—and we are trying to achieve it—some 7,000 more
personnel for the 180-some hospitals under VA jurisdiction.
But even that program was not enough, and in the budget that I submitted
in January of this year, we added another 1,700 more people to help achieve
quality care for our veterans in every one of the 180-some VA hospitals.
What I am really saying is our country owes a tremendous debt of gratitude
to the veterans who have fought for freedom and liberty for 215 million Ameri-
cans. With the help of the VFW, the American Legion and the AMVETS, and
all of the other veterans organizations, and with the help of the people in the
executive branch of the Government, with the help of the people in the Con-
gress, we are going to make certain that quality care is given to every veteran
who fought for America in our military conflicts.
Good luck, and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:07 p.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Representative
C. W. Bill Young, James F. Haile, director,
and Dr. Henry F. Burke, chief of staff of the
hospital.
95
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Campaign
Rally in Ft. Myers, Florida. February 14, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Skip, Congressman Lou Frey, Colonel Lou Antol,
Cas Peacock, Reverend Browning, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me say it has been a great, great experience to come to Ft. Myers in south-
west Florida. Thank you very much.
Nothing would be more unwise than for me to pass judgment on where the
largest crowds were. I love every one of them and this one I love especially.
Thank you very much.
I am especially pleased also to be here in the second home of Thomas Edison.
It is clear from the great Pageant of Light Celebration today, with the parade
310
