March 6
[191]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The President. Well I just signed, about a month ago, the $6 billion Rail
Revitalization Act which I recommended to the Congress and the Congress
passed. And under that legislation, there will be a significant contribution
made to the rail revitalization in this area of the State of Illinois. We will try
to buy better equipment. We will try to rebuild the road, and we will do a
lot of things to make the railroads a more vital part of our economy.
Q. President Ford, we have got a problem down here in southern Illinois.
We have got some 5 million blackbirds roosting in an old Christmas tree
farm. We are not the only part of Illinois that has got the birds, and we are
not the only State in the United States that has the birds. Illinois farmers are
particularly frustrated about the Government's seeming inability to do any-
thing about it. Should you be elected, would you support legislation next year
favoring getting rid of these damn birds once and for all?
The President. Well, I was talking to Senator Percy about that problem on
the way down here, and I am very cognizant of the dangers, both to health and
otherwise. But I remind you that about 2 weeks ago, I signed legislation that
would give certain authority in the areas of Tennessee and Kentucky for some
action to try and eliminate or eradicate that problem in that particular area. My
answer to you is, I have already done something in the area where it was very
acute. And I think that is something we have to face up to and find a better an-
swer, because, apparently, what was tried in that area was not too successful. So,
I will work with the Congress in trying to find something so we can eliminate
the problem you indicate.
Q. Mr. President, what about the recent misconduct on the part of big cor-
porations such as Lockheed? What does your administration plan to do to see
that that kind of overseas illegal involvement that violates our domestic laws
does not happen again?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as this administration is concerned, we will not tolerate
any violation of domestic laws in the United States or the laws of any country
in which an American corporation operates. I have put together a top level group
in my administration to study the problem and to make sure that we have all
the answers we can possibly get so this bad image of the United States will end,
period.
Thank you all very, very much. It is nice to see you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:40 p.m. at the Williamson Airport.
581
