March 9
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am particularly attracted to the theme of this convention, "Building America
in the Spirit of "76." It is a fitting theme for a Bicentennial Year. You can point
with pride to the fact that an early forerunner of this organization built Car-
penters Hall in Philadelphia where patriots met at the First Continental Con-
gress and planted the seeds of the greatest Nation in the history of the world.
Your history, your progress, your prosperity, and even your hard times have
been closely linked with America's own. And as the president of this association,
Jack, as you have said, you prosper only if the entire economy in which you
operate is likewise healthy.
In the recent past we all recognize America's economic health has not been
very good. The construction industry has been especially hard-hit by the worst
economic recession America has suffered in the last 40 years. But there can be
no doubt now that our national economy is rebounding in a strong, solid, and a
very encouraging way. Every week we are hearing more and more and more
good economic news.
Unemployment—surely one of the strongest and stubbornest of all our eco-
nomic enemies—has been reduced from a high of 8.9 percent nationwide just
last May to the current rate of 7.6.
The January unemployment figures showed the biggest monthly improve-
ment in more than 16 years. Now, some cynics or skeptics call it a fluke; I called
progress, and the unemployment figures for February proved me 100 percent
right. For the last 4 months we have been winning the battles against unem-
ployment, and we are not going to stop until we win the war, and the quicker
the better.
The economic statistics for February also showed that we have recovered 100
percent of the jobs lost by America during the recession. The figures actually
showed that 86.3 million Americans were gainfully employed in February, reach-
ing the alltime high of gainfully employed in this great country. This is real, un-
deniable progress. But we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until every
American who wants a job can find a job and we have full employment in all
50 States.
Yes, we are waging a war on other economic enemies as well-inflation—the
cruelest, most deceitful, and most pervasive tax of all has been cut almost half
since September of 1974. That is still not good enough, but we will do better and
better in the months ahead. I will keep the pressure on until inflation is no longer
a threat to our savings, to our paychecks, and to our economic future.
Let me speak for a moment about the Federal budget. For the last 10 years
Federal spending has been increasing at the annual rate of 10 percent. In the
595
