March 13
[211]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the big game in November." A President of the United States needs a Congress
that is understanding and cooperative. We have had our share of difficulties
with this present Congress. What we need is a Congress that is significantly
different from the one we have at the present time.
So, we have got to get good candidates. We have to support those Republican
candidates for the Congress, and it is just as important that we likewise support
our candidate for Governor, our candidate for the State legislature, our candi-
date for local office. And I hope and trust that as we move toward November
that each and every one of you will understand, yes, vote for the President, but
let's make certain, let's make positive, that we do just as well for our congres-
sional candidates, for our gubernatorial candidates, for our legislative candidates,
and for our local candidates. This is a team.
Now, we have the Irish for Ford. We can't lose. [Laughter]
Let me close this gathering with all of you from the great State of Illinois—I
have Illinois colors on—[laughter]—by thanking you again. This has been a
great trip on this occasion. It was a wonderful trip last week. If there is anything
more you think we can do, let me know.
When we leave here, we head for the next primary-North Carolina. The win
here in Illinois will give us the kind of momentum that we got from Florida for
Illinois. So, I urge you and I strongly ask you, do everything you possibly can
between now and Tuesday so this momentum, this ball rolling will go faster
and faster and more successfully.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:34 a.m. at the
Chicago Airport Marriott Inn.
Prior to his remarks, the President met with
Chicago area President Ford Committee senior staff
workers. Following his remarks, he attended a recep-
tion for Chicago area delegate candidates.
212
The President's News Conference of
March 13, 1976
AT THE outset, I am delighted to be here on the Guilford College campus in
sunny North Carolina. We had a few tornadoes yesterday and 19-degree tem-
perature this morning, so it is nice to be here.
I am also somewhat cognizant of the State of North Carolina's interest in
basketball. I am an avid reader of the sports page. I just hope that I do as well in
681
