[210]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the program that I recommended for the present law
that expires December 31 of this year-I proposed a 54-year extension with the
same formula. The basic formula is predicated on three main factors: popula-
tion, the tax factor as far as the local unit of government is concerned, and,
thirdly, the number of disadvantaged people in a particular area. That is the
current formula that was agreed to by the Governors, by the mayors, and the
county officials.
Now, in recommending the extension which calls for roughly $6 billion a
year from the Federal Treasury to the States and local units of government, I
recommended a growth factor of $150 million per year. This, I thought, would
take into account some of the expansion that was needed with more population,
et cetera.
Now, the Congress has been very dilatory in not acting on this proposal for
an extension. I recommended the extension almost a year ago, and until yester-
day there had been no action in either the House or the Senate. The House Com-
mittee on Government Operations yesterday proposed an extension, but they
eliminated the growth factor that I recommended, and they cut it to, I think,
334 years instead of the 534 years. I hope that the full Committee on Government
Operations and the Congress as a whole will buy the full extension and incorpo-
rate the growth factor, because I think it is right. I think it is a good program,
and we can see evidence of the benefits all over the country.
U.S. SALES TO EGYPT AND ASSISTANCE TO ISRAEL
[2.] Q. Mr. President, my question deals with the Middle East. I would like
to know if you can explain for me how in the current edition of Newsweek
magazine, Donald Rumsfeld said that the United States would ultimately
supply Egypt with guns and other things and that Secretary of State Kissinger
agreed with him and says it is in our best interest.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first let me make an affirmative statement. The only
request from the executive branch to the Congress is for six C-130 transport
aircraft. Nothing else has been requested of the executive branch to the Congress.
What happens in the future, after the C-130, hasn't been decided. So, the issue
is six C-130's at a cost of $39 million. Now, the question is legitimate to ask,
why are we selling for cash six C-130 transports to Egypt? Let me explain the
background.
For a number of years—primarily under Nasser, but originally under Sadat―
Egypt had an almost entire dependence on the Soviet Union. In the last several
years, through our diplomatic initiative, the Government of Egypt has turned
668
