January 19
[19]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to take guns away from the law-abiding citizen, but to impose mandatory
sentences for crimes in which a gun is used, make it harder to obtain cheap
guns for criminal purposes, and concentrate gun control enforcement in high-
crime areas.
My budget recommends 500 additional Federal agents in the 11 largest metro-
politan high-crime areas to help local authorities stop criminals from selling
and using handguns.
The sale of hard drugs is tragically on the increase again. I have directed all
agencies of the Federal Government to step up law enforcement efforts against
those who deal in drugs. In 1975, I am glad to report, Federal agents seized
substantially more heroin coming into our country than in 1974.
As President, I have talked personally with the leaders of Mexico, Colombia,
and Turkey to urge greater efforts by their Governments to control effectively
the production and shipment of hard drugs.
I recommended months ago that the Congress enact mandatory fixed sen-
tences for persons convicted of Federal crimes involving the sale of hard drugs.
Hard drugs, we all know, degrade the spirit as they destroy the body of their
users.
It is unrealistic and misleading to hold out the hope that the Federal Govern-
ment can move into every neighborhood and clean up crime. Under the Con-
stitution, the greatest responsibility for curbing crime lies with State and local
authorities. They are the frontline fighters in the war against crime.
There are definite ways in which the Federal Government can help them. I
will propose in the new budget that Congress authorize almost $7 billion over
the next 5 years to assist State and local governments to protect the safety and
property of all their citizens.
As President, I pledge the strict enforcement of Federal laws and-by example,
support, and leadership-to help State and local authorities enforce their laws.
Together, we must protect the victims of crime and ensure domestic tranquility.
Last year I strongly recommended a 5-year extension of the existing revenue
sharing legislation, which thus far has provided $232 billion to help State and
local units of government solve problems at home. This program has been
effective with decisionmaking transferred from the Federal Government to
locally elected officials. Congress must act this year, or State and local units of
government will have to drop programs or raise local taxes.
Including my health care program reforms, I propose to consolidate some 59
separate Federal programs and provide flexible Federal dollar grants to help
States, cities, and local agencies in such important areas as education, child
39
