[19]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
sensationalism and ensure an effective, responsible, and responsive intelligence
capability.
Tonight I have spoken about our problems at home and abroad. I have rec-
ommended policies that will meet the challenge of our third century. I have no
doubt that our Union will endure, better, stronger, and with more individual
freedom. We can see forward only dimly-1 year, 5 years, a generation perhaps.
Like our forefathers, we know that if we meet the challenges of our own time
with a common sense of purpose and conviction, if we remain true to our Con-
stitution and to our ideals, then we can know that the future will be better
than the past.
I see America today crossing a threshold, not just because it is our Bicenten-
nial but because we have been tested in adversity. We have taken a new look
at what we want to be and what we want our Nation to become.
I see America resurgent, certain once again that life will be better for our
children than it is for us, seeking strength that cannot be counted in megatons
and riches that cannot be eroded by inflation.
I see these United States of America moving forward as before toward a
more perfect Union where the government serves and the people rule.
We will not make this happen simply by making speeches, good or bad, yours
or mine, but by hard work and hard decisions made with courage and with
common sense.
I have heard many inspiring Presidential speeches, but the words I remember
best were spoken by Dwight D. Eisenhower. “America is not good because it is
great," the President said. “America is great because it is good."
President Eisenhower was raised in a poor but religious home in the heart
of America. His simple words echoed President Lincoln's eloquent testament
that "right makes might." And Lincoln in turn evoked the silent image of
George Washington kneeling in prayer at Valley Forge.
So, all these magic memories which link eight generations of Americans are
summed up in the inscription just above me. How many times have we seen it?
"In God We Trust."
Let us engrave it now in each of our hearts as we begin our Bicentennial.
NOTE: The President delivered his address at 9 p.m.
in the House Chamber at the Capitol. He was intro-
duced by Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives. The address was broadcast live on
radio and television.
42
