[295]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
national Coffee Organization through September 30, 1976, preserving it as a
source of statistical information and as the forum for negotiation of the new
Agreement. These negotiations were completed in December and resulted in
a greatly improved International Coffee Agreement.
The Coffee Agreement of 1962, and its successor, the Coffee Agreement of
1968, were designed to stabilize the export earnings of producing countries by
moderating the traditional boom or bust cycle of coffee production. These
Agreements were largely successful in meeting their objectives. Overproduction
was brought under control and accumulated surpluses were reduced without a
disastrous disruption of the market. At the same time, consumers enjoyed relative
price stability. However, the Agreements were not designed to deal with situa-
tions of short supply.
The situation the coffee community faces today differs considerably from the
situations in 1962 and 1968. Coffee is no longer in surplus, and inventories in
both producing and consuming countries are low. On July 17, 1975, the coffee
growing regions of Brazil were hit by the most severe frost since 1918, destroying
hundreds of millions of coffee trees and thus sharply reducing the productive
capacity of the world's largest producer for the next several years. The world
faces a period of short supply of coffee. How long this period may last will
depend on how well the international coffee community can manage its efforts
to restore production and stocks.
The International Coffee Agreement of 1976 was concluded after the Brazilian
frost and takes into account our experience in the 1962 and 1968 Agreements. It
contains a number of new features designed to deal with the situation we expect
to face in the future. The Agreement contains strong new incentives for the
early restoration of normal supplies to consumer member markets.
The most important features of the new Agreement are the following:
-The Agreement is intended to stabilize prices within the range of long term
market trends and to encourage the restoration of adequate production
levels. There are no fixed price objectives.
-Consumers are provided with assurances there will be no restriction on the
flow of coffee to the market while prices are high. Thus, the Agreement
commences with its export quotas in suspense. Producers have assurances
of renewed consumer cooperation should a temporary production surplus
reappear. The Agreement should act as a stimulus to producing countries
to restore production to levels adequate to meet consumption needs at
reasonable prices.
966
