March 19
[231]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
PROPOSED REFORM OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, we have heard from Mr. Pike, and we have heard
from Mr. Bush about the CIA, and Senator Church¹ has now announced he
is going to run for your job. Do you feel that you can reach a viable compromise
with Congress so that the CIA can remain effective in a hostile world?
THE PRESIDENT. I proposed, about a month ago, the necessary things that had
to be done: one, to continue the CIA and the intelligence community in the
United States strong and effective. And also, I have approved the necessary limi-
tations on the agency's efforts as they affect individual rights in this country.
I believe that that proposal that is now in being, with George Bush as the
Director, with the legislative recommendations that I have proposed to the Con-
gress, is a good, strong intelligence community program. I hope that the Con-
gress doesn't do things that will harm what we have now achieved.
What the Pike Committee will do-it is going out of business or has gone
out of business, and the Church Committee will, I am told, shortly—if they will
just approve the several pieces of legislation we have recommended, I think the
intelligence community, including the CIA, can do the job that has to be done
in peacetime as well as in wartime.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, how are the negotiations going in the Panama Canal?
THE PRESIDENT. The negotiations are going on. They have been going on
under Mr. Johnson, under Mr. Nixon, and under ourselves. There are some
very tough issues to be decided. We have not made progress in a meaningful
way. We have a very good negotiator down there, and I can't tell you when there
will be any conclusion of the negotiations, because the issues are tough. But
let me emphasize and reemphasize that the United States, under this adminis-
tration, will not do anything to jeopardize the national security of the canal
or the operations of the canal.
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:37 p.m. in the East he referred to William E. Branen, president of the
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks, association.
¹ Representative Otis G. Pike of New York, George Bush, Director of Central Intelligence, and Senator
Frank Church of Idaho.
745
