[183]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
mentum we have—I'm optimistic about what is going to happen in Florida,
and as I hear about what Dick Ogilvie ¹ and the others have done here with the
help of you—that Illinois can be a good strong State for us in Kansas City.
The point that we're trying to make is that we have some proven policies.
I think, domestically, we've done extremely well in the last month or 6 weeks.
We had a very tough time there, as all of you recognize, about a year ago, but we
didn't lose our cool; we didn't panic.
We took our lumps. We got some strong help in the Congress. I was saying
downstairs, we vetoed, I think, 46 bills; 39 of them have been sustained. But if
you add up what has been saved with those vetoes, $13 billion—and that's $13
billion less deficit, less borrowing by the Federal Government—I think that has
had an impact in preventing crowding out as far as the capital markets are con-
cerned. It has given confidence to the American people.
We had some additional good news this morning. Unemployment dropped
from 7.8 to 7.6, which proved that last month's reduction in unemployment was
not a fluke, but it was for real. We had another 125,000 go on the employment
rolls.
It's interesting that we have now regained every lost job from the depth of the
recession. Now our problem is to continue the gains so that the new people
entering the labor market—and about 2 million of them a year do enter the
labor market-we're all convinced that with the programs we have, unemploy-
ment is going to continue to go down.
Alan Greenspan,² yesterday, in being interviewed by some of the top reporters
in Washington, was very optimistic that our forecasts that we included in the
budget were being exceeded. And if we get some more healthy good signs—
which I am confident will be the case—we will have to, perhaps, revise our esti-
mates for fiscal year 1977. For the benefit of the press, I'm not telling you that
we're going to [laughter]—but if plans continue, I think with our policy of
frankness and honesty, we'll have to take another look at it.
But it just looks very encouraging politically, economically. And I feel that
our international policies are achieving results through strength, and we're going
to keep that strength up there. Any comments to the contrary—we are second
to none. We do have the necessary strength to reassure our allies and to convince
any adversaries that we can negotiate from strength, not from weakness.
1
¹ Chairman of the Illinois President Ford Committee.
2 Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
544
