[65]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
people rather than by the bureaus and agencies of a distant, impersonal central
government. They knew that the pendulum of power must never swing too far
away from the people in every one of the 50 States.
If this year's Bicentennial is to be more than a historic pageantry, we must
restore to the people more power to decide how their taxes are spent, how they
live, how they work, how they fight crime, and how their children go to school.
Should the Bicentennial achieve nothing else, this alone would be a triumph for
our heritage.
Despite our recent gains in employment, too many people who want jobs
still can't find them. Five out of six American jobs are in private business and
private industry.
I, therefore, am deeply concerned by the difficulties of various industries like
the shoe factories in New Hampshire. The Trade Act of 1974, which
I supported as Vice President and signed into law as President,
provides the mechanism, now activated, to assure that our American shoe
factories receive fair treatment. I want such traditional American factories to
have access to every remedy provided by law and a full say in their own destiny.
To create more jobs, there must also be a greater incentive to invest without
the strangulation of Federal taxation and redtape. I am seeking from the Con-
gress a reduction in the growth of Federal spending, accompanied—and this is
crucial-by a reduction of Federal taxes.
And let me reemphasize, if I might, we cannot have an honest bona fide tax
reduction unless we put a legitimate restraint on the growth in Federal spend-
ing. But, if we are firm in our desire to restrain the growth of Federal spending—
which has been at the rate of about 11 percent per year for the last 10 years—if we
just cut that growth in half to 5 to 5½ percent, we cannot only balance our
budget in 3 years, but we can have an additional tax reduction over and above
the one that I hope and trust will be extended beyond June 30, 1976.
Let me add one or two other features about taxes. My job creation tax incen-
tives submitted to the Congress this year would speed up plant expansion and
facilitate the purchase of millions and millions of dollars of new equipment.
These incentives would concentrate in areas of unemployment in the next 12
months. We must create the economic climate in America to generate produc-
tive, permanent, and private jobs rather than temporary, makework, inflationary,
government-sponsored jobs.
This weekend we have new evidence that we are moving quite dramatically
in the right direction. The latest employment figures released on Friday show
190
