February 14
[95]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and those who benefit from Federal spending on the other. It proposes tax
cuts for individuals and tax incentives for business investment and economic
gain.
It strikes a better balance between our national defense requirements and
our domestic needs, and makes certain that our national defense will continue
to be second to none, as it must be. And it strikes a better balance between
Federal control and State and local authority through such programs as general
revenue sharing.
Revenue sharing has already brought a total of some $2 million to Ft.
Myers since 1972, and I have proposed for a 54-year extension. And under
that extension, this amount would be increased to $3.4 million for the period
between 1977 and 1982. Lee County has received $4.3 million since 1972,
and I am asking the Congress to raise that to $10 million in the new extension
of the legislation.
With this fine program, which gives Federal money to State and local
officials to make local decisions based on your needs and wants, I hope we
can restore the truly Federal system which our forefathers envisioned and
established under the Constitution. I don't want to dismantle the Federal
Government. I want to make it work better, more efficiently, more humanely,
and far more effectively. And we can do it, and we will.
Now before answering your questions, which I really prefer to do, let me
ask each and every one of you for this: With your help, your support, your
mandate, and borrowing some of Thomas Edison's fabled determination, I
think we can make southwest Florida, Ft. Myers, our whole 50 States, a
better and better place in which to live, and make us all very, very proud
of being Americans and very proud of America.
Thank you very, very much.
Thank you, that is a great reception, just as warm and just as friendly and
just as much appreciated as those wonderful people out on the route as we
came into town.
Now, the first question.
QUESTIONS
THE FIRST FAMILY
Q. I am from Grand Rapids, Michigan.
THE PRESIDENT. I have heard of that place. [Laughter]
313
