February 26
[141]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
141
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate
on Withdrawing the Designation of Laos as a Beneficiary
Developing Country for Purposes of the Generalized
System of Preferences. February 26, 1976
IN ACCORDANCE with the requirements of section 502(a) (2) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I herewith notify the House of Representatives/Senate of my inten-
tion to withdraw the designation of Laos as a beneficiary developing country
for purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences by amending Executive
Order No. 11888 of November 24, 1975.
The considerations which entered into my decision were based upon the pro-
visions of section 504(b) and 502(b)(1) of the Trade Act. Section 504(b) of
that Act states:
"The President shall, after complying with the requirements of section 502
(a)(2), withdraw or suspend the designation of any country as a bene-
ficiary developing country if, after such designation, he determines that
as the result of changed circumstances such country would be barred from
designation as a beneficiary developing country under section 502(b). ...”
Section 502(b) (1) states that:
“... the President shall not designate any country a beneficiary developing
country under this section—if such country is a Communist country, unless
(A) the products of such country receive nondiscriminatory treatment,
(B) such country is a contracting party to the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade and a member of the International Monetary Fund, and (C)
such country is not dominated or controlled by international commu-
nism. . . ."
As a result of changed circumstances, Laos would be barred from designation
as a beneficiary developing country under section 502(b)(1), quoted above.
A diplomatic note is being prepared for delivery to the Government of Laos
on or about the same date as that of the delivery of this letter, notifying that
Government of my intention to terminate the country's beneficiary status, to-
gether with the considerations entering into my decision, as required by sec-
tion 502(a) (2) of the Trade Act.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
455
