February 16
[105]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
105
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the National Association
of Secondary School Principals. February 16, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Walker, Mr. Fallstrom, Mr. Kiernan, Rev-
erend Harper, members and guests of the National Association of Secondary
School Principals:
Needless to say, it is a great, great honor to be reinducted, after a few years,
into the National Honor Society which I was privileged, fortunate, and prob-
ably darn lucky to join in 1930. I have just said to Mr. Walker, this one is a
little heavier but the other one meant a great deal more to me in 1930.
On this plaque I do see the Honor Society's requirements-service, schol-
arship, leadership, and character. As a high school student I was mighty proud
to be thought of in those very worthy words, and I am just as proud today to
be thought of or thought worthy of them on this occasion. And I thank you
very, very much.
Let me also thank you for your invitation to be a part of this program. The
agenda for this convention show that your profession is in a time of great
change and that you are addressing yourself to that change. Yet in some ways
your job has not changed at all since the early days of our Nation's educational
system. You still give guidance to the schools which guide our children. You
are still the executors of the past and trustees of the future.
In this Bicentennial Year, it is fitting that we should consider where we
have been and where we are going. I would like to share with you my vision
of education and its role in our Nation's progress for the future.
In our first century as a nation, America developed political institutions
responsive to the people. Unity grew from diversity, and education for the
people was a crucial part of the Founding Fathers' vision. They knew that
ignorance and freedom could not coexist.
A system of general instruction for all citizens, both rich and poor, was
the earliest of Thomas Jefferson's public concerns. He led an unsuccessful effort
to have the Virginia Assembly support a system of free public schools.
By the time the Constitution was drafted, our Founding Fathers, however,
clearly saw education as a State responsibility. Little more than a century later,
every State had a tax-supported public school system free and accessible to
every child.
343
