April 3
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Pacific, so I know a little bit about the Navy, both as a Member of the Congress
and as President and as a former person on active duty in World War II.
The allegation is that the Soviet Union has 3 to 1, or whatever the number
was, more ships than the United States, but that is not the way you judge the ca-
pability of a navy. You can't equate a gunboat with an aircraft carrier. You
can't compare a landing ship or an oiler with a nuclear-powered cruiser. The
truth is that we have far, far, far more firepower with the Navy than the Soviet
Union. We concentrated our naval capability for firepower, both from ships and
from aircraft, and that is what makes the difference. It is not the number of row-
boats you have; it is the number of combat ships you have with the kind of ships
that are needed and necessary.
But let me just add one feature, and then I promise not to add any more. The
United States is number one. We are unsurpassed in military capability. We have
the greatest industrial capacity in the history of mankind. Our agriculture out-
produces any nation in the history of the world. We are ahead in science and
technology. We have the greatest moral, spiritual, and religious capabilities in
the history of mankind. All of this makes the United States number one, and
let's keep it there, and let's not let any critics undercut it. We are proud of
America, and we are proud to be Americans.
Hi. How are you?
Q. Fine. My name is Todd Smith. Is being President better than being Bart
Starr? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, on a few occasions I have been envious of Bart. But I
must say that the training as a player and the 5 years as an assistant coach at
Yale University taught me that competition on the gridiron is pretty good train-
ing for politics. You get a lot of Monday morning quarterbacks in both, Bart.
[Laughter]
I get more fun out of watching those great football players play on Sundays,
the day that I usually relax a little bit. So, I guess I do envy Bart and the ball-
players and the coaches a lot, but we are going to stick on this job. I can't make
that league. [Laughter]
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[2.] Q. Mr. President, we all realize what a demanding and difficult job that
Secretary Kissinger has, and just lately we have heard rumors that when you
are reelected there is a possibility that he may not be serving on your team. Is
there any truth to this rumor?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have said publicly that I would like Secretary
957
