[245]
March 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the Nation's total research and development effort and we must avoid displac-
ing these important investments.
The role of industry is particularly important. In our competitive economic
system, industry turns new ideas from laboratories into new and improved
products and services and brings them to the marketplace for the Nation's con-
sumers. Industry has built successfully on advanced developments of the past
and provided new products and services of great economic and social value to
the Nation. This can be seen in electronics, computers, aircraft, communica-
tions, medical services and many other areas.
My 1977 Budget gives special attention to research and development for
energy and defense and to basic research. It also continues or increases support
for other important areas such as agriculture, space, and health where research
and development can make a significant contribution.
-In energy, an accelerated research and development program is vital to
our future energy independence. My 1977 Budget proposes $2.6 billion for en-
ergy research and development—a 35 percent increase over 1976. These funds,
together with the efforts of private industry, provide for a balanced program
across the entire range of major energy technologies. Major increases are pro-
posed in energy conservation to achieve greater energy efficiency. Additional
funding is provided in fossil fuels to enhance oil and gas recovery, to improve
the direct combustion of coal and to produce synthetic oil and gas from coal
and oil shale. Expanded efforts are planned in 1977 to assure the safety and
reliability of nuclear power and to continue the development of breeder reac-
tors which will make our uranium resources last for centuries. My 1977 Budget
also provides for rapid growth in programs to accelerate development of solar
and geothermal energy and fusion power.
-In defense, a strengthened and vigorous program of research and develop-
ment is absolutely fundamental to maintain peace in the years ahead. Our Na-
tional survival depends on our continued technological edge. The quality of
our military R&D program today—and decisions on its scope and magnitude—
will directly influence the balance of power in the 1980's and beyond. Obliga-
tions for defense research and development will increase by 13 percent in FY
1977, to almost $11 billion. In the strategic area, the defense R&D program pro-
vides for continued development of the Trident submarine and missile system
and the B-1 bomber. We are providing increases for cruise missiles and for
defining options for a new inter-continental ballistic missile system. For our
tactical forces, we will pursue a number of major programs ranging from the
F-16 and F-18 fighter aircraft to a new attack helicopter, improved air de-
786
