[282]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
U.S. MILITARY CAPABILITY AND THE DEFENSE BUDGET
[14.] Q. Would you once again comment on his specific charge in his
broadcast, where he says that we are a second-rate power and he quotes Admiral
Zumwalt?
THE PRESIDENT. I will be very, very glad to discuss our military capability.
The United States is unsurpassed by any other nation as far as military capability
is concerned.
Now, let me talk about our strategic forces. The strategic forces of the United
States-ballistic missiles-ours are much more accurate than those of the Soviet
Union. Ours are much more survivable than the Soviet Union ballistic missiles.
We have far more warheads and about a 2 to 1 ratio over the Soviet Union, and
it is warheads that do the damage if they are ever used. And we have a lead of
about 3 to 1 in strategic aircraft-B-52's and others.
So, the United States has the kind of strategic military capability that our
military advisers over the years have indicated they thought was in the best
interest of the United States. So any charge that the United States is not fully
competent in a strategic sense is inaccurate.
Q. Well, sir, are you saying, then, that we definitely are number one and
that Mr. Reagan is absolutely incorrect?
The President. I am saying that we are absolutely unsurpassed in military
capability, and we have the full capability in a military sense to deter aggression,
to maintain the peace, and to protect our national security. And we have the
kind of a military force that our Chiefs of Staff recommend that we have for our
national security.
I might add, if there is any criticism, any legitimate criticism of our military
capability, I suggest those who criticize it look at the record of the Congress for
the last 6 years, where the Congress has cut $32 billion out of the defense appro-
priation bills.
And I add very quickly, the two budgets that I have submitted to the Con-
gress for their consideration—I included last year the highest peacetime mili-
tary budget in the history of the United States. And this January, I submitted
again the highest military budget in the history of the United States. Last year,
the Congress cut $7 billion out of that budget. This year, as I have indicated, if
they make any major reductions, I will veto their appropriation bill for the
Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines.
I have an impeccable record of standing for a strong Defense Department
and a fully capable, fully trained, fully equipped, and ready military force.
890
