[191]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
starting down there and coming up to here, of shaking hands with a lot of
wonderful young people, some in the middle age group, and some of those
senior citizens who have made a great contribution to the good America that
we have today.
The older people who have worked and earned retirement must be protected
as they live their older years in comfort and retirement. Those of us—and I
guess I am stretching it a bit—in the middle age group have an obligation to
continue the great work done by those who have worked and who are now
retired, so that we can make America better step by step, day by day, month
by month. And we will. And why do we really want to do it? Because we
want to help all these young people that are right in the front row and others
who are here, so that when they get through school-elementary, secondary,
graduate—that they can move into society and have a better America than
we have. That is our obligation. They deserve everything that we can do for
them to keep America prosperous at home and strong, to keep the peace, to
deter aggression, to make it certain that we are strong enough that nobody
would dare touch an inch of soil of the United States of America, and we are.
And let me say that as I leave to go to another meeting, I am deeply grate-
ful for all of you who are here. And I undertand there are quite a few who
for traffic reasons or other reasons could not get here. Will all of you say hello to
them for me?
Let me thank each of you for coming and saying hello to me. It has been
a great, great opportunity here in this fine airport to visit with all of you and to
say thank you for being here. And I hope on a week from Tuesday, I can get
a vote or two.
Thank you very, very much.
REPORTER. Mr. President, yesterday your son, Jack, said that Senator Percy
might be a good candidate for you as a running mate, and since he is traveling
with you, have you at all discussed that matter?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not discussed it, but I, about a month ago, in listing
the vast wealth of potential Republican candidates, included my good friend,
Chuck Percy. So, yes, he certainly would be among those to be considered.
Q. Mr. President, good rail transportation is essential to the mine and agri-
cultural needs here in Illinois, but good rail transportation is not available.
Would you be in support of Federal legislation whereby the Government
would purchase the rails, prepare the rails and then, in turn, lease the rails
to the individual companies?
580
