February 28
[148]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
65,000 new Americans in Florida since 1970. And I am prouder still to be here
on this inspiring occasion when so many people from so many lands entered
this auditorium as so-called petitioners for naturalization, but will go home as
citizens of the United States of America.
You will realize as you walk out of your court session in your auditorium onto
your streets, that your President is actually your employee. In America, every
citizen in a very, very real way is the boss. We have 215 million bosses, because
the President has to answer to every citizen.
Today, I want to answer the concerns of some of the local residents who are
not yet citizens, but who want very desperately to be one. It is a fitting Bicenten-
nial objective to help newcomers to become naturalized. Too often this objective
is frustrated by redtape and procedures that create a backlog of applicants when
there should be more frequent celebration of new citizenship.
Accordingly, I am directing the Attorney General to place a high priority on
reducing that backlog. I am asking the Attorney General to transfer 10 addi-
tional Immigration and Naturalization Service examiners to Miami within the
next 2 weeks to deal with this very high priority situation.
There are about 71,000 Cuban refugees-35,000 of them in this immediate
area—who are technically eligible for permanent resident-alien status, but they
must wait too long for their turn under the immigration quota system. I will
speed up that process.
I am directing the Attorney General to take all possible administrative actions
and, if necessary, to seek additional legislation to assure that Cuban refugees can
be awarded premanent resident status without being delayed by the immigra-
tion quota system. We are dealing with human lives which have already suffered
enough disruption. America will remain true to our heritage as a sanctuary to
the oppressed.
Just as American citizenship involves responsibility as well as rights for the
individual, the nations of the world must live up to their international responsi-
bilities if they wish to be treated as members of the world community. The Fidel
Castro regime of Cuba, by sending an expeditionary force of 12,000 soldiers to
intervene in a civil war in Angola is acting as an international outlaw.
Fidel Castro has committed a flagrant act of aggression. We are firmly com-
mitted to the principles of nonintervention and collective security against the
aggression in this hemisphere. By its aggression, the present government in
Cuba has violated a fundamental principle of international law, a principle en-
shrined in the United Nations Charter. This administration will have nothing
to do with the Cuba of Fidel Castro. It is a regime of aggression, and I solemnly
465
