February 20
[119]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
119
Remarks at Dover High School in Dover. February 20, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Elizabeth, Mr. Huddleston, students, faculty,
and supporters of the two greatest basketball teams in New England, and,
finally, friends and fans of Dennis McDevitt:
Let me, on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself, express our deepest appreciation
and warmest gratitude for the wonderful enthusiasm and the great turnout here
this morning. It's just great being in the Dover High School to have the oppor-
tunity to say a few words to all of you.
I have heard a great deal about this wonderful facility you have here, the
great times, as Mr. Huddleston told me. From a school which was built in
1851, you have made a lot of progress. But the most important thing is not the
brick and mortar. The most important thing is the quality of your faculty and
the quality of each and every one of your students. I happen to have a great
deal of faith in the educational system of our country, and that represents you
and your faculty. Congratulations.
Last night in Keene, New Hampshire, after I had an opportunity to meet
with some 2,500 people at a meeting at the Keene High School, I went to—Mrs.
Ford and I went to a home with maybe 100 or more of our older Americans.
And I said to them—and I feel it very strongly—that they have been through a
tough time. These were people anywhere from 65 to over 80 that lived through
a depression, two wars, but, at the same time, they have kept the faith with our
country and our government, and they have passed on to younger generations
a better America.
Now, I think all of us-that's you and me—should appreciate what these
fine people have done because we do have a better America, a better place to
live. But now all of you are moving into a period in your life where you can
make a contribution, where you can be an active participant in local, State, and
national elections. That is the best way that I know for you to do something
affirmative for yourself, but more importantly, for your country.
What you learn here in this fine high school will pay big dividends as you
meet the challenges to make it a better America—a better America in govern-
ment, a better America technologically, a better America economically, a
stronger America morally and philosophically.
I was asked on several occasions over the last several months, what are the
important ingredients—one, for people in public office, and what is the most
405
