March 26
[261]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
was far from perfect, yet better than continued uncertainty and never-ending
controversy.
Yes, we have saved quite a few billions of dollars by being firm with the Con-
gress, trying to convince them that excess spending had many bad effects, not
only as far as the Treasury was concerned but the economy as a whole.
I am accused often of not being able to cooperate with the Congress, and it is
true that I vetoed 46 bills in this relatively short period of time, but 39 of them
have been sustained. We went through, the other day, the record. In those 39
bills, where the Congress has sustained the vetoes, we have saved $13 billion in
spending.
The net result of all that has taken place and transpired is that the American
citizen has regained his confidence, it has been restored. But we have gone
beyond just what has happened here in the United States. We can say that the
free world has also moved both economically as well as otherwise. I can't say
that their recovery economically has kept pace with ours, but all of them
virtually, including Great Britain, have made some progress in meeting their
economic problems at home.
But let me talk for a minute about what we can say and what we will do in
the future. From the very day that I was privileged to take the oath of office, I
made a fundamental decision that my administration would promise only what
we can deliver, and we will deliver everything we promise. As President, I think
the record shows I have challenged those who constantly want to expand the
role of the Federal Government taking power from individuals, from local com-
munities, and from the States. I don't believe that the Federal Government
should just grow and grow
and grow.
And we must never lose sight of one very basic truth—that a government big
enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to take from
us everything we have.
There are, however, some things that the Federal Government can do and
must do and with your support we hope they will do better. And let me men-
tion just two.
It is fundamentally required that the Federal Government have a respon-
sible, equitable taxing program, and it is equally important that we have a
strong, alert, ready, well-equipped, well-led national security program.
Yesterday, I could not help but notice that the new Democrat-dominated
House Budget Committee, in its deliberations—and this is vitally important—
has rejected the additional tax reductions that I recommended to go into effect
July 1 of this year, additional tax reductions that would give to individuals and
815
