[62]
February 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
action, and very quickly, within the next 60 to 90 days I think we would be
approaching what you would call the dimensions of a depression.”
This was a time when it would have been easy to stampede, to turn our backs
on the inherent strength of the world's greatest economic machine, to turn
instead to quick-fix gimmicks and snake-oil solutions.
This administration didn't stampede, nor did we abandon our principles or
our convictions under fire. We set a steady course and stuck to it. What hap-
pened? Doomsday never came.
American buyers, American investors, and American workers regained their
confidence in the future. We preserved the integrity of the American dollar and
the American economy. Our system works.
Inflation today is just about half of what it was a year ago. It is still too high.
But the monster of runaway inflation no longer sits down with every bread-
winner and every businessman as they make their daily decisions. Runaway
inflation no longer imposes a crushing 12-percent-a-year tax on 215 million
Americans. We have got a hold on inflation, and I am not about to let it go
now under any circumstances.
Industrial production is up at an annual rate of 12 percent since last April.
Our real gross national product rose at an annual rate of 8.6 percent in the last
half of 1975. Excess business inventories have been worked off. Interest rates
have gone down significantly. From its high point of 12 percent the prime
lending rate has been cut to 634 percent.
The Consumer Confidence Index issued by the Conference Board on Feb-
ruary 2 is at the highest level since June of 1973, and it is more than double a
year ago.
It also indicates that consumer optimism about the state of the economy
improved significantly in December. And since good news always bears repeat-
ing, as I said earlier, the rate of unemployment for January was 7.8 percent-
one-half of 1 percent, down from 8.3 percent in December. That is going in the
right direction. That is good news, and we are going to keep working at it.
Ninety-six percent of the jobs lost during the recession have now been re-
covered, and that is good news. Today, 2,100,000 more Americans are working
than at the bottom of the recession. And last month, the national employment
total rose by 800,000, and believe me, that is really good news.
But there are still too many Americans who want work and can't find it. Our
economic recovery will only be complete when every one of those Americans
have a good job.
Here again, there is sharp disagreement between our two major political par-
ties on how to create those vitally needed jobs. A spokesman for the opposition
154
