[287]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
and if it is, I'm darn proud of it. But the really important record is this-We
were able to sustain, with the help and assistance of at least one-third of the
Members of either the House or the Senate, 39 of those vetoes. And without
threatening or weakening our economy in any way whatsoever, those vetoes
will save the taxpayers of this country $13 billion, and that's a lot of dough.
Commonsense told me that the right course to pursue toward economic
recovery was to stimulate the growth and the strength of the private sector. So
I proposed, and the Congress accepted, a major tax cut for individuals to in-
crease their own personal purchasing power. I proposed tax incentives for busi-
ness expansion and job production in the private sector, where there are five
out of every six jobs today, where people work and earn a living. And I proposed
extended assistance to those Americans who had lost their jobs to the recession
to help them with the onerous burden until our national economy was revived
and its strength recovered.
These were commonsense policies and they worked. Last month it was re-
ported that all of the jobs America had lost during the recession had been
recovered. And just this morning we got some tremendous news. It was an-
nounced in Washington by the Department of Labor, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, that we gained 375,000 more jobs in the month of March alone. Today,
86,700,000 Americans are gainfully employed, the most employed in the United
States in the history of this country, and I would say that is a pretty good come-
back from the problems we had 12 months ago.
The evidence is unmistakable. These economic indicators are not political fic-
tion, they are hard economic facts. The prospects of prosperity apparently didn't
fit into some politician's plans this year—but that is just too bad. As prophets of
gloom sort of rubbing their hands in glee, they can deny the evidence all they
want to, but you and I are happy to see America back on the road to prosperity,
and those other fellows had better just make some other plans for the next
4 years.
The success of these economic policies proved once again that it does not take a
huge government bureaucracy to solve every problem in America. In fact, piling
one bureaucracy on another has been the source of many of the problems that
we have been experiencing in recent years in this country. We must never forget
one very fundamental truth: A government big enough to give us everything
we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
To help guard against the danger of ever-increasing control by the Federal
Government, I have proposed a 5-year 9-month extension of general revenue
922
