[91]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Are you planning to step up your Florida campaigning, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we had a pretty busy day yesterday, as well as
today, and as I said, we are most likely to come back again. And I have to
emphasize-because it is very important—that my principal responsibility is to
be President of the United States, and that takes a good bit of time. We will find
a way to come down and see our friends and encourage our workers and to give
recognition to our leaders.
Q. There has been an interpretation of your campaign, sir, as being one of
giving a picture of a President at work rather than a campaigner for the Presi-
dency. Is this an accurate reflection?
THE PRESIDENT. I think my principal job is to work at the responsibilities of
being President. On the other hand, I think it is equally important, with the
time that is available, to come out and see the people and let the people know
from me personally what my philosophy is and what my programs are. So we
will try to mesh the two.
Q. Mr. President, the last time you were in this county was 2 years ago, when
you were Vice President. You defended President Nixon then, and it was only a
few months before he resigned. Isn't that association with President Nixon
going to hurt you in this campaign, and isn't it hurting you already?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see that that association has been harmful, not at all.
Real nice to see you all, and thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10:17 a.m. at St. Petersburg/Clearwater International Airport.
92
Remarks to a Group of Senior Citizens in St. Petersburg.
February 14, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bill Young, a very close and very dear friend of
mine. I am most grateful for that really warm welcome and very, very kind
words. Congressman Lou Frey, Congressman Skip Bafalis, Judge Roess, Mayor
Schuh, Senator Ware, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Happy Valentine, and I hope you have many, many, many more happy
Valentines.
In 1952 Winston Churchill, then a mere 77 years old, had been called into
the service of a country for a second term as Prime Minister of Great Britain.
Smiling impishly, he told the British House of Commons, and I quote: “Every-
one has his day, and some days last longer than others.”
300
