April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you.
George, could you tell us about your success at the Interstate Commerce Com-
mission in the area of regulatory reform?
MR. STAFFORD [Chairman, Interstate Commerce Commission]. Mr. President,
I am honored to have an opportunity to follow up our meeting of some months
ago because the ICC currently is engaged in implementing quite a few sig-
nificant reforms initiated by our commission or mandated by our recent rail bill.
The rail legislation represents a major rethinking and reevaluation of the Fed-
eral controls over the transportation industry. The effect has been to redirect the
efforts of the commission, reaffirm the needs for regulation in the public interest,
and to reinforce the importance of competition in our economic environment.
Last July, you established four goals toward which all agencies should strive.
The ICC fully supports those objectives, and they are and have been always fore-
most considerations in our policy deliberations.
At the end of last year, we apprised the Office of Management and Budget of
our activities regarding the four-point program. Our programs are progressing
to the point that we are seeing significant results regarding regulatory lag—our
backlog is down, and our output is up. Consumer assistance, though we feel it is
very good now, will improve by the creation of the Office of Public Counsel.
We are assessing even more carefully the impact of rate changes on consumers.
We have added a whole new force to watch for consumer problems in new
rates. The economic consequences of regulatory programs are receiving greater
attention today than ever before. We have reorganized our whole economic sec-
tion with specialists in every area, including our continued efforts to make sure
the American rural community receives adequate service, to allow the small
businessman to remain competitive in the marketplace, to provide the consumer
with tools to participate on more equal terms. We are analyzing the causes and
extent of empty truck movements and conducting cost-benefit surveys on the
effects of regulation.
In the area of reduced regulation we have a number of activities underway,
including a proceeding to remove most rail rate regulation where effective com-
petition exists. The commission is proud of its responsiveness to your four-point
program.
I have with me Commissioner O'Neal of our commission, and he and I will
be happy to answer any questions.
THE PRESIDENT. How are you doing on the gateway problem?
MR. STAFFORD. We are doing very well on that, Mr. President. In fact, with the
exception of a very few cases that we have been taken to court on and perhaps
1013
