January 26
[31]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
My economic program for 1976 has three parts: First, a long-term continuation
of the effort to revive the American economy; second, implementation of the
many programs necessary to provide cushions for the unemployed during the
transition to a healthy economy; and third, the elimination of Government
policies and institutions that interfere with price flexibility and vigorous
competition.
I. My key economic goal is to create an economic environment in which sus-
tainable, noninflationary growth can be achieved.
When private spending is depressed, Government can properly absorb private
savings and provide fiscal stimulus to the economy. But in the longer run, a
viable, steady increase in prosperity is only possible if we have a vigorous private
sector. My policies are designed to support the long-term growth of the economy
by fostering an environment in which the private sector can flourish.
Increased capital formation is essential to meeting our long-term goals of
full employment and noninflationary growth. Although there is no shortage of
industrial capacity at the present time, many of our current priorities—to become
independent in energy, to improve the environment, to create more jobs, and
to raise our living standards-require increased investment. This means that
business investment in plant and equipment as a share of gross national product
must increase. We must also slow the growth of Federal spending in the years
immediately ahead, so that mounting claims by the Federal Government on our
economic resources will not prevent an adequate flow of savings into capital
investments.
Accordingly, I am recommending that budget savings be refunded to the
American taxpayer by means of tax cuts. I have proposed an annual tax cut of
$28 billion from 1974 levels, effective July 1, 1976. If we continue in the years
ahead to pursue the kind of budgetary restraint which I am recommending,
another major tax cut will be feasible by 1979. I strongly believe that the indi-
vidual wage earner has the right to spend his own money on the goods and
services he wants, rather than having the Government increase its control over
the disposition of his income.
II. Regrettably, a full recovery of the economy will take time. Overly rapid
growth could lead to a renewed increase in inflation that would ultimately be
self-defeating. In the interim we must be mindful of those who have lost their
jobs or who are in fear of losing the jobs they hold. While the problems of un-
employment can be solved only by restoring the basic strength of our economy,
the hardships of unemployment and insecure employment require immediate
treatment. In December 1974 and in March 1975, I signed into law major ex-
87
