January 31
[49]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
lating private jobs rather than making public payroll jobs is that it is already
working—not fast enough—that is why we need to focus on areas of high unem-
ployment right away. The job creation tax incentives I have recommended at the
start of the recession have already helped provide a climate in which total
employment has risen by 1,300,000 jobs since last March.
We have already recovered three-fifths of the jobs lost during the recession,
and people are now being hired faster than they are being laid off. In the mean-
time, of course, we will continue unemployment insurance to cushion the hard-
ship of those who want work and still can't find it. We will continue proven job-
training and opportunity programs as we work our way out of this recession.
One cannot promise full employment overnight, and I hope nobody does in
the coming debate, because it is a cruel illusion. I am determined to stick to the
steady course that has brought down the unemployment rate from what it was
at the bottom of the recession in March or April of this [last] year without
reviving the double-digit inflation that was soaring when I became President.
The rate of inflation that surpassed 12 percent during the year ending Decem-
ber 1974 has been cut almost in half. If my recommendations to the Congress
are heeded, we can hold it at 6 percent or less in 1976. This will benefit every-
body, especially the needy and those on fixed incomes. But if Congress exceeds
my budget and enacts spending programs that increase the deficit and add to
inflationary pressures, everybody will lose-particularly the unemployed and
the poor and the senior citizens who depend upon retirement pensions.
Although unemployment remains much too high, we are reducing it. Our
economy is growing in real terms at over 6 percent a year, and we are reducing
substantially the rate of inflation. In addition, the real earnings of those who
have jobs now—over 85.5 million—are now growing instead of shrinking. Sus-
taining sound economic growth with increased production and greater competi-
tion to lower costs must be our primary long-range goal.
This goal was reflected in my State of the Union Message and the $394.2 bil-
lion budget I submitted last week, which looked to achieving a balanced Federal
budget by 1979. This would permit another major tax cut if we continue the
kind of budgetary restraint that I have recommended to the Congress.
The heart and the soul of my program is to hold down the growth of Federal
spending, which has been averaging 10 percent or more each year for the last
10 years. By matching Federal spending cuts with Federal tax cuts, we can
return to the people who work hard and pay taxes more of their own money to
spend for themselves. And that is what we must do.
This is not merely a matter of reversing recent trends, which has clearly led to
131
