March 12
[210]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to ask you, sir, and I am sure many of the reporters have asked you before, if
our country is based on justice and on the laws that make up that justice and
our courtrooms and all our public facilities are here to protect that justice
and you, sir, are there to protect that justice, why you would pardon Mr. Nixon
for something that we are not sure that he has done? You pardoned him for
all crimes that he may have committed or that he did commit. And I am
wondering why you would want, in such an open administration, to keep us
so in the dark?
THE PRESIDENT. I was sworn in as President in August of 1974, and for the
first month of that administration, the country was continuously divided as it
had been for the previous 18 months. And it was perfectly obvious to me, that
with the economic problems that we had and the challenges we still had in
Southeast Asia, that we had to get that unfortunate incident or circumstance
in our country off the deck and concentrate on building our economy and
protecting America. And so, I made the conscious decision, that for the good
of the country—not for Mr. Nixon's good, but for the good of the country—
the best way to do it was to handle it the way I did, and I am glad that I did.
Before I did it, I checked with the responsible people, the Special Prosecu-
tor, and I was led to believe that there would be continuous charges, potential
if not real criminal charges, and this whole problem would have gone on for
a long, long time, and our country would have become more divided. And the
basis upon which the decision was made then, was to bring back some unity in
this country and to get that long nightmare off our back, which I think it has.
PRESIDENT FORD'S GOALS FOR THE COUNTRY
[11.] Q. I would like to know if you do become President, what is your
major goal you will try to reach while you are in office?
The President. Could you repeat that again, please? Speak into the micro-
phone, if you would.
Q. While you are in office, what is the major goal you are going to try to
reach?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you have to put it on two grounds: one, what
we want to do materially for the country and what we have as our long-range
goal and objective.
From the material point of view, we want a prosperous, healthy economy
so that people have an opportunity to be gainfully employed, to work and to
enjoy themselves. And we want a country that is strong enough to protect
675
