[252]
March 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
eral has met with a number of Congressional leaders, and the discussions have
been marked by a bipartisan spirit of cooperation. This spirit also characterized
today's meeting which I had with leaders from the Congress at which we dis-
cussed the need for this legislation. I welcome the support of those who have
agreed to co-sponsor and work towards speedy enactment of this bill.
At the present time electronic surveillance within the United States for for-
eign intelligence, including counter-intelligence, purposes is approved by the
Attorney General, pursuant to explicit Presidential authorization, in cases in-
volving agents of or collaborators with foreign powers. The proposed bill
would provide a procedure for seeking a judicial order approving the use, in
a particular case, of electronic surveillance to obtain foreign intelligence infor-
mation and would establish standards that must be satisfied before any such
order could be entered. The bill follows the framework established by the pro-
visions of Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control Act, 18 U.S.C. ยง 2510 et seq.,
governing electronic surveillance undertaken for criminal law enforcement
purposes, with substantive and procedural adjustments necessary to meet the
singular needs and purposes of foreign intelligence investigations.
The enactment of this bill will ensure that the government will be able to
collect necessary foreign intelligence. At the same time, it will provide major
assurance to the public that electronic surveillance for foreign intelligence pur-
poses can and will occur only when reasonably justified in circumstances
demonstrating an overriding national interest, and that they will be conducted
according to standards and procedures that protect against possibilities of
abuse.
I urge the early consideration and adoption of this timely and needed pro-
posed legislation.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
In his letter, the President referred to a meeting
GERALD R. FORD
at the White House with a bipartisan group of
Senators and Representatives on the same day.
Attorney General Edward H. Levi and Secretary of
Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld also attended the
meeting.
794
