February 13
[86]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to do quite well here. But losing Florida-and I say again, I don't think we
will-but losing Florida won't deter me one bit from continuing the effort right
up to the last vote in Kansas City in August. I am going to be in this ballgame
up until the whistle blows, so I think we are going to win in Florida. Even
if we lose, we are going to keep campaigning, and we are going to keep in
the ballgame, and we are going to get the nomination.
Q. As to a possible victory by your campaign here in Florida, what effect
would that have on Ronald Reagan's candidacy?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not really the best judge of what the former Governor
will do. I think it will be a very serious disappointment to him, but I would
not want to prejudge what his actions might be subsequent to that.
JERRY THOMAS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, Governor Reagan's Florida campaign manager said
this week that you were trying to buy votes by offering an administration
post to a prominent Florida conservative, Jerry Thomas, who endorsed you
this week. Have you offered him a post, and what is your reaction to the
Reagan campaign's charge?
THE PRESIDENT. I first want to say I have known Jerry Thomas for a long
time. I campaigned with him when he ran for Governor several years ago.
I was trying to help the Republican Party down here in Florida. He was the
candidate for Governor. I was impressed with him then and I have been
impressed with him all along.
We talked to him some months ago about joining the Ford administration.
It looks like such a possibility will take place. I think he will make an ex-
cellent top executive in the administration, and I am very honored and very
pleased with his endorsement because I think he is a successful State legislator.
He was a good candidate for Governor, and he has been a very successful
businessman, and I think we will be lucky to get him, and I am very pleased
with his endorsement. I think the charges by some campaign manager are
completely without foundation.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, all of the candidates who have campaigned in central
Florida have criticized your policy, the administration policy, concerning
détente with the Soviet Union. And, in particular, Mr. Reagan said last week
the only thing détente has accomplished is our ability to sell Pepsi Cola in
267
