[223]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
223
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual International
Economic Report of the President. March 17, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
America in 1975 renewed and strengthened its commitment to pursue the
traditional U.S. goals of freer trade and enhanced global economic stability and
prosperity. The United States has proposed a series of major economic initiatives
providing leadership in efforts to improve trade and monetary arrangements,
to establish cooperative mechanisms for dealing with the problems of food and
energy, and to offer effective international responses to those nations in greatest
need. 1975 was a year of achievement which produced new and more effective
international economic policies, as the following highlights indicate.
Economic Summit Meeting
In November I met with the heads of the governments of France, West
Germany, Italy, Japan and the United Kingdom at Rambouillet, France to
discuss the world economic situation and economic problems common to our
countries. The Summit Meeting concentrated on the need for new efforts in the
areas of world trade, monetary matters and raw materials, including energy.
We agreed that sustained, stable economic growth in the industrial nations will
be facilitated by our cooperative efforts. This Meeting, and the accompanying
bilateral talks I had with leaders of the major industrialized democracies, estab-
lished a new spirit of cooperation and confidence stemming from a deeper
understanding of our common destiny. They set the stage for our efforts to deal
with a variety of specific international economic challenges facing us in 1976.
Monetary Affairs
Efforts to revise the international monetary system resulted in major reforms.
At the recent meeting of the International Monetary Fund's Interim Com-
mittee in Jamaica, we reached agreement on amendments to the IMF Articles
of Agreement with respect to quotas, exchange rates, and the role of gold. The
negotiations resulted in the first major revision of the international monetary
system since the 1944 Bretton Woods Conference. The exchange rate provisions
of the IMF Articles of Agreement will be amended to provide a flexible frame-
work for the future evolution of the system. The Interim Committee also
reached agreement on steps to phase gold out of the international monetary
system.
726
