April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
their losses better than 40 percent. They don't care about anything except getting
their truck back with their load. So, every taxi driver, everybody immediately
knows he is going to get $1,000, $5,000 if he is the one that turns it in, and they
immediately move in on them. They have been catching many of these trucks.
They don't say we will not pay you until you can put somebody behind bars, we
will pay you just to get our truck back.
MR. WILEY. The police are even now using CB. It is the one spectrum where
every man can use the radio. I think we have to find a way to facilitate this.
MR. STAFFORD, I would be concerned if you tried to deregulate that too much.
MR. MACAVOY [Paul W. MacAvoy, member of the Council of Economic
Advisers]. One of the fastest areas in new technology is the communications
industry, and it appears to us we are on the edge of an explosion in communica-
tion from the use of satellite technology. Is the commission prepared to deal with
the problems of entry permits, and ratesetting as this new technology develops?
MR. WILEY. I think so. We have seen this coming for some time. I think I
would tend to agree with you, satellites portend a tremendous revolution in
communication services. We have adopted, I think, a modified open entry policy
because we do believe in competition in this area. A number of companies are
making great investments to use birds and to develop this new service. We
think that we have prepared carefully for this, starting back in 1972. We think
we are ready for the revolution that will come.
MR. MACAVOY. This interest is by private companies and telecommunica-
tions companies. Are they able to compete on an equal basis ?
MR. WILEY. I think they will be, yes. That has been the basic concept we have
had. The commission did make a decision to place a limitation on the Ameri-
can Telephone and Telegraph Company in this area. I must say the chairman
and I dissented. That is the best way to get this new system developed and in
the most productive way possible.
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you.
Could we hear from Mr. Bagley of the Commodity Futures Trading Com-
mission?
MR. BAGLEY [William T. Bagley, Chairman, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission]. The first thing we will try to do is change the name of the act.
You don't know what the people call the Commodities Futures Trading Com-
mission.
Mr. President, gentlemen, let me take a little different tack rather than try-
ing to regale you with what we have done in our 11 months of tenure. I think
it makes a little more sense from my standpoint in trying to help you to look
1005
