April 8
[314]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Another way to build a constituency is to look at the so-called sunset laws.
Colorado just passed one. There are three or four on the Hill. Again, there are
problems with those bills because some of them contemplate immediate self-
destruct of everybody here. You can't do it that way. But, again, for the purpose
of accountability and constituency building, if you had a phasein system where
one entity, one agency every year over a period of 15 years with recurrent ne-
cessity to reauthorize, not just budget, reauthorize the very existence—nobody is
going to get rid of all the agencies, but at least there will be an occasion for
rewriting of the law. That makes Congress more mindful of their obligation
and creates in them the concept that they are the constituency.
The third area, we will talk of data reform, getting rid of the forms. All well
and good, we will be doing that. We find some have been around since 1922
when our predecessor agency was enabled, but in addition, not just for the sake
of efficiency but again for public access, let's make those forms and that infor-
mation something that the public can get to, can have access to and thereby
understand what we are doing. Let the public in. Let them participate and cre-
ate that atmosphere of participation.
Lastly, and I mean this, if all of that doesn't work-and I have my doubts as
to whether it will—I took a quick look last night at the Ash report and their
conclusion was, in many instances, the multimember commission without a
constituency, without built-in accountability, has problems. I would very seri-
ously recommend that your people look at the idea again of advocating a little
surgery rather than cosmetics to really shake the regulatory tree.
THE PRESIDENT. Did you find when you and your associates went in and took
over that your were surprised, pleased, or felt otherwise concerning the opera-
tion of a commodity market?
MR. BAGLEY. First, I was amazed that the industry existed. I was neutral. As
far as the markets, they had been doing well, so there wasn't any major surgery
on our part to undertake. We basically had to let them know we were not going
to "Mau Mau" them out of existence; that we weren't going to upset their
marketplace.
There are an awful lot of things, simply because of our new jurisdiction, that
were not undertaken. That doesn't mean overregulation; it means from our
standpoint making the market a better place and, therefore, helping it grow
as it becomes more credible. That is sort of our regulatory philosophy.
From the standpoint of the overall picture, I really believe if you don't have
this concept of a constituency and accountability built in, then you will get
captured sooner or later. Therefore, I would seriously consider taking a longer
1007
