[283]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Turkey, which was concluded several weeks ago, subject now, of course, to
Senate confirmation.
There are several involved questions here, but let me take the first one of just
the treaty. The United States has, as a part of our NATO contribution, a very
significant U.S. military operation in Turkey. I can't recall precisely how many
U.S. Army, Air Force, and Navy personnel are stationed in Turkey. We have, as
I recall, some 10 fairly sizable, very important military bases in Turkey, includ-
ing three to five extremely important intelligence-gathering stations where we
use the most sophisticated hardware for the gathering of intelligence relating to
the Soviet Union.
Now, all of those people, all of those bases are on Turkish soil. I think we have
to expect to pay them something. Now, that is why the agreement was reached.
But let's now turn to Greece. We are right in the same kind of a negotiation
with Greece, because the United States, as a part of our NATO contribution, also
has U.S. military personnel in Greece, and we have U.S. military bases in Greece.
I think as soon as the negotiators can conclude it, we will probably have a U.S.-
Greek treaty of somewhat the same kind.
The United States, as a partner in NATO, has to make a contribution when
we put our people on their soil with our military hardware. In both Greece as
well as in Turkey, we are using their soil, using their country for our mutual
defense.
Now, the other question I think you probably are asking is, what about Cy-
prus? A quick review of the history.
As you know, in July of 1974, the then Greek Government tried to throw
Makarios out, assassinate him, and put a man named Sampson in. They were
unsuccessful. They did not achieve the assassination of Makarios, and they were
not successful in getting Sampson in.
Then, the Turks reacted and sent in up to 40,000 Turkish military personnel.
Since August of 1974, we have had this stalemate on Cyprus, and I think it is
unfortunate. I think it is tragic because you have somewhere between 200,000
and 300,000 Greek-Cypriot refugees, and I think that is one of the saddest things
in current history.
We are working very hard to try and get Clerides, the Greek-Cypriot negotia-
tor, and Denktash, the Turkish-Cypriot negotiator, to settle this tragic situation.
They have made headway; they are making progress. And if we can be a little
more patient, I think we will get a settlement between the Greeks and the Turks,
between Denktash and Clerides, and that tragedy will be over.
We are doing our utmost. As you know, it is a longstanding rivalry between
902
