April 3
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
only being five people out of a hundred who vote for you. It just seems to me that
people who are going to get elected President are going to have the support of the
nonfarm people, because we don't have that much voice.
Another question is, it seems to me that George Meany has more influence on
our foreign grain policies than you do, and I would like your response to that.
The President. I would categorically disagree that George Meany has more
influence on our grain policies than I do. I made the decision for us to move to
long-term agreements with the Soviet Union. I think that is in the best interest of
agriculture, because if you look at the sale of grain to the Soviet Union, going
back to 1971, in 1 year you will have virtually no sales. The next year, in 1972, we
had around 13 million tons of grain sold to the Soviet Union. The next year, we
had virtually no such sales. It has been a yo-yo, a peak-and-valley proposition, and
that has been very disturbing to our grain crop sales throughout the world.
Now, we have a guaranteed 6 million ton per year for 5 years, and we can
sell them higher if we want to. And if the farmers want to sell more than that
and the Soviet Union wants to buy it, they can make the deal. So, I respectfully
disagree that Mr. Meany has anything to do with foreign agricultural sales
policy. He has none.
And let me just indicate another area where Mr. Meany and I have many,
many differences. I vetoed the common situs picketing bill much against his
wishes. Now I got off the track here a little bit—[laughter]—but I just wanted
to make sure that I was running the Government and nobody else. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you very much. I realize you have a tough job, and I wish you
good luck.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, sir.
Q. Mr. President, I am a dairy farmer here in Fond du Lac County and also
chairman of the agriculture committee of Fond du Lac County.
I have one question in regard to imports. We in Wisconsin are now in the
process of the referendum vote by the dairy farmers as to a 2-cent checkoff as
far as our milk advertising program is concerned. There are a lot of us here
in this room that are very much interested in this. We believe in advertising.
We believe we have to do this to create a market for our product.
Now, if we can establish this, if we can get this job done, what kind of a
guarantee can we have from the Federal Government, that once we have a
market created, that the Government does not open up their doors to imports
to the point where they take up and make up the difference between our profit
and loss?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me assure you that this administration will not
943
