[51]
January 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
bureaucracy was expanded. Power was drained away from the towns, from
the cities, from the States to an increasingly centralized National Government—
always bigger, always more powerful, though not always more efficient.
If this course is pursued, it will mean much less incentive to create capital
and jobs and much more inflation. Two hundred years ago, men of vision
understood that poverty is abolished by economic growth, not by economic
redistribution. They knew that only a self-disciplined person can create a society
in which ordered liberty will promote both economic prosperity and political
participation at every level.
The founding of America was more than a political event. It was an act
of political faith, a promise to Americans and to the entire world. Inherent in
the Declaration of Independence was the message: People can govern them-
selves. They can live in freedom with equal rights. They can also act in accord
with reason and restraint and for the respect of the rights of others and the total
community.
As we celebrate this Bicentennial, some citizens continue to glorify instant
gratification over everything else. Some seek change merely for the sake of
change, and some heed emotional desire rather than common sense.
Our Nation's founders believed that civic virtue was a willingness to suspend
the pursuit of immediate personal interest and personal gain for the common
good.
An excellent theme for this Bicentennial would be the revival of civic virtue.
American self-government is the most stirring and successful political experi-
ment in history, but its ultimate success requires new concentration on duties
and responsibilities as well as demands and desires.
We must regain the same willingness to work as those who built a colonial
capital on this site, the same open mind as those who envisioned our freedom,
the same sense of responsibility as those who preserved it. We must enshrine
our rights but carry out our duties.
Let us evaluate what is possible with the commonsense balance of what is
practical.
As a young Congressman, I listened in the 1950's to the warnings of President
Eisenhower. He said unless we preserve the traditional power and basic
responsibilities of State government, we would not retain the kind of America
previously known. We would have, instead, quite another kind of America.
The pendulum has swung since very far in the direction that President Eisen-
hower feared. But I am today confident that the will of the people, voiced here
138
