[260]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our policies in this administration of providing industry with adequate in-
centives for capital investment can also ensure our continued growth and
prosperity.
I was deeply disappointed to read last night, in some of the news reports
that I got, that the House Committee on Budget has rejected the proposal that
I made in January for an added reduction of some $10 billion in personal and
business taxes beginning July 1. I believe that if we are going to provide the jobs
that are needed for some 2 million young people who are coming into the labor
market every year, we have to go to the private market where five out of the six
jobs today are available for those who want to work.
So, if you can help us, and we will help each other, we will help the country
by convincing the Congress that tax reductions providing incentive for in-
dividuals to spend and business to invest is a far, far better way than piling on
extra spending for make-work jobs in the public sector.
John, and all of you from the textile industry, I thank you for giving me a
few moments this morning. I am grateful for this opportunity; and let me
assure you that in the future I will continue to work with you, and I know that
I can depend on your help and assistance. And if we work together with policies
that are sound, and we don't panic, we don't try quick fixes that never worked
and won't in the future, if we do all of these things together, 215 million Amer-
icans, we can have an increasing rise in our standard of living, we can keep
our Nation strong to deter aggression, to maintain the peace, and to protect
our national security, and give to those that follow us an even greater America
than the one that we have enjoyed.
Thank you, very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:58 a.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Fairmont Hotel. He was
introduced by John Hamrick, president of the
institute.
261
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Luncheon in
San Francisco. March 26, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dave. Congressman Clair Burgener, who is here
someplace, Congressman Pete McCloskey I know is here, Mary Louise Smith,
Ev Younger, Mrs. Paul Haerle-I will see Paul later tomorrow, I guess-ladies
and gentlemen:
It really is a great privilege and a very high honor to be here. And Dave
812
