March 12
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
lem with our interstate, our primary, and our secondary Federal aid to highway
programs, and we do have this limited program, but that is not necessarily
emphasizing safety. It has other aspects to it. It is one of those programs that the
total impact safety-wise is marginal. The more important way to do it is through
the primary, secondary, and interstate highway construction program.
Q. Are there Federal moneys that can be released that can help pay for the
costs that these local agencies would have to undertake in repairing railroad
crossings?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there are some limited amounts of funds, but we are
no longer given the privilege in the executive branch to impound funds. We
have to submit those to the Congress, and we ask that they be deferred or re-
scinded. I, quite frankly, can't answer whether or not that limited amount has
been referred to the Congress for deferral or rescission. And of course, if it
has, in either case it has to be approved or disapproved by the Congress. But I
can't give you a categorical answer on that particular program.
SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you what you foresee is happening
to the social security program in both the near and the far future. More specifi-
cally, in the far future do you ever foresee it becoming a voluntary program?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see it coming as a voluntary program. I don't think
it is the way to handle our social security program.
On the other hand, I think we have to be cognizant of the annual deficits that
have developed between income on the one hand and outgo on the other. This
calendar year, maybe it is the fiscal year, the deficit is about $3 billion. Next year
it will be $3.5 billion, the following year close to $4 billion, more than $4 billion.
The net result is that if we don't do something about it, the current $43 billion
reserve fund will be depleted because if you take $3 billion one year, $3.5 billion
the next year, $4 billion the next year, eventually, that $43 billion reserve fund
is gone.
So, there are three or four alternatives. You can start tapping the general
fund, which I oppose. You can raise the wage ceiling which some propose. I
don't think that is the best answer. I recommended in January that to make the
Social Security Trust Fund secure that we add six-tenths of 1 percent to the em-
ployer and to the employee cost which would at the maximum wage ceiling
amount to less than a dollar a week.
Now, the Congress in an election year has rejected that proposal, but that is
655
