April 3
[288]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I think the Postal Service will have to make some adjustments in service; other-
wise, it will require more subsidy from the Federal Government.
The head of the Postal Service says he needs another billion dollars from the
Federal Treasury. Well, that is $2 billion in subsidy in 12 months. I think
there has to be a better solution than that. We have got a special study going on
now in the Office of Management and Budget, and they are working with the
Postal Service to try and see if there can't be responsible economies, some better
personnel management policies. But I think everybody probably will have to
tighten their belt—the management, the employees, and the recipients—unless
we are going to call on a bigger and bigger subsidy or less and less service.
Q. Is there any possibility of having private industry handle part of this, or
is that unconstitutional?
The President. Well, it is disallowed by law, but let me tell you what
probably would happen. There are some companies that want to, in major
metropolitan areas, move in with their postal system which is now precluded
by law. Frankly, that is where the Post Office service or Postal Service makes
money. So, if you take a private delivery system and let it just go into the markets
where the Postal Service makes money, the Postal Service will be in worse shape.
So, I don't think that is an answer, either, because they will take the cream off
of the area of revenue and then the Postal Service will have more problems, not
fewer.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
Q. I am a dairy farmer down at a little town called Waukesha, a little south
of here.
About 2 months ago, you vetoed a price support bill at 85 percent of parity
that disappointed me a whole lot, but I applaud you for raising it as much as you
did, ordering Secretary Butz to give us the new rate on April 1. I understand
that there is a new bill in the hopper at the level that is more to your liking at
80 percent of parity for the next 2 years. Will you sign this bill when it hits your
desk?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I understand, Earl Butz has agreed, and I fully ap-
prove, to increase, as of April 1, the price supports to 80 percent of parity. And
we have agreed to review the situation every quarter. I think it is better to have
that kind of flexibility as long as you all understand that we will continue to do
what we have done and we have not broken an agreement yet; we don't intend
to break one.
I think flexibility is better than a rigid figure set at a certain level. I can assure
945
