[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
We appreciate any help you can give. It will be very beneficial, I think, for a
good program.
Now, with those general remarks, I will be glad to answer any questions.
Q. Mr. Ford, I went to Virginia Seminary. My daughter went to Virginia
Seminary and graduated last year. John Harper¹ studied under me in New
Hampshire when I was director of the Episcopal Church. Nice to have you.
THE PRESIDENT. We lived for a few years in Alexandria, about a half mile from
there and used to go to church services up at Immanuel-On-The-Hill. You are
familiar with it?
Q. That's where my daughter graduated and where I graduated. It's nice to
have you in New Hampshire, and please remember me to John Harper when
you see him.
THE PRESIDENT. I sure will.
Q. I don't want to talk rough, tough, and commercial, but I remind you, scrip-
tures which you will hear in the Presbyterian Church talk more about money
than anything else. [Laughter]
Now in New Hampshire, we live on sin. And we preachers, of course, are
against it. For example, we have horses, we've got puppy dogs, we have lottery,
and we have cigarettes, but our biggest source of tax revenue in the State of
New Hampshire comes from the sale of beveraged alcohol.
Now, we as Episcopalians, think it's perfectly all right to take a drink, and
we think this is one of God's great gifts, but there are some of us, Mr. President,
like myself, who are alcoholics. And we are very much concerned about your
budget.
I was down last week. I had my button with me when I appeared before Mr.
Kennedy.² I made somewhat of a hit with some of those Democrats down there
before the Senate, so I am with you.
But my problem is that your budget, which you submitted this week, cuts
the alcoholism research money by $2 million; it cuts your training money by 300
percent—that is, money for kids and for training. It also is going to cut out
50 percent of your treatment money if the block grants go through.
Now, Mr. President, we can't afford to see this happen, and how can we make
a believer out of you?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me indicate that under the block grant health program,
we have recommended $10 billion for 15 categorical programs. This is as much
money as is available for the 15 programs in the current fiscal year. What we
1 Rector of St. John's Church in Washington, D.C.
2 Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
162
