[19]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
solve age-old problems. And we became overconfident of our abilities. We
tried to be a policeman abroad and the indulgent parent here at home.
We thought we could transform the country through massive national pro-
grams, but often the programs did not work. Too often they only made things
worse. In our rush to accomplish great deeds quickly, we trampled on sound
principles of restraint and endangered the rights of individuals. We unbal-
anced our economic system by the huge and unprecedented growth of Federal
expenditures and borrowing. And we were not totally honest with ourselves
about how much these programs would cost and how we would pay for
them. Finally, we shifted our emphasis from defense to domestic problems
while our adversaries continued a massive buildup of arms.
The time has now come for a fundamentally different approach—for a new
realism that is true to the great principles upon which this Nation was founded.
We must introduce a new balance to our economy-a balance that favors not
only sound, active government but also a much more vigorous, healthy economy
that can create new jobs and hold down prices.
We must introduce a new balance in the relationship between the individual
and the government—a balance that favors greater individual freedom and
self-reliance.
We must strike a new balance in our system of federalism-a balance that
favors greater responsibility and freedom for the leaders of our State and local
governments.
We must introduce a new balance between the spending on domestic pro-
grams and spending on defense—a balance that ensures we will fully meet our
obligation to the needy while also protecting our security in a world that is still
hostile to freedom.
And in all that we do, we must be more honest with the American people,
promising them no more than we can deliver and delivering all that we promise.
The genius of America has been its incredible ability to improve the lives of
its citizens through a unique combination of governmental and free citizen
activity.
History and experience tells us that moral progress cannot come in comfort-
able and in complacent times, but out of trial and out of confusion. Tom Paine
aroused the troubled Americans of 1776 to stand up to the times that try men's
souls because the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph.
Just a year ago I reported that the state of the Union was not good. Tonight,
I report that the state of our Union is better-in many ways a lot better-but
still not good enough.
32
