[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Congress 5 years ago, as I recollect, passed an $18
billion program for Federal aid to local units of government for sewage treat-
ment plants. The law expires, I think, next year, if I recall it correctly.
Now, under the present law, you are correct that there will be $6,900 million
spent on local water pollution units, which is 60 percent more than last year.
And I think it is 90 percent more than 2 years ago.
Now, under the proposed law, we are recommending some changes, and one,
for example, we don't think that Federal money should go into a local water
treatment plant and participate in a 10-year growth factor.
Under the present law and under the present funding, the Federal Govern-
ment pays for a 10-year growth factor. The Federal responsibility should be to
catch up so that the local community at the present time is able to handle the
sewage treatment problem up to the standards at the present time.
Now, the community ought to look down the road at the growth factor, and,
when you crank that factor in that I have discussed, it does account for a sig-
nificant part of the reduction in the funds that we are proposing. And there are
some other modifications which we think, in the long run, are proper, now that
we are going to be more or less caught up in the local communities around the
country. There will still be a lot of money there, but it won't be as much
because of the one or two factors that I have described. There will be money
there. And we have recommended it, and I think it will be adequate to handle
those communities that didn't qualify or didn't apply under the current program.
I can assure you that we believe that a Federal contribution is right, but it has
to be tailored to meet the needs at the end of this law, or at the termination of
this law, not just the same amount as we have had for the last 4 or 5 years.
Q. Mr. President, Costas S. Tentas, chairman of the New Hampshire State
Liquor Commission. I also want to welcome you to New Hampshire. It's nice to
see you again.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. And I want to convey to you the best regards of my counterpart in Michi-
gan, Stan Thayer.
THE PRESIDENT. We both have monopolies.
Q. We certainly do.
THE PRESIDENT. It makes a lot of money for Michigan. I don't know about
New Hampshire.
Q. More so in New Hampshire. One of the areas of concern to not only New
Hampshire but all the sister-controlled States, which are 18-plus 1 county,
Montgomery County in Maryland—is the amount of Federal taxes that are tied
182
