March 11
[201]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
As you know, I am deeply interested in the many food and agricultural policy
issues which face our Nation and the world.
I view this new Committee as the appropriate mechanism for dealing with
these issues. It is my hope that your active participation in this Committee and
the full support of your departments and agencies will lead to the success of this
important new Committee in resolving the many significant issues of food and
agricultural policy.
GERALD R. FORD
201
Statement on Signing the Reclamation Authorization
Act of 1975. March 11, 1976
I HAVE today approved S. 151, the "Reclamation Authorization Act of 1975."
S. 151 authorizes four separate projects to be undertaken by the Bureau of
Reclamation: Polecat Bench, Wyoming; Dickinson Dam, North Dakota;
McKay Dam and Reservoir, Oregon; and Pollock-Herreid unit, South Dakota.
The bill reauthorizes the Polecat Bench project to provide water for irrigation
of 19,200 acres of land, a municipal and industrial water supply, and water for
conservation and recreation purposes.
The Pollock-Herreid project, South Dakota, is based on a plan to divert water
by pumping from the existing Lake Oahe on the Missouri River. The principal
purposes of the project are to supply onfarm sprinkler irrigation for 15,000 acres
of land and to supply municipal and industrial water to two communities.
The Dickinson Dam project, North Dakota, consists of certain modifications
to be made to the Dickinson Dam to make additional municipal and industrial
water available to the city of Dickinson, North Dakota, and to increase the
existing spillway capacity to provide additional safety allowances in light of
increased estimates of possible maximum flows.
The McKay Dam project, Oregon, is similar to the Dickinson Dam project
in that it provides for increasing the capacity of the spillway of the dam for
safety purposes. S. 151 also reauthorizes the project for additional purposes, in-
cluding flood control, fish and wildlife, and recreation, as well as the existing
irrigation function.
Although I have signed S. 151, it should be noted that I have several reserva-
tions about the bill and my implementation of its provisions will be subject to
the following constraints:
607
