[95]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
as long as is required, and it is no 8-hour day, I can assure you. But we will do
that job, and we will get to Florida and we will get to Norwalk, Connecticut,
as often as we can.
Q. Bravo! We will expect you.
MONOPOLIES; FOOD PRICES
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. I am from precinct 79. We would like to
know what you are going to do about the monopolies in the United States, such
as oil and gas and food. Our food prices are atrociously high in our area, and
we are all concerned about them. We also would like to know about the taxes
that the middle class is paying, and why are not some of the other larger income
people paying taxes, too, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. On the first question, since I have become President, I have,
first, appointed an outstanding Attorney General. That man has put added
emphasis in the Department of Justice on antitrust activities, trying to break
up monopolies or to eliminate monopolistic practices of any company, and this
year, again, in this budget, he asked me—the Attorney General-for extra anti-
trust personnel and I recommended, as I recall, about 50 extra top grade people
to help him pursue antitrust monopolistic developments.
So under the laws we have, you can depend that the Department of Justice
will do a good job. And I might add that last year I recommended that the
penalties for violation of the antitrust laws be increased. They were ridiculously
low. They have been substantially increased so now that those who perpetrate
monopolistic trade practices will really be penalized in dollars as well, if it's
criminal, any criminal penalties as well.
Now on the question of food prices. It is true that in 1973, just about the time
we had the oil embargo, food prices soared. In the meantime, the farmers of
this country have really turned to, and last year we had an alltime record of
wheat production, an alltime record of corn production. And the net result is,
that instead of the increase in food prices of 15 to 20 percent in 1973, they are
down now to an annual rate of about 4 to 5 percent, and that's still too high.
But I can tell you that the farmers are producing. Our big problem-let's
be frank about it—it is the middleman profit. The farmer doesn't get it and the
consumer doesn't get it, and one of the jobs that the Department of Justice must
do, the Federal Trade Commission must do, and others, is to find out why there
is such an abnormally high differential between what the farmer gets and
what the consumer pays. And we are going to go after it.
318
