[284]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
gentleman's question here, but in absolute terms, Mr. President, can we continue
with talks of defense budget cuts in the face of military and naval expansion
on the part of the Soviet Union and still expect to be number one in the world?
THE PRESIDENT. We have to continue on the trend that I recommended for
fiscal year 1977, which is an upturn both in real dollars, in current dollars, and a
percentage of our total Federal expenditures. And furthermore, we have to get
the Congress to stop slashing the defense budget recommendations.
Over the last 6 years Congress has cut $32 billion out of defense appropriation
bills recommended by Presidents, and they cut $7.5 billion out of the one that I
submitted to the Congress last year. And we are working very hard to try and
keep the Congress from cutting this one, and I think we are making headway.
Now, one comment I would like to make on our defense capability, if I
might. There have been questions raised as to whether we are behind. Let me
make a very categorical statement: The United States is still the strongest nation
in the world. When we take into consideration the fact that we are unsurpassed
in military capability, when we take into consideration the fact that we have
the greatest industrial capability in the world, when we take into consideration
that we produce more on our farms than our people can eat and wear and we have
a net balance of trade of $22 billion overseas, when you take into consideration
our science and technology capability in America, we are number one and we
are going to stay there.
May I add a footnote to that. You are a Navy Reservist, as you indicated, and
I spent 4 years in the Navy. You know, 1,000 gunboats don't compare with 14
carriers and a good many naval cruisers and all the other high-powered, fire-
power ships that we have. So, we ought to compare apples and apples, not
oranges and apples, when we are talking about a naval capability. That is the
only honest way to make a comparison. Our Navy is first class and it is going to
stay there.
Q. Mr. President, that makes me feel great. Thank you, sir.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
[9.] Q. We are in the retail business, the ski business, among other things.
THE PRESIDENT. Good. Can you get me some that will keep me from falling
down? [Laughter]
Q. We would like to have you come visit us.
Today, we seem to be getting an awful lot of attention in the media of the
abuses of the CIA and the FBI and so on, but we don't get much attention from
the abuses that we businessmen, especially small businessmen, get from orga-
916
