January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
working for private enterprise rather than for government on the one hand or
unemployment on the other.
Q. If I may follow up, Dr. Burns* has suggested, among other people, that
it would be well to limit the period of unemployment compensation and instead
provide jobs through government means.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Dave [David S. Broder, Washington Post]. I saw what
Dr. Burns said, and I was very interested in what George Meany 5 said in
response. Dr. Burns proposed that people who work for the government under
this guaranteed employment program of his, that they be paid less than the
going wage, or they be paid less than the minimum wage. And the minute Dr.
Burns raised that question, George Meany said he would have no part of it.
So, there isn't unanimity among those who, in one way or another, indicate
that the Federal Government should be the employer of last resort.
Q. Mr. President, I didn't have my follow-up question. I would like to ask
Director Lynn, if I might—I asked him yesterday in our briefing in the old EOB
why it was there was nothing in the State of the Union Message about handling
the excessive increases of Federal pensions, whereas they were talking of maybe
possibly eliminating the increases in social security? Can you answer that?
JAMES T. LYNN [Director of the Office of Management and Budget]. Yester-
day, you will recall, I had my problem of trying to stick to a briefing on the state
of the Union. Today I have no such problem. If you will notice, one of the
initiatives of the President in this budget is to eliminate the so-called one-percent
kicker, which is a provision that, in addition to adjustments for cost of living,
adds another one percent, and which we feel is not appropriate and the way to
address the problem.
There, of course, has to be an overall look, constantly, in every program of
the Federal Government. And this is no exception. But we do believe that this
is an important step to be taken to bring that program into better long-range
perspective.
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us, sir, how much is in your new budget for
Angola and, also, the CIA spending?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the budget for fiscal 1977 follows the long tradition of
not identifying the budget recommendations for the intelligence community.
I think that is a good procedure. It has worked well, with some exceptions in the
last few months. And I don't think that I should comment either on the amount
or the specifics for any undertaking in any definite way.
4 Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
5 President of the AFL-CIO.
65
