[195]
March 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
several synthetic fuel plants, develop hundreds of new coal mines, many new
refineries, and thousands of oil wells, but they won't be developed unless we
remove the impediments now in their way.
I propose numerous legislative measures designed to help speed up our energy
development. If the Congress will use a little of its own energy, we have the
programs and we have the resources to make America energy independent, and
we must.
This national energy effort can do so much for our country. It can create
hundreds of thousands of jobs, generate extraordinary expansion and growth
for our economy, and help make certain that America will enjoy its third cen-
tury of independence truly independent of foreign domination and foreign
control.
Our energy situation today is still too fragile, our dependence still too great
for us to forget the lessons of recent years so quickly; 1973, we must not forget.
Energy independence must not lose its place in the American people's list of
concerns. It must have a high, high rank in our national priorities. And in this
administration let me assure you that it does.
In the field of energy and in so many other fields of enterprise and endeavor,
we can truly build a better America in the spirit of '76—a spirit that calls for
courage, compassion, the common sense and the capacity for hard work that
Americans have demonstrated for the past 200 years. We can build, rebuild, and
revitalize America's cities, not by government action alone, but through the
imaginative and cooperative efforts of both the public and the private sectors.
We can make our cities safe, enjoyable, comfortable, workable, and govern-
able again. We can protect our environment better and, at the same time, we
can make sure that extreme environmental demand and endless environmental
delays do not make progress impossible in America.
We can make government a responsible, capable servant of the people and a
powerful instrument of progress without letting the government enslave us with
endless rolls of redtape and regulation. We can do all of this and more, too, be-
cause we have the will, the courage, and the resources and the imagination to do
it. We can build a better America-stronger, wealthier, safer, healthier, happier
America―an America that we can be proud to leave to our children and to our
grandchildren.
Let us work together to reach that goal together, and let's celebrate this Bi-
centennial Year with hope, with pride, and with increasing prosperity, and with
confidence in a promising future.
598
