[229]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
extremely important responsibility, and I thank you and look forward to the
fine job you will do.
MR. GATES. Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I am greatly honored, and I
hope I can discharge my work there in carrying out your policies. I look forward
to the experience. I am going to come down next week and get some education,
and then in 2 or 3 weeks after that, I presume, if the Senate confirms me, I will
be on my way.
THE PRESIDENT. I am submitting Tom Gates' name to the United States Senate
for confirmation, so that we won't call you Mr. Secretary anymore, we'll call
you Mr. Ambassador.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
230
Message to the Congress Transmitting a Report on the War
Risk Insurance Program of the Department of Transportation.
March 19, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 3 of Public Law 94-90, I am forwarding to the
Congress a Report on the Investigation and Study of the War Risk Insurance
Program of the Department of Transportation.
This Report states that the existing authority of the Secretary of Transporta-
tion under Title XIII of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 should be expanded
in certain respects. This Report will provide the basis for developing remedial
legislation. Such legislation should authorize the Secretary of Transportation,
after appropriate consultations with other Federal agencies and with the ap-
proval of the President, to provide insurance for international U.S. commercial
aviation when such insurance is not available commercially and when it is nec-
essary for the continuation of a particular required air service.
I transmit this Report for consideration by the Congress. The Department of
Transportation will soon be transmitting implementing legislation.
The White House,
March 19, 1976.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report on the In-
vestigation and Study of the War Risk Program of
GERALD R. FORD
the Department of Transportation Undertaken Pur-
suant to Public Law 94-90.”
738
