[65]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
between the individual on the one hand and the Government on the other, a
balance that favors greater individual freedom and self-reliance.
We must also seek a new balance that favors greater responsibility and free-
doms for our State and local units of government. We must have a new balance
between spending on domestic programs and spending on defense, a balance
that ensures we will fully meet our obligations to the needy while we are also
protecting our security in a world that is still hostile to freedom.
The genius of America is its incredible ability to improve the lives of its
citizens through a unique combination of governmental and free citizen activity.
It took many years of excessive spending, combined with a fourfold increase
in international oil prices, to create the economic difficulties of 1974 and 1975.
It will take several years of sound policies and reasoned restraint to restore sus-
tained, noninflationary growth.
I will not make promises which I know and you know cannot be kept. We
must restore full strength to our economy as quickly as we possibly can, but in so
doing, we must not reignite the fires of inflation.
Escalating inflation, as we all know, makes steady growth and full employ-
ment totally impossible. It breeds instant instability and disruption.
I strongly reject the view that the only way to reduce unemployment is to
accept chronic inflation or rigid controls. We certainly don't want either. Infla-
tion and unemployment are not opposites, but actually related symptoms.
The way to treat the disease instead of these symptoms is by the use of proven
remedies prescribed throughout New Hampshire—the medicine of initiative,
enterprise, investment, development, growth, and just plain common sense
taken together with the therapy of good hard work.
Yes, we see the results. Your unemployment is lower than many other areas
of the Nation. You must be doing many things that are right here. I believe in
the example that you hold forth, the living demonstration of what people can
do to determine their own fate.
America's spirit is alive and vigorous here in Nashua, and America's spirit is
alive and vigorous because of communities like Nashua. Never let that spirit die
so we can continue to be proud to be Americans and proud of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:22 p.m. in the gym-
nasium at the Nashua Senior High School. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Frank Harvey, chair-
man of the dinner, Representative James C. Cleve-
land, chairman of the New Hampshire President
Ford Committee, Mayor Dennis J. Sullivan of
Nashua, and Ross Tait, president of the Nashua
Chamber of Commerce.
194
