March 6
[192]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that if a person worked in a coal mine for 30 years, he is guaranteed a black lung
pension or retirement, whatever it is. Whether he ended up with black lung or
not, the presumption is he does have it, and he would be paid. Now that is, as
I understand, the legislation passed by the House of Representatives.
When I was in the Congress about 5, 6 years ago, when the first black lung
legislation was enacted, I voted for it. It provided that if it was determined that
a miner who was working or a miner who was retired had black lung, if it was
determined by a medical examination, then that individual would qualify for
black lung benefits. And it costs about a billion dollars a year at the present
time to take care of that problem.
But this is a significant change, because it doesn't require a medical examina-
tion. It simply says, if you worked that long, it's automatic.
Now, I haven't made up my mind, because it has only passed one-half of the
Congress, but those are the facts as I understand it. If and when the legislation
gets down to the White House, I will take a good look at it, but it's a very sig-
nificant change in existing law. And the Senate, I'm sure, will give it careful
consideration before it gets to the White House.
Q. May I make one comment, please, on that? How will this be funded, the
new act? Will it be a direct tax on coal, or will it be a tax on the people? I think
this is very important. I think most people want to know this.
Also, I don't know if you ever worked or have seen the inside of a coal mine,
where a man has to work in an area where at times he is very fortunate to see
from me to you very clearly, and the dust is so thick. Of course, it's better now
than it has been in the past 5 years, due to the new acts that Congress has passed.
But if you would see and realize what 30 years of underground experience would
do to a man's health-I have a father and many of you men here have fathers
and relatives-you see what it does to them. And I think this is very important,
I think you need to really understand what this does to people.
The President. Well, I fully support the present legislation which says if a
person has—by medical examination—acquired black lung, he ought to be paid.
No question about that.
Now, in the House legislation, it's my understanding that the payments
under the new law, if it becomes law, would come out of the Treasury, not out of
industry. I could be wrong, but that's my best recollection.
I think it's a question the Senate ought to look into as to whether the industry
ought to bear the burden or whether the general taxpayers should. I expect that
the United States Senate will ask the experts in these areas for some opinions in
that regard.
591
