March 30
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in world events. Even if prior approval by the full Congress were appropriate,
the provision is still constitutionally defective in that it delegates the legislative
functions of the entire Congress to the respective committees. While we are fully
prepared to keep the Congress informed of significant program changes during
the fiscal year, the Senate provision is unacceptable and I would urge that it be
stricken.
Finally, I am profoundly disappointed that both the Senate and House have
approved only $225.0 million for grant military assistance—considerably below
my requested level of $394.5 million. This action will mean substantial cuts in
many grant military aid programs of great importance to the United States.
Serious reductions will be necessary in the program for Jordan, reducing the
incentive for this moderate Arab country to play a helpful role in the Middle
East; in the program for the Philippines, where pending base negotiations
could be jeopardized; and in the Korean program, inhibiting that country's
progress toward military self-sufficiency and weakening it in face of the Com-
munist threat. Many other important country programs will suffer as well, to
the detriment of our foreign policy interests. This deep cut can only be seen
abroad as a further sign that the United States is no longer willing to stand
behind commitments of long-standing to its friends and allies, at a time when
our national will is already being questioned by both friend and foe.
I hope you, as conferees, will bear these reservations in mind as you consider
the bills and that your deliberations will produce acceptable legislation which
I can sign.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Edward W. Brooke, United States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
271
Remarks of Welcome to King Hussein I of Jordan.
March 30, 1976
YOUR MAJESTY, our warm personal relationship is but one example of the
closeness and continuity that are so evident in the long friendship between
Jordan and the United States.
I recall with very great pleasure my first official meeting with Your Majesty
when I was Vice President. Shortly after I became President, you were the first
head of state that I received in the White House.
855
