[308]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
and, of course, their cost. So, it isn't all bad. It just hasn't moved as rapidly and
as effectively as I think most of us want.
Now to get to your question, how about letting private industry move into it as
a competitor? I am told that if private industry went into major metropolitan
areas where they would go because that is where the concentration of mail users
are—it would take the cream off of the business. And maybe they would do all
right, but then the Postal Service would have lost a great deal of its revenue. And
all of these uneconomic services that the Post Office Department renders in rural
areas and small towns-the cost to the Federal Treasury would be far greater.
So again, it is a tough problem how to balance what is good for service, man-
agement, and revenues. It is a very perplexing problem. We are working on it.
We have a serious study going on with the Office of Management and Budget, as
well as with the Postal Service.
Q. Mr. President, would you care to comment on the future of Henry Kis-
singer since your campaign manager had some comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I thought that the results in Wisconsin certainly fully
justified my faith in Henry Kissinger. That was an issue in Wisconsin, because
my opponent made it an issue. I fully defended our foreign policy. We are at
peace; we are strong; we are meeting every challenge. And the people in Wis-
consin believed what we said, and they were supportive of our foreign policy.
So, as far as I am concerned, my full support for Secretary Kissinger is
fortified by the decision in Wisconsin. I think he is one of the greatest Secre-
taries of State in the history of the United States. I challenge anybody to say
that we haven't been successful. We have peace, we are strong, and we are going
to continue from that position in trying to help solve some of the problems
around the world. And all of these allegations to the contrary, I think you have
to take in the political context of an election year.
Q. Do you see any improvement in the American-Canadian relations?
THE PRESIDENT. Basically they are good, although we, from time to time, have
some differences. But basically, our relations with Canada are good.
I was talking to some foreign dignitary the other day. They don't understand
how Canada and the United States can have a border of the length of our border
without a soldier from Canada or a soldier from the United States being on
either side. They don't understand that.
So, we start from that premise—that the United States and Canada have good
relations, have had, and we try to work out whatever individual differences we
have in a responsible way. And sure, we have some now, but they are not seri-
ous, and I think the two responsible Governments will solve them.
992
