[293]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I don't think the answer is to put young people on the Federal payroll. They
have a greater opportunity for the future, for advancement and permanency in
the private sector rather than in some temporary, payroll-padding job in the
Federal Government.
On the other hand, if a young person like you wants to go to college and
you don't have the funds available to do so, there are grant programs, there
are scholarship programs. As a matter of fact, I recommended for the budget
for the current fiscal year $1,100 million, as I recall, for what we call the basic
opportunity grant program. Bill Steiger knows he is a real expert on that pro-
gram. We recommended the full funding of that program, which would have
a maximum assistance of $1,400, and the average amount, because it varies, is
around $900. We want to help you if you want to go to college, and once you
get out of college we hope our economy is such that you will have a permanent
job in the private sector.
AMERICAN MEDICAL PROFESSION
[5.] Q. Mr. President, this is a little bit different question than you have
been harangued with or whatever. It is a medical question. Expenses are going
up, and I have had experience with cancer. I had to leave the country to get
information to obtain relief from such cancer or trichinosis. I have had experi-
ence with doctors here in this country, not just in this State-in other States.
They didn't know how to diagnose the subject or the disease of worms—plain
old worms, trichinosis. Now, you say we have all kinds of technology. When will
the American Medical Association let loose some of that information that you
talk about?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the American Medical Association has control
over the cures or the things that are done to analyze the illness of a person or the
recommendations for remedies to cure an illness. The AMA does not have that
responsibility. That is the responsibility of a hospital or a clinic or an individual
doctor.
Now, I am not familiar, obviously, with your personal case or individual case.
But if you look, I think, across the length and the breadth of this globe and
compare our medical profession with any other, the United States is lucky to have
the quality of care that is given to save people's lives and to protect them from
disease and to repair them from disabilities. And I can only say that the Federal
Government is spending better than $1 billion for research under the National
Institutes of Health in Washington, D.C., on cancer, arthritis, and heart and—
960
