[137]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
When I met with the President of Mexico, we talked about trade, tourism, in-
vestment, the narcotics problem, border difficulties, and I am sure that in your
consultations here in the United States you will likewise involve yourselves in
those very important issues. I am sure that President Echeverría and myself will
welcome any recommendations that come from this group as you consult on
those very important issues.
It is my understanding that you are going to do a little traveling around the
United States. I know that you will be very warmly received. The American
people and those from your country, Mexico, have a great feeling on behalf
of one another. And the American people will reflect our warmth of feeling to-
ward the people of Mexico as they welcome you in their respective communities.
I am led to believe you are going to end your trip in one of my favorite places
in the United States. [Laughter] I wish I could qualify as a parliamentarian and
join you, but I know that before you get to Vail, Colorado, you will have had
a wonderful time in the United States. And I can assure you, whether you ski or
don't ski, you can really enjoy the benefits and blessings of the American Rockies
and, particularly, Vail, Colorado.
If you don't know it already, a great many people from Mexico go to Vail.
As a matter of fact, they bought or built-I am not sure which—a very fine build-
ing with many condominiums right at the base of the mountain and right next
to the golf course.
I just urge you not to fall while you are out there, and particularly don't do it if
there are any cameras around. [Laughter]
I welcome you again, and will you express to President Echeverría my very,
very best? And I am looking forward to your newly elected President sometime
in 1976.
Good luck, and God bless you all.
SENATOR OLIVARES. President Ford, Senator Mansfield, Ambassadors of Mexico
and the United States:
I had the privilege of accompanying President Echeverría in the meeting that
he held with President Ford in Magdelena Sonora. And I can see right now
that the bonds of fraternal friendship and mutual respect between the leaders of
our two respective countries continue to persist.
We Mexican Congressmen and Senators have come here to gather together for
the 16th time to discuss with the Members of Congress, our friends from the
United States, matters of common concern, without any obstacles in our path,
without any bad weeds that block our path, because this is a clear path of friend-
ship that we have been following for these last 16 years.
434
