[193]
March 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
I assure you I have a personal commitment and an emotional commitment
to it. And it's nice to feel that you are going to be working for someone who also
has that commitment, and I have a feeling you do.
THE PRESIDENT. We're delighted to have you on board. I think that
you will
find the job challenging; you'll find it interesting, and you can rest assured I
will back you 100 percent.
MAJOR GENERAL HOLM. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:13 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
194
Remarks at a Meeting With Members of the House Budget
Committee To Discuss the Fiscal Year 1977 Defense Budget.
March 8, 1976
THE PRESS is here, and we won't start the business, but I wanted to ask you—
Brock and Del and the members of the committee-to come down and talk about
the defense budget. It is a very significant part, as you know, of this document
in dollars as well as substance.
I have recommended $112.7 billion—a $1.7 billion increase for strategic forces
and $4.5 billion increase in general purpose forces—and $1 billion more for
conventional readiness and $1 billion more in R. & D. It is an increase, but I
think it is important, and I hope we can sit and talk about the pros and cons. But
it is something that involves all of us, whether we are Democrats or Republicans.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:35 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. In his remarks,
he referred to Representatives Brock Adams of
Washington, chairman, and Delbert L. Latta of Ohio,
ranking minority member, House Budget Committee.
195
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the Associated
General Contractors of America. March 9, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Jack, Secretary Usery, Mr. Hogan, Bishop Lyons,
members and guests of the Associated General Contractors of America:
At the outset, let me thank you for the very, very warm welcome. It is a great
privilege and honor to have the opportunity to address the 57th national con-
vention of the AGC.
594
