February 14
[99]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Jeanne-[turning to Bob Hope] what is your name?—[laughter]—I owe him
a couple of putts on the golf course, and I am going to get that money back the
next time we play if he gives me enough strokes. [Laughter]
MR. HOPE. Well, can I have this one second and tell you that you are the
best finale we ever had. [Laughter] You are. And you are standing with a couple
of wonderful people here who have done a tremendous job toward this great
cause.
MRS. PEPPER. And, Mr. President, women, you know-they have to do a little
talking.
Ladies and gentlemen, you know Claude and I are good Democrats, but
you know President Ford and Mrs. Ford, Betty—we know her very affection-
ately as Betty-she is in my international club, one of the loveliest ladies that
I have ever known in my life, and you know the President is a wonderful man.
He deserves a better party. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. May I have the last word, please? [Laughter]
Last night I was in Florida, and I called back to Washington to talk to Betty,
to let her know that everything had gone very well, that all the wonderful
people in Florida had been very hospitable. And she said Mildred had called
and said that she thought it would be a good idea if I came down here and
saw Claude and her and Bob and Mrs. Levey, and like a good husband, here I
am. [Laughter] Thank you.
MR. HOPE. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. at the Fontainebleau Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to
comedian Bob Hope, master of ceremonies.
99
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Miami. February 14, 1976
Thank you, John Malloy and Lou Frey and all of you wonderful people:
Let me, at the culmination of a day and a half or almost 2 days of a tremen-
dous visit to the great State of Florida, thank you on behalf of all of the people
who have been so kind, so generous, so friendly, and so nice-it is just wonder-
ful. And Happy Valentine to you and everybody else.
Let me just take a few minutes—I know you have waited and I appreciate
your patience. When I was up in Washington the last month or so, I heard
333
