February 20
[118]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Navy. I served 4 years in the United States Navy. I served on the Appropriations
Committee in the House of Representatives that handled all the money for
the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines for 12 years. So, I know something
about the Navy as well as the defense programs, policies, personnel, and
otherwise.
During World War II we built our Navy, in size, tremendously. For a period
of some 20 years following World War II, we didn't build many capital ships.
We rehabilitated them, and the net result was we developed what they call "bloc
obsolescence." And about 2 years ago we started a new Navy shipbuilding
program.
In the budget that I submitted for the next fiscal year, we put in the most
money for the building of Navy capital ships in the history of the United States
Navy, and the net result is we are on our way to overcome the problem of
bloc obsolescence and to make our Navy as it has been, as it will be, and as it
must be the best Navy in the whole world.
But I think we have to be realistic. In the last 5 years the Soviet Union has
increased their navy tremendously. As a matter of fact, they have some 900 ships.
Their tonnage isn't as great as ours; their numbers are greater.
We are in the process of a study conducted by the Secretary of Defense to see
whether we should further accelerate our Navy shipbuilding program. And let
me assure you that if that study comes back—and it is supposed to be completed
within the next 6 months--we will submit the necessary funding to the Con-
gress to accelerate that shipbuilding program.
We cannot and will not let any other nation dominate the world seas. The
United States must, and it will.
Now let me talk very quickly about one other matter. You may have read
about or seen something to the effect that I have submitted comprehensive
programs for the reorganization of our intelligence community. In the process
*of that reorganization I had two fundamental objectives:
Number one, to strengthen the Central Intelligence Agency and the remainder
of the intelligence community. Under no circumstances will my administration,
in any way whatsoever, hurt-and the last thing I would do would be to dis-
mantle-the Central Intelligence Agency. It is a good, fine, excellently operated,
totally necessary part of our Federal Government. And we are going to have,
as we have had, the best intelligence community that any country could possibly
have.
Secondly, there were some abuses. Let's be honest and frank. They were
minor in total although serious where they were actually committed. Under
395
