[210]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
cide it the way I want it decided. That is not the way our Government works.
We can try to find a better answer than the answers that have been given in
Boston or some of the other communities, but you don't do these things over-
night. They weren't done over 200 years. We have to work at them. I have to
work with you, and you have to work with me, with 215 million other people.
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[14.] Q. If for some reason Ronald Reagan got the nomination, would you
support him?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't deal in speculation; I deal in reality. I firmly believe
we are going to get the nomination, and so I deal in the facts of life. I have
always supported the Republican candidate, but in this case, I think I am going
to be the nominee.
Is there a young lady? There is one right there.
AID TO EDUCATION
[15.] Q. In the last several months, there has been a 10-percent cut in
State scholarships. I would like to know if there is anything you are going to do
about it or can do about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, since it is a State matter, as I understand it, there is
nothing that we in the Federal Government can do about it. It is a matter that
involves your Governor and your State legislature in Springfield, so there is
nothing that we in the Federal Government can do about it, except for those
Federal programs where we have student loans, student grants. And in those
areas of student grants, we have increased what they call basic opportunity
grants. But that is not a State program, that is a Federal program. Your State
programs-you should talk to your Governor and talk to your State legislature.
One more question.
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
[16.] Q. Whatever happened to energy independence?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a good question. A year ago in January, I submitted
a 13-point program to the Congress of the United States that would stimulate
domestic production and bring about conservation. After 1 year, Congress has
passed 4 of the 13 proposals that I recommended. It is a pretty dismal record.
And even one of the proposals that they submitted to me was of marginal
benefit. I hope that the Congress will get off of its dead center and do some-
thing in this area, so we can have energy independence.
678
