February 8
[67]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
mation to Governor Thomson. I don't think any aide in the White House would
be that knowledgeable to know when and if the Nuclear Regulatory Agency
[Commission] would make a decision by a date certain.
There are always factors that come up during the process of hearings and
consideration by an independent agency. I understand there have been one or
two new developments involved in the Seabrook nuclear powerplant.
Those new developments inevitably cause some delay, because even once the
decision is made by the nuclear regulatory agencies, unless their decision is
fully backed up by the facts, unless their decision totally complies with the law,
they, of course—or their decision is subject to court involvement.
The worst thing would be for a President or his people to unethically or illeg-
ally get involved in that process. That would really slow the matter up.
Now, if a Governor wants to get involved, or somebody on the outside, they
do it at their own risk. But this President isn't going to do anything illegal or
unethical concerning that project. I have strong feelings, as I said a moment ago,
that we need 200 more nuclear powerplants, and I hope the Nuclear Regulatory
Agency moves as rapidly as it can on all of them. But that is their decision, and
I am not going to try to tell them how to do it.
Q. Well, the Governor made this claim a couple of weeks ago. Had you
heard about it at all? Had you heard that he said he had been told by an aide?
THE PRESIDENT. I read it in the newspaper, but I don't think that any person
on my staff should try to tell the NRC when and how they ought to make the
decision.
Q. Did you check out, Mr. President, whether anyone on your staff had had
communication with Governor Thomson on this matter?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I will try to do that.
ABORTION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Rick Beyer, WDCR News.
I would like to know, was your recent change of heart on the Supreme Court
ruling on abortion basically a political move to improve your position in New
Hampshire? And, if not, I would like to know why you feel that a new consti-
tutional amendment of the kind you advocated for State control of abortion reg-
ulations is necessary.
THE PRESIDENT. My decision, adverse to the Supreme Court decision, goes back
some time. I felt at the time the decision was made that it went too far. I publicly
expressed that view at that time. And while I was a Member of the House of
Representatives, after that decision I made a decision to oppose the constitutional
203
