January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
moving on several recommendations of the Rockefeller Commission that
would, in essence, lower Federal pay.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Rockefeller Commission made a number of spe-
cific proposals. One, as I recall, on the basis of comparability, took computer
operators and secretaries and said that their pay vis-a-vis the private sector was
higher, that they were doing better than comparable employees in the private
sector. So, they made a recommendation for revision there.
There is evidence, I think, that although the aim and objective was com-
parability for Federal employees, that in the last 4 or 5 years since that program
has been in effect, there has been some distortion. And the net result is we have
had to take some corrective action.
I think it is also fair to point out that another factor does have some signifi-
cance. Most Federal employees, once they become qualified, are seldom laid
off. That is not true in the private sector. In the private sector, they are subject
to much more uncertainty. So, you have to balance not only pay but reliability
for continuous employment. And when you add it all up, I think in most
instances Federal employees are reasonably and fairly paid.
Q. Mr. President, in the area of military pay, your defense budget makes
several cuts in the area of—or reducements in the area of military benefits within
the commissary. Do you feel that military members are adequately paid now
or are they underpaid or are they overpaid? What is your feeling on military
pay?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the military pay formula for the last several years is
predicated on comparability with the private sector. That was the legislation
passed. That is the formula that has been used. And the situation is precisely
this, for the benefit of background. Ten years ago the total pay-related costs of
the Department of Defense were 40 percent of the total defense expenditures.
At the present time, pay-related expenses of the Department of Defense are
52 percent of what the Department gets to spend.
It is getting to be a very serious problem as far as the total piece of Defense
Department spending. Now, you take the suggestion that we have made for a
3-year phaseout of the direct hire of employees in commissaries. The pay of
employees, military personnel of the Defense Department, is predicated on
comparability with the civilian work force.
The commissaries, with Federal subsidy of about $180 million a year, gives
them an added advantage. They ought to at least absorb the direct hire costs. I
think that is a responsible and reasonable request.
71
