[116]
February 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
could be working on something else for 4 months if they know right now where
he is.
THE PRESIDENT. There are two problems. The first one is that kind of serv-
ice should not be condoned and it won't be, and if you will give me your name
and address, we will see what we can do effectively to help you.
The second point is, I think employees in the welfare office are actually
State employees, not Federal employees. I am not trying to pass the buck,
but I think that is true in every State that I am personally familiar with. But
I can assure you, if we get the information from you, we will see what can be
done at the Federal level. There is no excuse whatsoever for a court order
not being enforced and getting the information to you so that you can find
your runaway pappy and make him pay up.
Q. Thank you.
FORMER PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON
Q. Mr. President, my name is Kenneth Jenkins, and during your press con-
ference on Tuesday night, when asked about the influence or impact of Mr.
Nixon's visit to China, you stated that he had not been briefed and the visit
was to be treated in the same fashion as any other private Americans would.
Now, why wasn't it 18 months or 19 months ago—whatever it was—you
didn't treat him as any other American and have him face criminal charges in
the same way as any other American would instead of pardoning him? Now,
at the time I more or less agreed with you, but now don't you, in retrospect,
don't you feel in some way that you were maybe a bit premature in your decision?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all.
Q. Could you explain why?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, as far as penalty is concerned, the former
President obviously resigned in disgrace. That is a pretty severe penalty—1
out of 37 Presidents to have that happen to him.
Number two, as long as that situation festered, there would be continuous
problems developing from the Special Prosecutor and so forth. The only way
to get rid of the problem was to do as I did so we could concentrate on the
problems of the economy and strengthening our efforts to achieve and to
maintain peace. I think it was the right thing to do. I defend it. And the treat-
ment that he is getting in going to China is just like that of any other private
citizen.
Q. Mr. President, I came down from the north country to ask you an eco-
nomic question. These campaigns are very good up in the north country for
380
