[87]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, we are really making headway. But we have got some other problems
that I think have to be faced, too. We recognize that we have to have govern-
ment—local, State, as well as Federal—but I want to get the government off
your back to the extent that we can and yet have the government do the job
that it has to do.
One of the guiding things that has always affected me—it's summarized in a
sentence or two. Some of my staff give me a bad time because I use it, but I
think it really says in a few words what it is all about. I feel it very strongly
and very deeply, and let me put it this way: We should never forget that a
government big enough to give us everything we want is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have.
So, as we move our private sector-that is where the jobs are-as we get a
handle on inflation, as we meet the challenges internationally, I think we can say
America has got a great future, as it has had a great past. The things that are
going to come, whether it is in science or technology, the things that are going
to come through individual initiative, the things that are going to be good for
the young people here will be much better than the things we had in my day
and age.
We made a lot of progress, but our kind of government stimulates progress,
and we have got to keep this government so that we can give to those genera-
tions-our children and their children—a good America.
And as I close, let me just say this: We have gone through difficulties, we have
had some hard decisions to make, we had to work extra hard, all of us, and all
of you-but when you come right down to the bottom line, I am proud to
be an American, and I am proud of America just like you are.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. at the Or-
lando Jetport. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Representatives Louis Frey, Jr., chairman of the
Florida President Ford Committee, L. A. (Skip)
Bafalis, and C. W. Bill Young, and Paula Hawkins,
Republican national committcewoman for Forida.
88
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.
February 13, 1976
WE HAVE had several meetings up in Orlando, and it is great to be in Ft. Lau-
derdale. I have been here many times, and I have many, many friends here, as
I do elsewhere in Florida.
272
