[48]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the nuclear arms field. We are operating under a SALT I agreement, but it,
I think, is not sufficient to really find an answer in the long run to the dangerous
potentialities of a nuclear arms race.
We haven't reached an agreement. We still have some unresolved problems.
But we are slowly and, I think, constructively narrowing the gap. I think it is in
the national interest, if we can find a good agreement, to take further action in
this important area.
In the State of the Union and the budget and the Economic Report, we have,
of course, tried to attack constructively the domestic problems that we face, one
of which is trying to determine a proper balance between the role of the private
sector on the one hand and the governmental sector on another; also, an attempt
to find a balance between the role of the taxpayer and the beneficiary of govern-
mental expenditures; the role of the Defense Department on the one hand and
the balance on the other side between domestic programs.
I think we have taken some constructive steps and made some proper recom-
mendations.
In the area of the growth of Federal expenditures, we found that in the last
10 years the rate of growth in the Federal Government in expenditures was about
10 percent-10 to 11 percent. In the budget that I recommended, that rate of
growth has been cut to approximately 5½ percent.
We have also made some redistribution in the expenditure of funds proposed
for fiscal year 1977, and this relates to the balance between domestic programs
and the Defense Department.
About 10 years ago the domestic programs were getting an allocation of ap-
proximately 30 to 32 percent, and the Defense Department was allocated roughly
40 to 42 percent. In this current fiscal year, the domestic programs are getting
somewhere between 42 and 43 percent, and the Defense Department is getting
24 percent—almost a total reversal of the allocation of Federal resources. The net
result is that the Defense Department has been squeezed down and some of our
domestic programs have gotten out of hand.
For the first time in 10 years we are giving to the Defense Department a
slight increase in the total Federal pie that goes from roughly 24 percent to 25
percent, and we are putting some ceiling on domestic program expenditures. I
don't mean to indicate that domestic programs are being unfairly treated, and let
me give you some illustrations.
In the case of energy, we have recommended a 30-percent increase in Federal
expenditures. In research and development, both basic and applied research,
118
