February 29
[164]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
against economic difficulties at home, and we are making substantial headway
in achieving peace with strength overseas.
Q. Mr. President, is your son engaged? And what would you think of a
daughter-in-law like Chris Evert?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Chris Evert is a very lovely young lady. She is tre-
mendous. I think she is not only attractive but she is superior in the tennis area.
Q. Are you going to play tennis?
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to try to play some.
Q. In your foreign policy, sir, doesn't it hurt the national security of the United
States by enlisting public support in the foreign policy when your opposing
challenger says he would fire the Secretary of State if he got the chance?
The President. We have a good foreign policy. It has achieved peace. It is a
foreign policy that will continue peace through strength. We have the highest
military budget in the history of the United States, and we achieve peace through
strength. I believe our policies are sound, good. We have peace and will continue
peace.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:03 p.m. at Sarasota/Bradenton Airport. In his remarks, he referred to
Representative L. A. (Skip) Bafalis.
164
Remarks in Sarasota, Florida. February 29, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bill, Congressman Skip Bafalis, Congressman Lou
Frey, Mr. Sandegren, ladies and gentlemen and, particularly, that wonderful
Riverview High School band and all of the other fine musicians here—we thank
you very, very much for the help-and Sarasota:
Obviously, it is a tremendous pleasure for both Betty and myself to be here in
Sarasota. It has been great just to meet many of you personally, and I haven't
yet sampled it, but we hope to sample some of that wonderful barbecue very
shortly.
We thank you all for the tremendous reception that we have had, the won-
derful enthusiasm that has been expressed by everybody in Florida, and we
thank you from the bottom of our heart.
I have been to a great many political barbecues, and I am always fascinated by
barbecue because every time it's offered the ingredients, somehow, are just a little
different. And I know some political campaigns have the same approach, but,
487
