March 5
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We found that New York City, not for 1 year but for a period of time, had
not handled its finances very responsibly. And the net result was they found
that their expenditures, their receipts were in bad shape, that their cash-flow
problem was disastrous. I don't think we can permit other cities to expect that
the Federal Government is going to bail them all out, because we aren't. If we
can't establish responsibility at the local level and at the State level and at the
Federal level, we could go down the same disastrous path that some other
countries—friends of ours—have gone down for the last 20 years. And as far as
I am concerned, we're not going to permit it locally, statewide, or nationally.
PARDON OF FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I'm a senior at Bradley University. A recent national
wire service reported that you have gained a lead over your opponent, Governor
Reagan, in the upcoming Florida primary. One of the voter comments listed
by the wire service favorably mentioned your performance in office to date, but
expressed disfavor with your handling of the pardon granted to former President
Richard M. Nixon.
I would like to know whether you are prepared to state unequivocally that
there was no deal made between Secretary of State Kissinger, chief of staff Gen-
eral Haig and yourself, or any member of your staff in regard to resignation
and subsequent pardon of former President Nixon?
If no such deal was agreed upon, would you please be willing to discuss your
reasons for the granting of the pardon to Mr. Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, there was no deal made in any way, whatso-
ever. Categorically, no. And let me take you back, if I might, to the situation in
July and August and September of 1974. This country had gone through a
nightmare, a traumatic experience unprecedented in our country. And I became
President under the most extraordinary circumstances—not because I sought
the Office, but because I had the opportunity to serve. And I found shortly after
becoming President, that if we were to go through a long series of events that
would have been, I think, extremely disturbing to the situation in our country,
the better procedure would be to make a decisive decision and get the matter off
our back so that we could handle our problems domestically, with the economy,
and our problems internationally.
It was a decision made by me alone. Nobody else had any responsibility, and
I'll take the full responsibility for the consequences, good or bad. But we had to
get on with the job of looking at our problems and solving them, both at home
551
