March 12
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, what are the remedies? You can go to the general fund which will, in
effect, destroy the concept that people who get benefits have earned them, or you
can do nothing, which, I think, would be probably the worst alternative because
it would bring into jeopardy the benefits that people now have and those who
are working to get them.
There are several other alternatives. You can do at least as the subcommittee of
the House Committee on Ways and Means did, and then they were reversed by
the full committee on Ways and Means. They proposed that we increase the wage
ceiling, which is now, I think, $15,100, and they recommended that it go to
$17,000-something. That would be a way. But even though the subcommittee
approved it, the full committee just last week turned it down.
Now, what I have suggested, and I think it faces up to the issue very squarely,
is that we have to start now to replenish the fund. And I have recommended that
we increase the tax paid by the employees as well as the employer by six-tenths
of 1 percent, which would mean that the maximum paid in addition by any tax-
payer would be less than a dollar a week. I think it comes out to $49 a year. That
is the maximum.
Now, the argument is often made that that is a very regressive tax, and it can
be argued that, but that is only half of the argument. Because when the benefits
are paid after the person retires, that regressiveness is reversed. The beneficiaries
in the lower income spectrum get more than the people who are in the higher
income area. So, although they pay more, they, in return, on retirement get more.
So, I think it is the best solution. It is the most open, it is the frankest, and I think
it is the honest way to approach it. Unfortunately, I see in a political year the
Congress apparently does not want to bite the bullet, but it will have to be faced,
and we might as well face it, the sooner the better.
WELFARE AND ECONOMIC POLICIES
[3.] Q. Your congressional record shows that you voted against food stamps,
medicare, and minimum wage increase legislation, and your current economic
policy seeks to keep inflation in check, but not necessarily immediately reduce
unemployment. If I am an unemployed blue-collar worker or a minority woman
on welfare standing before you, would you give me three reasons why I should
vote for you as President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the first reason is that we are making very good headway
to get that individual off unemployment and a private job in the private part of
our sector. That is the most important thing.
637
