[255]
March 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
255
Remarks Upon Signing Legislation Approving the Covenant
Establishing Commonwealth Status for the Northern
Mariana Islands.
March 24, 1976
Distinguished representatives of the Northern Marianas, distinguished Members
of the Congress, members of the executive branch, ladies and gentlemen:
The signing today of the joint resolution of the Congress providing the
Northern Mariana Islands Commonwealth Covenant marks a very important
moment in our Nation's history. It reaffirms our commitment to the princi-
ples of self-determination, and it honors the freely expressed wishes of the
peoples of these islands for the political union with the United States.
Those wishes have been recorded formally through the resolutions, referen-
dums, and petitions to the United Nations and to the United States, dating as
far back as 1950. We can be proud of the fact that open democratic negotiations
led to the covenant. The plebiscite conducted in the islands last June resulted
in a resounding 78.8-percent popular approval of the covenant. The final vote
in the House and Senate reflected equally impressive majorities.
I congratulate all those involved in the process—the Marianas Political Status
Commission, Ambassador Haydn Williams, members of the American dele-
gation, and those Members of the Congress who worked very closely with
Ambassador Williams during the negotiations. Let me also thank the distin-
guished members, past as well as present, of the House and Senate Interior
Committees, particularly Senators Bennett Johnston, Paul Fannin, Cliff Hansen,
Chairman James Haley, Congressman Phil Burton, Joe Skubitz, and Bill
Ketchum.
To the people of the Northern Marianas, I extend my personal greetings
and my best wishes as you move closer to your goal of self-government within
the political framework of the American family. I warmly welcome your event-
ual entrance into the union with the United States.
And as I sign this bill, we might recall that these islands were once the
scene of bitter armed conflict. My hope now is that they will contribute to the
continuing maintenance of peace and stability and friendship among all the
peoples in all of the nations in the Western Pacific.
Thank you all very much for coming. I can't say enough for the coopera-
tion that came from not only the people of the Northern Marianas but the
800
