[133]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, I thank you very much for taking on the job. Good luck, and I am sure
we will see that you are confirmed without too much difficulty.
MR. SCRANTON. I certainly thank you, Mr. President. It is a great honor to have
an appointment of this sort and particularly coming from you.
As most of you know, we have been good friends for a long time. And I have
tremendous trust and confidence in the President of the United States, as I think
a lot of people do, as has been indicated fairly recently.
Henry, may I say to you that I am grateful to you, sir, for coming back and
being here today. I was told that one of the reasons they waited until today to do
this was because you wanted to be here, and I appreciate that immensely.
I have had several talks with Brent ¹ and appreciate all of his helpfulness, and
I am grateful to him for his cooperation and education.
It will be a very difficult job. I think everybody is aware that the United States
is being attacked in the UN a great deal. I am a Pat Moynihan fan, and I was de-
lighted with the way he handled it and had a long talk with him yesterday in
New York. I think we are on the upbend in the United Nations, primarily due
to the policy of the President and the Secretary and the activity of Ambassador
Moynihan. And I am proud and happy to be his successor and be the delegate
from the President of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Maybe the Secretary of State would like to make a comment.
SECRETARY KISSINGER. I would like to express my very great pleasure at being
able to work with Governor Scranton. The policies which the President has
enunciated with respect to the United Nations, which I then stated in Milwaukee
at his request and which Ambassador Moynihan carried out so ably, will now
have another distinguished representative. And it will be a great pleasure and
privilege to work with Ambassador Scranton.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
134
Memorandum on the Observance of Red Cross
Month. February 25, 1976
I HAVE just issued a proclamation [4418] which designates March as Red
Cross Month.
Our Bicentennial Year is a fitting time to reflect upon the vital role the Ameri-
can Red Cross and its volunteers play in our society to alleviate suffering and
¹Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, USAF (ret.), Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
428
