March 20
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
QUESTIONS
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[1.] Q. Mr. President, it is clear that you are going to be the Republican
nominee for President. And I was wondering, what are the chances of us seeing
Governor Holshouser on that ticket with you? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. As I have said before in North Carolina and elsewhere, Jim
Holshouser is one of my best friends. I have known him a long time. I know he
is not only dedicated to the principles of the Republican Party and has been a
great Governor here in the State of North Carolina, and I have said very forth-
rightly that in the new administration, we want him on the team. But I think
it is premature for me to make any categorical announcement here about my
running mate.
I can just tell you that we want Jim Holshouser in Washington helping us to
do a better and better job after January 20, 1977.
Q. Mr. President, speaking of running mates, would you consider having a
woman as a running mate this year?
THE PRESIDENT. I had better say yes, or I will get run out of the house when I
get home tonight. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, I have answered that question affirmatively in the past, be-
cause we do have some extremely talented, able women, such as the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development, Carla Hills, and others. So, I really would
say yes. But again, it is premature to make any categorical determination.
PRESIDENT'S GOALS FOR AMERICA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, this is my question. For our 200th birthday, we have
been studying how our country has changed. What do you think our country
will be like when I grow up?
THE PRESIDENT. For the benefit of those who might not have heard the ques-
tion, the young lady asked what will the United States of America be like when
she grows up?
I can't be specific; I can only tell you what I hope this country will be like. In
the first century of America's history we developed the greatest kind of govern-
ment in the history of mankind, where people had a right to participate and to
control the government, not the government control them.
In our second century, we developed the greatest industrial base in the history
of any country in the world. It gave us all the material things that we have.
773
