[23]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
tration, a so-called welfare czar, such as Mr. Zarb's' activities in the energy field.
Can you please tell us about that?
THE PRESIDENT. That, of course, is a possibility, although no specific decision
has been made as yet. In order to achieve our welfare reform, which is needed
and necessary, we have to get some additional authority, some flexibility, from
the Congress. We will ask for that authority. And once that authority is given—
and I hope the Congress will respond-it is conceivable that we will appoint a
so-called welfare czar.
Fran [Frances Lewine, Associated Press].
Q. Mr. President, there has been some criticism that there might be some
gimmickry in your budget. Can you tell me how you square such things as a
$10 billion tax cut with such things as a social security increase?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Fran, the way in which we achieved the spending limi-
tation of $394.2 billion was not any gimmickry whatsoever. We went through
the process which produced this result by giving each department some spend-
ing limitations back in the early fall. They then had an opportunity to come
forward with their programs within those departmental limitations.
I then made an evaluation in October, predicated on changed economic
trends. We, therefore, were in a position to revise some of those limitations to
respond to some of the departmental requests. And the net result is we have
been able to take care of the older people in social security, in all Government
retirement programs without any capping, so to speak.
We felt that this was the proper thing to do under the current circumstances,
bearing in mind the beneficiaries as well as the failure of the Congress to act on
those for the current fiscal year, and at the same time be realistic and honest in
asking, for example, for additional tax increases in the Social Security Trust
Fund payments. It was an even balance in seeking to impose integrity on the
trust fund funding on the one hand and benefits for those who were retired on
the other.
Q. Mr. President, you have stressed the need to reduce the size of government
and, as you say, restore the vitality of the private sector. Some critics say that
in doing so, you are creating additional fiscal restraints for the economy that
will threaten recovery and perhaps induce a new recession. How do you respond
to that criticism?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that an additional $10 billion tax reduction
will restrain the economy. It will probably be a partial stimulant to the economy
if the Congress responds to my request and makes it effective July 1, 1976.
¹ Frank G. Zarb, Administrator, Federal Energy Administration.
52
