[138]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Unfortunately, we never did as well in that area in getting that kind of an
amendment to the legislation. I still believe in it and I hope the Congress, if and
when they pass any changes in the Fair Labor Standards Act, that they will in-
clude a youth differential proposal. It's very meaningful.
Now, in the area of deregulation of natural gas and the stimulation of greater
domestic production of oil, we fought very hard, both in the Senate as well as in
the House, to get a permanent deregulation of natural gas. And, somewhat re-
luctantly, I signed this energy bill that was put on my desk last December. The
one that I signed was a step forward. It eventually, over a period of 40 months,
will result in deregulation of prices as far as fuel oil is concerned.
The Congress in both cases is very reluctant to pass legislation that would
really, in any way in 1976, increase prices. It is a very short-sighted point of view
because all it means is that we will be delayed 1 or 2 years, maybe longer, and it
will result in greater and greater reliance on foreign oil. It would be far better if
we used our own natural gas, our own supplies of crude oil here in the United
States.
So until we can get the Congress to move, certainly in deregulation of gas, and
until we can get some forward movement under the present energy bill, I don't
think you are going to see any great stimulation of domestic production either
in gas or in oil.
And the third point?
UNEMPLOYMENT
[10.] Q. How about Mr. Burns' statement that the unemployment has gone
on so long that for some people it is a way of life, and they don't go out and look
for a job?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was very encouraged in the report that came to my
desk yesterday that new applications for unemployment were down. The total
number of people on covered unemployment were down. So I think we are grad-
ually working out of that heavy burden of unemployment, and with the figures
we got 2 weeks ago, I am confident that the economy is coming back so that
problem will be resolved.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
[11.] Q. Mr. President, on the community development program again, I
wrote down 15,000 people who were hit last year by a devastating tornado, who
lost half of their goods. And because we don't have unemployment and the
ghetto problems of great cities, we find we don't qualify for a lot of the Federal
442
