[118]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Might I add, sir, do you feel, then, that in the case of the city of Boston
that Judge Garrity has overgone his limits?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that I don't think it is appropriate for me
to pick a certain judge, whether he is right or wrong, and comment on his
particular decision. I have an obligation. I took an oath of office to uphold the
law of the land. And at least at this point, what he has decided is the law of the
land. Whether I agree with his decision or not, it is immaterial. I have an obliga-
tion to uphold the law of the land.
I have tried to explain my own personal philosophy and illustrate that in some
parts of the country other judges have used their constitutional remedy to be
very effective in achieving both quality education on the one hand and deseg-
regation on the other.
WARREN RUDMAN
Q. Mr. President, recently you nominated former Attorney General Warren
Rudman to serve down in Washington. In New Hampshire, among the Repub-
lican Party, there has been some split over this appointment as to why you
chose Attorney General Rudman as opposed to other prominent Republicans
who could have possibly served in this post. Would you care to comment?
The President. I would be very happy to do so. There was a Republican
vacancy on the Interstate Commerce Commission. We looked around and
found in Warren Rudman an outstanding attorney general in New Hampshire,
a person who had been the president or chairman of all of the States' attorney
generals throughout the United States.
We understood that he was anxious to have a new challenge. Everything we
heard about him was on the plus side. There was a vacancy. I think it is a very
natural marrying of a fine man with a very responsible job. And we are delighted
that he has agreed to come and fill that vacancy, and I think he will make a first-
class member.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much. It has been a great privilege and
pleasure to be here, and I appreciate your warm welcome.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. in Elks
Hall. In his opening remarks, he referred to Ray-
mond F. Hennessey, president of the Dover Chamber
of Commerce.
404
