[92]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am concerned, as you are, about the growth of the Federal budget. I
have been fighting to hold down the Federal budget in a responsible way for
27 years, 25-plus years in the Congress, a few months as Vice President, and
approximately 18 months as your President.
You all know how hard I have been trying for the last 18 months to get
control of the inflation which has done so much economic damage to all
Americans. During 1974, when I became President, inflation was raging at
an annual rate of more than 12 percent, eating away at everybody's buying
power but absolutely devouring the livelihood of people on fixed incomes.
I knew that something had to be done to bring that situation under control.
I knew that deficit spending by the Federal Government was a major con-
tributor to inflation and that slowing the growth of Federal spending was
essential to solving the problem.
I have used my constitutional power, that of veto, 46 times since becoming
President, trying to hold down the level of Federal spending, trying to break
the back of inflation. To hold down the cost of living, we must hold down
the cost of government. It is just that simple. We have made some very
encouraging progress with these vetoes, saving the taxpayers about $10 billion.
The inflation rate that was 12 percent has been cut nearly in half.
That is not good enough. That is progress, real progress that helps especially
people on fixed incomes more than anybody else in our society. Just yesterday
the Department of Labor announced the wholesale prices stayed level in
January. In fact, wholesale prices have shown no appreciable change since
October.
I want to drive that point home. This is more good news in our fight
against inflation, and we are going to keep the pressure on, and we are going
to be successful.
You have probably heard that we had some other good economic news just
about a week ago. Employment [Unemployment] in January took its sharpest
drop in 16 years. Ninety-six percent of all jobs lost during the depression have
been recovered.
America is getting back to work, and we are going to make better and
better and better progress in reducing unemployment. But there is so much
more that we have to do. I want all Americans, young or old, black or white,
rich or poor, to live in dignity and security and in peace.
If we can continue making the progress America has made in the past,
we will see that wonderful goal achieved. Too often people forget just how
304
