[201]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
First, the Polecat Bench project previously failed the test of cost-effectiveness, a
test which is applied to other water resource projects generally. This project needs
to be reexamined in light of new economic factors to see if it is economically
justified. Similarly, the executive branch has not completed its study of the
Pollock-Herreid unit and submitted a report on its feasibility to the Congress.
Until such reports are prepared, there is no adequate basis for appraising the
merits of these projects. Accordingly, I will not seek funds for either project
until a cost-effectiveness study has been completed and the project is demon-
strated to be economically justified.
Second, the bill requires work on the latter two projects-McKay Dam and
Dickinson Dam-solely at Federal expense. Safety is normally an intégral
design and operation feature of a federally constructed dam, to be paid for by
project beneficiaries.
I do not endorse any policy which requires the Federal Government to pay
the entire cost of work to improve dam safety in all situations involving modifica-
tions to federally built dams. The general question of Federal policy on the
safety of dams will be considered when a congressionally directed report on that
subject, now underway by the Department of the Army, is completed, and when
new cost-sharing recommendations for water projects are made later this year.
Therefore, I will not seek any funds for these two projects until the study has
been completed and the executive branch has made its recommendations on
cost-sharing for water projects.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 151 is Public Law 94-288 (90 Stat. 205).
202
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Rockford, Illinois.
March 11, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It is a great pleasure to be here in Rockford with the
fine Congressman from this area, John Anderson, and, of course, with Senator
Chuck Percy. I have been in Addison several times, came here to speak on
John's behalf a few years ago, and been up here with Chuck in this part of the
State. It is delightful to be here, and I would be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, Ronald Reagan has now raised the Watergate issue.
Do you think it is a valid issue? And, two, I think he has termed, indirect to
you, a relic of a past year Republicans would like to forget. What is your
response to this?
608
