February 5
[60]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
embodied in this legislation to the aviation and motor carrier industries. In
these industries, we must strive to create a regulatory climate which relies on
competitive forces, rather than on inflexible and bureaucratic directives of
Federal agencies, to determine which firm will provide the desired transporta-
tion services and at what price. The time has come to place greater reliance on
market competition.
I would also emphasize that the ultimate success of this legislation depends
on more than the actions that have been taken by the Congress or this adminis-
tration. We have merely provided the tools which can be used to rebuild our
railroads. I am confident that the Interstate Commerce Commission, ConRail,
and the United States Railway Association will use these tools wisely for the
purposes intended by the Congress and the executive. A major responsibility for
achieving a viable private sector railway system and, as stated in the legislation,
"to provide energy-efficient, ecologically compatible transportation services with
greater efficiency, effectiveness, and economy," rests with them.
We are embarking today on an historic endeavor to improve transportation
in this country. I want to thank the Members of Congress, Secretary Coleman,
the fine people at the Department of Transportation, and the representatives
of industry and labor for their help. I ask them to continue their efforts to
strengthen our private transportation system and to make it the finest in the
world.
60
Message to the Congress Reporting on Administration Efforts
To Settle the Cyprus Conflict. February 5, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Public Law 94-104, I am submitting the second report on the
progress of Cyprus negotiations and the efforts this Administration is making
to help find a lasting settlement. In my first report, on December 8, 1975, I out-
lined the Administration's policy toward the complex Cyprus problem, and
indicated in detail the major effort we have made to encourage a resumption of
the Cyprus negotiations between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities.
In that report, I also stated that Secretary Kissinger planned to place special
emphasis on Cyprus during his meetings with the Greek and Turkish Foreign
Ministers at the NATO Ministerial meetings in Brussels in December. He did
this, and in the course of these meetings, he found a desire on the part of both
149
