[181]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
The President. Well, I admit there are a number of people in political life—
and some of them are candidates for the Presidency-who have indicated that
they would use food to try to change a social system in another country and in
the process would stop exporting and in the process would have you store your
grain rather than sell it, and would create, as a result, a great overhang of food
in this country which would depress your prices and add to the taxpayers'
burden. I categorically disagree with the person or persons who advocate that
policy. I think it is wrong, and this President will never, as I said in my speech
to the Farm Bureau in St. Louis, use our exports to implement or to be a pawn
for international politics.
Q. Mr. President, we have heard your fine comments about agriculture. My
question is, does the President feel that due to the high cost of operation on the
farm, can the President and his staff keep farming prosperous in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I am absolutely convinced of that. The best way to keep the
farmer prosperous is to have a prosperous America generally. We have gone
through, in the last 12 to 18 months, a very serious economic recession in the
United States. Eighteen months ago we had inflation of 12 percent or more. We
were faced with energy problems that were almost insurmountable with the
embargo. We had growing unemployment. We had decreasing employment.
But because we had a steady, responsible overall economic plan for recovery, we
are now coming out of this recession in a very effective way.
We got some good news again this morning. We have been getting it for
about 4 or 5 Fridays in a row. The information this morning showed that again
we had an increase in employment, a decrease in unemployment. This follows
2 or 3 months of improving economic conditions. I am convinced that if we
continue the good, sound policies we have today for the rejuvenation of our
economy as a whole, that farmers in the future will benefit just as other segments
of our society. I am an optimist about America economically and otherwise, and
I think all of you are as well.
Q. Mr. President, I represent the Country Grain Elevator Industry in Illinois
through the Grain and Feed Association of Illinois. We feel the effects of OSHA
and the EPA, and we feel there is a veritable flood of paperwork coming down on
people who are in small business in Illinois. Do you feel that there is any pos-
sibility of lessening this tremendous flow of paper from Washington so we might
do a better job for these farmers here?
THE PRESIDENT. About a year ago I asked how many forms Americans had to
fill out that come from the Federal Government, and I was told there were
5,200 and something. I could not believe it. I verified it. I said it had to change,
532
