[3]
January 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the National Commission on Electronic Fund Transfers for 2 years beyond
the confirmation date of its Chairperson. I support these two measures. How-
ever, I have some reservations about Title III, the "Home Mortgage Disclosure
Act of 1975."
This act will require financial institutions having over $10 million in assets
and operating in large urban “standard metropolitan statistical areas" to comply
with a new program of Federal regulation. All of these depository institutions
will be required to compile and make available for public inspection informa-
tion on the number and total dollar amount of mortgage and home improve-
ment loans, broken down by census tract or zip code. This Federal law will be
enforced by several Federal regulatory agencies (the Federal Reserve Board,
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and others) and will supersede any incon-
sistent provisions of State laws. The Federal Reserve Board will have authority
to exempt State-chartered institutions which are subject to similar State disclo-
sure and enforcement requirements.
In essence, this third title attempts to highlight the problem of mortgage
and home improvement loan fund shortages in some parts of large urban
areas—often lower income, older neighborhoods—where credit discrimination
based upon geographic factors is alleged to occur.
I firmly believe, as do most people, that discrimination on racial or ethnic
grounds is a practice which is abhorrent to our American way of life. Our
Constitution grants equal liberties to all citizens. Federal, State, and local laws
expressly prohibit discriminatory practices. Our courts have continued to uphold
the principle that a strong and free nation is one which can, and must, protect
any individual's rights, regardless of race or religion. This bill attempts to
expose any such discrimination by financial institutions providing housing
credit. I strongly support this objective.
White I note that the Congress claims that this legislation is not intended to
encourage unsound lending practices or the allocation of credit, I am concerned
that this Mortgage Disclosure Act may impose a burdensome and costly require-
ment for additional recordkeeping and paperwork. Unless this new disclosure
program is very carefully administered, the Federal Government will be placing
yet another requirement on the private sector—a requirement which will impose
substantial costs but will do very little to increase the total availability of
mortgage funds in our housing markets.
I trust that the agencies administering Title III of this bill will assess care-
fully the costs and benefits to both the lenders and borrowers. As presently
enacted, this legislation will have a 4-year life. If, within that period, undue
4
