March 20
[240]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
its smallest increase in more than 4 years. The rate of inflation is one-half or
more of what it was when I became President, and we are going to keep the
pressure on and keep it going down.
The good news for the future is—and this is the crucial, vital statistic of all of
them—the confidence of American consumers is up. And we are going to keep
it up. America's confidence is up, and that is the crux of the whole matter. I
think it is time, quite frankly, with all of this new, good news, that people
should start talking about what is good for America.
I stand here tonight and say I am proud of our great country. Our agriculture,
our industrial, our economic might is second to none, and so is our ability to
defend it from any aggressor. I don't believe that those who are downgrading
America's military capability are fully acquainted with the facts.
The facts are: The United States of America is strong; it is capable of deter-
ring aggression, of meeting the challenges from any source; it is capable of giv-
ing us total national security under any circumstances. And I am sick and tired
of those who are downgrading America, whether it is our economy or our
military capability.
You know, I didn't believe them when a few people up in Washington on
the liberal side of the political spectrum—when they said we needed a lot of
government interference to get out of the recession. In contrast, I charted a
steady, constructive course. I pursued a balanced policy with tax cuts to help
people spend and incentives to help the business community to grow, expand,
and create more and more jobs.
To fight inflation, I fought to keep a tight control on Federal spending, con-
trol those who would bust the budget. I used my Presidential veto; in fact, I used
it 46 times, and it was sustained 39 times. In those 39 instances where the Con-
gress sustained those vetoes, the American taxpayer was saved $13 billion, and
that is not bad.
That is real progress by any standards, and if the Congress keeps sending
down to the Oval Office of the White House those reckless spending bills, I
will veto them again and again and again until the big spenders up on Capitol
Hill finally get the word. They are a little slow, but they might finally get it.
Now, we are going to hold down the cost of living-let's be practical-by
holding down the cost of government. We are going to make sure that your tax
dollars work as hard for you as you did to earn them. We are going to keep
a balanced approach.
Here in Hickory, I know you appreciate what that means, because your motto,
as I understand it, is the "Best Balanced City." And I think that motto applies
771
