February 15
[100]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
today because we have, from the very first, declared our dependence on God
and placed our trust in Him.
"In God We Trust" is much more than a national motto. It is the testament
we have followed from our earliest, earliest days in this country. The spirit of
competition, so strong in America throughout our history, has been responsible
for much, much of our material progress just as it has been partially responsible
for your outstanding performances in the many fields of athletic competition.
But there is a higher spirit, a nobler spirit which pervades our national life, and
makes the quality of our lives so much more important to us than the quantity
of our possessions or our individual honors.
That spirit, that infinite spirit of hope and compassion and love, has lived
through the ages. We are fortunate that it has dwelt so long and blessed so
richly this land and its many, many peoples. Our constant prayers must be that
this spirit will find its way into our individual hearts, our minds, and of course
our lives.
The discipline of athletics teaches us to deny ourselves those things which
might hamper our performance on the field of challenge. But that discipline
tells us the rewards of our success will far outweigh the restrictions on our
training. So it is with the religious life for which the ultimate reward is nothing
less than a place in the kingdom of God. Each of you in this room shares that ulti-
mate goal with me. Each of you, famous, wealthy, and happy as you may be,
know that things of this world are fleeting, that immortality is not something
a sportswriter can bestow upon you, that all earthly things shall pass away.
For this reason, you have made a commitment that will last beyond this mortal
life into the true realm of immortality. You have made the great decision to
live your lives in such a way that you would rejoice in the opportunity to serve
your God through eternity. You are prepared to lay all of your trophies at His
feet. This is a worthy and wonderful goal for all of your lives. Let us strive
always to achieve it so that we may say with Paul, at the end of our lives, "I have
fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:45 a.m. in the East Room at the White House.
337
