March 4
[177]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
On behalf of the American people, I salute the cherished memory of Captain
Sijan and the living example of Admiral Stockdale, Colonel Day, and Lieuten-
ant Norris. You served your Nation well and have given all of us a clearer vision
of a better world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:15 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rums-
feld, Secretary of the Navy J. William Middendorf
II, and Secretary of the Air Force Thomas C. Reed.
Secretary Middendorf and Secretary Reed read the
citations, the texts of which are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
12, p. 328).
Mr. and Mrs. Sylvester Sijan accepted the medal
on behalf of their son.
177
Remarks at a Meeting To Review the Federal Energy
Administration's National Energy Outlook Report.
March 4, 1976
Mr. Vice President, members of the Cabinet, and Frank Zarb and your staff
from the FEA:
In 1974-November-the Project Independence report was submitted to me.
It was a sizable document with a good many recommendations to make this
country, by 1985, independent of outside forces as far as energy was concerned.
In the interval, the Energy Resources Council, under Secretary Morton, with
Frank Zarb as the Executive Director, undertook the various administrative as
well as legislative recommendations to make us energy independent by 1985.
We have made some progress. We haven't made as much as we would like. The
Congress passed one piece of legislation that went part way. It should have gone
further, but at least it was a start.
I am pleased to announce that the House and Senate conferees, after better
than a year of consideration, have approved, at least in conference, the Elk Hills
Naval Petroleum Reserve legislation which will bring about some 300,000 barrels
per day in domestic production. This is a step forward, and I congratulate the
Congress for acting on it.
We now have the Energy Resources Council with the new Secretary of Com-
merce, Elliot Richardson, as the Chairman and the responsibilities of Frank
Zarb still to handle the administrative as well as legislative responsibilities.
I think we're about to move forward-I hope with the cooperation of the
Congress. But this volume here, which Frank is about to discuss in at least a
515
