April 2
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
money going out of the Social Security Trust Fund than comes in. Next year
it will be $4 billion more out than comes in. At the present time, we have roughly
$40 billion in the Social Security Trust Fund. By the early 1980's there won't be
any money in the Social Security Trust Fund unless we do something to protect
its economic stability.
I took a hard bite at the bullet and came up with a proposal that I think will
protect the integrity of the financial security of the Social Security Trust Fund.
Unfortunately, the Congress wants to postpone it a little while longer. The longer
they postpone it, the harder it will get to solve the problem. But as far as this
President is concerned, he is going to face up to that issue as he has faced up
to every other issue, and I am not going to kid you one bit. We are going to
protect the financial integrity and security of that trust fund for the benefit of
our older citizens.
TAX REFORM
[6.] Q. Good evening, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening.
Q. I am really pleased to have the opportunity to ask this question at long
last to a person who can really answer it.
THE PRESIDENT. I hope you are right. [Laughter]
Q. For years I have wondered why the Federal Government cannot do any-
thing about instigating a real, true, and just program of tax reform. By that, I
do not mean giving more deductions to those that already have them. I am
sick and tired of reading where 200 people—millionaires—pay no taxes, where
our Vice President pays no taxes. Tell me, do you believe we can have tax
reform for the average citizen?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer it in two ways: Number one, last year I
recommended a $28 billion tax reduction with 75 percent of it going to individ-
uals and 25 percent of it going to businesses to stimulate jobs and increase
productive efficiency. In the 75 percent of the tax reduction bill that I proposed
to the Congress for the benefit of individuals, what we tried to do in the restruc-
turing of rates was to give some overdue relief to the middle-income people
who have taken a beating in the last 10 years under our tax schedules.
Unfortunately, the Congress went along in part, not in whole. There was a
tax reduction program but, in my opinion, it was tilted the wrong way.
But now let me give a second response. I don't mean to be partisan, but I want
the record to be clear, and I don't know whether you are a Democrat or a
927
