March 2
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I agree that the general goals recommended by the Secretary are desirable
ends and are worthy of our careful consideration.
The goals—and the Federal programs to achieve these goals-must be shaped
by two fundamental, overriding principles:
• First, decisions to implement Federal programs to achieve the general goals
must be made consistent with
-decisions on how much Federal tax should be assessed on our Nation's
people and businesses for public programs, and
-other Federal budget priorities
The Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry explicitly recognized
this important principle in commenting on its draft of the Act:
"What the legislation does is make clear that this Program is a ‘guide';
thus it is one of several possibilities. The President takes into account fiscal
issues, the national defense, and general welfare as other ‘guides' in
formulating overall budget policy. He is required under this language
simply to consider the Program as the guide in setting resource conserva-
tion criteria."
• Second, our Government must permit the private sector to satisfy demands
for goods and services without unjustified direct or indirect Federal subsi-
dies or unwarranted regulatory interference. It is therefore essential to
assure that Federal programs undertaken to achieve the general goals are
not substitutes for private sector activities. Because we must avoid recom-
mending programs that, counter to this principle, would involve a major
expansion of the Federal role, I believe that additional time is necessary to
make the analysis necessary to provide this assurance—assurance, for exam-
ple, that an array of subsidies to private landowners and direct investments
on public lands do not stabilize timber prices at levels less or more than
required to produce competitive returns on amounts demanded at those
prices.
My policy will be to implement the recommended goals in accord with these
basic principles.
In addition, I believe that further evaluation is needed to:
assure that the programs undertaken will not be counter-productive by
displacing more productive private investments.
assure that production and price targets will provide reasonable returns to
producers.
• refine and improve the benefit/cost evaluation to:
-improve the estimates of costs and their associated benefits.
505
