March 25
[258]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I have consulted with members of my Administration, leading members of
the health community and public officials about the implications of this new
appearance of swine flu. I have been advised that there is a very real possibility
that unless we take effective counteraction, there could be an epidemic of this
dangerous disease next fall and winter here in the United States.
The facts that have been presented to me in the last few days have come from
many of the best medical authorities in this country. These facts do not suggest
there any cause for alarm. The scientific community understands what we
are dealing with and they have developed a vaccine that will be effective in
combatting it. The facts do suggest, however, that there is a need for action
now-action by the Government, action by industry and the medical commu-
nity, and most importantly, action by all of our citizens.
Although no one knows at this time exactly how serious this threat could be,
we cannot afford to take chances with the health of our people. Accordingly,
I am taking the following action.
I am asking the Congress for a special supplemental appropriation of $135
million—prior to their April recess—to insure the production of sufficient vac-
cine to inoculate every man, woman and child in the United States.
I have directed HEW Secretary David Mathews, and the Assistant Secretary
for Health, Dr. Theodore Cooper, to develop and implement plans that will
make this vaccine available to all Americans.
Finally, I am asking each and every American to make certain he or she
receives the vaccine this fall. Inoculations are to be available at schools, hospitals,
physicians' offices, and public health facilities.
Extraordinary measures are necessary because of the short time period avail-
able to assure adequate vaccine production and to mobilize the nation's health
care delivery system. An extensive immunization program must be in full-scale
operation by the beginning of September and should be completed by the end of
November, 1976.
I urge the Congress to act immediately to pass this special supplemental appro-
priation separately. This $135 million appropriation, if acted on promptly, will
be a key factor in putting this threat behind us before next winter.
The White House,
March 25, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
805
