[86]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
This would increase the cost to user States like Florida considerably. It would go
at least from 50 cents to $2. Now, what effect would this have on consumer
prices, and what effect would it have on the people of Florida?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it really comes down to this. We either have American
natural gas or you use foreign oil. And I think the American people would
rather have American natural gas than to pay high prices they are paying for
Middle Eastern oil at the present time. If we deregulate natural gas in the
United States, we will increase the supply, and the price increase will be mod-
erate, and we will control it. But if you rely and continue to rely on Middle East-
ern oil, the price is out of our control. It is in the hands of the Arab OPEC
nations.
So, I would rather put my gamble on American products right here at home
than to depend on the whim and fancy and the price increases of Arab oil.
Q. Do you think natural gas would replace a lot of oil supplies?
THE PRESIDENT. I think if we give the people who are seeking to develop more
American gas and oil wells—if they have a fair price—we will develop a greater
source of supply. No question about it. But if we keep the price down, it is
uneconomical for them to drill. We have to give them an incentive. And I
would rather give the incentive to American oil and gas people than I would to
OPEC Arab oil drillers. That is just what it amounts to.
INCOME TAX REFORM
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am from your home area, Traverse City. I inter-
viewed you before you were President. It is nice to see you as President.
Secretary of the Treasury William Simon was here yesterday, and he men-
tioned he would like to see income tax-a personal income tax-based on a
straight, no deduction percentage. Was that his idea, or was that a trial balloon
he is sending up for the administration?
THE PRESIDENT. The Secretary of the Treasury, who is a most able member of
my Cabinet, has talked to me about this proposal. I think there are some good
features in it. But I think it ought to be researched more. I think it ought to be
staffed, as we say, among more people than just one individual.
Such a study, if it is not already underway, will get underway. But, I think,
it is premature to make any commitment until we have a final evaluation. I can
tell you that Secretary Simon is pushing it, but we have not given any green
light to a submission as far as the Congress is concerned.
Q. The second part of the question might be, do you have a tax revision plan?
264
