[192]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
worked. It combines the efficiency of the Federal revenue raising system with
the effectiveness of local decisionmaking. Under the current 5-year program,
which ends December 31 of 1976, State and local units of government in Illi-
nois will have received $1½ billion in general revenue sharing funds from the
Federal Government. That's not just an abstract figure. Those dollars have
helped educate your children.
In Marion, they have helped build sewers and water lines; in Williamson
County they have played a very crucial role in keeping you and your family
safe from crime. That's the kind of responsive Federal program we need more
of, not less.
So, I intend, hopefully with the help of Congress-put a little pressure on
Paul Findley and Paul Simon over here. Tell them to get that legislation out of
the Committee on Government Operations and on the floor of the House and
passed. It's been there far too long. It ought to be passed by the Congress, not
resting in "no action" in the Committee on Government Operations.
I think Congress will finally pass it, but you have to really get the law enacted
for the next 534 years so we can continue the general revenue sharing program. It
will substantially increase the amount of money flowing back to your State and
local units of government.
Revenue sharing has proven its value in any realistic appraisal of the Federal
Government's role, and realism is what I believe in, not rhetoric. Part of what
I think is a very realistic program—we have to take a hard look at our country's
long-term problems.
Energy is high on that list. The long lines at the gasoline stations may have
faded from the memories of many Americans, but I haven't forgotten them,
and I hope you will not. They taught us a lesson to remember: that we are far,
far too dependent on other countries for our energy needs. And since those gaso-
line lines of some 24 months ago, the production of American oil and gas has
gone down, and we have become, day by day by day, more dependent on foreign
oil sources. And that's not good for America.
Let me say, to deal with this urgent problem, I have submitted a score of major
legislative proposals aimed at helping the United States to achieve energy inde-
pendence. Unfortunately, we've only had 4 out of those 13 major proposals passed
by the Congress. These other proposals are absolutely essential if America, by
1985, is going to be independent of the impact of foreign oil energy sources.
Our rich supplies of coal, which many of you in this area helped bring to the
584
