January 19
[19]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
To paraphrase Tom Paine, 1975 was not a year for summer soldiers and sun-
shine patriots. It was a year of fears and alarms and of dire forecasts-most of
which never happened and won't happen.
As you recall, the year 1975 opened with rancor and with bitterness. Political
misdeeds of the past had neither been forgotten nor forgiven. The longest, most
divisive war in our history was winding toward an unhappy conclusion. Many
feared that the end of that foreign war of men and machines meant the begin-
ning of a domestic war of recrimination and reprisal. Friends and adversaries
abroad were asking whether America had lost its nerve. Finally, our economy
was ravaged by inflation—inflation that was plunging us into the worse recession
in four decades. At the same time, Americans became increasingly alienated
from big institutions. They were steadily losing confidence, not just in big gov-
ernment but in big business, big labor, and big education, among others. Ours
was a troubled land.
And so, 1975 was a year of hard decisions, difficult compromises, and a new
realism that taught us something important about America. It brought back
a needed measure of common sense, steadfastness, and self-discipline.
Americans did not panic or demand instant but useless cures. In all sectors,
people met their difficult problems with the restraint and with responsibility
worthy of their great heritage.
Add up the separate pieces of progress in 1975, subtract the setbacks, and the
sum total shows that we are not only headed in a new direction, a direction
which I proposed 12 months ago, but it turned out to be the right direction.
It is the right direction because it follows the truly revolutionary American
concept of 1776, which holds that in a free society the making of public policy
and successful problemsolving involves much more than government. It involves
a full partnership among all branches and all levels of government, private
institutions, and individual citizens.
Common sense tells me to stick to that steady course.
Take the state of our economy. Last January, most things were rapidly getting
worse. This January, most things are slowly but surely getting better.
The worst recession since World War II turned around in April. The best
cost-of-living news of the past year is that double-digit inflation of 12 percent or
higher was cut almost in half. The worst—unemployment remains far too high.
Today, nearly 1,700,000 more Americans are working than at the bottom of
the recession. At year's end, people were again being hired much faster than they
were being laid off.
33
