[185]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the State level. The more we get education decisions made at the local level
without court interference, the better off we are in the United States.
Could I say one final word? That's great music, but I've got a couple of
more lines. [Laughter]
Obviously, I've enjoyed being at this outstanding University tonight and
talking with all of you from Bradley as well as from Peoria and surround-
ing areas. But before I leave—you know a long time ago, I played football at
the University of Michigan back when the ball was round, and I just have a
great interest in athletics. I think it's great. I'm proud of it. I am proud of the
fact that Bradley has done so well in basketball, and I'm a great enthusiast of
Chet Walker. But before I leave, let me pay my respects to another great
product in Peoria, the basketball team at Richwoods High School.
And let me conclude my comments tonight by saying that I would like
nothing better than to follow their example and go undefeated in Illinois in
1976.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. at the
Robertson Memorial Fieldhouse at Bradley Univer-
sity. In his opening remarks, he referred to Dr.
Martin G. Abegg, president of the university.
186
Remarks to Members of the Mohammed Shrine Temple
of Peoria. March 5, 1976
WE'VE had a great day in the wonderful State of Illinois, and this is the cul-
mination of a great experience, particularly in Peoria. I want to thank Mayor
Carver. I want to thank my very dear friend Bob Michel, your outstanding Con-
gressman. Most of all, I want to thank the just overly friendly and generous
people from Illinois for making this day a wonderful one in my political career.
I can't thank all of you enough.
But let me talk, if I could, Nobles¹ and your lovely ladies, a little about my
feelings about and experiences with the Shrine. I come from Saladin Temple in
Grand Rapids, Michigan. I'm proud of it. My father was very, very active.
My first real personal exposure to the Shrine came in late December of 1934.
I was selected to be on the East team of the Shriners East-West football teams.
We went out to San Francisco where the Shrine has an outstanding hospital for
crippled children. It was a tremendous experience for us on the Eastern football
Salutation given to members who are 32d degree Masons.
558
