[62]
February 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
this money will be spent to support research on the liquefaction of coal, our most
plentiful energy source, reducing our reliance on foreign oil.
The other energy research projects include the development of solar and geo-
thermal energy and other exotic forms which will help make America energy
independent in the future.
We will continue the search for a cure for cancer and the prevention of heart
diseases. New research will be undertaken to develop advanced weapons systems
which will keep America's defense second to none.
Much of that research will be done by the great universities and research
organizations concentrated in the Northeast section. It will help your local
economies. It will help make America's future as exciting and as rewarding as
our past.
Another proposal of immediate and vital importance to you is the extension of
the general revenue sharing program through 1982. And I have asked the Vice
President to head up, to be the chairman of a Government organization or a
committee, to work to make certain that this program is enacted into law by
this Congress. And I know he will succeed.
Now, I know that a considerable number of Governors and mayors and
county officials from your States and others have been lobbying pretty vigor-
ously for passage of the $6 billion so-called countercyclical bill passed recently
by the Congress. I oppose this bill because it is a one-shot, band-aid, uneco-
nomical approach to long-range problems.
I believe, and believe most deeply, that revenue sharing is far, far more im-
portant and effective legislation. Over the last 4 years, 22 percent of general rev-
enue sharing funds from the Federal Government to your States and to your
local communities have been spent on education. Twenty-four percent has been
spent to improve local law enforcement and public safety programs. Fourteen
percent was spent for better transportation-7 percent on environmental pro-
tection, 7 percent on health. This is money spent to make your cities, counties,
and States cleaner, safer, and better places in which to live. And this is an im-
portant statistic. Unlike other programs in which the Federal Government is
involved, the cost of administering this program is only one-twelfth of 1 percent
on every dollar. That is a good record, and that is the kind of a program the
Federal Government ought to undertake and carry out.
I think it is interesting to note as well, fewer than 100 Federal employees are
involved in administering this program. By any standard, this is an outstanding
record of efficiency and good management in the Federal Government.
General revenue sharing is a $39,850 million program that would run for the
156
