February 14
[95]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Can I shake your hand?
THE PRESIDENT. You sure can.
AMTRAK
Q. Thank you very much for coming to southwest Florida, Mr. President.
My name is Greg Thoresen from Cape Coral, and I was wondering what your
ideas about Amtrak rail passenger service are?
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in the Congress, I voted for the Amtrak con-
cept. I think it is important for us for a wide variety of reasons-including
saving energy, and in certain areas, saving time-to develop or or maintain
or to expand rail passenger service.
We certainly need it in what they call the Northeast corridor, from Boston
to New York to Washington. And I am sure there are other equally important
areas throughout the country. Unfortunately, however, there are some cases,
where the Congress has added—just pure pork barrel-in adding or requiring
Amtrak to run passenger service where it cannot, under any circumstance,
be justified.
Now, if they keep doing that, it will destroy the basic concept, which is
sound, for Amtrak. So, I just hope we show some restraint and good judgment
because we need a good passenger rail system in certain parts of the country.
But we can't afford to run it all over the country draining the taxpayers'
pocketbook.
Q. Maybe you could have a few words with Amtrak, too. Thank you very
much.
Q. Mr. President, I am the one who wrote the letter to you. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I can't remember that exact one. [Laughter] Tell me about it.
Q. Well, I told you how old I was.
THE PRESIDENT. You have gotten older since then, though.
Q. I know. James Gorman is my name.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I remember. You did tell me that you were going
to send me something, and it is very nice to see it, and I would like to receive it.
Q. Can I shake your hand?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
AID TO EDUCATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Debbie Weaver, I'm from north Ft. Myers.
I was wondering if you had any plans to help out the economic systems in
the colleges and universities across the country?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes, in this way: I don't think that the Federal
321
