February 14
[95]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
FEDERAL SPENDING
Q. Mr. President, I am Robert Weinig, president of Citizen Inflation Fighters,
Inc., Naples, Florida, and I have a question to ask you. In the interest of stopping
inflation and attaining economic stability, what would you say is the primary
thing that we citizens can do to help you attain your all important objective of
balancing the Federal budget within 3 years?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me be quite specific. I have vetoed 47 (46) bills
which, by the latest tabulation, means we have spent $10.5 billion less than we
would have spent because 38 or 39 of them have been sustained. We have a new
one that I just vetoed yesterday, $6 billion or more—extremely inflationary. It
will add Federal jobs, if it does, at the rate of $25,000 a job. The jobs will come
after we have come out of the recovery. It is totally unjustified. I would hope
that you would write your Senators and your Congressmen and tell them to
vote to sustain that veto. That is in the best interest of this country.
CETA
Q. Mr. President, I'm Robin Fleagle from Ft. Myers. My question is: Do you
have any idea how long the CETA program is going to last?
The President. The CETA program—maybe I ought to explain what it is.
It is the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act. It was passed roughly
3 years ago, as I recall, maybe 4. What it seeks to do-for the benefit of those
who don't know what it is—it provides funds to train people who have lost a
job, to train them to acquire a skill in a new job. In addition, it provides author-
ity for what we call the summer youth employment program. The regular fund-
ing of that program is about $1,600 million, the nonyouth part.
I have recommended full funding for that through December 31 of this calen-
dar year and, as I recollect, about 60 percent funding for the remainder of that
fiscal year. For the current year, we are spending roughly $440 million for the
summer youth program, and for the following summer, the summer of 1977, I
recommended about $410 million for the summer youth program. Now that
is as far as we can go under the law. I have recommended that kind of funding
for the fiscal year 1977, which ends September 30, 1978. But that is, I think, a
justified program. It really is one of the better programs we have in the Federal
Government to meet the problems.
Q. I do want to thank you for CETA because without that, I would be with-
out a job. I really appreciate it.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is one of the best programs in this area in the Federal
Government.
319
