[288]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
much labor and too much love go into the development of a paying farm to dis-
mantle it with every new generation. That is particularly true on the dairy farm
where the hours are endless—and you know them better than I—those cows
must be milked twice every day.
Women are also involved, as men are, in the operation of a farm, and every
child in every family contributes his or her share. So, it is only fair that the
family farm, already a vital institution, continues to flourish as a profitable and
free enterprise.
You and all farmers must have a fair return for your long and tireless and hard
work. That is your goal, and it will be mine, as I continue to work for strong mar-
kets for our farmers' production.
We must never forget that American farmers must profit if America is to be a
profitable-going country. There must be enough income for each of you to buy
new stock, to replace equipment, to build new barns, to conserve and to enrich
your soil, to adopt new techniques, and to buy essential supplies. That is what
keeps the entire American economy moving.
A decision was required on the unfair competition on certain foreign dairy
imports just a few days ago. The question involved foreign nonfat dry milk
mixtures designed to evade our dairy import quotas. Importers tried to buy past
our limitations by mixing dried milk with other ingredients. As President, I will
not tolerate such practices. Accordingly last week, I signed a proclamation to put
a zero quota on such imports.
The last 3 years have been the highest 3 years of net farm income in America's
history. That is the way it should be. That is the way it is going to be. It took
hard, hard work on your part, and it took the right kind of farm policies.
In recent days, the world's population passed the 4 billion mark. Looking
ahead, we will be hard put to feed the entire world. There is certainly no time to
pull back our efforts to help increase your productivity and your efficiency.
For 25-plus years, I had the privilege and the honor of representing farmers,
including dairy farmers, when I served in the Congress. As President, I refuse
to go back to the old, harmful farm practices we had during most of those years.
They meant disaster for too many farmers. They created great surpluses. They
damaged the free market economy. I will not go back to those programs that re-
quire the Department of Agriculture to interfere in the daily operation of every
farm in America. And I will use every power in my command to inject some
common sense into the operation of the Federal agencies which seek occupa-
tional safety and health and environmental protection. We have to do a better job
in that regard.
934
