March 3
[174]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
These funds, this personnel, they are needed to implement the recommendations
of the quality of care survey, and I am confident that the Congress will carry out
the request. I think it is legitimate. I think it is needed and the net result will be
better and better care for those who are unfortunately confined to our VA hospi-
tals. And those budgets provide—it is interesting to note—some $600 million for
VA medical construction projects.
Actually, we are providing more funding, more people, and better facilities to
give eligible veterans the highest quality and the fastest possible care that this
country can make available.
In addition to what I have mentioned before, the new VA budget will provide
$8 million in compensation and pension benefits to almost 5 million veterans'
families in fiscal year 1977. And every American citizen, I think, agrees with
me-you deserve nothing less. And we will do all that we can to make certain
that you receive nothing less.
I believe the Veterans Administration has done a fine, fine job overall under
the very difficult circumstances, under the leadership of my very good friend,
Dick Roudebush. The VA has made tremendous strides in serving our veteran
population. And we are going to make certain and positive that this progress
continues with the help of organizations such as your own.
Frorn your new headquarters here you will be in a very good position to con-
tinue serving the interests of disabled veterans. This new building is a monu-
ment to the sacrifices made by those veterans and to the services you have
rendered to them. But it is more than that. It is a living, vital, dynamic head-
quarters where you can and will continue those services.
It is interesting to me that here is a building that has been designed with
sensitivity to the needs of disabled veterans. Like your organization, it is 100
percent accessible to them, whatever their infirmity. We must continue to elimi-
nate the cruel barriers that prevent disabled veterans and too many other dis-
abled Americans from leading the rich life that everyone has the right to enjoy
in our very great country.
As you know, better than I, many of these barriers are physical. Your efforts
and your Government's efforts to train and to rehabilitate the disabled are
tragically undermined if the disabled individual cannot enter and cannot use
public buildings or places of business. I am well aware of the sad fact that many
things the rest of us take for granted-like a narrow doorway or a flight of
stairs-can be like signs saying "Disabled Keep Out." We must work to remove
those signs, and we are, and we will.
511
