[217]
March 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
learned about unemployment coming down, about the economy picking up, I
think, speak very graphically to the fruits of these efforts. And I present it to
you on behalf of our board and our Ohio Farm Bureau Federation—more than
66,000 families. We are proud of you, and I am pleased to present them to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much, Bill.
MR. SWANK. Do you have a question or two? I think he would be glad to
have them.
THE PRESIDENT. I am very, very grateful, and I am tremendously encouraged
with the new trends in our economy. As Bill said, employment is going up,
unemployment is going down, the rate of increase in the cost of living has been
cut in half in the last 19 months. All of the trends are good, and I think this is
reflected in the public confidence that we see in all the polls that are being taken.
It has really leaped upward in the last few months. And that really comes down
to the faith that the American people have in our government and our Nation's
future.
Now, I would be glad to answer a question or two. Don't be shy.
Q. Mr. President, I am from Athens, Ohio, which is primarily a college town.
There are very few smalltime family farms there that are able to make it finan-
cially. I was wondering what you see in the future for small family farmers.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the small family farmer is better off today
than he has been in the past. Now, I think you have to describe what you mean
by a small family farmer. One in Ohio may be different than one in Nebraska,
or one might be different in Ohio from one in Texas.
I presume a small family farm in Ohio would be quite similar to one in Michi-
gan. But what we are finding in Michigan is that a 160-acre farm would probably
fall within that definition. I think with the problems that they have, with the
need for more acreage, which they either rent or buy, with the problems that
they have for the cost of machinery, the labor problems, I think they have some-
how got to expand their operations.
A 160-acre farm is a tough operation, there is no question about it, whether
it is dairy, whether it is fruit, whether it is fresh vegetables, whether it is any of
the other cash crops. But I think with the inflation problem getting under control
and, hopefully, interest rates coming down, which they are, I think the oppor-
tunity for a small family farm, such as we have agreed would exist more or less
in Michigan or in Ohio, can make it and can keep the integrity of that great
asset in our society.
Q. You have a lot of young people here who are doing that.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
716
