[131]
February 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
branch in your respective States. Let me say, I appreciate it far better today than
I did for 25 years when I was on the other side of the fence.
But let me say very deeply and very sincerely, that I am immensely apprecia-
tive of the cooperation that I have found in your organization and with each
of you individually. I don't mean to be so Pollyannish that we agree on every
issue. We have had some pretty stormy meetings in the Cabinet Room where
there were some rather strident differences expressed between some of you
and myself, or you and some of my associates. But at least there was an under-
standing that we had a job to do at the Federal, State, and local levels.
The net result in most instances—whether we agreed or disagreed-there was
an understanding that I think has pushed us as a country further forward to
have a better relationship between the Federal executive and the State executive.
And I thank you for all of you going more than halfway, and I can assure you
we will seek to go halfway or better, as well. And the net result is, I think, your
States and our country are both better off.
So, as we deal with the day-to-day problems of general revenue sharing or
block grants or welfare or food stamps, whatever the issues might be, I am grate-
ful for your input and your cooperation.
I am especially appreciative of the warmth of your welcome when either Betty
or myself have come to your States. We have enjoyed your hospitality, and we
are most grateful for your understanding and cooperation.
With that, I think it is quite appropriate that I offer a toast to all of you and to
our joint constituents and to a better America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:11 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House.
Governor Robert D. Ray of Iowa, chairman of
the National Governors' Conference, responded to
the President's toast. His remarks are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
12, p. 276).
132
Remarks Upon Receiving the Boy Scouts of America's
Annual Report to the Nation. February 24, 1976
LET ME thank you, Arch and Alden and Jeff and David and Larry, for coming
here to represent scouting.
I have many fond personal memories of scouting going back a good many
years, not only as a scout—they didn't have Cub Scouts in those days—but also
as a participant in the senior activities of scouting.
426
