[266]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE AMERICAN FAMILY
[15.] Q. Mr. President, presently I am serving as a missionary in La Crosse
with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints of the Mormon Church. I
felt very comfortable about your comment about the American family. And
during the time I have been on my mission, I have been able to associate with
a lot of people, I have had time to ponder our country's problems and its situa-
tions in world affairs, and especially its problems within itself.
Now, you may know that to us families are very important. And as I have
looked at world situations and situations within our country, I have noticed
when we get down to the root of our problems it always goes back to the family
and the family organization. And as we look at our country we know that
things we have as a country today were founded on that family. I wonder what
your feelings are about and your ideas of how we could strengthen families na-
tionally as a family unit, down to the detail of the family.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think you can pass a law to strengthen the family. I
think the strength of the family has to come from the parents, from the way
they live. I think parents have to set the example. I was lucky to have two won-
derful parents. We tried to carry on, my wife and myself, in the same way, and
we are lucky to have four wonderful children. I think that is the only way
that we can achieve what you want and what I believe in and what I think is
a fundamental in this country. And I am encouraged. I think there is a rebirth
of that feeling in America.
ROLE OF NONVOTING YOUTH IN THE ELECTION PROCESS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, I am a high school student. And I would like to
know what role you think the nonvoting youth can play in government, and
if you would be willing to accept advice from us, because I think we are inter-
ested and we do campaign for Presidential candidates.
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in Congress, I got a lot of nonvoting advice from
my own four children, believe me. But I think it is important for young people
who are not yet 18 to have an opportunity to vote. I strongly supported the con-
stitutional amendment that made it possible for 18-year-olds to vote. Many people
said it would be unhealthy, that they were not qualified. I think their participa-
tion has been excellent.
I think we should be proud of the role they played and the ones who are in
junior high school and high school-working with their parents, helping with
their own political organization whether it is Republican or Democratic. You
can play a very meaningful role. You can have an influence on your mother
846
