March 12
[206]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
you. And, therefore, I hope and trust that you can say that continuity has some
benefit in the tough circumstances we are in today.
Now, I don't mean to recite the statistics which I think nationally confirm
the fact that this economy is moving in the right direction. If we go back to
March of this year or go back 19 months ago, you know that inflation was
rampant, you know that we have cut it in half, you know that we went through
a very traumatic experience with the worst recession this country has faced for
30 or 40 years, you know that we are coming out of it, consumer confidence is up,
unemployment is going down, employment is going up.
Wherever you look, the statistics are encouraging. That does not mean that
we are completely out of the woods, I am the first to admit it, but we didn't panic,
we didn't lose our courage, we held a firm and steady course, and we are headed
in the right direction. I think by all honest measurements we are headed in the
right direction. We are beginning to see some of the familiar landmarks of re-
covery leading us to a better prosperity.
Any expert who is objective will tell you that across the country business is
improving, farm income is improving, employment statistics are all encouraging.
The budget that I submitted in January of this year and those that I plan to
submit in the next 4 years will bring us a balanced budget in 1979 and will per-
mit us to have at the same time, providing of course the Congress cooperates, an-
other major tax reduction lifting more of the burden from our Federal taxpayers
across the board.
In short, by any analysis, the directions we are going will bring us home in
the right direction, and I am convinced that the direction we are moving abroad
is also right. We will continue to maintain our diplomatic leadership in seeking
constructive and cooperative solutions beyond our national borders. We know
from past experience that world peace can only be assured by a very strong
defense. As a nation today, we are second to none in military capability. And I
might add most emphatically, we intend to keep it that way.
If you look at the trends that have been going on for the last 10 to 15 years in
military expenditures, the facts are in constant dollars we have been spending less
and less. That is a fact. But if we are going to be able to meet the challenges in any
one part of the world and to deter aggression and to maintain the peace and to
protect our national security, that trend line must be reversed.
I submitted a budget in January of this year, the largest peacetime military
budget in the history of the United States-$112.7 billion, 25.2 percent of our
631
