[97]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
And, as I close, I pledge to you and to all the people of Florida my unrelenting
efforts to reduce crime here as well as elsewhere in full cooperation, in consul-
tation with experts such as you, as we try to meet head on this very serious
problem.
Thank you. Good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. in the
Everglades Room at the Everglades Hotel to mem-
bers of the south Florida chapter of the Federal Bar
Association.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Robert Leo Dube, former president, and Maurice
Miller, president, south Florida chapter, and Repre-
sentative Louis Frey, Jr., chairman of the Florida
President Ford Committee.
98
Remarks in Miami Beach at the Annual Fundraising Dinner of
the National Parkinson Institute. February 14, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Bob, Congressman Pepper, his wonderful wife,
Mildred, and all of the other outstanding people who have participated in
this program tonight.
I just thought I would drop in to indicate in person my total support for the
major national effort that is being made in Parkinson's disease. I
am, of course,
familiar with what your organization has done. I know this is the 17th annual
get-together. That shows the dedication and the complete, total effort that
is being made.
I was extremely honored a month or so ago at the urging of my good friend,
Claude Pepper, to issue a national proclamation [4403], pointing out to our
fellow Americans the need for action, the need for understanding in the area
of Parkinson's disease. I did it not only because of Claude's insistence but
because I knew good people like you were really behind the effort that is
needed and necessary to solve the problem, and I thank you very, very much.
It is a real thrill for me to meet Mrs. Levey-Jeanne, she says. But this is
Mrs. Jeanne Levey,ยน who I know has done so much for so many years in this
very important area.
I just can't thank you enough for the warm welcome, Mildred. Where is old
Claude? [Laughter]
MRS. PEPPER. Mr. President, he's not that old. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I have to kid him a little bit, Mildred, you know. He's a
great friend of mine, and I appreciate what he and you and Mrs. Levey, or
ยน Chairman, national board of directors of the National Parkinson Institute.
332
