[126]
February 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
monolithic, centralized power of the Federal Government. In recent years, State
and local authority has eroded as the Federal establishment has grown and
grown.
This trend of categorical grants and decisionmaking by the bureaus and the
agencies of the Federal Government has not made life easier for the beneficiary,
nor has it made government more responsive. The Federal Government now
employs more people than the entire combined population of the 13 original
States when our founders reserved to State governments and to the people all
power not bestowed upon the National Government.
When your State constitutions were adopted, great care was taken to preserve
the basic principles of self-government. Americans have always wanted the de-
cisions affecting their daily lives made at home in their local communities and in
their own States.
But freedom is now misinterpreted by too many individuals to mean freedom
from personal responsibility and instant gratification of all desires by the rich
Uncle Sam in Washington, D.C. In pursuit of that quest—and I might say that
fantasy—the Federal bureaucracy has grown and grown. Power inevitably is
drawn away from your States, your counties, your cities, your towns to an in-
creasingly centralized National Government—always bigger, always more med-
dlesome-but not always more efficient nor more responsive to local needs.
This process has undermined individual pride and resourcefulness. It threat-
ens our economic prosperity and dims our vision of a future in which every
citizen can help determine his or her fate. As a result, you and I must make some
hard decisions this year.
It is all too easy to offer unrealistic suggestions in the heat of an election year,
but a President or a Governor in office has to provide accountable and realistic
leadership with honest answers to all constituents.
I will never irresponsibly transfer serious problems from the Federal Govern-
ment to State governments without regard for human need or fiscal realities. I
am determined to preserve a constructive partnership with the States on all
mutual concerns through cooperation and not through treatment that is worse
than the disease.
Let us cooperate to move the decisionmaking process back to the States and to
the people. Let us work to assure that we really help the needy and not the
greedy. We must clarify and we must simplify the complex, frustrating, and
inefficient regulations in categorical grant rigidity that invite abuses and rip-
offs. Those sworn to protect the public interest must assure that every tax dollar
is used honestly and effectively.
416
