[6]
January 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
interest of this country. It is in the best interest of world stability, world peace.
We have to recognize there are deep ideological differences between the
United States and the Soviet Union. We have to recognize they are a super
power militarily and industrially, just as we are. And when you have two super
powers that have such great influence, it is in the best interests of those two
countries to work together to ease tensions, to avoid confrontation where pos-
sible, to improve relations on a worldwide basis.
And for us to abandon this working relationship and to go back to a cold
war, in my opinion, would be very unwise for we in the United States and the
world as a whole.
MR. BROKAW. But won't you be under a lot of domestic political pressure in
this election year to change your attitude about détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be just the reverse, because when we look at
détente—with the Berlin agreement of 1971, with SALT I, which put, to some
extent, a limitation on nuclear development, et cetera—and when I look at
the benefits that can come from the Vladivostok agreement of 1974, it is my
opinion that we must continue rather than stop.
And if the American people take a good, calculated look at the benefits from
détente, I think they will support it rather than oppose it. And politically, I
think any candidate who says abandon détente will be the loser in the long run.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, the historian, Will Durant, has said that a states-
man can't afford to be a moralist as well. Briefly, do you agree with that
statement?
The President. I don't believe there is any necessary conflict between the
two. We have to be pragmatic at the same time. We have to be practical as
we meet these specific problems. But if you lose your moral value, then I think
you have destroyed your capability to carry out things in a practical way.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, I wonder if I could ask you a question about
the United Nations, which seems to have less utility in the world these days
than it did when it began, and also about some of the pressure groups that we
find both within the United Nations and as you see these pressure groups in
foreign affairs. I am thinking, for example, of the influence of American Jews,
of the growing influence of Arabs, of various groups. Aren't those groups kind
of closing in on you, or do you feel that sometimes, sir?
The President. I believe that substantial progress, John, was made in the
United Nations in the Seventh Special Session late in 1975. That was a very
constructive session of the United Nations, which sought to bring together the
developing, as well as the developed, nations. This was constructive.
10
