[208]
March 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
were, when the chips were down and the national interests of the United States
were at stake, both President Eisenhower and Governor Stevenson were effective
and dedicated champions of our bipartisan [post-] war policy of peace through
strength.
President Eisenhower clearly stated our national purpose in these words, and
I quote: "We seek peace, knowing that peace is the climate of freedom. And
now, as in no other age, we seek it because we have been warned, by the power
of modern weapons, that peace may be the only climate possible for human life
itself. . . . We are called to meet the price of this peace. To counter the threat
of those who seek to rule by force, we must pay the costs of our own needed
military strength and help to build the security of others."
Our policy of peace through strength is not something that I have recently
invented. It is something we first found in our history books when we read
George Washington's wise counsel, and again I quote: "To be prepared for war
is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace."
Peace through strength was an issue in my first political campaign when I
followed the late Senator Arthur Vandenberg, my friend and mentor from
home, in supporting NATO, the Marshall plan, and aid to Greece and Turkey.
Peace through strength is my consistent guide, or was in the 553 votes I cast
on defense and foreign policy issues while a Member of the House of Repre-
sentatives in the Congress and as ranking Republican of the Defense and
Foreign Aid Appropriations Subcommittees and as minority leader of the
House.
Peace through strength has been my constant goal as your President. And let
me tell you what I mean by peace through strength-not with election year
rhetoric but by the record. Let me define our national security policy not with
words, but what we have actually done to advance peace in the world and to
maintain strength at home. In my very first words after taking the solemn oath
as President, I pledged an uninterrupted and sincere search for peace. I said
America will remain strong and united, but its strength will remain dedicated
to the safety and to the sanity of the entire family of man, as well as to our own
precious freedom.
One need only remember Pearl Harbor, and some in this audience do, to
know that weakness invites war. But now that Americans are no longer fighting
on any front, there are many sincere but, in my judgment, shortsighted, who
believe that billions for defense could be better spent for other programs.
I am convinced that adequate spending for national defense is an insurance
policy, an insurance policy for peace that we cannot afford to be without in
644
