March 19
[231]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
231
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Members of the National Newspaper Association.
March 19, 1976
President Branen and members of the National Newspaper Association and
guests:
It is a privilege to welcome you to the East Room, and at the conclusion of
the question-and-answer period, I ask all of you to join me in the State Dining
Room for some refreshments. But before getting to the question-and-answer
period, I would like to make two comments.
First, early this year in its ruling on the campaign reform laws, the Supreme
Court said the Congress had 30 days to correct a small defect in the Federal
Election Commission or the Commission would lose most of its powers. Three
weeks ago, because the Congress had not yet acted, the Court granted a 20-day
extension. Now, some 50 days have passed since the court announced its original
decision, and this Congress is still engaged in inexcusable and dangerous delays.
Time is running out.
On midnight Monday, the watchdog set up to protect our elections will be
stripped of most of its authorities. The American people have a right to ask, just
as I am asking, why won't the Congress act immediately to extend the life of the
Commission through the November elections?
This is the proposal that I have made repeatedly, and it is a sound and sen-
sible approach. Why are some Members of the Congress still trying to impose
massive changes upon the campaign laws right in the midst of a campaign? It is
clear that such changes would create greater chaos and uncertainty, so that in
good conscience I could not accept the bill.
Finally, why do some Members of the Congress seem to be retreating from
our commitment to fair and clean elections? No one can ignore the fact that
the American people have had enough of politics as usual. These are the ques-
tions to which the Congress must be held to account as we approach Mon-
day's deadline.
I urge the Congress to act with dispatch in reestablishing the Federal Election
Commission so that the democratic process in 1976 will be truly worthy of our
great Nation.
Then, one other comment. Friday has been especially good to the American
people for the last month or 6 weeks. The Bureau of Labor Statistics made an
739
