[65]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
tape over redtape and assessing tax after tax to cover new Government spend-
ing. Such policies impose an inflationary burden on business as well as the
consumer, and I will never lead this Nation down that road of stagnation.
The people are as fed up with the petty tyranny of Federal regulations today
as when patriots defied the tax collectors over 200 years ago and threw the tea
into the Boston Harbor.
Some of you, I am sure, have experienced serious difficulty at the not always
tender hands of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. I know
some of you would like to throw OSHA into the ocean. In fact, some of you
couldn't be more upset with OSHA if Ron Nessen was running it. [Laughter]
I have studied, to be frank and honest with you, some very valid complaints
about OSHA and concluded that while everyone is for safe and healthy working
conditions, many are troubled by the manner in which this objective is sought.
Congress wrote the law, and we must obey it. However, under my authority
as President, I have appointed a new director with specific instructions to deal
with citizens as friends, not as enemies. I will not tolerate the unnecessary and
unjustified harassment of citizens. If this does not stop, I want you to let me
know.
Another indication that we are moving on the right track is the Railroad
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976, which I proposed to the
Congress last year and which I was pleased to sign into law several days ago.
It upgrades railroad facilities in a way that will keep our recovery rolling. Your
State is eligible for several millions of dollars to improve rail service under this
act, and I think this is all to the good, not only for New Hampshire but for the
Nation as a whole.
I am deeply concerned by an issue which has a particular impact on older
Americans, now retired, who have always paid their own way. I refer to medical
costs involving senior citizens and their families who suffer ruinous expenses
because of an extended hospital and nursing home care. I have, therefore, pro-
posed health insurance to cover any catastrophic illnesses suffered by anyone
covered by Medicare.
I think most of us in our daily lives over the years have known an individual
or known a family where there was a catastrophic illness that went on and on and
on with the costs and expenses which are impossible to bear. We have to do some-
thing about this. Therefore, under the proposal that I have suggested, after
reaching the age of 65, no person will have to pay more than $500 a year for
hospital or nursing home care, nor more than $250 for doctor bills in any one
year.
192
