March 12
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Economic Policy Board that is headed by the Secretary of the Treasury and has
other Cabinet officers on it. They give me advice in the economic field. We have
just established a new food policy committee headed by the Secretary of Agricul-
ture. They will make recommendations to me in the field of food policy, both
national as well as international. I could go on.
It is the process of having good people give frank recommendations that I
think avoids the abuse that took place in the past. First, the quality of the people
and the organizational structure, I think both of them contribute to any abuses,
difficulties such as have taken place under previous administrations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 a.m. in Edman
Chapel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Todd
Gray, student body president, and Dr. Hudson T.
Armeding, president, Wheaton College, and Repre-
sentative John B. Anderson.
208
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Members of the Chicago Council of Foreign Relations.
March 12, 1976
Thank you very much, Gus, John Rielly, Senator Chuck Percy, Congressman
John Anderson, Governor Ogilvie, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I really welcome this opportunity to answer your questions at the conclusion
of my remarks about the foreign relations of the United States.
Founded shortly after the First World War, your organization recognized
much earlier than many Americans the importance of the international role
which had been thrust upon this country by the course of history. For more than
a half a century, you have contributed significantly to greater understanding by
our citizens of the foreign policy issues facing the United States.
In the crucial years of the thirties, just before World War II broke out in
Europe, one of your former Council presidents, the late Governor Stevenson,
pointedly stated your purpose, and I quote: "Only if we make ourselves aware
of the problems that confront this tormented world . . . can the freedom and
privileges which we have come to take for granted be assured to the future
generations yet unborn."
Years later, when I was campaigning ardently for General Eisenhower
against Governor Stevenson, I never dreamed that I would be quoting both of
them here in Chicago in this capacity today. But I can do so, because the record
book of public service to America clearly shows that, political rivals though they
643
