[239]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
school at Chapel Hill, and then my son, Mike, and his wife attended and
graduated from Wake Forest University. So, the Fords have a lot of connections
with the State of North Carolina.
As Jim said, I have traveled a good bit in your great State, trying to help Gov-
ernors get elected, Senators get elected, Members of the Congress get elected,
and also to help in any way I could for the great cause of the Republican Party,
which is a good cause and a cause that we should be proud of. It represents the
philosophy, it represents the cause that is important as I look down the road for
the future of America.
As Jim said, we have gone through some tough times in the last 19 months.
When I became President, the cost of living was rising at the rate of 12 to 14
percent. We have cut it in half. As you might have read in the paper, or heard on
radio or television, just yesterday we got some great economic news-the cost of
living increased at the lowest rate in 4 years. We are on the right track, and we
are going to keep going that way.
When I became President, we were right on the brink of the worst recession in
40 years. Economic clouds were dark. Everybody was pessimistic. The doom-
sayers were predicting all kinds of catastrophe for this country. But we kept a
firm, steady hand on the tiller. We didn't panic. We had a good course of action.
We had the right kind of plans to keep America strong in the future. And al-
though unemployment went high and employment went down, we ended up
with the right trend right now. Employment is going up and unemployment is
going to go down, and it is going to get better and better in the months ahead.
Now, let me talk about two of the things that I think are vitally important.
There are some people up in Washington who have been trying to sell the idea
that the bigger the government got, the better it was for everybody. I don't agree
with that. There is no person in Washington who knows all the answers.
Some of the people that have been trying to sell these quick fixes, these patent
medicine solutions, are wrong. Let me tell you what we are trying to do under
this administration. I have a lot of faith in your locally elected officials, your
mayors, your councilmen, your sheriffs, your Governors, your State legislators.
They are good people. They can make better judgments, they can make better
decisions than some of those bureaucrats that sit behind those fancy desks in
Washington, D.C.
So, we are going to send some of the money back to you so you can make the
decisions at the local level. We are trying to cut down on the bureaucracy in
Washington, get rid of the redtape. I think we can run the Government an aw-
766
