April 2
[284]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
strong and healthy. We are off to a good start in 1976, and we are going to keep
up the pace.
Thank you very much. Now, I will be glad to answer any questions.
QUESTIONS
AMERICAN SHOE INDUSTRY
[1.] Q. Mr. President, there are many thousands of people in this State and
also in the Nation, of course, who are dependent for their livelihood on a viable
shoe manufacturing industry. And naturally, we were delighted with the recent
unanimous findings of the International Trade Commission to the effect that
our industry has indeed been deeply injured by a 43-percent penetration of im-
ported footwear.
Would you be willing, sir, to share with us a glimpse of what your official
reaction and response to this finding will be?
THE PRESIDENT. I appreciate your bringing this to the attention of this group.
It is a very important decision.
The International Trade Commission has made its initial recommendations
or findings. It is now being studied, and I have a period of time whereby between
their decision and my decision to analyze the recommendations made by the
Trade Policy Committee.
I think it would be premature for me to give any decision here on that very
important item. It is controversial as you know. It is controversial because some
of the consumer groups are alleging that if we take one course of action, prices
of shoes will go up.
It is controversial, on the other hand, because of the injury to the shoe manu-
facturing industry here in the United States. It is also controversial because
several of the foreign countries that would be hurt the most if we impose either
quotas or any one of the other remedies, our trade with them would suffer,
and of course you know it is Spain, it is Italy, it is Brazil.
All I can say at this point is the recommendations I expect to come to me
within the next several days from the Trade Policy Commission [Committee],
and I will make the decision as promptly as I can. It is not going to be easy,
but we faced some tough ones in the past and we will do our best in the future.
Q. Thank you, kindly.
907
