[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
one we are watching. These folks who have a negative view on nuclear power—
the regulatory hearing process is one amenable to being used for delay. In fact,
that delay which still exists in the process is mostly attributed right to that seg-
ment. There is not much we can do outside the hearing process to make it much
better. The California situation, which comes up on June 8, I believe, is one that
is particularly insidious in that proposition 15 is written in such a way that if you
don't understand it, you will vote for it and support it automatically.
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you.
Now we will hear from the Securities and Exchange Commission. Rod is one
that has gone from the frying pan to the fire in terms of regulation.
MR. HILLS [Roderick M. Hills, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion]. Our efforts have been to institutionalize our procedures. Our new Director
of Economic and Policy Research, which is a brand new office for us now headed
by a prominent economist, is determining whether a proposed regulation is
worthwhile. We are monitoring to see whether our regulatory objectives are met
and, if not, those regulations will self-destruct.
In February, we began an extensive study of the disclosure policies which have
been developed by the SEC over 41 years. We have a prominent advisory com-
mittee which will oversee what is a major staff effort, which we believe will re-
sult in not only a new disclosure policy but a very substantial savings in money
each year to the public.
This month, we have approved a major additional effort to change and
modify all of our forms and the underlying regulations. Jim will know better
than I what 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K means. Our change in just form 8-K will
result in a 44-percent reduction in the number of 8-K's filed. The underlying
regulations—it will mean 75 percent of all the advertising expenses in an ad-
versary proceeding will be eliminated. The savings annually will be in the
millions of dollars from that one point.
In March, we began an examination into all the regulations and laws per-
taining to money management and are seeking an alternative to money man-
agement. We have a new division director, all new associate directors, and a
new chief counsel. In our judgment, within a short period of time our man-
agement of money management will be entirely new.
Last month, we appointed a Director of Small Business Policy to increase
the ability of small businesses to raise capital, an effort we think is quite promis-
ing, an effort supported by the entire securities industry.
Four months ago, we adopted the so-called focus reporting system for local
dealers. This reduces the paperwork dramatically, because it means there is
1010
