February 28
[159]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In the last 19 months, the strength of the American people has come through
loud and clear. In the last 19 months, the strength of our Government has also
shown itself beyond any doubt whatsoever.
Where are we today? I think the American people have more faith and trust in
their leadership. I think the American people know that we have licked, to a
very substantial degree, many of our economic problems. Inflation is half of
what it was; unemployment is going down; employment is going up; personal
income is increasing; and, yes, the stock market isn't doing too badly.
But the main thing that I find is that whether it is in New Hampshire-with
some great voters up there who were very kind to me—or in Florida where a
trip 2 weeks ago was just unbelievably friendly and kind and the one today just
as good, I believe that we are on our way in this country.
We have the right policies both at home and abroad. We are not going to
come up with some quick fixes. We are going to do what is right. We are going
to show some commonsense and some realism. That is what has taken us out of
our trouble, and that is what is going to make us better in the months ahead.
If we tried to do everything the way some people suggest—there are some
people that want to have us try a new patent medicine about every week—they
don't work. What we have done has worked. The net result is our friends abroad
respect us. Our friends abroad are with us, and most of all, our adversaries know,
because we are strong, they won't fool around with us. And we are going to
stay strong.
I would like a special favor, if I could. We have an election here on March 9.
I would appreciate your support. And after that convention out in Kansas City,
I would be very grateful for your support on November 2.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:53 p.m. at the Seagate Highlands Condominiums.
159
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
in Boca Raton, Florida. February 28, 1976
AS I said, it is delightful to be here in the Spanish Gardens at Boca Raton with
my good friend Herb Burke. I think we have had a very, very successful day. It
exceeds our expectations despite the slight inclement weather. The crowds have
been tremendous. The reception has been warm, and I think we have mo-
mentum that is just going to move and move and move and all to the good.
477
