January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Saul [Saul Kohler, Newhouse News Service].
Q. Your mess charts and the other indications is that Health, Education, and
Welfare is a bit huge-have you given any thought to breaking up the Depart-
ment?
The President. I do not think it is needed and necessary to divide the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare. The enactment of the necessary leg-
islation to move to the block grants in health, child nutrition, social services,
and education will relieve very substantially Secretary Mathews' administrative
problems. As you can well see from the chart, if we were able to do that, which
I hope we can, I see absolutely no need and necessity for tearing apart the De-
partment of HEW.
Q. Mr. President, in the defense section of your budget, you refer to the possi-
bility of the need for developing a new generation of ICBM missiles. How likely
a possibility do you think that is, and what do you anticipate its cost to be?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's still in the R. & D. stage. We haven't gone beyond
that. We always are looking down the road to make sure that we don't rest on
our oars. We know our adversaries are not. So, this is one of several programs
that takes a look at the future and the need and necessity for the best weapons
for our national security.
Bill, do you want to add any comment to that?
DEPUTY SECRETARY CLEMENTS. That's exactly right. I have nothing to add.
Q. If I could follow up. There has been some defense theory that holds that
land-based ICBM's should be phased out entirely and replaced with sea-based.
Since you are calling for an increase in Trident appropriations, I wonder what
do you think of that theory and whether you envision us maintaining ICBM's
as a deterrent?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that our ICBM's, the Minutemen, various versions,
are a very strong deterrent and a very capable military weapon. We do have the
Poseidon and the potential Trident. We have to have a mix. I think it is impor-
tant not only to have land-based but submarine-launched missiles, ballistic mis-
siles. But I think it is also important to have the manned aircraft, the B-52's and
the B-1's that are coming along. We are going to be progressive. We are going to
be flexible in our strategic weapon capability. It may mean moving to some
version of mobile missiles. It may mean development, as we are, in the cruise
missile area. We can't stay static. If we ever get on a plateau and stay there, our
national security will be seriously in jeopardy.
67
