[19]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yet, let's be honest. Many Americans have not yet felt these changes in their
daily lives. They still see prices going up far too fast, and they still know the
fear of unemployment.
We are also a growing nation. We need more and more jobs every year.
Today's economy has produced over 85 million jobs for Americans, but we
need a lot more jobs, especially for the young.
My first objective is to have sound economic growth without inflation.
We all know from recent experience what runaway inflation does to ruin
every other worthy purpose. We are slowing it. We must stop it cold.
For many Americans, the way to a healthy, noninflationary economy has be-
come increasingly apparent. The Government must stop spending so much and
stop borrowing so much of our money. More money must remain in private
hands where it will do the most good. To hold down the cost of living, we must
hold down the cost of government.
In the past decade, the Federal budget has been growing at an average rate
of over 10 percent a year. The budget I am submitting Wednesday cuts this rate
of growth in half. I have kept my promise to submit a budget for the next fiscal
year of $395 billion. In fact, it is $394.2 billion.
By holding down the growth of Federal spending, we can afford additional
tax cuts and return to the people who pay taxes more decisionmaking power
over their own lives.
Last month I signed legislation to extend the 1975 tax reductions for the first
6 months of this year. I now propose that effective July 1, 1976, we give our tax-
payers a tax cut of approximately $10 billion more than Congress agreed to in
December.
My broader tax reduction would mean that for a family of four making
$15,000 a year, there will be $227 more in take-home pay annually. Hard-
working Americans caught in the middle can really use that kind of extra cash.
My recommendations for a firm restraint on the growth of Federal spending
and for greater tax reduction are simple and straightforward. For every dollar
saved in cutting the growth in the Federal budget, we can have an added dollar
of Federal tax reduction.
We can achieve a balanced budget by 1979 if we have the courage and the wis-
dom to continue to reduce the growth of Federal spending.
One test of a healthy economy is a job for every American who wants to
work. Government-our kind of government-cannot create that many jobs.
But the Federal Government can create conditions and incentives for private
business and industry to make more and more jobs.
34
