[93]
February 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
resolution of those terribly difficult and controversial problems in the Middle
East.
Just last year, when it looked like the Middle East might blow up again with
the consequences of an oil embargo and possibly a much larger war, we were
able—because the Israelis had confidence in us and the Egyptians had confidence
in us—they got together and made a step forward in trying to resolve those
serious, terrible problems in the Middle East. But they knew we were strong,
they knew we could be helpful. And we were the coalescing force that brought
those two countries together.
Now we have some adversaries around the world. We are making headway,
slowly, in trying to open up relations on a broader basis with 800 million people
on the mainland of Asia, with the People's Republic. It is important to deal
strongly, fairly with them.
But the problem that is raised by many concerns our relations with the
Soviet Union. Let me just be very frank and honest. My reputation in Congress
and otherwise has been of a tough Yankee trader; and those Yankee traders
did pretty well back a good many years ago. And we are going to be strong,
we are going to be able to deal from strength, and I think what we do will be
in the best interests of the United States.
Now, let me just talk about a question that has been raised by some people.
At the present time, our Government is spending literally billions of dollars to
make sure that we have enough nuclear capability to deter war and to protect
our national security. The Soviet Union is spending as much, if not more. If we
can put a cap on this arms race, I think that is in the best interests of this country.
We are going to make sure and positive that it is a fair agreement. And your
President is going to be a tough Yankee trader when he sits down, if he does,
in trying to negotiate any such agreement.
You have my total, complete commitment that what I do, whether we get an
agreement or don't, it will be in the best interest of the United States.
Now we are going to keep our powder dry. We are not going to be trigger
happy. I think we can negotiate from strength. We can build our alliances from
strength. We can do the things that are necessary to make everybody assured
in this country that we are safe. And if we keep our heads, keep our powder
dry, keep cool, we cannot only do what is right for America at home but we
can maintain peace through strength throughout the world.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:04 p.m. in the
Neptune Room at the Bayfront Center. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Representatives C. W. Bill
Young, Louis Frey, Jr., chairman of the Florida
President Ford Committee, and L. A. (Skip)
Bafalis.
308
