[125]
February 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
religion and praying that heaven would bestow the best of blessings on the
White House and all of its future inhabitants.
This faith of our Fathers sustained the young America when it was weak
and very poor. That same faith can sustain us today in the added responsibilities
of the world's most prosperous and powerful nation.
When I became President, this country was faced with some of its most
pressing and serious problems in its history. Underlying these problems was a
crisis of confidence in our Government, a crisis of spirit among our own people.
America had been buffeted about for more than a decade with shocks to its
system that would have crippled a lesser country-political assassination, a long
and frustrating war, riots in our streets and on our campuses, economic distress,
scandals at the highest levels.
In the few hours before this responsibility was suddenly thrust upon me,
I
was asked by one of my aides what verse I wanted the Bible open to when I took
the oath of office. I turned to the Bible which had been given me when I became
Vice President by my oldest son, Mike, who was a divinity student in Massa-
chusetts-and I understand Dr. Ockenga¹ is speaking tomorrow night to you.
Ever since I was a little boy, I have used a very special verse in the Bible as
a kind of prayer. I am sure you are all familiar with it. It comes from the Book
of Proverbs, and it says, “Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not
unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall
direct thy paths."
That was the verse that I placed my hand upon when I took the oath of office
administered to every President since George Washington. These words have
meant much, very much to me as I have dealt with the problems of this Nation
and the world.
We hear so much about the corruption of government and business and labor.
We sense so much distrust in our basic institutions of society. Too many people
are complaining we don't know who or what we can believe. My answer is we
can believe in God. We can believe in the faith of our Fathers. We are the heirs of
our Fathers' faith, and it can be a source of strength and comfort and understand-
ing for us, as it was for them.
It remains our duty to remember our religious heritage, to teach it to our chil-
dren, and to order our own lives with courage, with justice and kindness and in
the love of God.
Each generation has its difficulties and its challenges to meet. And surely, we
¹ Dr. Harold John Ockenga, president, Gordon-Conwell Seminary.
414
