[314]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are pursuing an aggressive, competitive route program as well as trying to
push the forefront out in the area of removing restrictions on carriers that are
obsolete and unnecessary.
We have allowed a great many discount fares to go into effect in the last several
months, and there is, indeed, such proliferation now that people are confused by
them.
In the areas of consumers, the CAB has had a consumer office since 1970, and I
think it does a pretty decent job. Our movements in that area have been on spe-
cific matters; for example, the excess baggage charges and free baggage allow-
ance, increasing the free baggage allowance on international flights. We have
now pending a rulemaking to require the carriers to disseminate some tariff
information so the ordinary consumer has a better idea what the fares are and
how he can better avail himself of the cheapest one. We are struggling with the
knotty problem of bumping, which is small in number but great in voice.
Finally, in the area of economic analysis, we testified this morning on the regu-
latory reform proposals that are before Congress now. We have really been in the
process of analyzing the future of the Board for several months, and let me just
read the first sentence of our testimony. It says, "Economic regulation should be
redirected so domestic transport is governed by competitive market factors." We
have offered a program to Congress. I will leave it there.
MR. SCHMULTS. Thank you very much, John.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, all of the Chairmen and your asso-
ciates from the various boards and commissions. Unfortunately, I have to pro-
ceed with a signing ceremony of legislation, so I won't be able to stay. I have
asked Ed Schmults to indicate to you what I would like in the months ahead.
Your testimony today has been very helpful. I think we have made significant
progress. It is my feeling we have to keep pressure on in order to further, at this
time, the progress. I appreciate your appearance. I am grateful for what has been
done but we hope to see you in a few months and get additional reporting as to
the success of your subsequent efforts.
I thank Ed and Paul for their leadership in this, and, if you will excuse me,
thank you very, very much.
MR. SCHMULTS. I would like to reiterate what the President said. I thank you
all very much for all the work you have put into this meeting, each of you. We
could have taken up an hour and a half with the problems and progress that
each of you has made in your own agencies.
you would
To keep the momentum going on this effort, the President asks if
submit to him by September 15 another progress report on your efforts to achieve
1024
