[166]
February 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
want to keep it that way. We will keep it that way, and that is good for America
as the rest of the world.
I believe in peace and freedom through strength. We will stand tall and strong
and keep our powder dry so the United States of America can negotiate from a
position that commands respect and invites cooperation from those that want to
deal with us. I have taken very firm steps to ensure that our major alliances are
strong, our commitments are valid, and our defenses are without equal through-
out the world.
I have proposed in the last 2 years—and I hope you will listen to this because
it is true, and some people have made some sly, slight remarks about it—I have
proposed the largest two peacetime defense budgets in America's history, re-
versing a trend that was reducing our defense expenditures year by year to levels
that were dangerously low.
The price of our national defense may be very high, but the price of freedom
is one that Americans have always been willing to pay in blood, in sacrifice, in
treasure. We are no less willing to pay that price in America today to keep our
Nation secure.
And if we continue the kind of defense budgets that I have recommended
and if the Congress cooperates and doesn't slash them as they have in the past,
America will have peace and freedom. We will deter war, and we will main-
tain our national security. Help me. The Congress needs to get the message.
But America's security rests on more than armaments alone. It rests, in part,
on our determination to make the lives of our own citizens here secure at home.
This is especially important for America's older citizens to whom this Nation is
so deeply indebted.
In my State of the Union Address to the American people and to the Congress,
I pledged to ensure the integrity and the solvency of the social security system.
I am fighting to maintain that solvency. American working men and women
who have labored too long and contributed too much to the greatness of America
to be denied the income that they have earned for their retirement in later years.
I will continue to push, prod, and press the Congress to make sure that your
social security benefits now, as well as in the future, will be responsibly funded
and fully protected.
To be sure, strong, and secure from within is a great bulwark of our liberty,
and that is something that we must never, never forget. But our ultimate
strength is the one of the spirit, the love of freedom, the pursuit of justice, the
496
