February 8
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Do you plan to support Mrs. Gandhi as she is doing now? As you just
said, we want to support the government as Mrs. Gandhi is doing now. Do
you think it is good on your part to support Mrs. Gandhi's government there?
THE PRESIDENT. I must admit I did not hear the key word, and I would like
to make sure I do before I answer.
Q. Do you think it is good to support Mrs. Gandhi's government in India when
she is putting everybody in jail and imposing her own ambitions or what she
wants?
THE PRESIDENT. We simply recognize the Government of India. We neither
support nor condemn it. It is a typical diplomatic relationship that we have with
countries like the Soviet Union, who has an ideology different than ours. It is
purely a pragmatic, diplomatic recognition. That does not indicate that we
support the things that have happened internally, not at all.
U.S. INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES
[18.] Q. I have one last comment for you. I would like to also apologize
for some of the people here, and I would like to remind them that while they
will assert their right in the United States of America to have their freedom
of speech, I also have a right to listen on an intelligent basis without interruption.
My one last comment is, as far as the CIA goes, I would like to know if you
intend to get to the bottom of the leak which is taking place in the congressional
hearings that I believe it was—I am not sure how long ago—but published the
entire findings of the CIA and FBI reports? Because I definitely feel that the
CIA and the FBI are organizations which should be preserved, and I would like
to know if you are going to get to the bottom of it.
THE PRESIDENT. The United States needs, must have, for our national security
in peace and/or in war, a very top-grade, the very finest intelligence community,
whether it is the CIA or any one of the other organizations.
Q. I want to thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. But I want to add that there should be careful control to make
certain and positive that they concentrate on their constitutionally, legislatively
assigned responsibilities, and they should not, in the process, violate the indi-
vidual rights of any citizen. They can do it, and they will do it.
BIG BUSINESS
[19.] Q. My name is Cathy McLaughlin. I am from the People's Bicenten-
nial Commission Common Sense Campaign.
229
