January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The other side of the coin, the restraint on Federal spending to a limit of
$394.2 billion, is not a cutback in Federal spending, but a 5-percent increase in
Federal spending over the present spending growth figures for fiscal 1976.
So, I think the critics are totally wrong. We are adding to a tax cut on the one
hand to keep the momentum going, and we are permitting limited growth in
spending on the other side.
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up, when you measure that increase in dol-
lars, 52 percent against your own projected rate of inflation, isn't there an
actual cut in real spending?
The President. It is my recollection—and I may be in error—that that—no,
I'm sorry, I am wrong. The rate of inflation for fiscal 1977 is anticipated to be
6 percent, and the growth in Federal spending is roughly 5½ percent. But it is
growth to that degree. I think the economy will come along very well, particu-
larly with the $10 billion increase in a tax reduction.
Q. Mr. President, to follow up on that same thing, another measure of the
economic effect of the budget is what we call the full employment deficit or sur-
plus, and this budget shows that it would actually be in surplus in fiscal 1977.
And I wonder how you would respond to the criticism that that is very bad
policy at a time of continued high unemployment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it seems to me that if we don't get a handle now on the
growth of Federal spending—and this is a critical year, it's a threshold—we are
going to be in serious difficulties in the years projected ahead.
Our projections for the reduction in unemployment show that in 1975 it will
be 8.5 as an average, 7.7 in 1976, and down to 6.9 or 6.8 in the following year.
It seems to me that this trend is in the right direction, and the overall balance
between spending and tax reductions are in the right proportion.
Q. Mr. President, you will need the utmost in congressional cooperation to
make this budget balance, as you well know, and my question is to what extent
did you consult with the congressional budget committees or with the leader-
ship in preparing this?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't personally consult with any of the budget commit-
tees. I suspect that members of the OMB staff were in communication, but you
would have to ask them particularly. I did not consult personally with any of
the members of the House or Senate budget committees.
The responsibility as President is to prepare the budget, and I prepared it. I
think I spent over 100 hours in personal attention to the decisionmaking process
as far as the budget was concerned. That's a Presidential responsibility. The
53
