[110]
February 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is essential, however, that the irresponsible and dangerous exposure of our
Nation's intelligence secrets be stopped. The American people have long ac-
cepted the principles of confidentiality and secrecy in many dealings—such as
with doctors, lawyers and the clergy. It makes absolutely no sense to deny this
same protection to our intelligence secrets. Openness is a hallmark of our
democratic society, but the American people have never believed that it was
necessary to reveal the secret war plans of the Department of Defense, and I
do not think they wish to have true intelligence secrets revealed either.
I urge the adoption of this legislation with all possible speed.
Second, I support proposals that would clarify and set statutory limits, where
necessary, on the activities of the foreign intelligence agencies. In particular,
I will support legislation making it a crime to assassinate or attempt or conspire
to assassinate a foreign official in peacetime. Since it defines a crime, legislation
is necessary.
Third, I will meet with the appropriate leaders of Congress to try to develop
sound legislation to deal with a critical problem involving personal privacy—
electronic surveillance. Working with Congressional leaders and the Justice De-
partment and other Executive agencies, we will seek to develop a procedure
for undertaking electronic surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes. It
should create a special procedure for seeking a judicial warrant authorizing the
use of electronic surveillance in the United States for foreign intelligence
purposes.
I will also seek Congressional support for sound legislation to expand judicial
supervision of mail openings. The law now permits the opening of United States
mail, under proper judicial safeguards, in the conduct of criminal investigations.
We need authority to open mail under the limitations and safeguards that now
apply in order to obtain vitally needed foreign intelligence information.
This would require a showing that there is probably cause to believe that the
sender or recipient is an agent of a foreign power who is engaged in spying,
sabotage or terrorism. As is now the case the criminal investigations, those seek-
ing authority to examine mail for foreign intelligence purposes will have to con-
vince a federal judge of the necessity to do so and accept the limitations upon
their authorization to examine the mail provided in the order of the court.
Fourth, I would like to share my views regarding appropriate Congressional
oversight of the foreign intelligence agencies. It is clearly the business of the
Congress to organize itself to deal with these matters. Certain principles, how-
ever, should be recognized by both the Executive and Legislative Branches if
this oversight is to be effective. I believe good Congressional oversight is essential
364
