[274]
March 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
joy, you call upon friends to celebrate. When there
is sorrow, friends come to comfort you. When there
is a task to be done, friends join together in com-
mon effort. There is honor and pride in true friend-
ship, as is evident here tonight.
Mr. President, our visit with you comes at a time
of both joy and sorrow-joy in being here to cele-
brate the 200th anniversary of this great Nation,
sorrow in the knowledge that difficulties in our
part of the world have multiplied and intensified.
Friends share, as we do with you, most of the
same goals and aspirations, the same principles and
values. Friends share their expectations, too.
I bring with me on this journey the expectations of
the people of Jordan and the entire area that steps
can be initiated and quickened to achieve the goal
which has eluded us for many more years than one
would wish to remember-peace in the Middle East.
275
We who enjoy the common bond of friendship must
make every effort to reach this goal while it is still
attainable.
We also share with you an unusual fact, the names
of our founding capitals. Philadelphia was the birth-
place of your independence. Philadelphia was as well
the ancient name of our capital, Amman. The mean-
ing of both was the same-brotherly love.
It is a custom among Arabs to call their closest
friends brothers. We would like to share this custom
with you and to convey the best wishes and warmest
greetings from the people of Jordan to you, Mr.
President and Mrs. Ford, and to all of your fellow
citizens.
Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to join with
me in a toast to the President of the United States
and Mrs. Ford.
Memorandum Establishing the Task Force on Questionable
Corporate Payments Abroad. March 31, 1976
Memorandum for: the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce,
the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, the Director, Office of
Management and Budget, Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs,
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Executive Director,
Council on International Economic Policy
Subject: Task Force on Questionable Corporate Payments Abroad
This is to advise you of my decision to appoint you to a Cabinet-level Task
Force which I am establishing to examine the policy aspects of recent disclosures
of questionable payments to foreign agents and officials by U.S. companies in con-
junction with their overseas business operations. The Task Force will be chaired
by Secretary Richardson and will report to me through the Economic Policy
Board and National Security Council. Status reports on the efforts of the Task
Force should be presented to me from time to time, and a final report is due
prior to the close of the current calendar year.
Although the Federal Government is currently taking a number of interna-
tional and domestic steps in an attempt to deal with this problem, I believe that
a coordinated program to review these efforts and to explore additional avenues
should be undertaken in the interest of ethical conduct in the international
marketplace and the continued vitality of our free enterprise system.
868
