[211]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the ones who are working in the 102 counties-is that right, Dick ¹-101
counties in the great State of Illinois. We are going to win, and win well in the
State of Illinois.
I think that win will help to convince some people-because the record will
be clear that we will not have lost an election outside of the State of Michigan.
But I am most grateful to Dick Ogilvie, and I am very indebted to the con-
gressional delegation. I am unbelievably thankful to all of you who have done
so much and who will do so much.
Let me assess the other 29 States. We have done very well in those convention
States-Iowa, Washington, Hawaii. We have done very well in some of the
other areas where there are the beginnings of convention processes. So, our
momentum is moving because of the people, the organization. We are moving
also because I happen to think we have some good policies, both at home and
abroad, I don't have to repeat to you, you have all read the literature. We are
making significant headway at home in meeting the problems of the economy.
We are making, I think, the right moves internationally to maintain the leader-
ship of the United States, first with our allies and secondly with our adversaries.
We have to be very careful to make sure that what is said in this campaign in
the primary doesn't interfere with the capability of a Republican candidate to
win in November.
The Republican Party, by all statistics, is a minority party. We have to heal
our own wounds. We have to add to our strength as Republicans that vast num-
ber of Independents who make the difference between losing in November and
winning in November. We have run our campaign, whether it's in Illinois or
in any other State, on the basis that we had to talk affirmatively. I have learned
in a few political campaigns of the past—and this one, too—that you should not
respond in kind to political charges that are made in the heat of a political cam-
paign. You should talk about what you have done, what your record shows,
and what you are going to do.
This has led, in my previous experience in politics, to the opportunity for all
Republicans to join the winner in the campaign against our major opposition—
the Democrats. We are going to try and keep the divisions in the Republican
Party to the minimum as long as this campaign goes on. But I can assure you
when we are through and win in Kansas City, we want to embrace all Republi-
cans so that we can join together to win the big ballgame in November 1976.
Let me add a footnote to make certain you understand what I mean "winning
¹ Governor Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73, chairman of the Illinois President Ford Committee.
680
