[8]
January 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
at Harvard University in 1947, said that "our policy is directed not against any
country or doctrine but against hunger, poverty, desperation and chaos." Gen-
eral Marshall's words are today reflected in our foreign policy.
The credibility of the United States-our credibility around the world—
rests upon our vast resources as much as our defenses. As we assess our strength
for peace, America's farming families stand shoulder to shoulder with our
men and women in uniform as they do the job for all of us. And we thank
you for your contribution.
You and I share the same ideals, the same principles, and the same commit-
ment—a confident belief in the land and in American agriculture. We believe
in ourselves. We believe in the value of the land and the people who work with
the land. And we believe in our country.
You stand for hard, fruitful work-and so do I. You stand for the basic
morality and dependable qualities that have long characterized rural America—
and so do I. You stand for lean, responsive, fiscally sound government—and
so do I. You favor tax cuts balanced with cuts in government spending—and
so do I. You believe that farmers should be able to make a good living-and so
do I. You believe in the minimum of government controls on agriculture—
and so do I. You believe in the elimination of unnecessary bureaucratic regula-
tions that cause inefficiency and losses-and so do I. I welcome, for instance,
the letter from your Federation in support of my legislation to modify regula-
tions that prohibit backhaul by farm trucks. With your help, we can and we
will stop this frustrating, unnecessary waste. You believe in a farm policy that
builds strong markets at home and abroad—and so do I.
Some nations with other political philosophies have virtually the same trac-
tors and the same combines that you use in your fields, but their farmers do
not have the same incentives. They don't have the greatest piece of farm machin-
ery ever built-free enterprise. And how fortunate we are.
If we take freedom and enterprise away from the American farmer, we
take food out of the mouths of millions and millions at home and abroad.
Your exports in the 1970's are 2½ times as much as the corresponding years
in the 1960's. Surpluses that once piled up in bins and warehouses, depressing
your prices, are not around anymore. Let us work together to keep it that way
in the future.
You are earning your income from a free market, not from a government
check financed by the taxpayer. Let us continue this vigorous market-oriented
free enterprise agriculture for the benefits today as well as in the future.
We need—and thank goodness we have—a fighting Secretary of Agriculture
18
