[19]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
nutrition, and social services. This flexible system will do the job better and
do it closer to home.
The protection of the lives and property of Americans from foreign enemies
is one of my primary responsibilities as President.
In a world of instant communications and intercontinental ballistic missiles,
in a world economy that is global and interdependent, our relations with other
nations become more, not less, important to the lives of Americans.
America has had a unique role in the world since the day of our independence
200 years ago. And ever since the end of World War II, we have borne-suc-
cessfully—a heavy responsibility for ensuring a stable world order and hope for
human progress.
Today, the state of our foreign policy is sound and strong. We are at peace,
and I will do all in my power to keep it that way.
Our military forces are capable and ready. Our military power is without
equal, and I intend to keep it that way.
Our principal alliances with the industrial democracies of the Atlantic com-
munity and Japan have never been more solid.
A further agreement to limit the strategic arms race may be achieved.
We have an improving relationship with China, the world's most populous
nation.
The key elements for peace among the nations of the Middle East now exist.
Our traditional friendships in Latin America, Africa, and Asia continue.
We have taken the role of leadership in launching a serious and hopeful
dialog between the industrial world and the developing world.
We have helped to achieve significant reform of the international monetary
system.
We should be proud of what America, what our country, has accomplished
in these areas, and I believe the American people are.
The American people have heard too much about how terrible our mistakes,
how evil our deeds, and how misguided our purposes. The American people
know better.
The truth is we are the world's greatest democracy. We remain the symbol
of man's aspiration for liberty and well-being. We are the embodiment of hope
for progress.
I say it is time we quit downgrading ourselves as a nation. Of course, it is
our responsibility to learn the right lesson from past mistakes. It is our duty to
see that they never happen again. But our greater duty is to look to the future.
The world's troubles will not go away.
40
