[64]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion, and if these children's parents were working in private industry, private
industry would be paying a tax to our city. So, we justify it that way.
THE PRESIDENT. What Federal-
Q. The Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, which does employ quite a few of the
parents of our children.
THE PRESIDENT. All personnel that live on the base are counted in category A.
Q. Yes, I understand that.
THE PRESIDENT. We are not going to close Portsmouth Naval Yard-
Q. Thank God for small favors.
THE PRESIDENT.
want it closed.
-under no circumstances. And I am sure you wouldn't
Q. Certainly not, but you can't blame me for trying, Mr. President. I am
just asking. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You have almost persuaded me. [Laughter]
If we could get Members of Congress off the dole as far as impact aid is con-
cerned—because they can afford to pay the necessary taxes to Alexandria or to
Montgomery County or any of the other county school systems. It is just totally
indefensible.
What it amounts to in my case—and I have used this many times because it
is accurate my taxpayers in Grand Rapids, Michigan, are helping to subsidize
my school taxes in Alexandria, Virginia, and it doesn't make any sense. And that
is the kind of a screwed up system that Congress has imposed under impact aid
in many, many cases.
Q. Well, maybe we could compromise with a payment in lieu of taxes, Mr.
President. Thank you very much.
Q. Mr. President, I am Charlie Richmond, a selectman from the town of
Warner, and I have a problem. [Laughter]
I was noticing in your pretty blue book-in fact I was talking with another
selectman from Hooksett, that our budget committee just wouldn't put up
with a fancy publication like this. [Laughter] However, I noted happily that
highway outlays are rising to $7 billion in 1977 according to your recommenda-
tions. Warner is pretty typical—1,800 people, 15 miles of State and Federal high-
ways, 65 miles of town-maintained roads, 21 bridges, 2 of which we had to close
last year.
This is my problem: We were notified by the State that we could qualify for
rural road assistance and that it could be used as a 70-percent Federal match of
our 30 percent for expenditures on the bridge, which we need. We have been
lucky to get the Army Reserve to put in a Bailey bridge to hold us for a couple
168
