[189]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
I might add a postscript. I am very proud of what we have done in my admin-
istration in the recognition of women. I have a Cabinet officer, Carla Hills, who
is Secretary of HUD. The head of the National Labor Relations Board is Betty
Murphy, a woman. We have the first U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain, Anne
Armstrong. We have two other newly appointed Ambassadors, one to Nepal
and one to Luxembourg, both women. We have given recognition in many sub-
Cabinet offices to women. They make a significant contribution, and we are
proud to have them.
I can assure you that we will give the same consideration in the future, includ-
ing the consideration of qualified women, as far as potential candidates for
Vice President.
FEDERAL ROLE IN MEDICAL MALPRACTICE INSURANCE CRISIS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am a doctor from Rantoul. The medical community
is gravely concerned with the malpractice crisis and the rising cost of malprac-
tice insurance. If this continues, it will have a catastrophic effect upon our cur-
rent health care delivery system. My question is, do you visualize any relief of this
situation from the Federal level?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very familiar with the crisis that has arisen almost in
every State across the United States. California had a very unfortunate situation.
My State of Michigan is faced with somewhat comparable circumstances. Any-
place you go, the cost of malpractice insurance has risen 300, 400, 500 percent.
And the net result is, that the doctors of this country are faced with buying the
insurance with the necessity of added costs in health care throughout the United
States. These matters have generally been handled at the State level and, I think,
properly so. But if these circumstances expand, become more acute, more serious,
reaching near disaster proportions, I think the Federal Government would be
neglectful of its responsibilities if we did not in some way first study the problem,
and if there is a Federal answer, submit it across the country.
I don't think we are at that point at this time, but it is something that certainly
ought to be analyzed by the proper authorities in Washington, and it will be.
FEDERAL ENERGY ADMINISTRATION REGULATIONS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I am a petroleum marketer. As you know, the petro-
leum marketers have been under some form of price and allocation control since
1971. Because of their small size they are incapable of dealing with all of the
Federal Energy Agency [Administration] regulations and the repeated investi-
gations covering the same periods of time. For example, one of the sentences in a
568
