March 24
[253]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
At the same time, we are finding that employment is going up. We have
regained the 2 million jobs that were lost in the low point of the recession, and
all indicators are that employment is going to continue to go up, and unemploy-
ment continue to go down.
Just as I said I get no solace out of being number two in any election, I can
assure you that the United States is going to be number one, as it is, in our na-
tional security. All of you in Texas represent that kind of strength that I think
really prevails throughout the country.
We want the United States second to none in military capability so that we
can deter aggression, so that we can keep the peace, so that we can protect our
national security. Our Defense Department today—the Army, the Navy, the
Air Force, and the Marines-are the best trained. They are alert and ready. They
have the finest equipment, and we are going to make certain that they continue
to have all of what they need for the security and the defense of the United
States.
I think it is vitally important to remember this one fact: Last year, I sub-
mitted to the Congress at that time, the highest peacetime military budget in
the history of the United States. Tragically, the Congress cut $7 billion out
of that defense budget. The Congress was wrong.
But it is also interesting to note that in the last 5 years on defense budgets,
the Congress has cut about $39 billion out of requests made by me and my
predecessor. So, if there is a problem—I don't think there is—the blame rests
on the Congress for its failure to adequately fund the Department of Defense.
Now, let me add one other thing. In January of this year, I submitted the
largest peacetime military budget in the history of the United States-$112.7
billion in what we call obligation authority, and $100 million [billion] in ex-
penditures. We have made a massive effort in the last 3 months to convince the
Congress that they cannot make reductions of the magnitude that they have
previously reduced military budgets.
I think we are making headway. But I was very disturbed to read in the
paper this morning that the chairman of the House Budget Committee-this
is only the chairman, but he is an influential individual-is recommending,
as I recall the figures, about a $7 billion reduction in the $112 billion obliga-
tion authority figure. That is much too large a reduction. And he has called
for a reduction of some $1 or $2 billion in expenditures. Again, that is a reduc-
tion that cannot be justified in the problems that we face around the world.
We are number one; we are not second to anybody.
797
