[307]
April 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
But it was a great privilege and pleasure for us to work with all of you. Those
meetings we had in La Crosse and West Bank (Bend) and Green Bay and
Milwaukee, and I guess Betty had a great time in Madison, it was just a great
experience for us, and we are very, very thankful. And we will see you in Kan-
sas City, and we are going to win.
MR. KNOWLES. You bet we are, Mr. President. As an old football player, you
will be interested in a columnist who was very famous in Wisconsin whose name
was Roundy Coughlin, and he used to say, "Don't believe all those clippings that
you read in the papers. It is the touchdowns that count between 2 and 4 on Sat-
urday afternoon."
THE PRESIDENT. That is right.
MR. KNOWLES. So let's carry that ball over the goal line, and as Bart Starr ² says,
“We have a great quarterback and we are not switching the winning team.”
THE PRESIDENT. Warren, Betty and I can't be there in person, but believe me,
we are there in spirit, and the spirit of all of you just makes us feel great. Again,
thank you all. We appreciate it to no end because we knew we had some prob-
lems, but we were right, and we had all the kind of teamwork that made the dif-
ference. So, give them all our very best from Betty and from me.
MR. KNOWLES. Thank you very much for calling, Mr. President, and good
luck in New York and throughout the remainder of the campaign.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay, Warren. Give my best to everybody.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:15 p.m. from the White House.
308
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Meeting With
Businessmen from Western Michigan. April 7, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody.
I have seen Bob for the last hour and a half in one of our biweekly leader-
ship meetings with the Democrat as well as the Republican leadership. And,
of course, Bob is one of the top leaders in the Senate. We have been arguing—
not Bob and myself—[laughter]—but we have been discussing a few other
things with some of our friends.
2
* General manager and head coach of the Green Bay Packers professional football team.
986
