March 15
[216]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
216
Remarks at the Annual Congressional City Conference of the
U.S. Conference of Mayors and National League of Cities.
March 15, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Moon and Hans and my good friend L. H. Foun-
tain, other Members of Congress, distinguished mayors, ladies and gentlemen:
Obviously, I am very honored by the invitation to speak at this very important
conference on general revenue sharing.
We are joined today in a single cause, a cause that is as old as our Republic
and as new as today's legislative calendar. The cause of which I speak and to
which we are fully committed is the cause of responsible, responsive, and repre-
sentative government in the United States of America.
Your purpose in coming to Washington, a purpose to which I heartily concur,
is to urge the Congress of the United States to do what experience and common-
sense in America's most fundamental concept of government demands that it
do—it is very simple—extend the proven general revenue sharing program,
which expires December 31, 1976.
The Federal Government, like cities that you represent, was chartered by the
States. The framers of the Constitution did not intend to create a monolithic,
autocratic, omnipotent central government. Instead, they carefully constructed
a system in which authority and responsibility and accountability were to be
shared by different levels of government, as well as by the three Federal branches
of the Government. That system of government established by the Constitu-
tional Convention two centuries ago can be effectively reaffirmed by the 94th
Congress this year, and it must do it.
For too long the reins of government in this country have been gathered
tighter and tighter in the hands of the Federal Government. For too long,
programs
of narrow categorical aid multiplied at great and growing expense
to the Federal Government, to the Federal budget, and to the American
taxpayers.
In 1972 there were over 1,000 of these programs, each in limited scope,
restrictive in operation, and equipped with its own bureaucracy, chipping
steadily away at the Founding Father's system of shared responsibility and local
control. With the enactment of the general revenue sharing program in 1972,
the Congress made an important and historic break with this unwise and
709
