[8]
January 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Some in Congress and elsewhere are now questioning the wisdom of grain
sales to the Soviet Union because the Soviets are intervening militarily in
the newly independent African country of Angola. Our commitment to work
with all nations, including the Soviet Union, to lessen the risk of war and to
achieve greater stability is a sincere and constructive undertaking. But it is
a commitment which must be honored by both sides. There cannot be a lessen-
ing of world tension if the Soviet Union, by military support and other means,
attempts to expand its sphere of influence thousands and thousands of miles
from its borders.
The United States will not cease its efforts, diplomatic and otherwise, to
stabilize the military situation in Angola and promote a quick and peaceful
settlement. We favor an immediate cease-fire and an end to all-all, all outside
intervention and a government of national unity permitting the solution of
the Angolan problem by the Angolans themselves.
We are working closely with many other African countries to bring this
about-countries that realize, perhaps better than the United States Congress,
that our continued effort to counter Soviet and Cuban action is crucial to any
hope of a fair solution.
The Soviet Union must realize that the Soviet attempt to take unilateral
advantage of the Angolan problem is inconsistent with the basic principles of
U.S.-Soviet relations. If it continues, damages to our broader relations will be
unavoidable.
You, the farmers of America, understand the importance of America's rela-
tions with the rest of the world. You know we cannot abdicate our responsi-
bilities for maintaining peace and progress. I emphasize, however, that it is a
serious mistake to assume that linking our export of grain to the situation in
Angola would serve any useful purpose whatsoever.
In fact, withholding grain already under contract, already sold, would pro-
duce no immediate gain in diplomatic leverage. American grain, while impor-
tant to the U.S.S.R., is not vital to them. The Soviet Union has survived for
nearly 60 years—including years of total western economic embargo-without
American grain. The impact of a grain cutoff would be felt only after a long,
long period. It would not produce the needed short-term results. There is not
the slightest doubt that if we tried to use grain for leverage, the Soviets could
get along without American grain and ignore our views. This was emphatically
and quite dramatically demonstrated by their attitude toward the U.S. Trade
Act provisions of 1972 on emigration from the Soviet Union.
16
