April 2
[282]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the Portuguese left, and so Cuba, by going in with 12,000 Communist mer-
cenaries were trying to establish a government to their liking. It is a totally
different situation, not comparable to Vietnam at all. And that kind of adven-
turism the United States will vigorously condemn, and take appropriate action
in the future.
AID TO EDUCATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I am from the Marquette University radio station.
Since you announced your $700 million student aid cut, there has been a bit
of an uproar among the students. How would you explain to the students across
the country the necessity of a cut this large, when it might force many of them
to leave school?
THE PRESIDENT. Just yesterday or the day before, for the fiscal year 1976 and
for the school year of 1976-77, I submitted to the Congress a revision in the
budget to permit the increase up to $1,100 million in what we call basic oppor-
tunity grant programs. Last year when I submitted the budget for that—I recom-
mended roughly $1,100 million-the Congress cut it and made some other
changes. Just a day or two ago, I asked the Congress to take it back up to $1,100
million. I hope they will do so. If that is the case it will provide a maximum
allowance of $1,400 per student, maximum—an average, as I recall the figure,
of about $850 per student. I am trying to get the Congress to do what I asked them
to do when I submitted the budget for fiscal year '76-$1,100 million.
PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN STRATEGY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, do you have any plans to change your campaign
strategy, perhaps take a more direct approach toward Mr. Reagan after his
remarks Tuesday night?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have to recognize that Mr. Reagan's political
speech the other night was a rerun primarily of what he has been saying in
Florida and in North Carolina. It was a speech that was filled with misleading
statements. It was a speech that attributed certain quotes to Secretary Kissinger,
which were a fabrication and invention. I am not going to get into the details.
I am going to talk affirmatively about what we have accomplished both at home
and abroad. And I think the voters will support that kind of a program, rather
than a political attack without any recommendations how to solve the problems
that he discussed.
Q. Do you think Mr. Reagan is an issue in the campaign ?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is for the public in Wisconsin and elsewhere to
make the decision.
887
