[205]
March 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
they should, and we ought to strengthen the good programs that have been
helpful.
Let me take an example. Here in Rockford, you have been the beneficiaries
of one of the very best programs that I know that the Federal Government has
ever undertaken—we call it revenue sharing. It is where Federal tax dollars are
sent to Rockford and to Winnebago County so that the locally elected mayors—
and some of them are here with their city councils or city commissions or board
of supervisors—can make decisions with that money to provide services to you,
to build public works, to do what they have been elected to do by all of you. And
in the 4½ years that general revenue sharing has been in effect, the city of Rock-
ford will have received about $8 million and Winnebago County about $16
million.
That money has been put to good use in your city and in your county. And
we are fighting right now, with the help of John Anderson and Chuck Percy,
to make sure that that program continues so that those tax dollars will be utilized
at the local level by the decisions made by your elected officials. That is a lot better
than having some bureaucrat do it in Washington, D.C.
I said a moment ago that we were headed in the right direction to improve the
status of our economy, to keep the trend of higher employment and lower un-
employment and a lower rate of inflation going all in the right direction.
Now, there are some in our Presidential campaign group that say that the
answer is more Federal Government programs, that the Government ought to
provide the jobs, that we ought to spend more money so that the Federal Gov-
ernment can take the credit for jobs throughout this country. I strongly disagree
with that philosophy. The way to solve the problem is through the private sector
of America. Five out of six jobs in this country today are in the private sector,
and if people are going to have permanent, meaningful jobs in the future, we
have to stimulate the private sector. How can we do it? We ought to pass
another tax reduction. We ought to pass tax reduction legislation that will give
to industry more incentive.
John Anderson and Chuck Percy have been in the forefront for what we call
the investment tax credit, but I think we ought to expand that. I think we ought
to extend it to give to business the incentive to build a plant and to buy equip-
ment now so that they can give jobs now.
In the interim, while our unemployment is too high, I think we have to be
compassionate, we have to be concerned about the people who want to work
but can't find a job, and for that reason we have extended our unemployment
insurance and broadened the coverage. They don't like it because they want to
624
