January 30
[44]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
attention to be paid to the intelligence community when allegations are made
that it has not functioned as it should.
Past problems, any excesses, the abuses of the past have more than adequately
been described. I am concerned about them as I know you are. But one thing is
very, very certain: We cannot improve this agency by destroying it.
Let me assure you also I have no intention of seeing the intelligence commu-
nity dismantled, its operations paralyzed, or its effectiveness undermined. The
administration fully intends to safeguard the effectiveness of this agency, the
confidentiality of its information, and the lives and honor of its agents and
employees.
The irresponsible release of classified information by people who should
know better must cease. A better balance must be struck between the right of
the people to know and this country's commitment to survive and live in peace.
Accordingly, in the next few weeks after a great deal of study and consulta-
tion with experts in this field, I will announce my decisions on the steps I
believe necessary to strengthen our foreign intelligence operations. My actions
will be designed to ensure that this Nation has what you and I know we must
have the best intelligence capacity in the world.
These actions will be consistent with two very fundamental principles. First,
the United States must have a strong and effective capability to gather, to evalu-
ate foreign intelligence and conduct necessary covert operations; and second,
these activities must be conducted in a constitutional and lawful manner and
never be aimed at our own citizens.
George Bush shares my commitment to these principles. As a former Member
of Congress and as the son of a very great man, a distinguished statesman, the
late Senator Prescott Bush of Connecticut, George has known all of his life
that the people are sovereign and that their rights must be secure.
As a former representative of this Government to the People's Republic of
China and as the former United States Ambassador to the United Nations,
George Bush is in step with world developments. I know from firsthand, per-
sonal experience he is a man of enormous capability, sound moral judgment, and
has had an intense devotion to public service. He is fully prepared to guide the
policy decisions of this agency and of the entire intelligence community with
a depth and a breadth of knowledge that few others have.
George has said that he sees his first task as one of making a tremendous
effort to restore public confidence in this fine agency. In that effort he has my
full and total support.
113
