[225]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
225
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister
Cosgrave of Ireland. March 17, 1976
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Cosgrave, ladies and gentlemen:
Betty and I have had the luck of the Americans to have you with us tonight.
[Laughter] You have been in our country before and are very obviously our
friends, but on this very special day we have had the great pleasure to welcome
you on your first visit as Prime Minister of your country.
On this St. Patrick's Day of the United States Bicentennial Year, all Americans
know there is a bit of the green in the red, white, and blue of the United States.
[Laughter]
We honor the history of our Nation and the great contributions that all of you
from Ireland have made to American independence, as well as growth. No
country could be more welcome or entitled to join in our Bicentennial celebra-
tion than Ireland. We are proud of the Irish chapter of development and
achievements as far as the United States is concerned. The very high proportion
of Irish-Americans in George Washington's army is no blarney. [Laughter]
As I observed this morning, Mr. Prime Minister, 11 signers of the Declaration
of Independence were Irish-Americans, and the White House itself, where we
are dining tonight, was designed by a native of Kilkenny, James Hoban, in
1792. We are told by our historians that the Irish may even have had a hand in
discovering America. I say by Irish historians-[laughter]—so we don't get into
some conflict with some other friends of ours.
Saint Brendan the Navigator may have crossed the Atlantic in the sixth cen-
tury, and I believe that some of your hearty countrymen will attempt the same
crossing this May in a boat much like Saint Brendan's. We will welcome them,
Betty and myself, to the Irish-designed White House when they arrive.
The Irish contribution to America is not restricted to the past. Today, some
20 million Irish-Americans are building energetically on the great legacy of
their ancestors. They are helping our country to make an even greater achieve-
ment as we enter our third century.
Many distinguished Americans of Irish heritage are here tonight to honor you
and Mrs. Cosgrave. Their contributions are in a wide variety of endeavors,
whether it is education, medicine, the law, religion, theater, the arts, the build-
ing trades, business. It covers all aspects of our society. But nowhere have Amer-
icans of Irish descent been more prominent than in government and in politics.
732
