January 30
[48]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
48
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Members of the Radio-Television News Directors
Association. January 30, 1976
LET ME welcome all of you again to the East Room and to say I hope you have
• had a fruitful, beneficial day in meeting with the many experts in the executive
branch, the White House staff. I hope it has been beneficial and helpful.
I can't help but make the comment that Betty and I have a friend in your
organization. If any of you happened to watch the Mary Tyler Moore Show last
week or so, you may have noticed that we do have a friend in Lou Grant of WJM
of Minneapolis. [Laughter]
But I have had the opportunity of getting to know some of you as we have
traveled a bit, but I think before submitting myself to questions, I might make a
comment or two as to what we have been trying to do with the State of the
Union, the budget, and the Economic Report.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
[1.] In the foreign field, I think you all know that in this past week I have
had rather extensive meetings with Prime Minister Rabin concerning the situa-
tion in the Middle East. These meetings with Mr. Rabin followed comparable
meetings with President Sadat of Egypt. The Middle East, as we all know, is a
very, very potentially volatile area-four wars in the last several decades.
We have made substantial progress with the Sinai agreement, which is moving
along on schedule with a minimum of difficulties. Both President Sadat and
Prime Minister Rabin have indicated that everything is in place, moving as
anticipated and agreed to.
We are now faced with the problem of making certain and positive that the
negotiating process continues. It is very difficult to pinpoint precisely how it will
move, but we cannot afford and will not permit, to the extent that we can, any
stalemate or stagnation. That, of course, would greatly enhance the possibilities
of another blowup in that very difficult area of the world.
Just a few weeks ago, Secretary Kissinger came back from a visit to the Soviet
Union, where further efforts were made to try and minimize differences between
the Soviet Union and ourselves as far as a SALT II agreement is concerned. It is
important that we do what we can, if possible, to put a cap on a runaway race
117
