February 13
[89]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
can't we use the food in the stockpile, keeping the jobs here in this country, and
until they bring down the price of oil, we hold back the wheat?
The President. Let me make a comment, first. If you are in a community
that is getting natural gas, that natural gas—and everyone I am personally famil-
iar with, and I am familiar with quite a few—is on a contract with a producer,
and that contract usually runs for a significant period of time at a fixed price.
So you are not going to have your natural gas price increased, because it is
under a fixed price with a producer today. But the ones that want new gas,
they either have to buy fuel that comes from the Middle East or they can buy
a cleaner fuel in the United States under deregulation.
Now, one other comment on the main question you asked. If we could just
trade 25 million metric tons of food for the oil of the Arabs, that would be fine,
but there are not that many Arabs that want to eat that much food. [Laughter]
Q. But they sure can't eat what oil they got, either, Mr. President.
The President. There just are not that many that want that, so you can't do
it on a one-for-one basis. I am all for using our food, which our farmers produce
in such quantities. And we are very lucky, because if we did not have the Ameri-
can farmer producing that food, we would have a horrendous adverse balance
of payments with the oil we buy from the Arab nations. Now, we ought to use
our food for two purposes: number one, for humanitarian purposes and,
number two, we ought to use it for the execution or the supplementing of our
own national security policies. And we are doing both of it, and we are going
to continue doing it.
Q. Mr. President, I am Bill Stevens, commissioner from Broward County.
It is nice to see you, sir, in south Florida. We talked 2 weeks ago Monday
in the White House. I thank you for the time that you gave us in the White
House for the benefit of the counties and local government.*
Sir, I asked you then the question about social security and the percent
cap. Would you please tell the audience here in south Florida there is no
cap on social security, for me please, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. In the budget that I have recommended for fiscal 1977,
there is no cap on the cost-of-living increases on social security. Whatever
the formula provides, there will be an increase under the law for all beneficiaries
of social security. I recommend it, and I strongly favor it.
Q. Thank you very kindly, Mr. President. Would you believe me, sir, if
I told you we here in south Florida see a Ford in our future?
On January 26, the President met with officials of the National Association of Counties to discuss
the State of the Union Address and the budget.
291
