[48]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
The net result would be interruptible service would be eliminated. We would
have a number of factories shut down, jobs lost, and the consequence would be
a sever setback to our economy.
The Senate passed before Christmas a good bill-it is called the Bentsen-
Pearson bill-which takes care of the immediate problem and also the long-
range problem. The House of Representatives is taking up next week, as I under-
stand it, the same legislation. If the House of Representatives does not take
action to free the distribution of natural gas, if the House of Representatives
continues Federal regulation, we will not provide a needed incentive for more
supplies and the House of Representatives will in effect be saying that the short-
ages that exist today will continue in the future.
So, I hope and trust that you will be watching what develops next week. It is
one of the most crucial issues that the Congress will face in 1976.
The regulation has contributed to the shortage. Deregulation, in my opinion,
will provide the necessary incentives to generate more supplies and, therefore, I
strongly hope that the House will act and follow the vote of the Senate. It is
the only long-range solution, in my opinion, to this very serious energy shortage.
With those observations and comments, I will be glad to answer any questions.
QUESTIONS
SUPREME COURT DECISION ON FEDERAL ELECTION LAW
[2.] Q. Mr. President, could you touch briefly on the situation in the U.S.
Supreme Court concerning the campaign situation and the election law?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had Ron Nessen issue a statement.ยน I have not had an
opportunity to personally analyze the decision. As I understand it, there are
four separate decisions, 220-some pages.
What we are doing, the President Ford Committee, we are going to volun-
tarily comply with the existing law. We think that is the proper procedure as
far as my own campaign is concerned.
Secondly, I have asked or will ask the Attorney General to review the decision
and to make any recommendations to me. In addition, next week I will request
the leaders of the House and the Senate, Democratic as well as Republican, to
come down and work with me in trying to see what can be done in a legis-
lative way.
1 See Item 46.
120
