[282]
April 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
wrong direction-the trend that the Congress has imposed upon Presidents. If
the Congress follows my defense budget this year and if they had followed the
one last year, the trend would be reversed, and we would continue to maintain
our total strategic conventional war capability.
So, the issue is now on the desks of the Congress. My program keeps us un-
surpassed. So, the Congress now has the responsibility, and if they cut it, the bill
will be vetoed, as I indicated earlier this week.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Mr. Thompson.
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-ninth news con-
ference was held at 10:12 a.m. on Friday, April 2,
1976, in the Crystal Ballroom at the Marc Plaza
Hotel in Milwaukee, Wis.
283
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Representatives of Greater Milwaukee Ethnic Organizations.
April 2, 1976
FIRST, LET ME express my deep appreciation for all of you being here. And
after I make a few prepared remarks, I will look forward to the opportunity of
responding to any questions, whether it is on the subject matter that I am speak-
ing on or any other subject, whether it is domestic or international matters.
I am reminded, as I see some of the faces here, of the meeting that we had with
some of you, at least, in the Cabinet Room at the White House on July 25, as I
recollect. At that time, some 30 leaders of the Eastern European community met
with me to discuss problems relating to Western Europe and related matters. I
understand, however, that that was the very first time that a President of the
United States met with leaders representing the interests of so many Americans
concerned about Eastern Europe.
I think on our Bicentennial anniversary, it is particularly appropriate that we
in government recognize the great contributions of our citizens from Eastern
Europe. Before departing for the European Security Conference in Helsinki last
July, I stated my policy very categorically in reference to Eastern Europe. And
at this time, let me reiterate that statement. I worked on it myself; I am very
proud of it, and I think oftentimes it is not read in proper context.
It goes like this-It is the policy of the United States, and it has been my policy
ever since I entered public life, to support the aspirations for freedom and na-
tional independence of the peoples of Eastern Europe with whom we have such
892
