February 25
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Well, every poll we have seen where they break down what
you like and don't like about President Ford and the other candidates, every
poll that gives an individual the opportunity to say, "Do you think President
Ford is honest?" et cetera-we do very well. So, if that is the criteria, I think we
have restored honesty and frankness and straightforwardness to the White
House.
NEW HAMPSHIRE DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY RESULTS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, as a keen political analyst, would you care to com-
ment on the results of the Democratic primary in New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. It looks like a horse race to me—[laughter]—and I am not a
gambling man. But I still think when they get all through these gyrations, Hu-
bert ¹ will probably be the nominee. I have said that for over a year, and I think
the odds are getting better and better.
MINIMUM WAGE RELATING TO YOUTH EMPLOYMENT; ENERGY LEGISLATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, it was obvious, or it seemed obvious to me from your
veto of that so-called job creation bill, that you didn't think that that was a very
serious—even though it was a grandiose—scheme.
Now, there are some real fundamental schemes, as the Chinaman says about
the journey that begins with a single, simple step, such as doing something
about the minimum wage so that our youngsters of all shades and back-
grounds can expect to undertake jobs in the private sector where they perhaps
are not worth at the starting wage that they normally have to be put under.
Is anything being done, for instance, to clean up the natural gas and the fuel
oil and the gasoline prices that are holding down jobs in that sector where there
are literally thousands of jobs available? Or is anything being done about Mr.
Burns' suggestion that perhaps unemployment compensation for many people
has become a way of life, instead of cutting off at some point that would spur
people to leave the old gold mine and look for a new one?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the one concerning youth employment as it
relates to the minimum wage. When I was in the House of Representatives, we
went through, periodically, the struggle to achieve what was called a youth dif-
ferential. I always supported a youth differential, because I think it is very
important to get good work habits established with the young people. And an
employer needs to have some incentive to employ a young person who is inex-
perienced, who has virtually no expertise in the particular job.
¹ Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota.
2
* Arthur F. Burns, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
441
