[267]
March 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
that strength we safeguard the peace and defend the values that have made our
societies great and produced men such as these.
In the final analysis, the success of our diplomacy for peace depends upon our
strength. The world's security depends upon our knowledge, and the world's
knowledge that we are strong and prepared to defend ourselves when
challenged.
Our adversaries know that the military strength of the United States is
unsurpassed anywhere in the world today. They know that the United States
is committed to a strong and powerful alliance in Europe, but they also know
that the trend of relative military strength has been changing over the past
decade and more. We remain unsurpassed and we shall keep it that way. That
is why we must not only persevere in seeking greater stability in the world but
we must also be willing to spend greater amounts on our own defenses in the
United States.
Since becoming President, I have submitted the two biggest defense budgets
in peacetime history. I am deeply disturbed that some Members of our own Con-
gress, apparently oblivious to the realities of today's world, now seek to make
sizable reductions in the defense budget that I submitted for the coming year.
That budget is a minimum budget. There is no room for major reduction.
I want to serve notice today that if the Congress sends me a defense budget
that shortchanges the future safety of the American people, I will veto that
defense bill, unprecedented though that might be, and go directly to our fellow
citizens, 215 million strong, on this life and death issue. Nothing is more vital
than our own national security.
All of use recognize that the aim of our alliance is not strength for its own
sake but strength for peace. Our aim in Europe is security and the true relax-
ation of tension—not perpetual confrontation. The stability that we have ensured
in Europe by maintaining the military balance for 30 years, which we must
maintain, creates opportunities for confident diplomacy. To diffuse powder
kegs such as Berlin or to negotiate on mutual and balanced force reduction—
this has been NATO's declared policy for nearly a decade.
The stability also creates opportunities for building bridges, for seeking greater
communication and understanding among peoples of Eastern Europe, the So-
viet Union, and the West. It builds an environment in which free movements
of people and ideas can take place.
As I stated emphatically before, all of the leaders of the Communist as well as
the Western countries of Europe, there can be no true security and cooperation
in Europe until human rights and freedom are expanded everywhere. The
850
