March 4
[177]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
household and commercial sectors and transportation are the areas where we
can have the most profound improvement.
Industry having already moved in that direction is well ahead of the other
sectors of our economy. We are assuming here no more than the decontrol
provisions that you've proposed-the 40-month decontrol of oil and the im-
mediate deregulation of new natural gas and ultimate deregulation of old natural
gas—and that's the only assumption, along with the continuation of existing
world prices, increased only to the extent of inflation between now and 1990.
The question of conservation is always raised, and everybody is in favor of
conservation. It's important to, I think, first find an understanding of what
conservation can really achieve. It cannot provide zero growth in energy con-
sumption in the next 10 years or 15 years. In any nation whose economy is
growing and vital, conservation alone is not going to provide zero growth. And
there have been those around the country that have proposed that. There is no
way, in our determination, that that can occur.
The savings due to price, once again, are calculated based upon the deregula-
tion measures that we already have proposed and the savings due to conserva-
tion measures that you have submitted to the Congress, such as building
standards, investment tax credit for homeowners, the winterization program,
which have all passed one House of Congress and still need to pass a second
House. But the important point here is that if the Congress passes these other
measures plus a few others, we can improve that 2.8 percent growth to 2.2 per-
cent growth and achieve that much further conservation. But we're not going
to bring it down to zero growth, therefore precluding the need for additional
resources. And those that make that argument normally say if we conserve, we
don't have to develop new resources.
The areas from which we will depend to achieve the new energy demands in
the future, even assuming conservation at its best rate, demonstrate that gas, if
deregulated, can be kept at the 1974 levels rather than the serious decline. We'll
get more into gas in a little bit, but with deregulation of natural gas, we can
keep the 1985 production level equal to that of 1974.
Oil, including the North Slope of Alaska and a very big category of enhanced
recovery here on the mainland—that is going to be absolutely essential if we are
going to increase our natural oil source.
Coal needs to double to an excess of a billion tons a year by 1985, as compared
to the current 600 million tons a year. We'll get into that detail in a little bit.
Nuclear power must increase from the 9 percent of total electricity to some
26 percent of total electricity. In hydroelectric, we remain about constant inas-
517
