[75]
February 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and he has been
my Special Assistant for Labor-Management Relations—or Negotiations—since
the day that I took office.
Bill Usery assumes this responsibility of great leadership at the Department
of Labor at a very challenging time. As we look at the labor contracts expiring
in 1976, we know that twice as many workers are having their contracts expire
this year as last year. Some very key industries are involved-rubber, trucking,
auto, electrical manufacturing, construction, as well as many others.
I think the success of our program of steady, balanced economic recovery
will depend significantly on reaching commonsense labor-management agree-
ments without prolonged major work stoppages and without inflationary
settlements.
One of our top priorities—it is a job of all of us—is finding more jobs for
more Americans. We must generate real, permanent, fulfilling jobs, not Gov-
ernment-sponsored jobs that make work but do not make a future.
This is important for America, as well as all Americans. Permanent jobs
have to be generated primarily by a steady, balanced growth of our private
sector, where five out of the six jobs exist today in our society.
It seems to me, as we look at recent statistics, that the steady approach is
already yielding convincing results. We know from the statistics released last
week by the Department of Labor that we now have more than 2 million
people gainfully employed than we had last March, at the depth of the recession.
We also know that the largest monthly decline in the jobless rate in over
16 years took place between January of this year and December of last year.
The record is not as good as we want it, and the record is going to be better,
but we can be encouraged, and properly so, by the results of this last month's
report.
In the meantime, as we have an unemployment rate that is still too high,
we will continue those proven job training and opportunity programs, such
as CETA, as we work our way out of this economic problem and as we work
our way to total economic recovery.
I know that Bill Usery has had a very longstanding, deep, and sincere interest
in helping unemployed young people, in helping veterans; and I can assure
you that Bill will give his maximum attention to the whole spectrum of
jobs for Americans.
We have a prime priority, all of us, those in government as well as out of
government, to make certain and positive that our economic recovery program
244
