April 3
[292]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Good luck, and God bless
Thank you.
you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:58 p.m. after assist-
ing in the unveiling of the dedicatory plaque. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Bart Starr,
general manager and head coach of the Green Bay
Packers.
292
Remarks to President Ford Committee Volunteers in
Green Bay. April 3, 1976
I JUST love to come to Green Bay for several reasons. One, I have a great
interest in, and have always had a wonderful affection for, the Green Bay Packers,
but I also have always had a great time up here. I visited Green Bay on a num-
ber of occasions with one of my closest and dearest friends, Johnny Byrnes, who
was your Congressman for so many years.
You know, I knew Gary Dilweg'sยน father back in Washington, D.C., so I am
very familiar with the Dilweg name. And it is just wonderful that they have
worked as the chairmen here and working with all of you to help my candidacy
next Tuesday and again in November of 1976.
Let me make one or two comments. From the very day that I was sworn in, I
decided that I was not going to promise to do more than I could produce, and
I was going to produce everything that I promised, and that is the policy, basi-
cally, that we have in this administration. We are going to be straightshooters,
we are going to be candid, we are going to be honest, and I think that is the only
way for us to be successful. And it is certainly the only way to create the kind of
trust that I think is needed and necessary between a President and the American
people.
We had our share of troubles beginning in August of 1974 up until a few
months ago. We had very difficult economic conditions. We had to face up to
them. We had rising unemployment, we had decreasing employment, we had
inflationary problems, but we kept our cool, we didn't panic. We decided that a
steady, firm, constructive course of action was right, and, by gosh, it has turned
out to be right because things are getting better.
As I think we all recognize, there had been a great distrust developing be-
tween the people and government. And it has been a slow process of trying to
rebuild that necessary trust, so that government and people work together. But
ยน Cochairman of the Brown County President Ford Committee.
951
