[197]
March 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress and all of you to stand up and sell it to make sure that we have the
necessary wherewithal so that no enemy will be tempted and no ally will be
insecure. We have to have this kind of military capability, and I hope and trust
from the bottom of my heart that we get the necessary weapons, the necessary
training, the necessary planning, the necessary will in all 215 million Americans
so that we don't have to worry. We just have to be strong in equipment as well
as in will.
I am sure that Eddie Hébert feels as I do—we always did. We had a few dif-
ferences on the floor of the House on occasion but that was good exercise for
both of us. But the main point is that Eddie Hébert and I have-he as a Democrat
and I as a Republican—we believed in the traditional bipartisan spirit in favor
of national security. And I am an optimist to believe that that same spirit pre-
vails today in the House as well as in the Senate—that even in an election year
the need to maintain a strong national defense is more pressing than politics. It
darn well better be.
So, I am confident that all of us who feels this way have a mission to perform.
Individually and collectively, we will pursue a policy of peace through strength,
we will make sure that America remains as strong-and I underline strong-
as she is free, now and forever.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:48 p.m. at the Sher-
aton-Park Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Thomas C. (Pete) Walker, Commander in Chief
of the VFW.
198
Exchange With a Reporter on the Florida Primary
Election Results. March 9, 1976
REPORTER. Mr. President, what do you think of the results in Florida?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, naturally I was extremely pleased with the wonderful
job all of our people did in Florida. They just did a tremendous job. I am de-
lighted with the effort that was made, but also the deep conviction that our
people had, and I am just overjoyed with the results.
Q. Does this mean you are on the way? Do you think it is time for your
opponents to get out of the race?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I would not get into that. Tonight is not a night to talk
about victory except to thank people for the fine job they did.
604
