April 2
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sincere feeling that it is working one-sided-it is one-sided; that is, it is working
largely for the benefit of the Soviet Union. What are we doing to turn this
trend around?
The President. Well, I respectfully disagree with your appraisal that it is
harmful and beneficial to the United States. As a matter of fact, I think it has
been a two-way street. And from our point of view, I think we have done very
well.
Let's take the Helsinki agreement which many people have castigated. The
Helsinki Conference was the greatest political liability, propaganda loss to
the Soviet Union, period. The net result is that we have forced the Soviet Union
and others who signed, that, number one, they have to give far more humane
treatment—the getting together of families, the movement of press personnel
back and forth across the borders. The Helsinki agreement, for the first time in
writing, authorizes peaceful readjustment of borders. The Helsinki agreement,
under no circumstances, wrote into a legal document the existing borders. There
were 33 nations there, as I recollect, including a representative from His Holiness.
And I don't believe that His Holiness would have his representative sign a docu-
ment that would be, under any circumstances, inhumane. What I am saying is,
it was a propaganda liability to the Soviet Union.
Now we are insisting, whether it is in SALT I or in the SALT II negotia-
tions, that it is a two-way street. And as long as I am President, it will be nothing
other than a two-way street.
Q. Mr. President, Americans of Ukrainian descent in this country are deeply
concerned about the persecution of the Ukrainian intellectuals in political prison
in the Soviet Ukraine. Under the interpretation of the Helsinki Conference, or
for purely humanitarian reasons, what can our Government do to help them to
get freed?
THE PRESIDENT. The first thing you can do, if you would, give me the names
or give somebody on my staff the names————
Q. Valentine Moroz is one of the most prominent—
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have heard of that.
Q. Vyacheslav Chornovil and Vasyl Romaniuk-and they suffer inhumane
treatment for the crime of no more than writing three novels. Now, does the
Helsinki Conference guarantee their right of speech for free expression or
religious feeling?
THE PRESIDENT. It does not involve that particular aspect. It does involve the
reuniting of families. It does involve some of the other humane things, but it
does not seek to interpret or to change local laws in that sense.
899
