[293]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the general Treasury. Now, one of those three alternatives is what we are faced
with.
The Director of the Office of Management and Budget is trying to work with
the head of the Postal Service to find a better solution. But right now you have
got three bad alternatives—either more money out of the Treasury, restricted
service, or increased rates—and none of them are very good alternatives. So, I
think the study that is now being undertaken, hopefully, will come up with a
better answer, and we will try it if they do.
Q. Thank you for your comments, Mr. President.
FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, being in an educational field, if reelected, what do
we have in store for the area of education, and in your remarks could you direct
it especially to the aid of the handicapped children?
THE PRESIDENT. Are you talking about primary and secondary education, or
are you talking about higher education?
Q. Primary and secondary.
THE PRESIDENT. I have recommended to the Congress what is called a block
grant approach to primary and secondary education. At the present time, we
have 15 different educational programs. They are all categorical grant programs.
They each have their own bureaucracy; they each have their own little pot of
money; and they each deal with a special problem in education at the primary
and secondary level.
I have recommended that you consolidate all of those in one block grant
program, and the money should go to the States and then down to the local
communities, so the people in Green Bay can decide how they want to spend
that money. Their problems might be different than those in San Diego, and if
so, they ought to spend their money differently here in Green Bay.
Now, the problems of the disabled, across the board, are a very special one
as far as my wife is concerned, and me, too. I happen to think that we have to
recognize that the disabled, for reasons in most cases beyond their own control,
have to be given some special attention. Like in the District of Columbia, the
new Metro system, the subway system-by law there has to be a means of
access and exit so that people who are blind or disabled or elderly can have a
certain way of getting on the new subway. I think, across the board, we have
to recognize the fact that this group in our society needs some very special atten-
tion, and this administration will carry out that promise and pledge.
962
