January 1
[3]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I congratulate the Congress for including in this new legislation most of the
provisions originally recommended by the administration. Under the bill,
the level of Federal funding will be keyed to the ability of the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting and the local broadcasters themselves to generate con-
tributions from other sources. In addition, a significant percentage of the
Federal contribution to public broadcasting will be required by law to be
distributed to local public broadcasting stations. Both of these features ensure
that the Federal commitment to public broadcasting will be dependent upon
and responsive to the interests and needs of local audiences.
I am also pleased that the legislation provides for a 5-year authorization.
Multi-year financing for public broadcasting has been a long-sought objective
as a means of insulating this important medium of expression from the possi-
bility of undue governmental control.
I am disappointed, therefore, that the present bill does not include the cor-
responding 5-year appropriation originally proposed by the administration.
I am also concerned about the authorization ceilings contained in H.R. 6461.
The bill proposed by the administration contained funding ceilings for a 5-year
period ranging from $70 million in the first year to $100 million in the fifth
year. Unfortunately, the Congress has increased these ceilings significantly, pro-
viding for a 5-year authorization ranging from $88 million to $160 million.
In this time of severe strain on the Federal budget, I consider it essential that
the appropriations provided under this bill conform to the limits which I intend
to recommend in my fiscal year 1977 budget.
In spite of the deficiencies I have mentioned, I believe the bill I have signed
will significantly enhance the ability of the public broadcasting community
to continue providing programing of excellence and diversity for the American
people.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6461, approved December 31, 1975, is Public Law 94-192 (89 Stat. 1099).
3
Statement on Signing a Bill Concerning Financial Institutions,
the National Commission on Electronic Fund Transfers,
and Home Mortgage Disclosure. January 1, 1976
I HAVE signed into law S. 1281. Title I of this bill extends until March 1,
1977, the authority of various Federal agencies to regulate interest rates paid
on certain deposits in financial institutions. Title II extends the authorization
3
