February 3
[55]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
seriously but also that we take ourselves and the principles for which we stand
seriously.
For this service, which most appropriately you have rendered on the occasion
of our 200th year, your fellow citizens owe you a debt that can never adequately
be repaid. On their behalf Betty and I offer our profound thanks to you and
Elizabeth for your service to the Nation.
With warmest personal regards,
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Daniel P. Moynihan, U.S. Representative to the United Nations, New York, New York
10017]
NOTE: Ambassador Moynihan's letter of resignation
read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Today is the last of my leave from the University.
I must return now, or must give up for good my
professorship there and, in effect, give up my profes-
sion as well. The effort to persuade myself that
this is a kind of personal fate that must be accepted
has not succeeded. I have spent almost five of the
past eight years in government, nine of the past fif-
teen, thirteen of the past nineteen. It is time to re-
turn to teaching and such are the conditions of my
tenure that I return now or not at all.
It has been, for me, a high honor to serve as your
Ambassador to India during the latter part of my
stay there, and more recently as your representative
at the United Nations. Indeed I was scarcely back
from the former post before you asked me to take up
the new one. You have been unfailing in your en-
couragement and support and I have with the fullest
commitment sought to carry out your general poli-
cies and your specific instructions. For that oppor-
tunity I am permanently in your debt, even if I
must with a heavy and still divided heart, now de-
part your service.
Most respectfully,
DANIEL P. MOYNIHAN
[The President, The White House]
55
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-United
Kingdom Extradition Treaty. February 3, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Extradition Treaty Between the Government of the
United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, together with a Protocol of Signature and an ex-
change of notes, signed at London on June 8, 1972. I transmit also, for the in-
formation of the Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to
the Treaty.
The Treaty, one of a series of extradition treaties being negotiated by the
United States, significantly updates the present extradition relations between
the United States and the United Kingdom and adds to the list of extraditable
143
