February 14
[93]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I honestly believe that the American people today have a restoration of faith
in the system and in the people, and that is vitally important.
Number two, 18 months ago we were faced with the worst inflation this
country had had in a hundred years or more, over 12 percent, and we were
just on the brink of an economic recession which was the worst one since the
Great Depression of 1930.
At the same time, many of our allies on a worldwide basis were appre-
hensive and concerned whether the United States, having gone through a
traumatic period, was going to have the same resolve, have the same strength
that was needed as we faced our challenges to achieve and maintain peace.
But because our system of government worked, because there was enough
resolution and strength in the American people, we are now on the brink
of, I think, great success.
First, inflation is still too high, but it is half of what it was 18 months ago,
and it is going to get lower and lower.
Last January, February, and March, the unemployment was going up, the
number of people with jobs was going down, but we have turned it around
by solid, commonsense, practical approaches to the problem. And just last
week we got the biggest drop in 1 month of unemployment for 16 years
and we added 800 (800,000) more people gainfully employed in 1 month.
And since March of last year we have increased employment by 2,100,000—
that is progress.
But we have got to do better and we will do better, and wherever we find
a problem domestically, I can assure you that we are going to meet it head
on, we are going to be practical, we are not going to fool you with any quick-
fixes. That does not work and it destroys confidence in government. We are
going to be honest, frank, candid, and we will make this system work the
way it should.
Now, let me talk for just a minute about our national security. Bill and
Lou and Skip, who I served with in the Congress, know of not only my
experience in dealing with the Department of Defense but my dedication
that the United States of America shall be second to none in national security.
The budget that I sent up in January for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines was $112.7 billion. It gives us the capability of maintaining the peace
through strength, and that is what we want. It will, and the fact that we are
strong has reassured our allies whether they are in Western Europe or in the
Pacific. It also has given us the strength to make constructive headway in the
307
