March 30
[272]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we could get another vote in the House of Representatives, but I am very appre-
hensive that that can be done. So, we may have to start all over again next Janu-
ary when the new Congress comes back.
The bill that passed the Congress last year was quite a different bill from that
which I recommended in January a year ago. We ended up with a bill that, over
a period of 40 months, there can be deregulation of domestic oil production. I
signed the bill for one reason only: We had had almost a year of complete un-
certainty where the producers did not know what they were going to be faced
with—the public generally did not. So, it was a very close call. I signed it, and
now we are in the process of trying to implement it.
As far as this administration is concerned, we are going to take every step
which we can do under the law under the 40-month period for deregulation. I
think within the next week or two we submit our first actual increase that is au-
thorized under the law. And these can be done periodically under the 40-month
deregulation program.
Now, there are some other things that the Congress is finally getting around
to implementing. The Senate has passed the conference report on the removal
of restrictions on Elk Hills in California. I am told the House will probably pass
the conference report some time this week. That will permit us, within a period
of about 2 months, to increase Elk Hills' crude oil production about 300,000
barrels a day.
That is a help but it is less than 10 percent of—it is about 5 percent of our
daily imports from overseas today. But it is a help. And the disturbing thing
is that in the month of February, we had the highest month of imports of foreign
crude oil in the history of the United States, something over 7 million barrels
per day.
In the last report for the week there was, I think, an alltime weekly high of
something like 7,200,000 barrels per day. Is that about right, Chuck?
So, what is happening is that our imports of crude oil—they are going up
virtually every day. Our domestic production is going down. I think the latest
figures for domestic production are about 6 million barrels a day. It is about 3 mil-
lion barrels a day less than 1972, so somehow we have got to stimulate more do-
mestic production.
Now, some people will allege that as soon as we get the Alaskan Pipeline com-
pleted in May, I think, of next year, that is going to be our salvation. That is
roughly 2 million barrels a day when they are in full operation and that will take
probably another 7 or 8 months, probably the end of 1977. So, we have got a
growing problem that gets more serious every day.
861
