[262]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
wrestles with us strengthens our nerves, and sharpens our skill. Our antagonist
is our helper."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:02 p.m. in the Los
Angeles Room at the Century Plaza Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to John A. McCone,
chairman of the dinner, Edward W. Carter, finance
chairman of the California President Ford Com-
mittee, Evelle J. Younger, attorney general of Cali-
fornia, Robert (Bus) Mosbacher, national finance
chairman of the President Ford Committee, Timothy
Cardinal Manning, Archbishop of Los Angeles, and
Rabbi Edgar F. Magnin of the Wilshire Boulevard
Temple in Los Angeles.
263
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Fresno, California.
March 27, 1976
GOOD MORNING everybody. It is nice to be in Fresno. We have had a good
day and a half in California. Any of you with the local press that would like to
ask questions, I would be delighted to try and respond.
REPORTER. After a day and a half, are you ready to predict how you will do?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have to recognize, for practical reasons, we started
from behind, but I am very impressed with the people that are heading up the
organization, and I am encouraged by what I understand are the great, great
many volunteers that are participating. And I think by the time the primary
comes in June we will be in very good shape, and we will sure do our best.
Q. Any more thoughts on Governor Reagan as a running mate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I have said a good many times, we have many, many
outstanding Republicans who are potentially outstanding Vice-Presidential
candidates and certainly Governor Reagan would fit on that list without a
question.
Q. Mr. President, NBC News has reported some teamster officials feel that
they are immune from investigation or prosecution by your administration. Do
you have any response to that?
The President. Anything that involves a criminal investigation or prosecu-
tion I don't think it is appropriate for me to comment on. We have an outstand-
ing Attorney General in Ed Levi, and I am sure that he will handle it properly. I
am sure that he will handle it in the high standard that Ed Levi is known for.
Q. Now that Mr. Carter is considered a serious contender, do you plan to do
anything differently?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. We are concentrating on the Republican side, and
I will let my good Democratic friends resolve their problems.
826
