February 25
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
riguez, and myself, please permit me to express to you the best wishes for the
welfare of the American people and for the health and good fortune of you and
your family. And in shaking hands, President Ford, I feel we are shaking hands
symbolically with Franklin, Washington, and Jefferson, the builders of this
great Nation.
Finally, President Ford, I have the honor to carry out a mission entrusted to
me by President Echeverría to give you these three volumes that have been
recently published. One is called, "Mexico is Like This," and the other two
represent the purest expression of our Mexican artisanship. And I hope through
these three volumes, you will receive the reiteration of the testimony of friend-
ship by the President of our country for the President of this great country, and
also for the Members of Congress.
To you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me thank you, Senator Olivares, and all of you from the
Mexican delegation, for this thoughtfulness in bringing this wonderful gift from
President Echeverría. I have had several wonderful experiences in Mexico, and
I am sure in the volumes here there will be an opportunity for me to refresh my
great memories of those delightful times in your country.
I reiterate my warm welcome to all of you in the White House. I welcome you
again on behalf of all of the American people and wish you well in your travels.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:10 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Senator Enrique
Olivares Santana, president of the Mexican Senate,
and Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana.
Senator Olivares spoke in Spanish. His remarks
follow the translation by an interpreter.
138
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Members of
the Inland Daily Press Association. February 25, 1976
Mr. Roth, Mr. Brown, Mr. Boykin, members of the Inland Press, and guests:
It is awfully nice to have you here in the East Room of the White House. I
remember very vividly my opportunity to get together with all of you in 1974
in Denver. As I recall, we used at that time much the same format as we are an-
ticipating this afternoon, a very limited comment by me followed by questions
from all of you.
It is not my birthday today—[laughter]—but I did get a fairly good present
in the last 24 hours.
437
