January 21
[24]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. The energy budget for 1977 shows in the research and devel-
opment area about a 40-percent increase in the nonnuclear field. In the nuclear
field, it is somewhere between 35 and 40 percent, if I recall. So, overall, the re-
search and development programs in energy are increased very substantially.
Does anybody here want to give any more specific———
Here is Dr. Seamans, head of ERDA.
ROBERT C. SEAMANS, JR. [Administrator, Energy Research and Development
Administration]. Just to confirm what you said, Mr. President, that we do show
in our Energy Research and Development Administration budget a very sub-
stantial increase in all areas. The largest increase will be in conservation. That is
up around 60 percent. The solar, the geothermal, and the nuclear will run
around 35 percent, as you indicated. We do show a very marked increase on the
nuclear fuel cycle. That shows an increase of around 55 percent.
MISS LEWINE. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all. We have enjoyed it. See you next year.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. in the State Department Auditorium at the briefing conducted by
administration officials.
24
Remarks on Greeting Members of the Legislative Council of the
National Retired Teachers Association and the American
Association of Retired Persons. January 21, 1976
Mr. Vice President, Miss Mullen, Mr. Woodruff, members of the two fine
associations of retired people:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to have an opportunity to greet all of
you and to say a few words concerning some of the problems that I know face
retired people, and to relate them, to some extent, to the proposals that I made
Monday night before the Congress and the American people.
First, I would like to thank Miss Mullen and Mr. Woodruff for this book,
which I understand has as a theme, the theme that two organizations have for
the activities of your many, many members. I will look forward to reading it,
"The Power of Years."
I know from practical experience that all of you and your associates have the
power of years, and I congratulate you on it and hope that you will continue to
have it.
75
