January 21
[23]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
happen. And we think a redistribution of the costs for the people who are rela-
tively well compared to those who are bedridden for months and months and
months is the proper approach.
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us—or perhaps Mr. Lynn or Mr. Clements or
Mr. Ogilvie 2—the difference between the defense budget presented here and
the one advocated by Secretary Schlesinger?
THE PRESIDENT. The defense budget that we have submitted includes all of
the programs that former Secretary Schlesinger recommended. The defense
budget for fiscal year 1977 calls for obligation authority of $112.7 billion, an
increase of around $10 to $11 billion over the current fiscal year. It calls for
expenditures of $100.2 billion, which is roughly $8 billion over the anticipated
expenditures for fiscal year 1976, this year.
The budget provides all of the major programs requested by the Joint Chiefs
of Staff. There is virtually no difference in what has been approved in dollars
or programs in what the former Secretary of Defense recommended. We keep
the exact uniform personnel figures the same; 2.1 million in fiscal 1971; 2.1
million in fiscal 1977.
We do call for a reduction of 25,000 in civilian employment in the Defense
Department. But I think better management can bring that about.
Bill, do you want to add any comments beyond that?
WILLIAM P. CLEMENTS, JR. [Deputy Secretary of Defense]. I would only say
that to enlarge upon your statement, that the various services and the Joint
Chiefs are completely in accord with the budget as you have presented it. It
provides for real growth in the defense budget, and in a reasonable sense it
maintains the momentum of the programs that we consider our priority pro-
grams. And I would say the Department of Defense is pleased with the budget.
We are not entirely satisfied, of course. I don't think we would ever be in that
particular position. But we are pleased with the budget. We think it meets our
requirements, it maintains our momentum, and it gives us the priority programs
that we need.
Q. Mr. President, a number of leading Democrats, including virtually all the
Presidential candidates, are advocating a government policy that would guaran-
tee a job for everyone who wants to work.
I want to know why you rejected that position. And do you challenge their
contention that for every 1-percent decrease in unemployment there is a $16
2 Donald G. Ogilvie, Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs, Office of
Management and Budget.
59
