November 3
[655]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the near future so that we can in our modest way
reciprocate a part of your generosity and the friendly
atmosphere which hovered over our visit since we
have put foot on your land.
Mr. President, I want you to be sure that I
enormously enjoyed our talks. They have been pro-
found as they have been friendly and warm. I hope
you agree with me that our contacts will go into
history as a turning point in Arab-American rela-
tions.
Distinguished friends, I invite you to join me in
a toast in honor of President and Mrs. Ford, to
Governor and Mrs. Askew, and the prosperity and
happiness of all the American people.
GOVERNOR ASKEW
We would like to welcome you here this evening.
We hope that you have enjoyed yourself. It has been
a distinct honor and a pleasure to have you with us.
President Sadat, President Ford, the State of
Florida is deeply honored to be the host for two
great leaders and to offer its hospitality for the im-
portant meetings which have taken place here
today.
It is not often that this State, bestowed as it is
with the beauty of land and sky, is a location of
discussions whose consequences touch upon the
peace of the world. On this occasion Florida is
justly proud of its role.
President Sadat, we are especially happy that you
have had the opportunity to experience the warmth
and good feeling of the people of Florida. We are
very pleased to welcome an individual whose cour-
ageous efforts at pursuing the path to a negotiated
peace in the Middle East are a matter of admiration
to the American people as a whole. We hope that
you will carry to the Egyptian people our warmest
wishes and our hope for a peaceful conclusion to
the conflict that has plagued the Middle East for
almost 30 years. In your search for peace, sir, we
wish you success.
To President Ford, it is a particular pleasure to
welcome you to Florida again, sir. The purpose of
your visit here is to pursue discussions which all of
us hope will lead to a brighter future for the
nations of the Middle East and for this country. Be
assured of the respect and admiration the people
of this State hold for your efforts to obtain a truly
final and just settlement in the Middle East.
And now may I ask our guests to rise and join me
in a toast. To a great leader and the new friend of
the State of Florida, President Anwar Sadat, and
to the President of the United States.
655
Interview With Television Reporters in Jacksonville.
November 3, 1975
[Recorded November 2, 1975. Released November 3, 1975]
THE MIDDLE EAST
REPORTER. [1.] Mr. President, you have been meeting with President Sadat,
and he has made it clear that the Palestinian problem is certainly one of the
paramount ones to a Middle East settlement. We have heard very little about
how high-ranking Americans feel about what justification, if any, the Pales-
tinians have for asking or demanding a national state of their own. Would you
comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I would prefer to answer this way, if I might. The Palestinians
do allege that they have certain rights, and they are insisting on participating,
for example, at a Geneva conference or any overall conference. But they have
refused to recognize the State of Israel. And we, of course, strongly back the
1779
