September 24
[585]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But it is nice to see you all, and despite the fact you have been sitting here
getting the answers to the questions from Frank [Zarb] and Paul MacAvoy
and Jim Lynn, I think it is better for me just to make a few observations and
comments and then we can retire to the State Dining Room for a few minutes.
First, I want to thank you very emphatically for the help and assistance so
many of you have given us in the 12 White House Conferences that have been
held around the United States, 10 of which I have had the honor and privilege
to attend, to participate in what we try to describe as the listening and learning
process.
We feel that those conferences are vitally important to give to a broad cross-
section of your various communities the policies and programs that are in effect
in the Federal Government or those that we propose and, at the same time, get a
feeling, a sense from all of you and the many others that participate, the views
from people at the grassroots.
This listening and learning process, from our point of view, is very helpful
to me and to my associates. And I trust that the 12 have been equally beneficial
as far as you are concerned.
We have some very serious problems. We are deeply concerned about the
economy, energy, and deregulation as far as the Federal Government is con-
cerned. I just spent about an hour and a half, as I recall, with a number of
mayors from various parts of the United States. They have a problem
precipitated by the financial difficulties of the city of New York. These are
serious, and it involves a wide variety of recommendations from them and from
others as to what the solution might be.
It also involves a very serious potential change if certain actions were taken
in the political fabric, not on a partisan basis, but on a structural basis, of the
Federal Government, the State governments, and municipal governments. This
is a very broad and serious problem. It is, of course, complicated by the immedi-
ate financial problems facing the city of New York.
But if I might, I would like to urge all of you to the extent that you can,
help Frank Zarb and the executive branch of the Government get some move-
ment in the Congress on really an effective, short-range as well as long-haul
energy program. We cannot continue to be held at the mercy of decisionmaking
by the foreign oil producers. They are meeting right now as to whether or not
they are going to increase the price of roughly 40 percent of the oil that we buy
as a nation. We have no control over it, and this is something that the United
1 The President met with the executive committee of the United States Conference of Mayors at 3:30 p.m.
1521
