[509]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
in your great State. And it is a pleasure to see an old friend of mine, and his
lovely bride, Gardner Brown. Thank you very much for coming, Gardner and
Susan.
Let me express very deeply and very appreciatively the overly generous
remarks that Bill Cohen made. I just hope and trust that in the months and years
ahead that I can fully justify the kind and very greatly appreciated remarks that
he made. And in the course of serving some 25 years in the House of Repre-
sentatives, you get to those that come and those that will go rather rapidly and
those that will stay because they have merit in the job they do on behalf of
the country, but equally important, the job that they will do on behalf of the
people that they represent.
Some people who come to the House, they are like Greyhound buses, they
come and go very quickly. But Bill Cohen, I could tell the minute he walked in,
was a person who had great capability and he has done everything, not only up
to the expectations but beyond the expectations that I would have anticipated.
And Bill, I thank you very, very much.
And although I was not in the House of Representatives when Dave came
and was sworn in, I have had the privilege and the opportunity to get to know
him. And based on this bank of knowledge that you acquire, if you have been
in the House, particularly in the leadership, you can detect quality. And it is my
judgment, in Dave you have a new, young Congressman with great quality;
keep him there.
The thing that I like about both of them, they are team players. They work
together. I have talked to Bill and Dave about a matter that's of great concern,
and properly so, as far as the State of Maine is concerned. And that's the so-
called 200-mile limit. Now, Bill was one of the initiators, and Dave has carried
on along with Bill to protect your coast and the waters that are adjacent to it.
I believe in the concept of the 200-mile limit. In the executive branch, we
have a little different problem. We are in the process, and have been for some
months, of negotiating on a worldwide basis a 200-mile limit with a number of
other very important relationships between countries, land and water, in the
Law of the Sea Conference. The United States is pushing hard, has been, is
and will particularly, for a 200-mile limit.
And I just want you to know that people like Bill and Dave are leading the
fight in this extremely important area in the Congress while we in the executive
branch are pushing equally strongly in the world forum for the accomplish-
ment and the achievement of this limit as well as the other relationships that are
1254
