[655]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
there had to be certain drastic action taken to control Federal expenditures. I
said there must be a cutback in the growth of Federal spending, and I itemized
a number of areas where that should be done. I called upon the Congress to take
corrective action for that purpose. In my recommendations for a $28 billion tax
reduction and a $28 billion reduction in the growth of Federal spending, I was
saying the same thing.
We have got to stop the growth of Federal spending. If it isn't stopped, we
will be engulfed. So, what we are trying to do in the Federal Government to
stop the growth of Federal spending and to get our fiscal matters under control
is exactly the same thing I am telling the city of New York it must do.
Q. Is there any bill that could come out to bail out New York that you would
accept?
THE PRESIDENT. None, other than the one I recommended, because I think
that is the only fundamental solution.
Q. But can there be a domino effect from default? Other cities are fearing to
float municipal bond issues and, therefore, delaying or canceling projects and
putting people out of work potentially.
THE PRESIDENT. It is very interesting, within the last week or 10 days two
communities in the metropolitan area of Washington-not Washington, D.C.—
floated municipal bond issues, got the best price they have gotten, I think, in
the history of these communities.
Those communities that have been well run won't have serious problems. And
let me add this point: There were all kinds of scare stories floated around that
the bond market would collapse and the stock market would collapse. We had
some advice from others—not only domestically but otherwise—that catastrophe
might take place. The truth is the bond market had already discounted the pos-
sible implications of a New York City default. So, there was a minimal amount
of disturbance in the bond market in New York City.
The real problem is a lot of people have—and primarily big investors—sub-
stantial amounts of New York City obligations, very high interest rates. They
bought them in the open market. They gambled. They took a chance that New
York City would become responsible fiscally. It was a bad deal, apparently. But
they took a gamble under our society. And I just don't think you can ask the
taxpayers throughout the United States to bail out people who had made invest-
ments in a free market of their own choice.
Q. What about banks and holding companies who have also big investments?
THE PRESIDENT. Should the taxpayers of the United States bail out the bank-
ing institutions in New York City or elsewhere? Should the taxpayers in Jack-
1786
