August 2
[463]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the peoples of the world, irrespective of their social
systems.
I should like your visit to mark a new, significant
moment in the course of friendship and cooperation
between our two countries and peoples.
With these thoughts in mind, I wish you to feel
at home among the Romanian people, who greet you
with esteemed friendship and its traditional hos-
pitality.
462
Remarks on Receiving the Key to the City of Bucharest.
August 2, 1975
Mr. Mayor, President and Mrs. Ceausescu, the wonderful people of Bucharest,
the wonderful, wonderful people of Romania:
Let me first extend on behalf of Mrs. Ford, my son, and myself, our deep
gratitude for the opportunity of visiting you in this gorgeous city.
The key to the city is indicative of the ties between the people of Romania and
the people of the United States, and I receive the key as an expression of the
closeness that has developed and will continue to grow and flourish.
As we came in from the airport, it was my privilege to see, Mr. Mayor, the
beautiful fields, the gorgeous trees, and most importantly, the friendly and warm
people of the country that we are now privileged to visit.
Mrs. Ford, our son, and I thank you for welcoming us to Bucharest, and we
thank you from the bottom of our hearts on behalf of the American people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:25 p.m. at Scintea
Plaza. In his opening remarks, he referred to Mayor
Gheorghe Cioara of Bucharest.
Later in the day, the President met with President
Ceausescu at the Council of State in the Palace of
the Republic.
463
Toasts of the President and President Nicolae Ceausescu of
Romania at a State Dinner in Bucharest. August 2, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Ceausescu, ladies and gentlemen:
My visit to Romania is a very, very great pleasure. Because of summit, high-
level meetings between our Governments and the growing number of contacts
at the ministerial level, and between officials and specialists at all levels, we have
witnessed in recent years improvement in U.S.-Romanian relations.
It seems very fortuitous and unique that within a day following the signing of
1091
