[598]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
cooperation and the wonderful job they are doing. I thank you all very, very
much.
I would be remiss if I didn't express the same feelings, even though they are
not there, for Marguerite Church and Les Arends. I indicated just a moment ago
that these were the kinds of people who were the bulwark against the inflationary
policies of big spending in the House as well as in the Senate, controlled, as I
indicated, by better than 2 to 1 by the opposition. Under these circumstances, the
veto must be used, will be used, and ought to be used to maintain America's
Federal fiscal integrity.
Let me emphasize this, if I might. The exercise of a Presidential veto is a
positive action, as the framers of our Constitution intended it to be. For one
thing, the legislation I vetoed so far will save the taxpayers between now and the
end of calendar 1976 more than $6 billion. I happen to think that is a fairly
positive result.
Furthermore, when these vetoes were sustained—and most of them were-
the Democratic majority was forced to come back with reasonable legislation
which Republicans in good conscience could support in the House as well as in
the Senate.
And that is positive action, because you start with a bill that calls for too
much spending and it is vetoed and the veto is sustained, and then, after the
Congress has had a little time to reconsider, it decides that a more reasonable
figure makes far more sense.
For whether it is in some other legislative area, our forefathers, when they
drafted the Constitution, decided that a President ought to have the power under
the Constitution to make the Congress take a little more time to think. And the
net result this year has been constructive and positive.
Now, let me say this: The utilization of the veto is not a long-term answer. The
long-term answer is for Republicans in Illinois and in every State to elect more
Republicans to the House as well as to the Senate. I would rather be in the
position of advocating affirmative legislation to help us deregulate business and
individuals, to get the Federal Government off your back. And the only way you
are going to get that is a Republican Congress.
I don't have to repeat the admonition and the urging that I gave you earlier,
that we need more locally elected, sound, responsible Republican officials, or
statewide, or federally. You can do it by hard work, by organization, by con-
centrating our resources in defeating those Democrats whose philosophical views
are totally contrary.
1550
