[730]
December 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion procedures, in accordance with Article VI, no new legislation is needed to
implement the Agreement.
Unfortunately in recent years, it has often been only after a species or class
of wildlife has become severely depleted or even endangered that international
conservation measures have been initiated. This Convention represents a unique
opportunity for the world community to put into practice the hard learned les-
sons of the past and to act prospectively to protect the seals of Antarctica. I urge
the Senate to give the Convention its prompt and favorable consideration.
The White House,
December 17, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive K (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
731
Remarks Announcing Veto of a Tax Reduction Bill.
December 17, 1975
Good evening, everybody.
I am vetoing the temporary tax cut extension bill sent to me by the Congress
today. I have been telling the Congress ever since October that I would veto any
tax cut if the Congress failed to cut Federal spending at the same time. Congress
has refused to put any limit at this time on spending for the next fiscal year and
instead sent me a temporary 6-month extension of the present temporary 1975
tax levels due to expire on New Year's Eve.
There is no need for your withholding taxes to go up in 1976. There is no need
for a prolonged confrontation with the Congress on this question. I believe and
the Congress evidently believes that our Nation will benefit by giving American
taxpayers a break in 1976.
The differences between Congress and me are these:
As I proposed last October 6, I want a larger tax cut in 1976 than we have had
in 1975–$28 billion to be exact—while the bill before me would merely extend
this year's tax rate which works out to about $18 billion a year.
As I made clear over 2 months ago, I want any cut in Federal tax revenues
coupled with a cut in the runaway growth of Federal spending. Unless we start
doing this now, we will run up larger and larger deficits and get farther and
farther away from a balanced budget. We will risk a new round of double-digit
1972
