[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
fortable in the situation. But I don't think I should go beyond that in discussing
our conversation.
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[12.] MR. MONROE. When you said that you made those changes totally
on your own, did you mean that you had no advice from anybody on any of
those changes?
The President. I, in one way or another, got some advice but I did not ask
anybody. I made the decision myself. It is a matter that I had been thinking
about for some time and I have the evidence where I sat down myself and
wrote out the changes. And it was a totally private decision which Presidents
have to make on occasion. That is their responsibility under the law. And this
was my decision and it is the simple truth and I think it was the way to do it.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Reston.
NEW YORK CITY; UNEMPLOYMENT
[13.] MR. RESTON. Mr. President, you spoke about compassion as being one
of the objectives of your Administration. We have not heard much compassion
in New York in relation to the financial plight of the city, and I wonder, in
relation to New York and also to the 8 million people now unemployed under
the October figures, what you think of the political and social consequences
of a stern view toward those two problems?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we have had a stern view at all, Mr. Reston,
toward the unemployed. This Administration has advocated and supported a
very significant extension of unemployment benefits. I believe they went from
26 weeks to 65 weeks at the present time. We fully supported those extensions
under these adverse economic times and we have fully supported the so-called
CETA program, or public service program, fully funding those programs that
give gainful employment at the local level for people who are otherwise
unemployed.
In the case of New York City the issue is more fundamental. And it is my
understanding that a potentially better solution than a Federal action is possible
right now, because in New York City the Governor and the mayor and the
bankers and the representatives from the labor unions are working to try and
find an answer without any Federal intervention, without a Federal authority
in effect being the mayor. I think this is in the best interest of the 8 million
people in New York City. That is the way to solve the problem, not by Federal
intervention.
1828
