[490]
August 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Last year, U.S. farm exports shipped to purchasing nations totaled nearly $22
billion. Since we imported less than $10 billion in agricultural products, this
means we received approximately $12 billion net earnings from farm product
trade on a worldwide basis. I think this is a green harvest we all understand.
And we should be proud of it.
Consider for a moment what would happen if that $12 billion of positive
foreign exchange were all of a sudden erased or eliminated. We would have a
huge balance of payments deficit, our dollar would be weakened in foreign
markets, and we would pay higher and higher prices for the many things we
import every day.
In short, our Nation's farmers not only raise crops but our standard of living
as well. And we are deeply grateful to you for that contribution to our national
welfare. The foodstuffs that you produce and America exports are a dynamic
contribution to a stable and orderly world.
As the race between the stork on the one hand and the plow accelerates,
American farm exports become more and more and more important. By the
year 2000, world population could be over 6½ billion people, instead of the
3,800 million people it is today.
This means that about 75 percent more people need to be fed—a massive
challenge at a time when there is no new Western Hemisphere to discover nor
any more virgin Iowa sod to plow.
A sound, fully productive agriculture is a very key element of this Nation's
quest for peace. Let me emphasize that. Fully productive agriculture is a key
element of this Nation's quest for peace.
The American farmer has become a vital part of this effort. Our agricultural
abundance helped open the door to 800 million people on the mainland of
China. It helped to improve relations with the Soviet Union. It helped to build
bridges to the developing world. It enabled us to contribute over the past 20
years about $25 billion worth of food to hungry mouths throughout the rest of
the world.
We are truly a fortunate people, and the American farmer stands 10 feet tall
in his contribution to this Nation's greatness.
Man's future is virtually unlimited if approached with a spirit of optimism
and openmindedness. We can be optimistic because of the strength you in this
great Midwest give to this Nation and the sustenance that you give to the world
in all parts of the globe. All Americans, indeed all people, are in your debt. I
thank you.
1166
