[690]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
obligation in this regard. The guidance must make clear that exclusionary
policies of foreign countries based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex or
age must not be considerations in the selection process for Federal positions. A
copy of each agency's guidance in this regard should be sent to the Assistant
Executive Director, U.S. Civil Service Commission, 1900 E Street, NW., Wash-
ington, D.C. 20415.
GERALD R. FORD
691
Remarks Announcing Plans for a White House Conference
on Handicapped Individuals. November 22, 1975
IT IS a real privilege and pleasure to have the opportunity of being here today
and to recognize Senator Randolph, Senator Stafford, Secretary Mathews, Dr.
Viscardi, and the other distinguished guests of the many organizations that are
greatly interested in and most helpful to the disabled.
I am extremely happy to announce today that the first White House Confer-
ence on Handicapped Individuals will be held next year. The time has come for
a coordinated, national undertaking to address the concerns of this Nation's 35
million handicapped citizens, to respond to their abilities as well as their
disabilities.
This historic White House Conference will be held in December 1976, a fitting
climax to the Bicentennial year and the values that we seek to regenerate.
This conference will bring together representatives of more than 50 Govern-
ment agencies now dealing with the problems of the handicapped, along with
the hundreds of others representing private organizations and State and local
departments of government.
A 28-member National Planning and Advisory Council to the White House
Conference has been appointed. And this morning I am very pleased to name
Dr. Henry Viscardi, Jr., of Long Island-Kings Point-as Chairman of this
Council. Jack Smith, of Rochester, New York, has been appointed as Executive
Director of the planning staff. Both of these men have earned national reputa-
tions for their outstanding work for the handicapped. Both have overcome dis-
abilities to demonstrate great abilities.
I am pleased that both Dr. Viscardi and Mr. Smith are here with us today and
that also in attendance are Secretary Mathews of the Department of Health,
1898
