November 20
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
685
Letter to the Chairman of the House Select Committee on
Intelligence About Contempt Resolutions Concerning
Testimony of Secretary of State Kissinger. November 20, 1975
[Dated November 19, 1975. Released November 20, 1975]
Dear Mr. Chairman:
I want you to know of my deep concern because the Select Committee found
it necessary on November 14 to vote in favor of three resolutions which could
lead to a finding by the House of Representatives that Secretary of State Henry
Kissinger is in contempt for failure to comply with three Committee subpoenas.
This issue involves grave matters affecting our conduct of foreign policy and
raises questions which go to the ability of our Republic to govern itself effec-
tively. I know that you, Mr. Chairman, share my deep respect for the rights and
powers of the House of Representatives-where our cumulative service spans
nearly four decades—and for the obligations and responsibilities of the Presi-
dent. The two branches of government have an extremely serious responsibility
to consider the issues raised in the ongoing foreign intelligence investigations
dispassionately and with mutual respect.
Former Chief Justice Warren pointed out twenty years ago that there can be
no doubt as to the power of Congress and its committees to investigate fully
matters relating to contemplated legislation. Without this power, which includes
the authority to compel testimony and the production of documents, the
Congress could not exercise its responsibilities under Article I of our Constitu-
tion. However, this power, as broad as it is, is subject to recognized limitations.
Not only is it limited by powers given to the other two branches, but it also must
respect requirements of procedural due process as they affect individuals.
The action of your Committee concerning the November 14th resolutions
raises, in my mind, three principal issues: the extent to which the Committee
needs access to additional Executive Branch documents to carry out its legis-
lative functions; the importance of maintaining the separation of powers be-
tween the branches and the ability of the Executive to function; and the
individual rights of officials involved in this matter. I am not interested in
recriminations and collateral issues which only serve to cloud the significant
questions before us.
From the beginning of the investigations of the intelligence agencies, I have
taken action to stop any possible abuses and to make certain that they do not
1887
