October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the Appalachian region do have good strip mining bills. I know those two for
sure.
So, even if we don't get a Federal strip mining bill, there is no reason why your
States can't act affirmatively as Ohio and Pennsylvania have done.
Now, let me explain two very practical reasons aside from the environmental
features, and our amendments would, in my judgment, meet all or most of the
environmental problems. Under the legislation that I vetoed, you would find
that there would be a substantial loss of jobs, and number two, you would find
under the legislation that I vetoed we could not, under any circumstances, meet
our goal of 1 billion 200 thousand (million) tons of coal in 10 years.
We are presently at the rate of 600 million tons, and we have to double that.
And we can do it with good legislation. But we could not, in my opinion, with
the legislation that the Congress sent me.
Now, we are willing to negotiate with the Congress, we are willing to work
with them to come up with an acceptable bill. But they want it their way or
nothing, and I don't think that is the way to find a solution to the problem.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
[17.] Q. Mr. President, I am Mrs. Harry B. Caldwell from North Carolina.
I am representing the North Carolina State Grange and the State granges in
this region. Last fall and last winter, you called on the farmers of America for
all-out production, and you indicated that they would have the assurance that
you would give them full support in receiving reasonable prices for the things
that they produced.
Just recently—I believe it was last week-Secretary Earl Butz, in a meeting
in Chicago, again called on the American farmers to go all-out in producing the
food and fiber needed for our Nation and to help meet the needs of the world
in 1976.
Now, farmers are born optimists. They really want to produce, but they need
the assurance that they will receive costs of production plus a reasonable profit.
My question is going to be in three parts, all of them related. How do you
propose that farmers will receive fair and reasonable prices if they produce the
abundance called for by the Government? And what-
THE PRESIDENT. Do you want me to answer-
Q. They are related. Do you want to answer that one now?
THE PRESIDENT. I would be very glad to. I indicated earlier that we did ask
for full production, and the farmers responded in corn, wheat, soybeans. I in-
1633
