August 30
[512]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that this third century relates to the last point I made in our commitments-per-
sonal freedom for the individual.
We have mass education. We have mass industry. We have mass government.
We have mass communication. I think the American people, whether they are
in Rhode Island or Michigan or California or Florida or Alaska or Hawaii-I
don't care where they come from-they want their individuality preserved and
expanded. They don't want to be subjected to massive anything. They want to
believe in their family and themselves, and that should be our objective in the
third century of America's history.
I indicated that in the first century of our Nation's history that we developed
a kind of government that gave us strength and stability and opportunity to
carry us through one crisis after another, and we have.
Now, it is not written in the Constitution, but fortunately for all of us, we
developed in this country a two-party system—and how blessed we have been.
We don't want a one-party system like they have in some countries throughout
the globe. We find that that, of course, would be an anathema to everything we
have inherited and everything we want to pass on to others.
We don't want the kind of a government where there is a multiplicity of
political parties, either. We have seen in the pages of history those countries that
have 5, 10, 20—whatever the number is—of political parties, and they are unable
under those circumstances to meet the challenge, to govern, to run a country.
We have been blessed in this Nation with a two-party system in most States
of the Union. [Laughter] If I could go back a quarter of a century when I came
to Washington in January of 1949 and took the oath of office as a young, you
know, excited Congressman, the Republicans controlled New England. There
wasn't a Democrat, as I recall, in Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont-there were
a couple in Massachusetts—[laughter]—but basically, New England was a
Republican domain, so to speak. And then we had 10 or 11 States down in the
South, and they were totally, completely dominated by the Democrats.
Well, it wasn't a very healthy situation, I didn't think. I will tell you why. I
think political competition is good. It is good for the candidates, but more im-
portantly, it is good for the country.
Our whole system, whether it is in commerce or in industry or whatever, is
predicated on the idea that competition is a better price, a better product to the
consumer.
As I travel around 25 years after that day that I was sworn in, I find that the
political environment in the South is a lot healthier, since we have a pretty fair
1271
