[720]
December 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
720
Letter to the Speaker of the House and Senate Committee
Chairmen Reporting on Discussions With Turkey on
Control of Opium Poppies. December 8, 1975
PURSUANT to Public Law 94-104, discussions have been held with the Gov-
ernment of Turkey on effective means of preventing diversion of the Turkish
opium poppy crop into illicit channels. These discussions continue long-standing
consultations between the Governments of the United States and the Republic
of Turkey on suppression of the illegal international traffic in narcotics.
The Government of Turkey is aware of our concern and that of other nations
of the world regarding the terrible plight of drug abuse. This concern has been
made known to successive Governments of Turkey by this and previous Admin-
istrations, by many other governments, and by the United Nations.
I have been encouraged by reports from our Embassy in Ankara, from the
Drug Enforcement Administration and from the United Nations, indicating
the Government of Turkey's efforts to keep poppy cultivation under effective
control thus far have been successful. I have received no evidence to date that
there has been any illicit diversion of the current Turkish crop.
When Turkey permitted the resumption of poppy cultivation in 1974, the
production of opium gum was forbidden and the poppy straw harvesting process
was adopted instead. At the same time, Turkey implemented stringent inspec-
tions and controls of the poppy crop. The poppy straw process makes control of
the crop much easier. It has been used successfully in several countries to facilitate
efforts to prevent illicit diversion from legal opium poppy growing areas. Turkey
has reissued the same control decree to cover next year's crop. We expect the
controls to be as effective as before, because of the introduction of more modern
communications and surveillance equipment and more experience in administer-
ing the controls.
The United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control has provided Turkey with
technical assistance in meeting the requirements of the poppy straw process. I
believe the United States should continue to support the good work of the United
Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control in its assistance to Turkey and other
countries in combating the diversion of legally produced opiates from legitimate
pharmaceutical uses.
I also share the views of the majority in the Congress that close bilateral
cooperation with Turkey is essential to prevent illicit diversion of poppy crops.
1962
