October 14
[630]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
controlled Congress that they take a good, hard look at how the Democratic-
controlled 90th Congress placed a ceiling on spending and at the same time
enacted an increase in taxes recommended by a Democratic President. That
was back in 1967.
This time I recommend to the Congress to place a ceiling on spending and
at the same time enact a tax cut. But let me illustrate how the 90th Congress did
it, and we are in the 94th Congress now. In December of 1967, the Congress
wrote into a continuing appropriations bill a provision reducing Federal obliga-
tions for 1968 by at least $9 billion and Federal spending by at least $4 billion.
And it worked.
In 1968, the same Congress enacted a 10-percent surtax on corporations and
individuals which President Johnson had requested. And at the same time, it
wrote into the legislation a $10 billion reduction in outlays for fiscal 1969 and
an $8 billion rescission of unspent prior year appropriations. It is just as simple
as that.
Tonight I say to the "Can't Do Congress," it can be done, it has been done,
why not do it for the benefit of America.
And if I might, let me be very specific on this point. If the Congress sends
me legislation that exceeds the spending limitations and threatens your tax cut,
I will not hesitate to use the constitutional authority available to me and will
veto that legislation.
Oh, I know that the veto has been described as a negative act. And I have
used it 39 times and saved, in the process, the American taxpayers $6 billion. I
will use it a hundred times, if necessary, to prevent excessive inflationary spend-
ing increases. And that is about as positive as you can get.
Let me explain why I don't think that a veto is a negative act. Our fore-
fathers, when they drafted the Constitution, and those from Connecticut par-
ticipated, they gave, in the Constitution, the right of a President to exercise the
veto. That is a constitutionally given authority, and the purpose is very simple.
Over the period of 180-some years many Congresses have passed legislation
hastily without adequate thought, consideration, made some mistakes. And 39
Presidents have exercised that veto authority given in the Constitution and said
to the Congress, maybe you better think about it, maybe you better take a little
extra time, maybe you ought to analyze and take another look to see whether
you made any mistakes. And if you think you haven't after a reasonable period
of time, you have the right to override that veto with a two-thirds vote.
But the forefathers that drafted this historic document thought that there
ought to be some authority to force the Congress to reconsider legislation. And
1705
