December 6
[711]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
their deep appreciation for the gracious hospitality shown them by President
and Mrs. Suharto and by the Government and people of Indonesia.
Djakarta, December 6, 1975.
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was released at Djakarta, Indonesia.
711
Remarks on Arrival at Manila, the Philippines.
December 6, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Marcos:
I thank you very kindly for the especially warm welcome that you have
extended to me and Mrs. Ford and to the American people. I have long looked
forward to visiting this beautiful country, which is renowned throughout the
world for its warm hospitality.
After your more than generous remarks, I now see that all these forecasts are
accurate and totally true.
I find it very significant that this visit to the Pacific nations should conclude
here in the Philippines, among some of my country's best and oldest Asian
friends. Our two countries, Mr. President, have shared a unique history—a
unique history together both in times of peace and in times of dire adversity.
The years of common history which bind us together provide a unique rela-
tionship of deep understanding and of deep trust which survives the test of
time. I am confident that that relationship will continue for many, many years
to come.
The past decade, Mr. President, has seen remarkable changes in the world
around us, yet that relationship between our two countries has deepened and
matured.
We meet today as sovereign nations, each with its own pride and with its own
independence. We meet as friends who have known what it is to fight shoulder
to shoulder for common ideals.
The days ahead, Mr. President, hold great challenges for our two countries
and also great promise. Your country is already moving out and exploring new
horizons, both in Asia and elsewhere.
Mr. President, I look forward to the opportunity of discussing with you freely
and very frankly the many and varied relationships between our two countries,
as well as to the future of Asia.
1941
