[742]
December 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Senate has acted favorably on such legislation. I urge the House to act expedi-
tiously so that, by the end of January, deregulation of the price of new natural
gas will have become law. But this isn't the only new legislation we need. For
example, our Nation needs prompt Congressional action to permit production
of oil from the naval petroleum reserves, to ensure greater energy efficiency in
our homes and buildings, to stimulate the commercial development of synthetic
fuels, and to permit greater use of nuclear power for generating electricity. I
will continue to press in 1976, as I have done in 1975, to see that all these pro-
grams and other elements of my comprehensive energy programs are enacted.
Having now built a foundation, we must maintain our determination to achieve
energy independence.
743
Statement Announcing Intention To Veto the Common Situs
Picketing Bill. December 22, 1975
I AM today announcing my intention to veto H.R. 5900, commonly known as
the common situs picketing bill. I and my principal advisers have thoroughly
analyzed the proposed legislation and all of its ramifications. The issues involved
have become the subject of much controversy, and I believe the matter should
be resolved as soon as possible. Therefore, I am taking the action of announcing
my decision now.
Actually the bill before me represents a combination of H.R. 5900, which
would overturn the United States Supreme Court's decision in the Denver Build-
ing Trades case, and the newly proposed construction industry collective bargain-
ing bill, S. 2305, as amended. During the development of this legislation I
stipulated that these two related measures should be considered together. The
collective bargaining provisions have great merit, and it is to the common situs
picketing title that I address my objections.
For many years I have been familiar with the special problems of labor-
management relations in the construction industry and sympathetic to all good
faith efforts to find an equitable solution that would have general acceptance
by both union and nonunion workers and building contractors.
Because this key industry has been particularly hard hit by the recession and
its health is an essential element of our economic recovery, I have been especially
hopeful that a solution could be found that was acceptable to all parties and would
stimulate building activity and employment, curtail excessive building costs,
r
1994
