[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
mendous increase in unemployment. We adjusted our economic policies to
meet that problem without sacrificing our effort against inflation.
We did have an increase of unemployment up to 9.2 percent-much, much
too high—but the last 2 months the unemployment figure has gone down from
9.2 to 8.4, and the most encouraging part is the fact that we have had an
increase in employment of about 600,000, as I recall the figure. That is the en-
couraging thing. We are putting people back to work even though the unem-
ployment figure is still too high.
Now, this is a very narrow line to follow of still trying to control inflation
and at the same time reduce unemployment. I can just assure you we are going
to follow a steady, firm, I think, correct policy to meet these two challenges.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
[2.] MR. DUKE. When you referred to a correct policy, Mr. President, I
would like to remind you that it seems to us that in the past 2 or 3 weeks we
have had an awakening, new concern that inflation may take off again, that
unemployment is going to remain quite high through the election year of 1976.
So, do you plan any new measures to deal with the economy?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have to make certain that the policies we have
undertaken are continued. Now those policies are what?
If we were to go along with the Congress that wants to spend a great deal more
money—I drew the line at a deficit of $60 billion—the Congressional figures are
up to $70 billion or $80 billion deficit for the current fiscal year-if we were to
go along with that kind of a deficit figure that the Congress proposes, I think
we would be in serious trouble on the reigniting of inflation. So, we are still
going to veto bills that accelerate expenditures in the Federal Government
beyond a reasonable figure.
On the other hand, with the restoration of public confidence by our, I think,
responsible action, I believe that we are going to regenerate industrial activity,
which means more jobs.
Now, let me take one aspect of the last 6 months. We have had the most rapid
inventory sell-off in the history of the United States. It is almost unbelievable.
The net result is that current inventories in many, many areas of the country, in
industries in the country, are down. So, they have to come up with additional
production to meet current daily demand.
With consumer confidence coming back the way it has—and all the pollsters
show that—I think our steady, firm, responsible course is going to meet the
challenge of inflation and unemployment. They won't be as good as we would
1122
