September 22
[582]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
year agreement to buy substantial amounts of American grain, a set amount as a
minimum and potentially more on an option basis.
This would help to equalize the purchases over a period of time instead of the
wide fluctuations where one year they buy very little, the next year they buy a
tremendous amount.
We think that a firm, long-term wheat or grain agreement with the Soviet
Union is good for the American agriculture, for the farmer, for the consumer.
It also will increase the, I think, effectiveness of détente between the Soviet
Union and the United States.
We hope to have an answer on this problem within the very near future, and
I might add that if it is signed, we will also get an additional benefit, and this
is important here in the Bay Area, the west coast, in that we will get a better
freight rate for American ships in the delivery or the shipment of American
grain to Soviet ports, which would mean that about 35 American ships would
come out of lay-up and go into the trade and provide more jobs for American
seamen.
So, it is a complicated but very intriguing and, I think, important negotia-
tion. I am optimistic that it will work out.
Q. Yes, but are you going to push for the oil since we need that so desperately?
Are you going to push for that?
THE PRESIDENT. That is another aspect, and there are discussions and there
are potential negotiations going on between the United States and the Soviet
Union, linking to some extent but not directly, grain and oil.
This is a much more complicated subject. We have plenty of oil today, and
an agreement with the Soviet Union for oil would be sort of a good insurance
policy in case there was an oil embargo from the Middle East.
If Russia has oil that it wants to sell, and we need some, which I think would
be a good insurance, I think it makes sense to try and get both a grain deal and
an oil deal.
GASOLINE PRICES
[9.] Q. Sir, on the subject of energy and oil, you fought long and hard for
decontrol of domestic oil, indicating that the rise in price would somehow help
us to conserve somewhat. How high are you willing to see the price of a gallon
of gasoline go before reversing that procedure?
THE PRESIDENT. It is higher than I would like right now. [Laughter]
On the other hand, it has to some extent helped us to conserve; it has helped
us to prevent the squandering of some of our energy sources.
I believe, however, that the price rise has gone sufficiently high, and if we
1515
