[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
602
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the White House
Conference on Domestic and Economic Affairs in Omaha.
October 1, 1975
Governor Exon, Senator Curtis, Senator Hruska, Mr. Kenefick, my old friend
President Woody Varner, members of the Cabinet, your good mayor, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor and a particular thrill to come
back to the town where you were born and meet with such friendly and a warm
reception from all of you.
Although I do have to admit I couldn't help but notice that ad in this morn-
ing's World Herald, the one that offered to trade eight tickets to this White
House Conference for standing room at the Nebraska-Miami game tomorrow.
[Laughter] If I had the time, I think I would make the switch myself.
[Laughter]
I am here today to listen and to learn. As a native of Omaha, it is good to be
back. Although I left when I was extremely young-I don't really remember
much about it—it is a privilege to be in Omaha. And I like what I see in 1975.
ECONOMIC AND ENERGY PROGRAMS
[1.] I am particularly pleased to be in the heartland of the United States.
And in this heartland of the United States, the American farmer has produced
a miracle of abundance which is the envy of the rest of the world.
Think of it. Less than 5 percent of our country's population feeds the re-
maining 95 percent, with enough left over to significantly supplement the food
needs of much of the rest of the world-the free world and that behind the Iron
Curtain.
Last year alone, the United States exported, as many of you know, nearly $22
billion worth of various agricultural commodities. Without these exports, our
country would have had a huge balance-of-payments deficit, our dollar would
have been weakened abroad, and we would be paying far higher prices for all
the imports that we get from many, many countries.
The American farmer not only raises crops but the facts are he raises the
overall standard of living of all Americans-214 million of us.
Yet, the American farmer has too often been made the scapegoat of many of
1564
