September 4
[526]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Let's talk about energy. You in the great State of Washington, of course, are
the beneficiary in one respect because of your great utilization of hydroelectric
energy. On the other hand, you are showing some vision in protecting yourself
with development of some of the newer sources.
But equally important, you are a very vital part of making certain that the
Alaskan pipeline is built on time and that great reservoir of oil that is there will
come to the Lower 48 on time. I am not going to quote the statistics—I am sure
that many of you are far more knowledgeable than I-but we in the Lower 48
are dependent on the contribution that all of you are making here in the State
of Washington in this regard.
The United States, on the broader sense, has a tremendous energy problem.
On the other hand, we could have an energy crisis overnight. Every day that
passes, the country as a whole is becoming more and more dependent on foreign
oil sources.
Our domestic production of oil, whether it is old U.S. oil or new U.S. oil, is
going down. Seventy-three was less than 1972; '74 was less than '73; and 1975
is less than last year. It is going down slowly but seriously, and as we have
less and less American production, we buy more from overseas.
Until we get alternative sources or until we find means of sufficiently con-
serving energy, our country could be extremely vulnerable tomorrow on foreign
sources of oil.
So, we have tried to promote in the Congress, I think, a comprehensive energy
program. It was a massive job to put it together, and it is a big proposal in words
and dollars—as a matter of fact, it is about 200 pages if we put all the bills
together. We sent it up to the Congress and said, "Here is a plan. We can have
energy independence in the next decade if Congress will pass this."
There were many hues and cries and critics. I said, "Well, if you don't want to
buy this, come up with your own plan." I am being not literal, but figurative:
The first week we had 535 plans in the House and the Senate. [Laughter]
We have winnowed it down now-Bob, how many?—about five or six.
But not one of those has been enacted into law, mine or any one that they are
proposing.
We are trying to negotiate in a responsible and reasonable way to achieve a
plan that is going to move. I met this morning with the Democratic and Re-
publican leadership before I came west. We are getting some cooperation from
some of the Democratic leaders. I hope we can get more. I think we can get sig-
nificant support from our Republicans, but if we don't, this country is making
1301
