August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
DÉTENTE
[5.] Q. Mr. President, my name is John Murry, and I am representing the
Milwaukee Society of the Polish National Alliance. And for the benefit of Mr.
Schmitt, he took my question. But I do have an alternate one. Regarding
détente-and I was assured that you would be willing to discuss it for a minute
or two-in our relations with other countries who do not agree with our
philosophies, Mr. President, are we relaxing too much, are we bending too much,
are we stretching ourselves out too much with the result, Mr. President, we
may become a follower rather than a leader in the world?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Murry, let me say this very emphatically: By negotiating
with the Soviet Union, whether it is on strategic arms limitation, whether it is
in mutual balanced force reductions of military personnel on both sides in
Western and Eastern Europe, or whether it is over any other questions, this
Administration is going to be firm and it is not going to be overwhelmed by any
negotiating techniques or programs of the opposition.
Détente is a two-way street. If we are able to get a strategic arms limitation
agreement, SALT II, it will mean that we will have put a cap on the strategic
arms race, which is in the best interests of both the Soviet Union and ourselves.
But at the same time, we must be able to verify their adherence to it, and they
must have a similar capability as to our compliance.
What I am really saying is that in SALT we have a unique opportunity to do
benefit to all mankind. But let me add a postscript. If we do not get a SALT II
agreement, it means that there will be an unlimited nuclear arms race between
the United States and the Soviet Union.
And what does that mean? One, more destructive power. It also means an
added $2 billion to $3 billion a year to the national defense budget for the United
States.
I prefer an honest negotiation between the Soviet Union and ourselves where
both countries and all mankind will be the beneficiaries.
JOB CREATION
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am Charles Parker, representing the Wisconsin State
Chamber of Commerce. All day today we have been talking about the need for
jobs. My question, Mr. President: Is there any chance of legislation that would
enable better capital formation, so that industry can grow in´such a way as to
provide an increasing number of jobs?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Parker, I made a speech this morning that in more detail
will answer the precise question you have asked. But I said at that time that we
1229
