[463]
August 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
peoples, to the interests of a general policy of co-
operation and peace in the world.
In the international sphere, change has been per-
haps even more important. It is true that funda-
mental changes have occurred in the manner people
judge events, but in particular in the ratio of forces
in the international arena.
Nowadays, I think that nobody—or at least very
few people-would regard as something strange or
interpret as a heresy a visit by the President of the
United States to Romania.
On the contrary, I would rather think that it is
being regarded as something that should be normal
for relations between states. This is the most telling
proof of the depth of change in international
relations.
That is why I take the liberty to say that the
first visit 6 years ago by the President of the United
States to Romania had a particular significance, not
only for the relations between our two countries but
also for the overall course towards détente and co-
operation in international terms.
The fact that two countries with different social
systems and different insights—to say nothing about
the differences between their heritage-were able to
make a contribution, each one related to what it
stands for, for the general course of peace, illustrates
that today cooperation among states and among
peoples, regardless of size, big and small, irrespective
of their social system, becomes a factor of particular
importance for the general course of events for en-
suring new policy based on equal rights and mutual
respect among all the nations of the world.
This time is the first visit of a President of the
United States to another country, after the successful
conclusion of the European Security Conference. I
should like to interpret this as an expression of the
beginning of the application of the points we have
underscored by our signature yesterday together with
the executives of the other participating states.
Of course, it just happened that this first visit was
in Romania, but maybe it now acquires a special sig-
nificance-maybe the significance that two states
with different social systems and different insights
are firmly determined to take action in order to carry
into effect things for which they had signed the day
before.
No doubt there are still many problems in the
world that await a solution. You mentioned them
in your speech yesterday. So did I. Distinct efforts
will still be required by all states in order to see to
it that new relations are built among states and
that the right of each nation is respected for a free
development, without fear of aggression, and to
ensure the rights of each people to choose its own
social system according to its own will..
There are problems in Europe. There are prob-
lems in Cyprus, in the Middle East, Africa, Latin
America, and Asia, but all of them could be
solved starting from this new precedent of ruling
out force, threat of the use of force. They could be
solved by peaceful means so as to give a happier
future to the people, and in particular we should
think of the future of our children, of our young
people, and of the total mankind.
We can hardly overlook the fact that the prob-
lems of disarmament are a matter of concern for
all peoples these days, but there are economic prob-
lems of most serious degree, the solution of which
requires close cooperation in order to solve them in
a way opening the road towards a new economic
order; towards the more rapid progress, in the first
place, of the developing countries; towards economic
stability ensuring the progress of all nations and a
world of peace and cooperation.
Mr. President, in a country which has won its
independence by long struggle, a country which has
seen for hundreds of years the rule of foreign domi-
nation and everything that is here has been
achieved by struggle and by work, by toil and
sometimes by renouncing things which were neces-
sary but could be spent in order to ensure economic
and social progress of the country to make sure
of its independence.
That is precisely why we hoped so dearly from
our hearts, our own independent development, and
that is why we understand so well the people who
now wage their struggle for independence, for eco-
nomic and social development consonant with their
own will.
The country is, I think, the decisive factor in the
process of building a better world, a world with
more justice and a world of lasting peace.
The peoples have reached great achievements in
the fields of science and human knowledge in
general. People now meet in the outer space and
see eye-to-eye.
I think we should also set ourselves the goal to
meet each other here on the Earth to understand
each other, to work together with each other, in
order to make it so that each nation can enjoy her
fruits of science, technology, the advantages of
everything that human civilization has created best.
It is in that spirit that Romania, my people, wish
to cooperate closely with the people of America, with
the United States of America, with all the peoples
of the world, starting from a conviction that only
on mutual respect and only on friendly cooperation
can we note the future of human civilization, can
we build the world of peace for all.
With the conviction that the future will see even
better cooperation between our two peoples and that
your visit, sir, is going to give a new impetus to our
cooperation, I would like once again to wish you to
feel at home here during your brief visit to this
country and to express my hope that at the appro-
priate time you might come again for a longer
stay.
1094
