November 9.
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. MONROE. Were you suggesting a moment ago that if Mr. Reagan enters
the New Hampshire primary, he should enter the Massachusetts as well?
THE PRESIDENT. I said affirmatively, Bill, that I think candidates ought to
present themselves to the people. They are the ones that should judge. And
entering some and ducking others I don't think gives to the American people
the options that they ought to have.
MR. MONROE. Mr. President, money is reportedly coming in slowly for your
campaign and Mr. Reagan is supposed to be quite strong in the first two pri-
mary States. Your finance chairman quit the other day. Conservatives are
bothered about Mr. Schlesinger leaving the Government. Wouldn't you concede
that you have some concern over where your campaign stands?
THE PRESIDENT. Frankly, it could be better. Dave Packard, I think, will con-
tinue on as helpful as he can be. He didn't realize that that job was really a
full-time position. We, of course, expect some ups and downs in any political
campaign. But as long as we keep a firm and steady hand on the tiller, which I
think we have, I believe the success of our programs, both at home and abroad,
will be more determining of the end result than some person not being able to
carry on as he indicated he could or would. The voters of this country will make
the final decision on the basis of success or failure of the programs that we
espouse.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Reston.
MR. RESTON. Following up on Bill's question, Mr. President, are you saying
that you are going to leave the question of what happens in this campaign to
the people at the primary level, that you would pull out if you were rejected
or ran behind Reagan in the primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I expressed very firmly in Massachusetts the other day, Scotty,
that I was going to enter every primary. I indicated today that I may not be
able to campaign in every primary. But I said very specifically in Massachusetts
that I will be in the contest at the Republican Convention in August in Kansas
City. I think that is a pretty clear statement that there will be no withdrawal
by me.
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
[17.] MR. RESTON. I have two other questions about procedure at the
convention. Going back to the time when Franklin Roosevelt died, when we
looked at the photographs after his death during the campaign of '44, it was
perfectly clear this was a dying man. Ever since that time there has been great
talk about whether or not the country should know far more about the physical
1831
