[663]
November 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
663
Address in Boston Before the New England Council.
November 7, 1975
Thank you very much, Ed King. Mr. Stotz, distinguished Governors, my former
colleagues in the Congress, Congressmen Silvio Conte and Margaret Heckler,
members of the New England Council, my old and very dear friend, the former
Speaker of the House, John McCormack, ladies and gentlemen:
I am honored to be with you at the 50th anniversary meeting of the New
England Council, marking a half a century of regional progress. Your council
has generated many instances of mutual cooperation that typify the Yankee
spirit of practical problemsolving. New England has had its ups and downs
since this organization was founded, but hopefully we have started on another
up, not only for New England but for the entire country.
The presence here today of six distinguished Governors-my good friends
Governor Dukakis of Massachusetts, Governor Grasso of Connecticut, Governor
Longley of Maine, Governor Noel of Rhode Island, Governor Salmon of Ver-
mont, and Governor Thomson of New Hampshire—is an added pleasure. I
have met with your Governors in Washington and individually on my various
visits to your beautiful States for Bicentennial and other purposes. I have tried
to educate myself about their problems and can assure you that each and every
one of them has been a very vigorous instructor.
While the problems of each State are different, even in New England which
has preserved its very unique identity since colonial times, the existence of this
council is proof of how many problems that you have in common. You demon-
strate the advantages of dealing with them with common resources and old-
fashioned common sense. You provide a showcase of cooperation that other
parts of our country can envy.
Of the many topics that I might discuss with you that are of particular im-
portance to New England, I am strongly tempted to speak of tàxation in the
immediate vicinity of Boston Harbor where American patriots first demon-
strated what to do about excessive and unfair taxes with deeds and not words.
Federal taxes are too high, and as you know, I have proposed a $28 billion tax
reduction for the next year, providing Congress will couple with it a $28 billion
reduction in the growth of Federal spending.
Congress seems a little cool to my proposal, some preferring a cut in taxes
without reducing a $50 billion growth in spending. But I would make this non-
1810
