December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
On the other hand, we have advisers within and without the White House
who are laying out policies and programs that are aimed not at the political side,
but at the nonpolitical side, that will be helpful in getting the nomination and
in being elected President. So, it is a combination, and it has been working over
the months. And I think it will produce results.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Callaway says that he has no point of contact here at
the White House other than yourself. Are you thinking of putting in some po-
litical operative here at the White House to handle some of this liaison?
THE PRESIDENT. I think he has had good contact with several of the top people
on my staff. He does have access to me. I have met with him in the last 6 weeks
about once a week. I get periodic reports as a matter of fact, weekly reports
from him. It is possible that we would have somebody of stature, well recog-
nized, who might be a contact for him as the year 1976 progresses.
RONALD REAGAN
[14.] Q. Mr. President, you, I think yesterday, indicated that Ronald Reagan
might be a Vice-Presidential candidate. I am wondering if that was in any way
an offer to him. Would you be willing to accept him as your running mate,
and do you have any indication that he would be willing to accept the Vice-
Presidential nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I phrased it this way: I said it was premature to make
any judgment as to any Vice-Presidential candidate. Then a follow-up question
came, I believe from Lou or David 2—I can't recall precisely how the question
was asked-but I said it was not inconceivable that Ronald Reagan could be a
Vice-Presidential running mate. It was a straightforward answer to a very
direct question.
Q. Well, let me ask it more directly then. [Laughter] He has said, as I recall,
that he did not want and would not accept the Vice-Presidential nomination.
Do you have any reason to think that he might be willing to change his mind?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no reason to go beyond his own words.
MRS. FORD
[15.] Q. Mr. President, what do you think of your wife's candid remarks in
terms of your election? And do you think that she has helped or hurt you? Are
you going to muzzle her or tell her to keep on talking? [Laughter]
2 Lou Cannon and David S. Broder of the Washington Post interviewed the President on board Air
Force One returning from Vail, Colo., on December 30. An account of the interview appears in the
Washington Post of December 31, 1975.
2011
