September 21
[579]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Obviously, from those that I know and from the record of Lester Rosen, you
are leaders of your communities. I commend your efforts as participants in
public service, including the political arena.
You and your policyholders have a big stake in responsible government, and
I urge you to continue and to expand this effort. And I can assure you from my
personal experiences with him on a number of occasions, you should be hon-
ored by the fine job that Governor Jim Longley of Maine has been doing and, I
am sure, will continue to do. That should be a stimulant to all of you to broaden
your effort for the public service in your community, in your State as well as in
your Nation.
What you do obviously is very important to this country. When you talk
insurance to people, you are getting them to think and to plan for their futures.
And when they take out insurance, they are not only providing for their fam-
ilies, for their family's security, but for the country's future as well, because
most of the premium money is reinvested by your companies in America.
Altogether, I am advised that these investments total more than $278 billion,
including $88 billion in mortgages on homes and commercial buildings. I look
upon this as an impressive vote of confidence by the insurance industry in the
future of America, and that is what it is.
Some economists call it capital formation, but I prefer a much more basic
term-job creation. This money helps to start new businesses. It modernizes and
expands our industries. It finances homebuilding. It adds up to one big plus for
America in the form of jobs. Savings, investment, jobs-those are the basic
ingredients that make our economy strong and healthy. In turn, they lead to
more savings, more investment, and more jobs.
There is a phrase in the jargon of economics which has always bothered me.
The phrase is “an acceptable rate of unemployment." As far as I am concerned,
there is no acceptable rate of unemployment. As long as there is one American
who wants a job and cannot find one, the unemployment rate is too high.
The human tragedy of involuntary unemployment cannot be measured by
the graphs, the charts, or the percentages which show up in a multitude of
government reports. How can cold statistics ever adequately portray the trauma
of a lost job, lost savings, and more importantly, lost pride? America's greatest
natural resource is its people, and I intend to see that this resource is not
endangered.
One of the prime goals of this Administration is to sustain the economic
recovery now underway and to put out-of-work Americans back on the job.
1489
