[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
But from Maine through the gulf coast, up the West, through Alaska, we felt
as citizens it was our concern. Do you foresee that this 200-mile limit could in
the near future be given some consideration?
THE PRESIDENT. I was asked somewhat the same question up in Maine last
Saturday, so I will tell you what I said then. The answer here will be precisely
the same as the one I gave there.
I believe in the 200-mile concept. The Law of the Sea Conference, which is an
international group, has been working on a comprehensive international treaty
or agreement aimed at solving not only the 200-mile limit but a number of other
very intricate and complicated points. They adjourned sometime last fall—early
this spring, I am sorry—and are reconvening in either January or February. Our
Government's position in this negotiation on a global basis is for a 200-mile
limit.
Now, in the meantime the Congress-in both the House and the Senate, we
have had unilateral actions taken by, or proposed, so that the United States
would establish a 200-mile economic zone regardless of what the Law of the
Sea Conference proposes.
It is my hope that, in light of my endorsement of the 200-mile concept, that
the Congress will wait and see if we can't get an international agreement obvi-
ating the need and the necessity for U.S. unilateral action.
I would hope that the Law of the Sea Conference would be concluded some-
time in 1976. We are going to fight for the 200-mile concept. I think we can
get that concept incorporated in the Law of the Sea Conference.
So, therefore, I urge that the Congress slow down a bit until we have been
successful-and I think we will be-in the Law of the Sea Conference.
COAL
[6.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Leo Bodine. I am president of the Idaho
Association of Commerce and Industry. My question roots to a problem that is
developing within our State, the State of Idaho, as indeed it is elsewhere about
these United States, that of a budding energy shortage. The question also roots
to an awareness of a generally conceded fact that there is an awful lot of coal
abundantly available to us as an alternate fuel. So I ask, what do you see as
necessary to substantially increase the use and reliance upon coal to provide
energy and what can be anticipated in the way of a timetable for the accom-
plishment of that objective, assuming a greatly increased use of coal can be
conceded to be an objective?
THE PRESIDENT. In a normal year for the last several years—and I say “normal”
1310
