September 12
[557]
Gerald R. Ford; 1975
But you have an opportunity in the State of Missouri in 1976 to send a first-
class, outstanding, young, attractive, articulate United States Senator, and I cer-
tainly hope you do precisely that with Jack Danforth.
Gene Taylor is a man of quality. He has done a fine job. But we need a little
quantity from the State of Missouri in the House of Representatives, and I think
Gene would like it, and believe me, it would be a great addition to the House
of Representatives if you could add from our side of the aisle some new and
equally attractive, articulate, able people. It would help us in 1977, 1978, in
trying to do some of the affirmative things that must be done if we are to change
some of the directions, if we are to move ahead.
And so, in those areas where there may be some vacancies for one reason or
another, this is a unique opportunity to get some good candidates and to support
them in the field, in the precincts, with adequate and proper financial support.
So, I urge that Missouri again have more than just one [Republican] Member
of the House of Representatives.
I couldn't be happier that we are having our convention here in the Middle
West-Kansas City, Kansas, or Kansas City, Missouri. Aren't you all one
family? You worked hard to get the convention.
I must tell a story. The good Governor more or less alluded to it, but I am
told—I am not repeating what I said—but I am told that yesterday on the floor
of the House of Representatives that the Democratic majority leader from the
State of Massachusetts got up and started to ridicule the Republican decision
to come to Kansas City, and he alleged that it was a mistake because the last
Republican Convention held in Kansas City nominated Herbert Hoover.
[Laughter]
But then my successor in the House of Representatives as the minority leader,
a good Kansan Middle Westerner who now lives in and represents Arizona,
got up, and he said he understood why the Democrats were going to New York
City. New York City was in serious financial problems, better known as “Debt
City," and that was identical with the philosophy of the Democratic Party.
So, we are pleased and honored to be invited, and I am especially pleased to
know that we will be out here in August, and we look forward to seeing you
then, if not before.
Now let me, if I might, talk for just a few minutes about some of the problems
we have, some of the areas where we have made some headway, and where we
have been very frustrated and have made little or no success.
Thirteen months ago when I became President we had a serious inflation
problem-12 to 14 percent on an annual basis. We were on the brink of a
1411
