November 14
[676]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
676
Remarks at North Carolina Central University.
November 14, 1975
Thank you very, very much, my old and very dear friend, Governor Jim
Holshouser. Dr. Whiting, Dr. Friday, Dr. Cousin, students, faculty, and guests:
I am most appreciative and deeply touched with the honor that you have
granted me today. And let me thank all of you most sincerely for making me a
part of the distinguished family of North Carolina Central University. I am
most appreciative, deeply indebted, and very grateful. I thank you for your
warmth, your spirit, and your enthusiasm. This is one Eagle who is really flying
high today. [Laughter]
May I congratulate the touring and concert choirs, Mr. Gilchrist, the narrator,
Mr. Simmons. The rendition of that piece dedicated to Martin Luther King—
"Precious Lord Take My Hand"--was beautifully done. And I thank you very,
very much.
But I just wonder if with your generosity you realize what a busy, busy day
you have made for me on Saturday, November 22. Normally, I would spend
that whole afternoon rooting for the Michigan Wolverines to try and beat
Ohio State. But this year, as an NCCU alumnus, you can bet I will also be
rooting for the Eagles to beat A&T [North Carolina A&T State University].
[Laughter]
It is a great pleasure and a distinct honor for me to be with you as you observe
the 50th anniversary year of the founding of North Carolina Central University
as a State-supported liberal arts institution. Your university became the first
State-supported liberal arts school for blacks in the Nation.
Since then, graduates of North Carolina Central have made a mark in almost
every walk of American life. I am sure that those of you who now are students
will ultimately do the same. The pursuit of excellence, whether in a classroom
or on the football field or in politics, is no stranger to your alumni and to your
students—names like Maynard Jackson, mayor of Atlanta; Ronald Barbee,
first black Republican Superior Circuit Court Judge in the State; Aaron Spauld-
ing, a member of my staff at the White House; high hurdler Lee Calhoun, the
two-time Olympic medal winner, who is presently head track coach at Yale
University; Charles Foster, world premier hurdler; Ronnie Ray, who won two
gold medals at the 1975 American games in Mexico City and who currently
holds the 400-meter world record; and certainly not last in any competition, your
1859
