November 7
[663]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
partisan observation to the descendants of the participants in the Boston Tea
Party: If they won't do anything about your taxation, maybe you ought to do
something about your representation.
I could also talk about energy and the economy, because they are inseparable
and both are acute problems in this particular area. It has been my continuous
effort to keep the unique situation of New England in mind as we endeavor to
reduce our national dependence on unreliable foreign oil.
New England has a unique energy problem in your dependence on oil for
heat and for power. It is my hope that you can take a new look at the bill I
recently submitted for a Federal energy independence authority. It would help
New England, especially by supplementing and encouraging private capital
investment to meet your growing energy needs.
New England's proposal for an energy research and development institute is
being closely studied, and I am impressed with your plans to tap such alterna-
tive energy sources as solar, wind, ocean thermal gradients, waves, and tides.
I believe New England should support natural gas deregulation. While New
England does not consume much natural gas, it has much to lose by keeping
prices artificially low in interstate commerce. Your traditional New England
industries such as paper, leather goods, textiles, electronics, and plastics are
highly energy-intensive. But the high cost of oil and electricity is steadily driving
these industries out of your region. Industry is moving where gas is abundant
and relatively cheaper although uncontrolled.
Although most economic indicators suggest that we have already been on
the road to recovery for 6 months, I recognize that such statistics are small
comfort to Americans who are still without work in areas of high unemploy-
ment such as New England and my own State of Michigan. We must not
allow a resurgence of inflation which robs both the employed and the jobless.
I am determined to keep inflation under control by every means possible, in-
cluding my veto power over inflationary Federal spending.
But I have decided to talk about another topic, one of supreme importance
to all Americans and indeed to the world, that is, the national security posture
and policy of the United States as I see it.
It is entirely appropriate to discuss defense in New England, in Massachu-
setts, in Boston, because it was here that Americans first took up arms in defense
of their personal liberties and their national independence.
My last visit here was on the 200th anniversary of the signal from the Old
North Church to Paul Revere and his companions who carried the warning
to embattled farmers of Lexington and Concord. I said then and I say now,
1811
