[469]
August 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the policy of nonalignment, Yugoslavia
deavors and we shall continue to do so in the
future to strengthen the spirit of cooperation be-
tween our peoples, to consolidate mutual confidence,
and to build such international relations in which
independence, equality, and cooperation among all
peoples will come to more and more expression.
I wish, Mr. President, to assure you that the
talks I had with you gave me great satisfaction. I
hope that you will have again the opportunity to
visit our country, to stay a little longer, and to get
better to know our people and the effort they
make in the building of a better life.
I would like, Mr. President, that you convey to
the American people the feelings of sincere friend-
ship of the peoples of Yugoslavia and our wishes
for further prosperity of the United States of
America.
I raise this glass to the good health and personal
happiness of you personally, Mr. President, of Mrs.
Ford, and your family, to the health of your asso-
ciates, to friendship between our two countries.
470
Remarks to Members of the Belgrade City Assembly.
August 4, 1975
Mr. Mayor and members of the Assembly, distinguished members of govern-
ment, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to again be in the "White City"
on this occasion, as a resident of the White House.
Twelve years ago, Mrs. Ford and I were privileged and honored to be in
Belgrade. At that time, I was a member of the Interparliamentary Union. As
a delegate to this international gathering, we were formally received not only
by the people of Belgrade but we were entertained and equally made welcome
by the delegates from your parliament. As a member of the American delega-
tion, I participated in the various activities and speeches that were made in your
parliament building.
Equally important, Mrs. Ford and I had an opportunity to visit Skopje and
also to visit Dubrovnik.
I would like to say with great emphasis, we found in our 10 days in Yugoslavia
the great warmth and cordiality of the people of Yugoslavia. We saw the cul-
ture and read about the tradition of your great country. And as the mayor has
pointed out, the long, long history of relations between the United States and
Yugoslavia has been a building block for the progress that has taken place in
the last 10 and 15 years.
This is a firm foundation that has been expanded by people-to-people ex-
changes, by officials from communities in Yugoslavia visiting officials and com-
munities in the United States and vice versa. Of course, the personal contacts
between top officials in your government and in mine have made our bilateral
relations better and better. The working together by your government and mine
1106
