[440]
July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
and I look forward to the further discussions that I will have with you here, as
well as in Helsinki, so that your country and mine and the rest of the world will
be the beneficiaries.
Thank you very, very much.
REPORTER. Mr. President, what made the first meeting run 30 minutes past the
scheduled time?
THE PRESIDENT. The question was, what made the first meeting run 30 min-
utes past the scheduled time.
I guess the best answer is that we got so intrigued with the discussions on the
various important matters that we forgot to look at the clock.
THE CHANCELLOR. Or the coffee was that good. [Laughter]
Q. Did you discuss the Turkish situation, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I did bring the Chancellor up to date on the very un-
fortunate development in the House of Representatives last week. I indicated to
the Chancellor that we were deeply disappointed and that we were working
with some of the leaders in the House of Representatives trying to see whether
or not it would be possible in this coming week for the House of Representatives
to reconsider the action that it took last week.
We have not come to any conclusion in that regard but we, of course—the
Secretary of State and myself—are not only disappointed with the action, but
I believe the American people will now see the net result of that action with the
closing of the American bases in Turkey and with the Cyprus negotiations prob-
ably set back.
I am deeply disturbed, and we will maximize our effort, as I told the Chan-
cellor, to try and get a change in the House of Representatives.
Q. What is the possibility of a vote being taken in the House of Rep-
resentatives?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not come to any conclusion on that because we
haven't firmed up any course of action with the Democratic leadership in the
House of Representatives, and of course, they are crucial in this situation.
Q. Did the Chancellor make any specific recommendations in the economic
field to you?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, did the Chancellor make any recommenda-
tions in the economic field.
The Chancellor and I agreed that it was vitally important that the economic
policies of Germany and the European Community be integrated with our own
economic policies. We will further discuss in the meetings that are coming up
more of the specifics, but we did exchange information as to the circumstances
1046
