August 2
[460]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
about a new agreement, one that is going to make it much more difficult to
police?
The President. The closing of the bases in Turkey by the Congressional
action makes it more difficult for us to adequately gather the necessary intelli-
gence which involves our security. There are, to some extent, alternative bases,
but they would cost a great deal of money and they would involve some other
negotiations between other parties.
I just don't think the Congress understands the problem. They want to close
the bases, they want it to cost more money, they want to handicap our capability,
and it makes no sense at all.
Q. Well, you are going to propose building some new bases? Is that what
they have to do, give these bases?
The President. No, I am going to continue my determined fight to remove
the arms embargo, solve the Cyprus question, get our intelligence bases in Tur-
key reopened in full operation so that our security in the future is as good as
it was in the past.
MUTUAL AND BALANCED FORCE REDUCTIONS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, do you find the Russians are prepared to talk now
about negotiating reductions of arms in Europe, conventional arms as well as
nuclear—in other words, the negotiations known as mutual and balanced force
reduction?
THE PRESIDENT. I have read and listened to Mr. Brezhnev's speech. I was im-
pressed with speeches that were made by many others during the CSCE meet-
ings. I am convinced that we can, now that the European Security Conference
that we can make more meaningful progress in MBFR.
is over,
Q. Did you discuss that in your conversations with him the second time?
THE PRESIDENT. We discussed it in a very limited way because we concen-
trated on our SALT negotiations.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, you said earlier that you have to convince your peo-
ple, as the Russians have to convince their people, of the wisdom of the SALT
talks. Do you think that the American people need much convincing about
SALT?
The President. I am convinced the American people want their President,
their Government, to make responsible and safe agreements. On the other
1083
