[553]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
the future and change the new for the better. It is in our hearts to forgive wrong.
It is in our hands to reshape those wrongs into right. Let us together accept the
spiritual, moral, social, and economic challenges of America's third century.
Together, we will fulfill the heritage of those who came before us. Together,
we will open up new horizons for millions of Americans not yet born. To-
gether, we will serve one another, our country, and our fellow men and women.
Together, we will fulfill our common national future.
God bless you and thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. at the
Henry W. Kiel Auditorium. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Dr. Joseph H. Jackson, president, and
Dr. O. B. J. Burson, director, both of the National
Baptist Convention.
554
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the
White House Conference on Domestic and Economic
Affairs in St. Louis. September 12, 1975
Thank you very much, Kit. Lieutenant Governor Phelps, Congressman Taylor,
members of the Cabinet, the Administration, ladies and gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and pleasure to be here in St. Louis, the "Cross-
roads of America," and this very attractive Riverfront Towers. I have been in
St. Louis a good many times in the past, and it really is a change. I can recall
rather vividly when big events in St. Louis were held at the Spanish Pavilion.
[Laughter]
I do want to thank Secretary Mathews and his alma mater.¹ I expected to
come to Missouri and have to give some odds to Kit on the forthcoming game
between Michigan and Missouri. I think the situation is reversed. [Laughter]
And we will have some negotiating to do later on, but my bargaining position
is infinitely better.
Let me thank you all for being here. I had some prepared remarks which I
have thrown away. I just want to get to the questions and the answers.
ENERGY AND ECONOMIC PROGRAMS
[1.] These White House Conferences which have been held in a number of
major communities throughout the United States are aimed at the fine people
¹On the previous weekend, the University of Alabama won a football game against the University of
Missouri. Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare David Mathews was an alumnus and former presi-
dent of the University of Alabama.
1388
