July 25
[435]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
223-206 vote in the House of Representatives, Turkey has today announced
actions which I believe will work to the detriment of critically important U.S.
security interests.
In view of these damaging developments, I urge the House of Representa-
tives to reconsider its refusal to restore the traditional U.S.-Turkish defense
relationship. Prompt, affirmative action by the House of Representatives is
essential to the vital national defense interests of the United States, our partners
in the Eastern Mediterranean, and our allies in the Atlantic Alliance.
435
Special Message to the Congress Requesting Additional
Funds for the Food Stamp Program. July 25, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Due to the existing law which invites almost unlimited expansion of the
Food Stamp program, the cost of the program has nearly doubled in the past
six months. The unemployment rate has also been a factor in the increase. To
continue the Food Stamp program for the remainder of this fiscal year, I am
forced to ask the Congress for an additional $3 billion over the $3.8 billion which
I requested in my budget submitted in February.
Accordingly, I am today transmitting to the Congress a budget amendment
requesting these additional funds.
The flaws in the existing law easily can be seen. Only 10 years ago, there were
fewer than 500,000 people participating in the program at a cost of $36 million.
Today, the number of participants has expanded to 20 million and the cost to
$6.8 billion. Furthermore, if all those presently eligible under current law sud-
denly signed up for the program, estimates are that between 40 and 60 million
persons would be receiving food stamps.
In short, what has evolved in just 10 years is another massive, multi-billion
dollar program, almost uncontrolled and fully supported by Federal taxpayers.
Some claim that the Food Stamp program cannot be controlled and that ever-
increasing costs are inevitable. I refuse to accept that proposition. Every public
program is controllable. The Food Stamp Act was placed on the Statute books
by the Congress which has the power and authority to amend the law.
Earlier this year, I submitted a proposal which would have required all
participants in this program to pay a proportionate share of their total income
for food stamps. This plan would have continued assistance to those in need and
1037
