[511]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
The basic thing that everyone is trying to do is to provide quality education.
There is a difference of opinion on how you achieve quality education. My
personal view is that forced busing by courts is not the way to achieve quality
education. I think there is a better way.
We have had court-ordered forced busing in a number of communities. There
are studies that indicate that it has not provided quality education for the young
people, which is our personal concern.
I think there is a better way to do it. In my judgment, if the courts would follow
a law that was passed, I think, 2 years ago, or maybe 2½ years ago, it said that
in those areas where you have a problem in seeking desegregation, the court
should follow five or six rules. Busing was the last option.
There were five other proposals that courts could have followed, guidelines
that the courts should have followed, and I think we would have avoided a lot
of this conflict. That is one way I think we could have solved the problem. The
other is the utilization of Federal funds to upgrade school buildings, provide
better teacher-pupil ratios, to provide better equipment. That is the way, in my
opinion, we achieve what we all want, which is quality education. I just don't
think court-ordered forced busing is the way to achieve quality education. I
think there are better ways.
APPROPRIATIONS VETOES
[7.] Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up on that, you have come up with an
alternative. But it would seem that because you were afraid of inflation, you have
vetoed bills for more aid to education, you have vetoed bills for more public
service jobs. So, are you prepared, you know, to turn around on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Arthur, let me just clarify something. The appropria-
tion bill concerning public service employment that you say I vetoed—let me
give you the history of it so the matter is clarified. I recommended $1,900 mil-
lion—$450 million for summer youth employment and the remainder, which is
roughly a billion and a half, for public service employment. The Congress
loaded it up with $3 billion in nonessential spending. Sure, I vetoed it. When
the Congress saw that the veto was sustained, they came back and virtually
approved what I sent up there in the first place. So, we had $2 billion in summer
youth employment money, and we had public service employment money.
Now, the education bill. The education bill that I submitted in January for
the budget that started July 1 had more money in it for education than any other
year in recent years. We increased it over previous years. Again, the Congress
loaded it up with some programs that I think can't be justified if you are going
to have any fiscal responsibility. I hope the Congress sustains that veto, because
1266
