September 30
[596]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
-allow individuals to examine records pertaining to them and establish
procedures for correcting those records;
—take steps to ensure the accuracy, timeliness, and security of records that
concern individuals, and to limit records-keeping to necessary and lawful
purposes.
This act also provides special safeguards whenever the rights of citizens to
free speech and expression are involved.
Before this act, even the Federal Government did not know what information
it kept about individuals. The act, therefore, required Federal agencies to first
inventory their records-keeping systems and identify those which contained
information about individuals, and to publish a listing of these systems in the
Federal Register. That task is now complete.
The magnitude of Federal records-keeping has been far greater than anyone
imagined. There are more than 6,000 Federal record systems containing per-
sonal data about them.
Compliance with this act will involve many people. Every Federal official
who either creates, keeps, or uses personal data has responsibilities under this
act. I urge every member of the executive branch to reexamine the record
systems in their custody and determine if all are necessary. Keeping only an
essential minimum of these records is the most effective protection we have
against further incursions by the Federal Government into the private lives of
Americans.
596
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the J. Edgar Hoover
F.B.I. Building. September 30, 1975
Mr. Attorney General, distinguished Members of the House and Senate, my
former colleagues, Al Cederberg, John Slack, Senators Eastland, Pastore, and
Hruska—and I see in the audience some others—it is wonderful to see you all
here on this occasion-along with the distinguished Director of the FBI, the
Administrator of the General Services Administration, ladies and gentlemen:
Obviously, I am tremendously pleased to join all of you in the dedication of
this truly magnificent building. It symbolizes the role of the FBI as the bastion
of Federal law enforcement under the Department of Justice. It honors the
memory of a pioneering public servant who served as Bureau Director for
nearly 48 years.
1541
