October 27
[642]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
nation in the Middle East. The quality and the growth of relations between
Egypt and the United States during the past 2 years give us a deep satisfaction.
Your visit to Washington, Mr. President, is a symbol of the new dimensions
of our relationship. Egyptians and Americans in all walks of life have estab-
lished ties of friendship and cooperation in many areas of mutual benefit, build-
ing an historic tradition.
We seek, with every nation of the Middle East, a relationship which is bene-
ficial to the interest of both sides. We are pleased, Mr. President, that our
objectives coincide with yours.
You have clearly stated your desire for a peace that will permit you
and your
countrymen to turn your energies and your resources to the improvement of
life in Egypt. And we are proud to work with you toward that goal.
During your visit, Mr. President, you will find that many of our people have
come to know you through news reports and through the many interviews you
have granted so graciously to representatives of our media, to Members of our
Congress, and to many other Americans. Your sincerity, your moderation, and
your wisdom have made an impression on all who have come in contact with
you.
I am delighted that your visit to Washington and to other American cities
will permit more of our people to know you personally. You will find Amer-
icans deeply concerned over the issues which are important to you-peace and
justice in the Middle East-issues which are vital to the future of the whole
world.
We are delighted by this opportunity to show the depth of our respect for
you and for the Egyptian people, and to demonstrate our dedication to the high
ideals shared by Americans and Egyptians.
On behalf of the American people, Mr. President, and as a personal friend, I
welcome you to the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:17 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where President
Sadat was given a formal welcome with full
military honors. President Sadat responded as fol-
lows:
Mr. President:
It is a great honor to me to meet with you again
after we have met last June in Salzburg. It is a great
honor for me to meet with you here and to meet
with the American people for whom my people
cherish always admiration.
Since we met last June, there has been great
events. And I must say in full frankness, that what
you have already, in the name of the people of the
United States, what you have done and what you
have strived has made it possible that great events
happen in the area where we live, where it is the
most dangerous area in the whole world. Great
events have taken place in our area since our meet-
ing, thanks to you and to the people of the United
States that are behind you in seeking peace based
on justice.
It is a great occasion for me and for my people
also to get to know each other, and I must, on
behalf of the Egyptian people and of the delegation
and myself, I must thank you, Mr. President, for
the warm welcome that you have given us since we
1723
