[657]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
me the kind of team that I think can carry out and execute a continuing, success-
ful foreign policy.
DÉTENTE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Secretary Schlesinger has expressed publicly some
apprehension about détente. And I wonder if you can give us some assurance
that the United States is getting at least as much out of it as the Soviet Union is?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me assure you that my record in the Congress and as Vice
President and as President has been one of strength in national security affairs,
in international relations. I believe that in our attempt to ease tensions between
the Soviet Union and the United States, we have achieved a two-way street, and
I believe that the policy that I will follow, the team that I have, will continue that
policy in the future.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, would you expect, sir, that the Central Intelligence
Agency, under Ambassador Bush's tenure, would continue to have the same
relationship with the Congressional investigation as during Mr. Colby's period
in office?
THE PRESIDENT. The Central Intelligence Agency will continue its policy of
notifying the responsible committees in the Congress as to developments. They
have done it in the past; they will continue it in the future. I can see no change
in the relations of the Central Intelligence Agency with the Congress under Mr.
Bush different from what they have been under Mr. Colby.
Q. Specifically, sir, as the Church committee continues its investigation, your
instructions to Mr. Bush would be to cooperate fully with that investigation?
THE PRESIDENT. I have given that word to Mr. Colby. He has carried it out in a
very responsible way, and Mr. Bush will continue that policy.
Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling, Jr., Christian Science Monitor].
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[9.] Q. Mr. President, how do you make a high-level personnel shift of this
kind, such a fast shift? Did you ask for suggestions, or did you do this largely
on your own?
THE PRESIDENT. I did it totally on my own. It was my decision. I fitted the
pieces together, and they fitted excellently. It was my decision.
Q. With Mr. Rumsfeld, who is involved in your decision, would he have had
any input into the overall decision?
THE PRESIDENT. He did not.
1796
