October 30
[650]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
passed the ultimate test of the recuperative power of an American city. Local
courage and local determination prevailed. The reconstruction of San Francisco
was not a Federal bailout; it was a local undertaking. [Laughter] It was the
work of dedicated San Franciscans.
American cities which are now quaking from financial fears arising from
faults in their own fiscal policies can today profit from the example set by San
Francisco. California actually has shown the world what Americans can do. It
has demonstrated the unique California spirit of "can do" and the unique
Republican spirit of "can do." I have a full, full confidence in the capability of
the American economic system to come back, just as San Francisco demon-
strated that a city can come back. We have had a tough 14 months in this country,
economic problems that would have discouraged many and caused expedient
answers to problems that needed to be solved by sound solutions.
Last January, in my first State of the Union Message to the Congress, I re-
ported, as Don and Andy know, that the state of our economy was not good.
Today I can say that our economy is moving up, not down-forward and not
back. And that is because of good policies and dedication and strength of the
American people. And I thank 214 million Americans for standing steady in
their great adversity.
Let me cite a few examples, if I might. Our gross national product for the
third quarter increased in real terms—to an annually adjusted rate of 11.2 per-
cent. This was the greatest quarterly increase since 1955.
The industrial production index rose at an annual rate of 20 percent between
June and September, and some recently released figures indicated that pro-
ductivity in our society has really surged forward under the stimulant of a free
enterprise system and the competition that we face from abroad, as well as with
ourselves.
The total number of people employed went up between March and September
of this year by 1,769,000. This is real progress. It means a paycheck and dignity
to 1,769,000 individuals, to their families, and real strength to the entire American
economy.
Unemployment dropped from 9.2 percent in May to 8.3 percent in September.
Let me say categorically, emphatically, there is no rate of unemployment that I
consider acceptable as long as any American wants to work and can't find a
job. But unemployment is going down, and it will continue to go down with
the kind of right, solid policies that we are pursuing in the Nation's Capital.
Inflation has been reduced from an annual rate of 12.2 percent in 1974 to 6.8
percent so far in 1975. We have reduced the rate of inflation by almost half. That
1763
