[699]
November 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion for polar bears consisting of a prohibition of hunting, killing or capturing
the mammals subject to specified exceptions. It also provides for the countries
involved to cooperate and consult with each other on research involving man-
agement and conservation of polar bears.
This agreement implements one of the mandates of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act of 1972 which, in Section 108, calls for development of bilateral
or multilateral agreements for the protection of marine mammals, including
polar bears. No legislation is necessary to implement the agreement, since the
protections of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 exceed the require-
ments of the agreement.
In addition to being the first international agreement to focus on the con-
servation of polar bears, this agreement is the first to be negotiated by the circum-
polar nations exclusively. I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable
consideration to this agreement.
The White House,
November 28, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The agreement and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive I (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
700
Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol to the
Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Treaty).
November 29, 1975
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting for the Senate's advice and consent to ratification the
Protocol of Amendment to the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance
(Rio Treaty) signed at San Jose July 26, 1975. I also am transmitting, for the
information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to
the Protocol.
The signing of the Protocol of San Jose was a major development for the Inter-
American System and a reaffirmation of the importance of our own relationship
with the countries of Latin America. The Amendments, taken as a whole, do not
alter the Rio Treaty's fundamental thrust; rather, they are for the most part
constructive changes which will make the Treaty more flexible and politically
viable in the years ahead.
1920
