[695]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
City to prevent a default," end of the quote. What has happened in the interim,
sir, to make you change your mind? And secondly, do you regard your pro-
posal as a Federal bailout of New York City?
The President. The answer is very simple. New York has bailed itself out,
because on October 29, when I made the speech before the Press Club, it was
anticipated that on June 30 of 1976, there would be a cash deficit of $3,950 million
in the New York City situation. Under the plan that I have embraced, on
June 30, 1976, New York City will have a zero cash balance. So New York City,
by what they have done in conjunction with New York State, with the note-
holders, with the labor organization, the pension fund people, they have bailed
out themselves.
Q. The private sector will not invest in New York City apparently because
they think it is too great of a gamble to invest any longer in New York City.
Can you tell us why you are willing to risk Federal money in investing in New
York City when the private sector thinks the risks are too great?
THE PRESIDENT. Unfortunately, because a period of 10 or 12 years where the
finances of New York City have been badly handled, there has been a loss of
confidence in the private money markets. In order to get New York City to
restore their credibility in the money markets, they have taken these steps which
have eliminated $3.95 billion cash deficit. And by the fiscal year that begins
July 1, 1977, they will be on a balanced budget basis.
Therefore, in the interim while they are restoring their credit credibility, I
decided that it was needed and necessary to give short-term financing on a
seasonal basis. This, I think, is what we can do without any loss of taxpayers'
money. And let me show you what the precautions are that we have taken.
We have said that the money will be loaned to New York City at a rate no
less than the Federal Government borrows itself and with the option of the
Secretary of the Treasury to impose an additional up to 1 percent on the city
when they do borrow from us. And secondly, we include in the legislation a
lien for the Federal Government, so that the Federal Government has a priority
claim against any other creditor for the repayment of any seasonal loan made
by the Federal Government.
The net result is the Federal Government will be held harmless and the tax-
payers won't have to lose a penny, and the city of New York will straighten out
its fiscal situation.
Q. That is a pretty good deal-1-percent loan. What will you do tomorrow
when other mayors around the country call up and say, "Mr. President, how do
we get in on that?"
1906
