October 1
[600]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
preting apparatus and as a result also weakened our defense posture. If this is
true, what is being done to shore up our intelligence and our defense?
THE PRESIDENT. I am disturbed about the actions that are being taken by some
to expose some of the past operations of the Central Intelligence Agency and our
intelligence-gathering capability generally.
On the other hand, I think the Congress has a responsibility in a proper way
to investigate the intelligence community of the Federal Government. I have
been disappointed in some respects.
On the other hand, you may have heard that this morning I came to an agree-
ment with Chairman Pike on a method by which we can handle declassified
material. The vote was 10 to 3 in that committee, which shows that we are work-
ing together to handle these delicate matters together, in a proper way.
Now in the meantime, or prior to that, I appointed the Rockefeller Commis-
sion that investigated the allegations of improper domestic spying by the Central
Intelligence Agency. They made some recommendations to me. The Murphy
Commission did the same.
The net result is, sometime in the very near future I will make specific recom-
mendations to improve the internal workings of the Central Intelligence Agency
and the other intelligence groups, and they will not only be administrative but
legislative proposals.
In that way, I think we can restore confidence in the public for the CIA and at
the same time lift the morale of the CIA, which unfortunately has suffered in
the last few months.
Under no circumstances—and I want to be very clear on this-will I permit
the dismantling or the destruction of an intelligence agency or community, be-
cause that does involve our national security.
FOOD EXPORTS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, do you believe that the United States should ever con-
sider a position of using food as a weapon or at least as a bargaining agent against
oil cartel countries in order to lessen this Nation's dependence on those countries?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't put it that way. I think the great agricultural
productivity of this country can be used affirmatively, one, for humanitarian pur-
poses, and if my recollection is accurate, we, over the past 10 years, provided
some $20 billion of P.L. 480 to help many nations in a humane way.
In addition, we can use discretely and properly our surpluses for other rea-
sons—and I don't want to expand “for other reasons”—but it is better to put it
1555
