October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Now, it is just ridiculous to have two agencies of the Federal Government
telling the same person, the same organization, to do things differently. We are
trying to straighten it out. The Congress has promised to help. I can assure you,
we are going to keep the pressure on.
Woody Varner, a part-time Michigander. [Laughter]
EDUCATION
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am a full-time Nebraskan now, I can assure you.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. A has-been Michigander. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, as you know, I am president of University of Nebraska.
Let me first, on behalf of the educational community, tell you how pleased we
are with your choice of David Mathews as Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare. As president of the University of Alabama, he had a distinguished
career, and we are satisfied that he will bring those same great skills to your
Administration and to the service of this country.
Let me add on a personal note this has been a very satisfying day for me,
because this is the first time since the Nebraska-Alabama football game in the
Sugar Bowl that Dave Mathews has spoken to me. [Laughter]
The President. He had a bad Tuesday after that first Monday. [Laughter]
Q. I understand the timing of his resignation at the University had something
to do with that Missouri football game. [Laughter]
Mr. President, I think all of us are impressed with your response to John
Kenefick's question about helping in the regulatory end of the business com-
munity. We have similar problems in the educational community. We did a
survey at our institution a few days ago and were shocked to discover that by
what we think is a conservative estimate, we are spending between $200,000 and
$250,000 a year in manpower in filling out Federal forms and reports.
While we recognize there must be some surveillance from the Federal part-
ner in education, we wonder if it might not be in the interest of efficiency and
the educational community and good government to give some consideration to,
not in the spirit of proliferation, but in the spirit of consolidation, consider the
creation of a separate department of education to deal with our problems?
THE PRESIDENT. I know there have been a number of recommendations in that
regard. And since the formation of HEW, back about 1954 or '55, if I recall cor-
rectly, the amount of money and the responsibility of HEW has just exploded.
As a matter of fact, David Mathews' department spends more money than
1569
