September 10
[543]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
542
Statement on Senate Action Sustaining Veto of a Bill
To Extend Domestic Oil Price Controls. September 10, 1975
I COMMEND the Members of the Senate who sustained my veto of S. 1849
which would have extended price controls on domestic oil for another 6 months.
Today's vote was not an Administration victory. In the long run, it could
well be a victory for homeowners who use heating oil, for drivers who buy gaso-
line, for factories and utilities which consume fuel to power their machinery,
for farmers who use fuel to run their equipment and dry their crops—for all
Americans who depend on energy for their jobs and comfort and prosperity.
In sustaining this veto, the Senate took its first step toward curbing never-
ending fuel price increases and our growing dependence on foreign oil pro-
ducers. It is an important step toward producing more domestic fuel.
The American people should be gratified—and the foreign oil producers
should be aware that America is starting on the road to energy independence.
I am confident that the people of the country are ready to walk that road.
I hope and trust that after these many months the Members of the Congress
are ready to move ahead on a program for national energy independence.
If the Congress wishes to achieve decontrol more gradually, I will work with
the Members to achieve that objective. If not, the legislation which I have sub-
mitted today will ensure an orderly and fair transition away from price
controls.
There is a lot of work to do to make America energy independent. Let's get
on with it-together.
543
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception for the National
Republican Club of Capitol Hill. September 10, 1975
Nelson and Happy, Harold and Chuck, and of course Betty:
Let me say at the outset that I am delighted to be here and I am most grateful
and deeply appreciative of how many of you have come from many, many
States-I certainly can't count them on both hands.
I have met so many downstairs and up here who have come a long distance-
north, south, east, and west-and for your efforts let me assure you I can't ex-
press deeply enough my gratitude and appreciation.
1361
