August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that your Administration has kept from the public an important study—nega-
tive study about international atomic safeguards. Today Secretary Kissinger is
engaged in delicate negotiations in the Mideast which will involve certain
commitments on the part of the United States. These commitments and, in fact,
others made elsewhere in the world can have profound implications on our
citizens. My question is, Mr. President: Will you, as President of the United
States, assure us that any commitments made here or elsewhere in our negotia-
tions with foreign governments be reported truthfully and in full detail to our
citizens?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me assure you any participation that the United States
has in the negotiations between Israel on the one hand and Egypt on the other,
any involvement that we have or any prospective involvement will be submitted
to the Congress, whether it is dollars or otherwise, because the Congress in this
case, under this Administration, is either going to be a partner in it or they are
going to reject it.
We are not going to have any indecisiveness as to whether the Congress ap-
proves or disapproves. They are going to be a partner in it, and they will have
to vote yes or no. This is the only way I think we can make sure that both the
executive and the legislative branches of the Government work together and
are on the same team.
Now, I am not going to prejudge what those terms are, because they are very
delicate negotiations at the present time in the Middle East. But whatever is
agreed to by them, the Egyptians or the Israelis, where we have any involvement,
will be sent to the Congress. They will have to vote yes or no as to whether they
support them. This is the only way to do it.
THE NATION'S MOOD
[15.] Q. Mr. President, I am Robert Foote, representing the Greater Mil-
waukee Committee, and we appreciate the efforts that you and your Administra-
tion are making to turn this country back to the people. After a few of these
White House Conferences across the country, how do you now judge the mood
of the people? Are we ready to go to work solving our own problems, or do you
think we are going to continue to ask for more help from big brother, more and
bigger government?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is a greater recognition today than at any time
since I have been in the political arena-which goes back to 1949-that the
Federal Government is not the answer to all the problems that beset individual
Americans, States, or local units of government.
1237
