August 25
[501]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE CONGRESS
[5.] Q. I think one thing that worries them, too, is they see a Democratic
Congress, a Republican administration, and on our major issues, we have stale-
mates now. Do you see any way out of this?
THE PRESIDENT. I wish I could give you a pat answer. Unfortunately, in some
areas there is good cooperation, but in other areas we have a stalemate.
In the energy program, there is a head-to-head stalemate. I have a program to
solve our energy program. It has been on the desk of the Congress for 8 months
now, but no action.
I said, if you don't buy my program, if you won't enact what I have recom-
mended, come up with something else. At least, have a program as an alternative.
Regrettably, they have not either approved mine and they have not come up
with an alternative. Now, that kind of a stalemate is intolerable. I tried to phase
out the control of old American oil by first a 30-month phaseout and then a 39-
month phaseout in an effort to compromise, but the Congress rejected both offers.
I honestly think we have got to find some way. Otherwise, if we don't have
an energy program to make us self-sufficient over the next 10 years, we become
more and more vulnerable every day to the whims and fancies of foreign oil
cartels, and that is not good for the security of the United States.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[6.] Q. Mr. President, Secretary Kissinger is in the Mideast and reportedly
very close to working out an agreement in the Sinai between Israel and Egypt
that may include the stationing of Americans between the two forces. Do you
find that there may be some sort of a backlash if that were attempted, from
either Congress or the American people?
THE PRESIDENT. What I say in answer to that question, I don't want to be
construed as an affirmation that that is going to happen. There have been rumors
in the newspapers, and I have heard it on radio and television, so what I say
does not confirm or deny that as a possibility.
There has been talk that there would be American civilians, very limited in
number, who would operate technical warning stations in a U.N. zone. As I
say, that has not been decided. It has been rumored.
If it does materialize, I think it is my responsibility, if I approve it and it
does take place, to submit it to the Congress for the Congress to say yes or no.
We aren't going to have any more action by the President not joined by the
Congress. They have to be a partner in this kind of an operation if it does
materialize.
1219
