September 4
[525]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
have seen Members of the House come and go like Greyhound buses, and Joel
has done a fine job, and you have a good investment in him. I hope and trust
that Joel will continue his fine service representing this State.
I am not going to say anything about Bob Packwood, because we are going to
Oregon later this afternoon, and I don't think you have got many votes up here.
[Laughter] But anyhow, I was in Maine and Rhode Island this past weekend
and one thing I noticed was that in both cases they had young, vigorous, active,
Republican State chairmen. And it is going to make a difference in those two
States, and those are tough States for us.
Let me congratulate Ross Davis, who has an equal enthusiasm and drive. I
know that Ross will work wonders for your party, and I congratulate you on
his leadership.
From the many times that I have been privileged to visit the State of Wash-
ington, I know that Washingtonians as a whole are some of the most inde-
pendent-minded people in our great country. I appreciate that, and I am
grateful that we have this solid group of independent thinkers and workers
and doers.
But I also believe that the Republican Party has a lot to say and a lot to give
to the independent-minded voter in America today. So I suggest that we reach
out and welcome in the independent-minded voter in Washington and else-
where. It should be a great marriage, but we ought to make the initial overture
and gesture. I believe that they will respond.
It seems to me that the independent voter is deeply concerned more with
the future of his country than with the fortunes of one political party or an-
other. That independent thinker is concerned with economic progress, energy
independence, national defense, the pursuit of justice, the protection of society
in America.
He wants a good education, good housing, good health care, and good food
for his family—and at prices that he can afford.
These are very basic concerns that affect all of our lives regardless of our
political persuasion. These are the elements that help determine the quality of
our private lives, far more determining the issues for political debate.
Improving the quality of life in America is the great challenge that we face
as we enter our third century of independence just 10 months from today.
In our first 100 years, our most urgent goal was to establish firmly and very
securely a system of government and an order of society that would safeguard
our liberties and allow progress to flourish in our new land. Our freedoms and
1297
