September 30
[598]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think we should emphasize our differences with the opposition rather than
discrediting other Republicans. Let's start winning elections rather than winning
arguments.
You know, I have read a lot of columns and articles lately about the future of
the Republican Party, and many of them, you might say, gleefully pessimistic.
They cite the dwindling percentages of voters registered by both major parties
and the increasing number of Americans who prefer to call themselves Inde-
pendents. They conclude that the two-party system is just about dead. And I
don't believe that. I think it has worked so well in America. We darn well better
preserve it for the good of the country.
For my part, I believe our Republican Party will bounce back dramatically in
'76 as we did in 1966. And some of the Members here, or former Members,
know how tough it was January of '65, how, by hard work, organization, good
financing, we came back and made tremendous gains in the House as well as
the Senate 2 years later. I say this not because we possess any monopoly of
political wisdom and virtue, but because we are moving to meet the deeply
held desires of the American people.
For fiscal responsibility in government, for firm but restrained leadership in
foreign policy, for domestic tranquillity at home, for freedom in personal
decisionmaking, for practical commonsense solutions to long-range problems
facing us across the spectrum, the American people are not only good people,
the American people are very smart people.
Neither the Republican Party nor any other party can repeatedly sell them
a bad bill of goods. They won't buy it. They may be fooled once, but they will
learn. If they get the simple truth and the plain facts, they will make the right
decisions.
I think we can say that regardless of where we go in the city of Chicago, or
in the suburbs, or in downstate Illinois, or in my State of Michigan, in Detroit
or the Upper Peninsula, or elsewhere, the American people won't buy political
doubletalk forever.
Now, I have been traveling around this great country trying to talk straight
to the American people. I have also done a great deal of listening. If I were an
orator, perhaps I could say more eloquently what I foresee for America. If I were
a poet, perhaps I could sum up more movingly what I hear. Being what I am,
I can only say that two-way communication with my friends and fellow Amer-
icans is, for me, an essential part of doing my job properly.
I intend to keep my communications open, not in any foolhardy spirit, but
by every prudent and practical means. I have complete faith in the good will
1551
