[586]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
ernment. Colombia's friendship with the United States is characterized by the
mutual respect each of our two nations has for the independent ideas and
sovereign integrity of the other.
As a respected intellectual, author, and statesman, Dr. Lopez has been a
champion of the idea that relationships between nations must be based on the
rule of law, nonintervention, and respect for national sovereignty.
He voiced that conviction in an address to the Council on Foreign Relations
in New York, in January of 1974, when he said, and I quote: “For a country like
ours, there is only one guarantee for survival: the effective application of inter-
national law, a deep sense of human solidarity, and the principle of self-deter-
mination of nations."
Your visit, Mr. President, is timely indeed. The nations of the world face
pressing issues in international trade, in monetary policy, and the challenges
of explosive scientific and technological progress. The problems of peace,
justice, hunger, inflation, and pollution can no longer be solved by each nation
alone.
Each of us now is caught in the same tide of world events—consumer and
producer, rich and poor, powerful and weak. We must, therefore, work to-
gether for the solution of our problems. We must step up our efforts to modern-
ize and strengthen our hemispheric relations.
The nations of Latin America share the same intricate web of social, political,
and economic elements which comprise the civilization of the Western World.
At the same time, they share the problems of developing societies elsewhere in
the world.
All of these circumstances provide an important bond linking our two nations
which have a long, long tradition of friendly relations based on respect for each
other's sovereignty and independence.
That is why I have invited President Lopez to visit Washington. We have
much to talk about. I look forward to our frank and candid discussions. We
expect to examine carefully our bilateral relations and their probable future
course. We will review together the issues of current concern in the inter-
American system and the alternatives that open into the future. We will discuss
world issues of particular concern to our two countries.
I know that the intellect and statesmanship of President Lopez will further
our common quest for constructive solutions and mutual understanding.
And so, as you say, Mr. President, bienvenido.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. in the
East Room at the White House. Due to inclement
weather, President Lopez was given a formal wel-
come with full military honors at the North Portico.
President Lopez responded as follows:
1524
