December 22
[741]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to establish appropriate criteria for his certifications to assure that the intent of
the legislation in this regard is properly and carefully carried out.
Another concern about S. 1800 grows out of the provisions designating the
Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities as an agency for the purpose
of administering the indemnification program. Under existing law, the Council
is essentially an advisory body. This bill, however, would assign executive func-
tions to the Council. Thus, its members must be officers of the United States.
In this regard, four of the current statutory members of the Council-the Sec-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Director of the National Gallery of
Art, the member designated by the chairman of the Senate Commission on Art
and Antiquities, and the member designated by the Speaker of the House—
are not appointed in the manner prescribed in the Constitution for appointment
of officers of the United States. Furthermore, the conversion of the Council from
an advisory body into an executive agency for the purpose of the act would
place the Congressional member of the Council in violation of the constitutional
prohibition against Members of Congress holding civil offices of the United
States.
However, I am approving S. 1800 since these surface constitutional defects can
be cured by Executive action. Under the authority vested in me by the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 to change the member-
ship of the Council to meet changes in Federal programs or executive branch
organization, I am today directing that, because of the constitutional provisions
noted above, the four Council members previously mentioned shall not serve
as members of the Council when it acts as an agency in carrying out functions
under this act.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1800 is Public Law 94-158 (89 Stat. 844).
741
Remarks Upon Signing the Energy Policy and Conservation Act.
December 22, 1975
THE TIME has come to end the long debate over national energy policy in the
United States and to put ourselves solidly on the road to energy independence.
We cannot afford continued delays. We cannot afford prolonged vulnerability
to foreign producers. We must act.
It is in that spirit that I have decided to sign the energy bill just passed by the
Congress. While this bill is only a beginning, it does achieve several major
1991
