September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But unfortunately, Congress decided that we would keep low prices and end
up with no natural gas. That is not a very sensible solution, but that is what is
going to happen. Isn't it better to pay a higher price and have adequate gas,
particularly if you want jobs and industry? But nevertheless, we have a real
crisis coming up this winter.
Now, there are some things that are being done by the Federal Power
Commission, and hopefully by the Congress, to meet a short-term emergency.
Now, to get to your problem, there are two proposals, one, the trans-Alaskan
natural gas pipeline and the other, the so-called McKenzie trans-Canada pipe-
line for natural gas.
The application of El Paso—which is the Alaskan or trans-Alaskan pipeline—
is before the Federal Power Commission now. And I understand that some of
the others are intervening to object to it. So, it is before the Federal Power
Commission. I do not think, under the circumstances, that I should interject
myself or our Administration in that proceeding.
We want them to act, but I don't think we-since they are an independent
regulatory agency—I don't think we should be a participant in the proceeding.
Now, I did meet with a Canadian energy boss—or whatever his title is—
[laughter]-Mr. Macdonald up at the dedication of the Libby Dam in Montana,
which is a joint project between Canada and the United States. I talked to
him about it, because the trans-Canadian project is under the jurisdiction of
his Government and he has some authority.
But they have a similar situation. As I understand it, there is a study now
going on before their comparable Federal Power Commission as to whether
the trans-Canadian line is the better procedure. His Government won't interfere
with that proceeding.
Just what the outcome will be in light of the hearings and action or potential
action before the two independent agencies, I think we can't make any
judgment.
I am familiar with the problem. There may have to be some legislative action
taken such as we did in the case of the Alaskan pipeline. I am not saying for
sure that is needed, but we aren't going to let it languish and linger and get
no answer.
I am not prejudging which is the right answer, but we are not going to let
it sit there and have no action. We have to have a decision, whether it is in the
Federal Power Commission or in the Congress.
1321
