August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think, doing as well as we possibly can, looking at the overall economic cir-
cumstances we face.
Now, let me assure you from the point of view of a person that grew up
during the Depression, went to school, worked, I have great personal under-
standing for those who are out of work for reasons beyond their own control.
The programs that we have tried to implement-the unemployment com-
pensation program that I mentioned to Mr. Schmitt, where we have extended
the coverage and lengthened the period, plus the programs that we have insti-
tuted to stimulate the economy; the housing program, where we have invested
roughly $12 billion, as I recollect, under the tandem plan, is beginning to have
an impact in the construction business, not as much as we would like.
But as you look at the spectrum of programs that I have approved, working
with the Congress, I am optimistic, not only for the overall improvement but
for the specific improvement of job opportunities for young people, the minori-
ties. And if we don't go off the deep end with a lot of programs that cost a lot
of money that will increase inflation, I think in the months ahead you will be
pleased with the results.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Shirley Crinion. I am representing the
League of Women Voters of Wisconsin. The League believes that foreign aid
giving should be primarily a response to humanitarianism rather than to fur-
ther United States security goals. To what degree do you support the separation
of military and developmental aid?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in many instances they, of necessity, have to go hand
in hand. In some cases, military sales, military grant aid is essential without any
economic assistance.
On other occasions, I believe that humanitarian aid through the PL 480
program, the vast amounts of money that we have made available in foodstuffs
from the American farmer-I think it is $25 billion, Earl, in the last 10 or
15 years—in some instances humanitarian aid with food can stand on its own.
In other cases, I think they have to be intertwined. They are mutually com-
plementary. So, I think you have to take each case on its individual merits—
some cases only military assistance, some cases humanitarian aid, some cases a
combination.
I don't think you and I can write a prescription for the whole world, all the
countries in the world that the United States has helped. I think we have to
look at each case on an individual basis.
1231
