September 13
[560]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
named the first and only honorary member of your sensational Mustang Band.
All I can say is, I have always been proud to be a Ford. In the future, I will be
even more proud to be a Ford Mustang. [Laughter]
I am honored to address this opening autumn convocation beginning the
historic year of SMU's 60th anniversary as well as your participation in the
national Bicentennial.
I am extremely pleased to congratulate your new President, Dr. Jim Zum-
berge. As he indicated, I have known Jim from his very first days as first presi-
dent of Grand Valley State College in Michigan in the district that I had the
honor of representing for some 25 years. He started that school literally from
a cornfield, and now through capabilities and experience and talent, it is great
to see him here as the new president of this great university.
I knew Jim not only as a distinguished educator and scientist but as an
American who believes in the possibilities of the human individual. I am confi-
dent that under his presidency, SMU will instill into the Bicentennial year a
vision of the future—a vision that typifies the great State of Texas and this
distinguished university which has done so much to demonstrate what is right
with America. And I have no doubt whatsoever that Texas will instill in your
distinguished new president an even greater appreciation of what is right with
Texas.
I have always felt very much at home in Texas, because I admire so much
of the Texas spirit and Texas accomplishments. There is a touch of Texas in
all Americans, and I am not immune to the stardust cast by the Lone Star State.
In Texas everything is possible. And there is just enough Texas optimism in
me to believe in America—to believe that in America not only is everything
possible but our fate as a nation is in our own hands.
The prophets of gloom and doom have predicted that the quality of life in
America will worsen, that democracy as we know it is finished, that we face
economic collapse, that we are either being poisoned by the food or will starve
to death, that criminals are capturing our cities, that the President of the United
States is no longer safe in greeting citizens in the Nation's communities, that
if the earthquake doesn't get us an ice age will. I strongly reject such pessimistic
scenarios.
I would like to share with you today something of my own vision for the
future. I would build upon our proud past.
In America's first century we developed political institutions responsive to the
people. A great nation was painfully consolidated with unity growing from
diversity.
1423
