[565]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
the past and will in the future provide for that survival—as I indicated at the
outset, these items were on a list open for discussion between the United States
and the Israeli Government.
Q. Mr. President, is the United States moving towards a security treaty with
Israel? This document which we read in the Post suggests quite a close, more
formalized defense relationship with Israel.
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't say a security treaty. I would simply reiterate what
I have said before, that historically the United States has supplied Israel with
very substantial military weaponry, and it is our plan to do so in the future.
But there is no firm commitment on any of the weapons that I think got the
headlines this morning. They are merely open for discussion.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in one of your early press conferences you expressed
approval of the CIA activities in Chile as something that they have done his-
torically. Now you are quoted as saying you may be open-minded on whether
the covert activities of the CIA ought to be kept in the CIA or separated from it.
What has caused you to change your mind, if you have?
THE PRESIDENT. Since that comment in either the first or second press confer-
ence, we have had the Rockefeller Commission report, we have had the benefit
of the Murphy Commission¹ recommendations. I have had the various depart-
ments and agencies of the Federal Government that have any jurisdiction analyze
those recommendations. And we are now in the White House itself taking into
account all of the proposals, and we'll make legislative recommendations to the
Congress and we'll propose some administrative changes.
I think you have to certainly benefit from these exhaustive investigations, but
I don't want to make any commitment one way or another until we actually
submit the legislative proposals to the Congress and decide to do whatever we
want to do administratively.
Q. I'd like to clear up one point, though. Are you ruling out political activity
by American agencies, or is it just a question of whether the CIA would do it
or some other agency would do it?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't rule out necessary political activity by the United
States if it involves our security.
ISRAEL
[4.] Q. Sir, part of this agreement with Israel involves our providing them
with oil either through foreign credits or giving oil to them from our own
1 The Commission on the Organization of the Government for the Conduct of Foreign Policy, chaired
by former Ambassador Robert Murphy.
1436
