September 11
[549]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in the Soviet Union right now trying to make a long-term sales agreement that
will mean that they will buy from us, not in sporadic, erratic ways, but con-
sistently, this great natural resource which we can use for humanitarian as well
as diplomatic purposes.
So, I think it is a good deal not only to sell it--but it is conceivable, it is possible
that we can use wheat in a negotiation for oil. And I would not rule out the
possibility that that might materialize.
MR. GOBLASKAS. Mr. President, with the primaries approaching, do you see
this campaign for Mr. Wyman as a possible test of your strength among the
voters of New Hampshire?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I came, Dave, on this beautiful day in New Hampshire
to do what I could to help my friend, Louis Wyman. And on the other hand, it
is delightful to start in Keene and end up in Portsmouth to get reacquainted with
some people I knew a good many years ago and, at the same time, to make some
new friends.
I intend to be up here next March. I like the people of New Hampshire, and
I will probably ask you for your support then. But today I want you to help
Louis Wyman, and I hope you will.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:39 a.m. at the studios of WSCV and WSLE-FM.
549
Remarks in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
September 11, 1975
Louis, Governor Thomson, distinguished guests:
At the very beginning, let me apologize for being late. We have had just
unbelievable crowds beginning in Keene and running all the way across the
State, west to east.
I just appreciate, beyond any words that I can express, my gratitude for your
patience, your understanding, and your warm and hospitable reaction to our
coming in at this time.
This trip to New Hampshire has been a great lift, and it has been a lift because
I am convinced that the people of New Hampshire are interested in having their
election decided by them and not by the politicians in Washington, D.C.
It was my privilege to come to your State Capitol in April and to urge at that
time that the right answer was by the people and the wrong answer was by
the politicians in the Nation's Capital. You have that opportunity now. You
1369
