[480]
August 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am confident that his achievements will speak for themselves in the months
and years ahead. I look forward to working closely with Dr. Mathews, as I
have with my good friend, Cap Weinberger, to whom we all wish the very
best.
I am sure all of you join with me in wishing David Mathews the very best
as he assumes his heavy, new responsibilities as Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:24 p.m. in the
auditorium of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare. Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice
of the United States, administered the oath of office.
Secretary Mathews' response to the President's re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 847).
481
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Counsel to the President
William E. Casselman II. August 8, 1975
Dear Bill:
In accepting with real regret your decision to leave government, effective
September 19, 1975, fully understanding your reasons, I cannot let this anniver-
sary pass without expressing my deep gratitude to you for your loyalty and dedi-
cated service as Counsel both as Vice President and President.
We have been through some tough times together. I have been fortunate to
have your advice, assistance and unstinting effort for almost two eventful years.
You can be proud of your fine contributions not only to my administration but
throughout your career in government extending back to our first association in
the House of Representatives.
As a fellow lawyer who reveres the law as the bulwark of all our liberties, I
wish you great success in the practice of our profession. More personally, let me
thank you for your kind and generous observations about the first year of my
conduct of the Presidential office and extend, on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself,
warm good wishes to Caroline and you.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable William E. Casselman II, The White House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
NOTE: Mr. Casselman's letter of resignation, dated
August 8, 1975, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Since December 10, 1973, it has been my priv-
ilege to serve you both as Legal Counsel to the Vice
JERRY FORD
President and as Counsel to the President. There
is no greater responsibility or higher honor that can
be afforded a lawyer in government, and I am im-
mensely grateful for the opportunities for public
service which you have given me. However, as
1140
