November 26
[695]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
QUESTIONS
NEW YORK CITY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I notice that you don't put any dollar figure on the
amount of the loans that you would be offering. I wonder if you could supply
us with a figure, and also, why were loans necessary rather than loan guarantees?
THE PRESIDENT. The amount in the proposed legislation, which is a maximum
ceiling-not necessarily would they have to go up to the ceiling-but the figure
is $2,300 million per year, all of it to be repaid at the end of each fiscal year.
The reason we made it a loan rather than a loan guarantee is very simple.
It is a much cleaner transaction between the Federal Government and the State
and/or the city. If you have a loan guarantee, you involve other parties. And
we think it is much better, we have better control over it, if we make it a
direct loan from the Federal Government.
INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING ACTIVITIES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in view of recent revelations, are you fully satisfied
that you are aware of everything that the CIA does since you became President,
and do you accept full responsibility?
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International],
I certainly hope that I am fully aware of everything the CIA is doing. I can
assure you that if I am not fully informed, I will welcome any information that
people may have that I don't know about. But I have specifically asked for all
information that I think I need concerning matters of the CIA.
Q. Can you say what steps you are taking to guarantee that the American
people will never again learn that a Federal agency plotted on the life of a
foreign leader or tried to defame a domestic leader like Martin Luther King?
The President. I have issued specific instructions to the U.S. intelligence
agencies that under no circumstances should any agency in this Government,
while I am President, participate in or plan for any assassination of a foreign
leader. Equally emphatic instructions have gone to any domestic agency of the
Federal Government and/or the CIA, or intelligence agencies, that they should
not violate the law involving the right of privacy of any individual in the
United States.
NEW YORK CITY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, in a nationally televised speech before the National
Press Club on October 29, you said, and I quote, "I can tell you now that I am
prepared to veto any bill that has as its purpose a Federal bailout of New York
1905
