December 6
[712]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The visit of any American President to Asia and,
more particularly, to the Philippines has often gen-
erated within the framework of our relationship
great expectations. We in the Philippines, Mr. Presi-
dent, see in your visit a similar and historic rela-
tion to those of your predecessors and also see in it
the response of America to these new challenges of
the new situation in Asia.
We have watched with admiration your efforts to
establish this climate throughout the world which
would ensure safety for each and every one. We
think we understand the vision which has prompted
you to go through this global itinerary that has
brought you to many continents.
Your visit to Asia seems to be in this direction. By
this visit you have raised to a new stage the pro-
gram, the effort to build a new international order
and confirmed our faith that Asia retains and
enjoys up to now a high priority in the American
purpose abroad.
But beyond the broader significance of your visit
to the American links to the future of Asia is its
significance to us, for it is of great moment to the
Philippines. You come at a time when we seek
readjustment of our relations. You come at a time.
when we must convert the weaknesses of such
relations into areas of strength.
Again, we are encouraged by the candor and the
generosity of spirit and of the mind with which
you deal with these subjects.
We in the Philippines, Mr. President, are engaged
in an earnest effort of social transportation, eco-
nomic development, political modernization, and
like any small, developing country, of course we
are sensitive to sovereignty, independence, dignity,
national identity.
We seek to broaden our contacts with the world,
and yet we do not intend to diminish the ties that
have sustained us for many generations, including
the ties with the United States.
We seek to establish a self-reliant nation, hopefully
strong in its defense and prosperous in its economy.
When we welcomed you this afternoon, Mr.
President, I said America's destiny is that, while
she alone may not be able to solve the problems of
the world, certainly there is no serious problem of
the world that can be solved without America.
This is the burden of the American people, and
this is the weight of responsibility upon your
shoulders. We, the Filipino people, do not intend
to add to your burdens. It is our hope that we shall
be able to carry our own weight and contribute,
no matter how modestly, to the solution of the
problems that confront the world and America.
As it is that while we pursue our programs for
economic development and for security, we do not
seek any special advantages, but certainly we hope
that we shall not be disadvantaged by the special
positions of other trading nations.
If by virtue of any arrangements of treaties there
should be deliveries to our country of foreign equip-
ment and technology, we seek arrangements and
understandings wherein we shall so build our
capability that in the future this will render obsolete
and unnecessary farther and future deliveries of mili-
tary aid to our people.
If there is any valid and noble contribution that
the United States can make to the small, developing
countries of Asia, perhaps it is the development of
the indigenous capabilities of these nations in order
that they may meet any threat to their security with
honor and dignity.
Yes, Mr. President, it is our dream to establish
a country that is self-reliant. It is our hope that as
we do so, we can-with this same self-reliance-
say our strongest and most dependable ally is still
the United States; for our treaties of security we do
not interpret to mean, nor is it the policy of our
Government, to call upon American foot soldiery to
defend our soil.
It shall be the firm result of our Government and
of our people that we shall defend our own soil
with our own troops. It is the firm resolve of the
political leadership of this country and of our people
that we shall so strengthen ourselves by the exer-
cise of political will that we shall be able to meet
any internal or external threat.
In this manner do we see, can we contribute to
the solution of the problems of the world and lessen
the burdens of our ally and partner, the United
States of America.
If we believe in the commitments of the United
States, it is not because America has not suffered
any setbacks for it has-but it is because whatever
be those setbacks the new leaders have always
sought to enrich and renew such commitments.
We see in your leadership, Mr. President, the
constancy of such commitments and the vigor of
the American imagination to meet the complex
problems that threaten the lives of nations and the
survival of humanity itself.
We have listened to you, we have watched you,
and you have proved this with your words and
with your actions and shown the quality of the
energy that you have imparted to this great en-
deavor.
It is, therefore, with great affection that we say,
Mr. President, we, the Filipino people, pray for your
success.
So, ladies and gentlemen, I now request you to
join me, to rise and join me in a toast to the con-
tinued success and health of the President of the
United States of America, the prosperity of the
American people, and the strengthening friendship
between the United States and the Philippines.
1945
