[557]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
are going to be responsible for the increasing vulnerability of this country to
foreign oil cartels.
Now, I would rather have an answer than a political issue, and we have gone
the last mile, we have gone better than 50 percent trying to get an answer, and
in all honesty, so far there hasn't been any progress on their part.
Well, we have got another 60 days, or we are about to get 60 days. I can recall
vividly in, I think it was February, they pleaded with me to give them 60 days,
they would pass an energy program. That 60 days passes. Then they wanted
another time limit. Then they wanted another time limit. And the net result
is zero.
Well, all I am saying is the American people are smarter than the politicians.
They know we have an energy problem. They know we have to do something
about it. They won't tolerate being vulnerable to foreign sources, and we are
going to get it somehow, someway, because America needs it, and America
deserves strength at home in the energy field.
Now, let me, if I might, talk about something that some of our columnist
friends have written about. They have said I have vetoed 37 bills passed by the
Congress, and they make it an evil thing.
I am glad I did because I think we have achieved some higher degree of
fiscal responsibility in vetoing. Some people allege that a veto is a negative act.
I am sure you have been accused of that, haven't you, Kit, that you are against
progress, that it is negative and, therefore, something awfully evil about it.
First, let me say that in the Constitution of the United States there is the
authority given to the President to veto, so it is a constitutional right of the
President. And our forefathers were so wise to give that veto authority constitu-
tionally, because every once in a while a Congress acts very irresponsibly, and a
veto is a power given by the Constitution to tell the Congress maybe you made
a mistake, maybe you ought to take a little time and think about it, maybe you
ought to correct the error that you made, and oftentimes it works out that way.
Let me give you one concrete example. Sometime early in the spring I rec-
ommended $1,900 million for a summer youth program and a public service
employment program. The Congress took 1.9 billion recommendation by me
and added $2 billion, with a whole batch of totally irrelevant logrolling, pork-
barrel projects. So, I vetoed it. It was sustained in the House of Representatives,
and they came back with virtually the bill that I recommended.
Now, we have done this on a number of occasions, and the net result, accord-
ing to the statisticians, is we have saved $6 billion in taxpayers' money. I think
that was worth the effort.
1414
