[620]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
from many, many people all over the country, and there is just nothing to it.
It is a silly accusation.
Q. Mr. President, along that line, a report published this week says the new
political director of your campaign ran a school for dirty tricks several years
ago-displaying wiretap equipment, teaching campaign workers to make phony
telephone calls to disrupt the opposition. Since that has never been your style
of campaigning, do you intend to ask Mr. Callaway to investigate and take
appropriate action if it is warranted?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding that Mr. Spencer 2 has categorically
denied those charges. He is an honorable person. I believe him. And as you
indicated, I have never, under any circumstances, in any of my campaigns, per-
mitted or participated in such activities. There will be none in my campaign for
nomination and for election as President. And so there is just no further com-
ment needed.
Q. Mr. President, since you got back from Europe in early August, you visited
nearly half the States in the Union. You have made dozens of public appear-
ances on the road, and many, if not most, of those public appearances have been
speeches at Republican fundraising events. Yet you and your aides have said
repeatedly that none of these appearances have any relation at all to your cam-
paign for election in 1976. Wouldn't it be a little more candid to concede the
obvious?
THE PRESIDENT. As President and as a member of the Republican Party and
the leader of the Republican Party, I have an obligation to try and strengthen
and rebuild the Republican Party organization in many, many States. That is
what I have been doing. As I recall in the various appearances before State
Republican fundraising dinners, I have raised something over $2 million, most
of which goes to the State organization; part of it goes to the national organiza-
tion to pay the expenses of the trip that I take to that particular community.
As President and as the leader of the Republican Party, if I am asked to par-
ticipate in one of those meetings, I am glad to do it, because I firmly believe
that the strengthening of a State organization is very helpful for all Republican
candidates, including the candidate for President. I think that is a part of the
function that I have as head of the party.
Q. Nevertheless, Mr. President, don't these appearances at these fundraising
events inevitably have some favorable impact on your candidacy?
2 Stuart Spencer, deputy campaign chairman.
1650
