[429]
July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
the legitimate concerns raised by Members of the Congress during the very
lengthy discussions which have been held on this problem.
This plan will gradually phase out price controls over a 39-month period—
through November 30, 1978. As part of the decontrol plan, a price ceiling of
$11.50 per barrel will be imposed on all domestically produced oil.
Although this represents a rollback on all current uncontrolled oil prices, the
$11.50 ceiling will gradually increase by 5 cents per month over the length of the
program. However, this ceiling will assure that future increases in the price of
imported oil will not affect our domestic market prices.
This plan is a critical first step in reversing our growing dependence on
foreign oil. Combined with a windfall profits tax on oil companies and rebates
of energy taxes to the American people, this plan will not hinder our economic
recovery nor raise prices during 1975. It will not allow unfair gains or produce
undue hardships.
After Congress rejected the 30-month decontrol plan I submitted last week, I
was faced with two choices: to either veto the proposed extension of price con-
trols scheduled to expire August 31 or seek a compromise with the Congress.
I strongly urge the Congress to accept this program and simultaneously enact
a simple 3-month extension of the law.
To achieve energy independence, the Congress and the President must work
together on this and other parts of my comprehensive energy program. I
strongly urge the Congress to accept this compromise so that we can get on with
the solution of this most pressing problem.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:18 a.m. in the Briefing Room at the White House.
430
Text of Remarks at a Meeting With Representatives of Americans
of Eastern European Background Concerning the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe. July 25, 1975
I AM glad to have this opportunity, before taking off for Europe tomorrow, to
discuss with you frankly how I feel about the forthcoming European Security
Conference in Helsinki.
I know there are some honest doubts and disagreements among good Ameri-
cans about this meeting with the leaders of Eastern and Western European coun-
tries and Canada-35 nations altogether.
1030
