[594]
September 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
If the latest OPEC price increase hasn't awakened them to the peril our
country faces, only an aroused citizenry will. Congress must face up to the
hard, tough decisions which will restore America's energy independence, rein-
vigorate America's economy, and save American jobs before it is too late. They
have failed thus far. I stand ready to cooperate fully to make this long overdue
start in the right direction.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:18 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House. His remarks were re-
corded for later use on radio and television.
As enacted, H.R. 9524 is Public Law 94-99 (89
Stat. 481).
595
Statement on the Privacy Act of 1974.
September 29, 1975
THE PRIVACY ACT of 1974 took effect on Saturday, September 27, 1975, a
date marking a milestone in the protection of individual privacy for every
American.
The reason this act is important became apparent to me when I was Vice
President and Chairman of the Domestic Council Committee on the Right of
Privacy. Last January, I was pleased to sign this bill as President because it
represents a major first step in safeguarding individual privacy.
The need for a privacy act is manifestly clear: Over the years, Federal agen-
cies have amassed vast amounts of information about virtually every American
citizen. As data-collecting technology increased, it made administrative sense
to combine much of this information in computerized data systems where it
could be retrieved instantly at the push of a button. This fact in itself raised the
possibility that information about individuals could be used for purposes out-
side the constraints of law and without the prior knowledge or consent of the
individuals involved.
The worthwhile programs of human assistance for which this individual
information is collected are vital to millions of Americans. They cannot be
ended. But at the same time, we have a clear responsibility to erect reasonable
safeguards to ensure that information collected is used solely for the purposes
intended.
The Privacy Act, though experimental, makes a long overdue start to erect
these safeguards. It requires Federal agencies to:
1540
