[475]
August 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
nations. They noted with satisfaction that trade and investment relations be-
tween the two countries are expanding in a steady and mutually beneficial
manner.
8. Observing the importance of free and expanding trade to the world econ-
omy, the Prime Minister and the President emphasized the need for an open
international trading system, and affirmed that Japan and the United States
would continue to play a positive and constructive role in the Tokyo Round
of multilateral trade negotiations currently underway in Geneva within the
framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
9. Recognizing that there remain elements of instability in the world energy
situation, the Prime Minister and the President expressed their satisfaction with
the progress thus far achieved in cooperation among consumer nations.
They agreed to maintain and strengthen cooperation between Japan and the
United States in this field and in the development of their respective national
energy efforts. Agreeing that mutual understanding and cooperation among all
nations is fundamental to the solution of the international energy problem, they
noted the urgent need for the development of harmonious relations between oil
producing and consuming nations. In this connection, they welcomed steps now
being taken to resume the dialogue between oil producer and consumer na-
tions, and expressed their determination that the two countries should further
strengthen and coordinate their cooperative efforts for that purpose.
10. Noting the desirability of establishing adequate supply and distribution
to meet the world's growing demand for food, the Prime Minister and the
President agreed upon the importance of cooperation in agricultural develop-
ment assistance to promote the food production capabilities of developing coun-
tries. The President further noted the need for the early establishment of an
internationally coordinated system of nationally-held grain reserves. The Prime
Minister stressed the need for a steady expansion of trade in agricultural prod-
ucts through cooperation between exporting and importing countries to their
mutual benefit. The Prime Minister and the President reaffirmed the interest of
the two countries in maintaining and strengthening the mutually beneficial
agricultural trade between them.
11. Noting the need to assist the efforts of the developing countries to promote
their own economic development and to meet the human aspirations of their
peoples, the Prime Minister and the President agreed upon the importance of
increased cooperation, both between Japan and the United States and with the
developing countries, in such areas as development assistance and trade, includ-
ing that of primary commodities.
1116
