September 8
[536]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
a balanced budget and some money in the bank so we can go out and work
together for the party and the principles for which we stand.
Now, let's talk about some of the things that I believe are important, organiza-
tionally speaking.
I have looked at some statistics that indicate that although we have a rela-
tively low registration, Republicans vis-a-vis the opposition, there is a vast area of
potential for the Republican Party. I am told that there are roughly 50 million
unregistered voters in this country. I am told that there are some 25 million
registered voters who apparently don't undertake the effort to actually vote.
I believe very strongly that that 75 million can be and should be what we as
Republicans can appeal to. As I look at the issues that we face, the problems that
we have both at home and abroad, the Republican principles today should appeal
to this group of 50 million on the one hand and 25 million on the other.
What do we actually believe in? I have said it a few times in traveling in the
States where I have been more recently, but I think it is good for us to reiterate it:
We believe very strongly in Federal fiscal responsibility.
We have believed-we do believe-in a vigorous free enterprise system. It is
our policy, our principle, that the way to make America better and better for
more people is to embrace and work for the expansion of the free enterprise
system.
Number three, we believe, as Republicans, that a strong national defense
program is the best way to ensure peace throughout the world. This Adminis-
tration is going to propose and fight for in the Congress adequate funding for
the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines so that they can be on the frontline
for peace to prevent war.
Fourthly, we as Republicans believe that local control over local problems is
the best way to get good government, and we are going to fight for more and
more local control and less national domination by the Federal Government.
Lastly, and probably as important as any, we believe in the freedom of the in-
dividual. I have made a few speeches in the last month or two pointing out what
our Bicentennial theme should be for the third century of America's history.
The first century was to establish a government—a government that was
strong and viable. The second century was to develop our country as an in-
dustrial country that was strong and capable of meeting the challenge from
other industrial countries around the globe. But the third century, I believe,
ought to be our dedication for freedom for the individual.
We should get away from the concept that the individual should be mass
educated, that he should be controlled by a big government. The individual
1351
