[508]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
definition or a better combination of words. I prefer the term “job creation."
That is what my recommendations are all about.
I ask the Congress to join with me in this firm commitment to our Nation's
future, to more jobs, to more income, and full economic recovery.
To ensure a strong economic system, we must maintain, of course, in con-
junction, an antitrust policy which validates our commitment to competitive
markets.
As we
reduce government regulation of business, we must be absolutely cer-
tain that our antitrust laws are vigorously enforced, and they will be.
Competition, when freed of government regulation and supported by anti-
trust laws, is the driving force of our economy. It will drive costs down and
assure new jobs. This is actually the story of America's amazing growth over
some 200 years.
Let me emphasize that this is not an administration of special interests, not
of business interests, not of labor interests. We are doing our very best to make
this an administration of public interests. We will not permit the continuation
of monopoly privilege, which is not in the public interest.
It is my job and your job, the job of the Congress, the job of everybody, to
open the American marketplace. It is our job, collectively, to create new jobs.
And as we work conscientiously and seriously to overcome the problems of in-
dividuals, let us remember our Founding Fathers' vision of a nation in which
people work together for the common good.
I have often stated my deep conviction that we must have a national defense
second to none. Labor has stood at the forefront of the defense of liberty, in war
or in peace. But defense must rest upon more than arms, upon more than armies.
Defense depends upon the strength of the American individual, the unity of the
American family, the food in the American kitchen, and the self-esteem
that goes with the American paycheck.
We must maintain the social fabric of America for the national defense to be
credible. If we cannot believe in ourselves and in our future as a nation, what
will there be left to defend?
Two hundred years ago, American patriots—working people, business people,
and farming people-risked their lives so that this Nation might be born. To
win independence, they surmounted great individual differences in background,
culture, and outlook. They worked, they fought, and they died together for a
common cause none of them could have achieved alone.
Although conditions have changed greatly in 200 years, I am fully confident
that the spirit that saw us through in 1776 will guide us to an even greater future
1252
