[459]
August 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
force reductions so far have not produced the results for which I had hoped. The
United States stands ready to demonstrate flexibility in moving these negotiations
forward, if others will do the same. An agreement that enhances mutual secu-
rity is feasible-and essential.
The United States also intends to pursue vigorously a further agreement on
strategic arms limitations with the Soviet Union. This remains a priority of
American policy. General Secretary Brezhnev and I agreed last November in
Vladivostok on the essentials of a new accord limiting strategic offensive weap-
ons for the next 10 years. We are moving forward in our bilateral discussions
here in Helsinki.
The world faces an unprecedented danger in the spread of nuclear weapons
technology. The nations of Europe share a great responsibility for an interna-
tional solution to this problem. The benefits of peaceful nuclear energy are
becoming more and more important. We must find ways to spread these bene-
fits while safeguarding the world against the menace of weapons proliferation.
To the other nations of Europe represented at this Conference: We value
the work you have done here to help bring all of Europe together. Your right
to live in peace and independence is one of the major goals of our effort. Your
continuing contribution will be indispensable.
To those nations not participating and to all the peoples of the world: The
solemn obligation undertaken in these documents to promote fundamental
rights, economic and social progress, and well-being applies ultimately to all
peoples.
Can we truly speak of peace and security without addressing the spread of
nuclear weapons in the world or the creation of more sophisticated forms of
warfare?
Can peace be divisible between areas of tranquillity and regions of conflict?
Can Europe truly flourish if we do not all address ourselves to the evil of
hunger in countries less fortunate than we? To the new dimensions of economic
and energy issues that underline our own progress? To the dialog between
producers and consumers, between exporters and importers, between industrial
countries and less developed ones?
And can there be stability and progress in the absence of justice and funda-
mental freedoms?
Our people want a better future. Their expectations have been raised by the
very real steps that have already been taken-in arms control, political nego-
tiations, and expansion of contacts and economic relations. Our presence here
offers them further hope. We must not let them down.
1080
