[501]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
One of those amendments would provide that before you could have on-site
picketing, it would require a 10-day cooling off period.
The second provision that would be mandatory as a part of the bill would be
that no local could go on strike under those conditions without having gotten
prior approval from the international.
Now, in my opinion, those two added amendments would make that bill
acceptable, plus one other factor: There is also a bill that the Secretary of Labor is
working on, with both management and labor, which in effect provides that
there shall be greater responsibility for both labor and management on strikes
and lockouts.
If that second bill comes to the White House with the original bill, plus those
two amendments, then I think we have put together, working with management
and labor and the Congress, an acceptable solution to this longstanding conflict.
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I have sort of a philosophical question here, I guess
you'd say. We hear from a lot of people at a television station, the three of us do,
and we seem to feel that the people seem to feel that government is getting so big
and impersonal and unresponsive, there is a frustration there, even a hopeless-
ness. How can we come out of this? How can we bring people closer to their
government?
The President. I recognize the feeling that you detect here in Milwaukee,
and I find it in my travels around the country. The public feels they have to fill
out too many forms, answer too many questionnaires, they are bedeviled by too
many government inspectors, et cetera, and I suspect that is true.
What I think we have to do is to reduce the number of forms that people in
business and otherwise have to fill out. It is hard to believe, but there are about
5,200 forms that are sent out by various Government agencies. I think that is too
many. It takes more time than the effort is worth. I believe that some Federal
employees are too officious, too demanding. I think that attitude has to change.
In addition, I personally believe there are too many Federal employees, and I
am glad to report that the request I made to the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget that we had to cut down on the number of employees resulted
in a cutback of 52,000 from the planned level. So, we now have 52,000 less
Federal employees than was planned a year ago.
In these ways, I think we can restore or rebuild confidence, at least in the
Federal Government, and I honestly feel that State and local units of govern-
ment have to adopt the same attitude.
1218
