October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
spending at the Federal level. The question is: What can you and your Admin-
istration do to convince Congress that continued Federal spending will be the
ruination of our economy, and also, what can we as an association do to help?
THE PRESIDENT. I feel very strongly that the excessive spending at the Federal
level is a basic cause of inflation. A $60 billion deficit of the Federal Government
this year, this 12-month period, is bad. It will be that much worse if Congress
forces us to spend another 10, which will make it $70 billion, or another 20,
which will make it $80 billion.
Now we are making some headway. I vetoed 38 bills since I took office about a
year ago. All but several have been sustained, sustained by one-third or better.
Those that have been sustained have saved roughly $6 billion.
And I am going to veto some more if they keep sending them down with
excessive spending. It just has to be done if we are going to preserve any fiscal
integrity.
I have found recently in the Congress a greater realization of this problem.
First, in 1974 they passed a new budget act which sets a spending ceiling by
April 15 every year on expenditures. And I think both Senator Curtis and Sena-
tor Hruska would agree with me that that requirement has made the Congress
considerably more responsible at least in the recognition, if not in the action, on
how to handle spending.
But how we educate the American people-I think this has to be done in our
schools, in our various civic organizations, through the news media. A $60 to
$70 billion deficit this year and another one of $30, $40, or $50 billion next year—
that is not healthy as we try to combat the problems of inflation.
So, I just hope everybody understands it is not that we want to be penurious,
because virtually every program this year got as much or slightly more than
they got last year as required by law. And we just can't go on without taking
some firm, tough action.
PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT
[15.] Q. Mr. President, Jim Wengert, secretary-treasurer of the Iowa Fed-
eration of Labor, AFL-CIO. I think you have touched on my question by one
of the other gentlemen that have asked it. So, I will kind of rephrase my ques-
tion. Because we just got over the State AFL-CIO convention in Iowa here a
couple of weeks ago, and I think the State of Iowa, at least from our member-
ship standpoint at that convention, was that we don't want handouts in this
country. We want jobs. Along that kind of a theme, could you support a pro-
gram in this country that the Government of this country would become the
employer of last resort so our people can get jobs?
1577
