[657]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
that trip. And haven't the Chinese indicated that they would not be particu-
larly happy if you did add some stops to that trip?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as I know, the answer to your question is no.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[19.] Q. Several Members of the Senate are concerned that Secretary Kis-
singer will still have total domination of foreign policy in part because your
national security adviser, General Scowcroft, is regarded as a Kissinger man.
Now how do you answer that criticism?
THE PRESIDENT. I have known Brent Scowcroft intimately for the last 14
months. I have been tremendously impressed with his experience and capabili-
ties. I know that he speaks an independent mind. I know it personally. So, I
don't think that criticism is valid.
Q. Can you explain what you mean when you say that Secretary Kissinger
will have a dominant role in the foreign policy sector?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, a Secretary of State-that's his responsibility.
Q. In a military role, will Mr. Rumsfeld have the dominant role?
THE PRESIDENT. That is the responsibility of the Secretary of Defense.
NEW YORK CITY
[20.] Q. Mr. President, on another subject, if I may, sir, are you still con-
vinced, sir, that the city of New York does not have to default? And if so, do
you plan to call Mayor Beame and Governor Carey here to tell them your
reasons the reasons why you think New York can avoid default?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that New York City can avoid default. They can
take stronger action than they have taken. I believe the State of New York can
take stronger action to be of assistance to the city of New York. This is a matter
that can be, with forthright action, taken care of in the city or the city with
the cooperation of the State. I hope they will, and if they don't, I believe then
the proper action to be taken is that which I publicly stated last Wednesday.
Q. Mr. President, in the event that they do not, Mr. President, are you still
convinced that there will be no domino effect on the American and the world
financial markets?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely. I have verified that with a number of experts
within and without the Government. And there is no probability, no serious
probability that there will be any national repercussions. And I am convinced
that the market has already discounted the possibility of any financial problems
1800
