[460]
August 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
The President. But he said, and I noted it very carefully, other countries'
radio activities are involved in other countries. We do have Radio Free Europe,
we do have the Voice of America. But I understand that other countries, includ-
ing neighboring Communist countries, also have radio signals that go into
Romania, so I am not sure he was talking only about us.
CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE
[15.] Q. Mr. President, do you think the world is better today because you
signed, or all these nations signed, this document?
THE PRESIDENT. Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International], I am
absolutely confident, I am totally convinced that because of 35 nations partici-
pating in the Conference on European Security and Cooperation, Europe and
the world are all better off.
I will know better 2 years from now whether our promises have been kept,
but I detect very strongly a feeling and an attitude on the part of the leaders
of these countries that the promises they made will be maintained.
Q. When you talked to the Embassy this morning, you talked about making
sure that these promises were fulfilled. How do we go about enforcing CSCE?
The President. Persuasion, example. I believe that some of the unfortunate
things that have happened in the last 20 years in Europe will not happen again
because of the signing of the CSCE and the speeches that were made there.
Those kinds of unfortunate events can be avoided in the future. CSCE was a
great plus.
THE WESTERN ALLIANCE
[16.] Q. Mr. President, do you feel at all defensive in a forum like this
because of the problems of the Western Alliance which are highly visible—
Portugal's problems, the economic situation, the Greek-Turkish problem, all of
which affect the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in one way or another—
do you feel you are operating at a disadvantage as leader of the free world in
that respect?
THE PRESIDENT. I recognize we have problems, but look back at the problems
of another era. Are they any worse than the economic problems in the 1950's?
Are they any worse than the conflicts among Eastern European countries in
the 1950's and 1960's? Are the problems today any more serious than the prob-
lems of the past?
I don't think so. They are different, but they are not worse. And when you
now have the Conference on European Security and Cooperation, there is a
bulwark. I think it gives us strength to meet those problems.
1088
