August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
has been a reasonable compromise. And I think we can do the same thing in the
field of education.
Now, on the latter question, I am a firm believer that the public educational
system educates children better if they have competition from nonpublic schools,
whether they are Catholic, whether they are Lutheran, whether they are Jewish,
whether they are Christian Reform in the Dutch background that I had over in
Michigan. Competition in education makes better education for all children.
Now, unfortunately, under the Constitution, as recently interpreted by the
Supreme Court, some of the plans, like the one in Minnesota or the one in Penn-
sylvania, were thrown out.
I hope we can find in a constitutional way a proper and legal way to help those
nonpublic schools so that they can compete adequately and effectively with the
public school system, because the public school system is better off when they
have somebody challenging them to see which system can best educate the
American children.
THE TRUCKING INDUSTRY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I am Jim Jesinski, representing Wisconsin Team-
sters Joint Council Number 39. This morning Secretary Butz, in his presenta-
tion, alluded to one of the problems facing the trucking industry, namely,
deregulation.
If you are successful in making changes that will increase competition, then, in
theory at least, the public would benefit from reduced rates with the industry
realizing reduced profits. Considering that this is an industry of high capital
investment, our concern is: What steps will you take to ensure that the profit
structure will be sufficient to continue to encourage investment in this industry?
THE PRESIDENT. I looked over and tentatively approved a working paper that
will provide for some changes in the ICC's control and jurisdiction over the
trucking industry. When I get back to Washington, I intend to have some
further meetings with people in my Administration. And prior to the submis-
sion of any proposals to the Congress, I intend to meet with representatives of
the trucking industry and representatives of the Teamsters organization.
I am convinced that we can stimulate competition in the trucking industry
without ruining the capability of that industry to survive and compete in the
transportation area overall.
It will probably be another 2 or 3 weeks before we finalize our recommenda-
tion, but it will be done only after we have had consultation with not only man-
agement on the one side but labor on the other. I believe there are some areas, big
1235
