August 19
[492]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
people the loss of strategic intelligence data, with its attendant effect on our
national security that this action has caused?
I don't know, because I am at a loss to explain it myself. As a man of the
Congress, and proudly so for 25 years, the last thing I seek is confrontation with
my friends, my former colleagues on Capitol Hill, both Democrats and
Republicans.
Obviously, I am troubled that the House of Representatives has refused to
permit the shipment of arms to Turkey. But I respect the sincerity and the
motives of those who support this position. However, I know when the bottom
line of any issue is the ultimate security of the United States—which it is in this
case—the Congress and the President always found a way to close ranks and to
act as one.
This does not mean that one side or the other capitulates blindly. Let us put
this issue on the table and once again debate it, not in a climate of fire and fury,
but in a reasoned approach based on what is right and what is best for America.
I am convinced from my personal talks last month with the leaders of Greece
and Turkey and Cyprus that their differences can be settled peacefully.
We can help―the Congress, the President, and the American people. We can
help cool the passions that caused so much heartbreak in the Mediterranean.
The American political system is one of checks and balances. But it works
best when the checks do not become roadblocks. As President, I need the coopera-
tion and the full support of the Congress, which I know is as concerned as I am
about our Nation's security.
Just as important, your representatives in the Congress need to know where
you stand. They have to realize that you place America's security above personal
and political considerations.
This morning I am deeply honored to have had this great opportunity to meet
with you here in the heartland of America and to share some of my deep concerns
and some of my personal thoughts on the future of our Nation.
But talk is only the starting point. And so I ask each of you, as well as this great
organization, to join with me in the commitment that I have made for the rein-
forcement of lasting peace and the enlargement of human freedom. I ask this
not only for ourselves but for our posterity and for all peoples who pray that the
torch of liberty will continue to burn bright.
God helping us, freedom and peace will both prevail.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:34 a.m. in the
Minneapolis Convention Center. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to James M. Wagonseller, na-
tional commander of the American Legion, and Mrs.
Maurice Kubby, president of the American Legion
Women's Auxiliary.
1177
