[648]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
taking it away from HEW. Would you be in favor of establishing a separate
Department of Education to handle the complex problems of public schools?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that in and of itself is a solution. That sounds
good. Maybe it ought to be justified on other grounds, but I don't think it is
necessarily the answer to this problem.
MR. KLEIN. Gentlemen, our time is limited. Gil Amundson.
CANADIAN OIL AND NATURAL GAS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, my cities—Minneapolis and St. Paul-much of that
region face some serious economic pressures because of the impending cutoff of
oil and natural gas from Canada. It means we will have to bring it in from more
expensive sources. And the shortage of natural gas could even lead to higher
unemployment. Has the Administration given this any attention?
THE PRESIDENT. We certainly have. Our Secretary of Interior has been work-
ing with the proper officials in the Government of Canada. I have talked to the
former Natural Resources Minister, Mr. Macdonald. We have groups working
together.
As I understand it, Canada has agreed not-for the next 12 months-to have
any significant change in the supplies, either crude oil or natural gas.
In the meantime, Congress has to pass an energy program so we can solve those
problems in the upper tier, the northern tier, including Minnesota, Michigan,
North Dakota, et cetera. If we can get a bill through Congress to provide more
domestic sources of energy—making us less dependent on foreign oil cartels—the
problems of Minnesota, Michigan, and others will be resolved.
MR. KLEIN. Ken Jones.
RONALD REAGAN
[5.] Q. There is a story in the Los Angeles Times this morning that your
campaign committee has or is about to ask the Federal election committee to
investigate former Governor Ronald Reagan, that he is an acting candidate, that
he is a candidate now. Do you believe he is a candidate ?
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand it, Ken, technically he is not, no more so than
Governor Wallace is. There are really two steps as the law has been written and
as it has been implemented. Technically, I don't believe that Governor Reagan
is a candidate, and I certainly will give him or any others in similar circumstances
the benefit of the doubt. I don't think I ought to argue the details of that. That is
something for the Federal Election Commission to decide, and I am sure
they will.
MR. KLEIN. Gabe Pressman.
1754
