[577]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
beyond what was on their backs and in their heads except a few seeds and a few
tools and a few books. But what they brought was very precious to them.
They brought, even as they protested its capricious abuse, an abiding respect
for the rule of law. They built orderly systems of self-government even before
they erected dry houses. Generations later, when our Founding Fathers met in
Philadelphia to declare their independence, they formally stated their reasons
in terms of both moral and legal rights which the distant King and Parliament
had denied them as colonists. Our American Revolution was unique in that we
rejected our rulers but we revered their rules.
There were more colleges and universities in the Thirteen Colonies before
the American Revolution than in all of England, Scotland, and Ireland put
together. As Americans moved westward, they set aside lands for the higher
training of teachers, engineers, agriculturalists, scientists, doctors, lawyers, and
other professions. They encouraged the support of both private and public
institutions of learning in State and Federal tax policies. No nation, at any time,
has put a higher priority on education for all of its citizens.
Finally, the long march of the Americans halfway around the world, from
Jamestown and Plymouth Rock to the westernmost tip of Alaska and the far
Pacific Islands, carried with it a common commitment to the future. The
material progress of the United States of America has been premised on the
half-humanist, half-theological idea of the perfectibility of society, the enlarge-
ment of human freedom, and the innate worth of the individual.
Stanford University, where the winds of freedom still circulate through the
pleasant quadrangles of old and new, was built and still stands upon the solid
triad of law, learning, and liberty. The fears of seven summers ago were
unfounded. The rule of law in America has survived. Our constitutional instincts
have proven sound. The commitment of Americans to law, learning, and liberty
continues in this very court this afternoon.
But the contradictions and dilemmas remain in our society in abundance.
They will always exist in a democratic nation where the delicate balances be-
tween freedom and order, between private right and public interest, between the
safety of the state and the security of the individual all require constant review
and resolution.
This is the role of government at all levels and the mission both of those
who make the laws and who practice and respect it. There is an old saying
that those who love the law and those who are fond of sausage should never ex-
amine too closely how either is actually made. [Laughter] I certainly don't intend
to pick any quarrel with the sausagemakers. But as a former lawmaker and as a
1478
