October 9
[619]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ber of studies have indicated that the cost of air transportation to American
consumers is far higher than necessary as a result of overregulation.
The overriding objective of the proposed legislation is to ensure that we have
the most efficient airline system in the world providing the American public with
the best possible service at the lowest possible cost. We must make sure that the
industry responds to natural market forces and to consumer demands rather than
to artificial constraints set out by government. This legislation would replace the
present promotional and protectionist regulatory system with one which serves
the needs of the public by allowing the naturally competitive nature of the indus-
try to operate. It provides the airline industry increased flexibility to adjust prices
to meet market demands. And it will make it substantially easier for firms who
wish and are able to provide airline services to do so. These measures will be
introduced gradually to permit the industry to adjust to a new regulatory envi-
ronment. Government will continue to set rigid safety and financial standards
for the airlines. But the focus of the new regulatory scheme will be to protect
consumer interests, rather than those of the industry.
I urge the Congress to give careful and speedy attention to these measures so
that the over 200 million passengers who use our airlines every year are given the
benefits of greater competition that will flow from regulatory reform of this
industry.
The White House,
October 8, 1975.
619
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks at Ceremonies Commemorating the Bicentennial
of the United States Navy. October 9, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Admiral Holloway, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, may I express my very deep personal gratitude for your thought-
fulness and the kindness of the Navy in giving to me those two wonderful
mementos that reflect, of course, the history and the tradition of the Navy itself.
I am very, very proud and highly honored to salute this special day marking the
200th anniversary of the United States Navy. Those of us who love the Navy and
who have gone to sea in her ships know that the history of the Navy is the history
of the United States.
1643
