September 19
[572]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
lovely wife, Marilyn, and my wife, Betty, have been close and personal friends.
We are so pleased to see them on our side, and I thank John on this occasion for
his many votes when I was minority leader and now, when I am in the present
office, for his strong support. John, we darn well better get somebody really good
to succeed you.
Let me say with complete and total emphasis that, as I travel around the
States, whether it is in Maine, Rhode Island, or New York, or the State of
Washington or Oregon, I find there is a great sense of renewal and anticipation,
State after State, on behalf of the philosophy that we espouse and that we believe
in, that we are willing to work for.
And the revival of this optimism is based, in my judgment, on very, very
sound political realities. Whether it is on the east coast, the west coast, the
northern border, or the Gulf of Mexico, I find that the American people want
economic stability, and that stability, which is the very foundation of our de-
mocracy, can only come from Federal fiscal responsibility.
As Republicans, we believe in sound management of the taxpayer's money,
yours and mine and that which was contributed by some 200 million other
Americans.
Today this Nation is seeing the unhappy, the sad results of an obsolete, out-
dated political philosophy which holds that if you just spend enough Federal
money, you can solve every problem in our society.
The fact of the matter is precisely this: The American people know that
Federal dollars are their dollars. They want some old-fashioned thrift in the
way in which their money is spent, like they manage their home or their busi-
ness or their church. And one of these days-listen very, very carefully-one of
these days the big spenders in the Congress are going to find this out. And I
respectfully suggest that it be November 2, 1976.
The way to reduce Federal overspending and its dangerous offspring, infla-
tion, is to elect a Congress with a little common sense, a little common sense
about dollars and cents. And until that happens, the only way Republicans,
outnumbered better than 2 to 1 in the Congress, can head off massive spend-
ing and effect a balance in how we spend our tax money is with the veto. I
have used it before, 37 times to be exact. And I will use it again and again and
again.
And may I say with complete sincerity that a veto is not negative, as Dewey
and Henry and John will tell you. A veto is a constitutionally given authority
in our great document upon which our Nation was founded. It was constitu-
tionally given to a President in order that he could veto something and thereby
1459
