August 15
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Now, if we can't get cooperation and effective action by some State regulatory
agencies on these critical matters, I think there has to be an overriding Federal or
national interest.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
[7.] Q. Mr. President, a moment ago in your address, you indicated that part
of the advocacy of your office would be to introduce a windfall profits tax on
energy producers. I would be interested in what the terms of that windfall profits
tax would be. It seems that the ability for capital formation today is almost
commensurate with our deficiency in energy development. Rebates to the public
will not find another barrel of oil or any synthetics from our coal or oil shale.
THE PRESIDENT. In the windfall profits tax proposal that I submitted, I rec-
ommended the so-called plowback feature, which says that the profits made to a
certain percentage, if plowed back into future development of oil and gas
resources, would not be taxable.
The Senate Committee on Finance, under Senator Russell Long, has produced
a windfall profits tax with a plowback feature. We agree with that concept,
although we don't agree necessarily with every detail in that particular proposal.
If the Senate passes that, then we would, of course, go to the House and try to
get some modification. And hopefully in the conference between the House and
the Senate, we would end up with an acceptable piece of legislation, which would
be an incentive to greater development through the plowback feature and, at the
same time, would permit the Federal Government to have some additional
funds which could be used as rebates to the individuals in our country-some
214 million-who would be charged an extra cost of energy.
With the windfall profits tax, with the plowback, we have to have decontrol.
And with decontrol, the American people are going to pay some-not much—
more for the cost of energy.
The rebate program is aimed at nullifying the impact on the individual
consumer. I think it is a highly effective, constructive, integrated program. We
increase prices, but we nullify the impact on the public as a whole. We provide
for a windfall profits tax, but with a plowback feature. If the Congress would
only put the whole package together instead of having one committee work
on this part and another committee work on another part and another com-
mittee work on another part, we might get the thing put together, and I am
optimistic.
One other comment. You spoke about capital formation. I talk in the terms
of job formation, because we haven't saved enough and reinvested enough in
1157
