[456]
July 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:40 a.m. at the U.S.
Embassy Residence. General Secretary Brezhnev
spoke in Russian, and his remarks were translated
by an interpreter.
Earlier, the President had held a breakfast meeting
with Prime Minister Harold Wilson of the United
Kingdom.
During the course of the day, the President at-
tended the morning and afternoon sessions of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe,
held a luncheon meeting with Prime Minister Con-
stantine Caramanlis of Greece, and attended a dinner
hosted by President Kekkonen for heads of delega-
tion attending the Conference.
457
Exchange With Reporters in Helsinki Following a Meeting With
Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel of Turkey. July 31, 1975
THE PRIME MINISTER. We have reviewed our relations with the United States,
Turkish-United States relations, and as far as Turkey is concerned, these rela-
tions are very valuable and we will do our best not to spoil these relations.
The President. Let me reemphasize that I will continue my efforts to remove
any roadblocks between the United States and Turkey, because we feel good
relations with Turkey are of utmost importance to Turkey and the United
States and to the free world, to the world as a whole.
Reporter. What are the possibilities of keeping the monitoring equipment
going in the bases in Turkey, the American radio?
THE PRIME MINISTER. For the time being, we have stopped the activities, as
you know.
Q. What are the possibilities of starting them again?
THE PRIME MINISTER. We will see.
Q. What does it depend upon?
THE PRIME MINISTER. I cannot tell you right now.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck this morning.
REPORTER. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:15 a.m. at the U.S.
Embassy Residence.
During the course of the day, the President at-
tended the morning and afternoon sessions of the
Conference, and he held a luncheon meeting with
Prime Minister Harold Wilson of the United King-
dom, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal
Republic of Germany, and President Valéry Giscard
d'Estaing of France.
In the evening the President attended a reception
hosted by Prime Minister Keijo Liinamaa for dele-
gates to the Conference.
1072
