August 4
[472]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The two Presidents expressed their satisfaction over the recent conclusion of
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. They consider that the
consistent implementation of the provisions of the final act which the signatory
countries pledged themselves to fulfill, will contribute significantly to the
achievement of the Conference's important goals and encourage further efforts
to strengthen peace and security in Europe and to improve political, economic
and other relations among states and peoples.
President Tito and President Ford emphasized that the interdependence of
all peoples and countries, developed and developing, is an essential factor in
the search for a just and effective economic development. Reviewing the urgent
problems facing mankind in the area of international economic relations, they
agreed on the need to increase their efforts to find equitable solutions on the
basis of improved international cooperation and respect for the interests of all.
The two Presidents reviewed a number of other important international
problems, including the situation in the Middle East, the Mediterranean, Cyprus
and the questions of disarmament.
President Tito particularly presented views on the importance of the policy
of nonalignment in today's world. He also emphasized the significance of United
States policies in international affairs. President Ford set forth United States
positions on various matters including the significance of the Yugoslav policy
of nonalignment in international affairs.
President Ford reaffirmed the steadfast interest of the United States and its
support for the independence, integrity, and nonaligned position of Yugoslavia.
The two Presidents on this occasion reaffirmed the importance of periodic
contacts and consultations at various levels in fields of mutual interest.
The principles set forth in this joint statement are the foundation of United
States-Yugoslav relations. They constitute the firm basis on which the friendly
relations of the two countries will be conducted in the future.
NOTE: The text of the joint statement was released at Belgrade, Yugoslavia.
472
Text of Remarks on Returning From Europe.
August 4, 1975
I AM, of course, very glad to be home, but I am also very glad that I went to
Europe. By representing the United States of America at the 35-nation Con-
1109
