[733]
December 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
defenses. The Central Intelligence Agency is essential to maintaining our
national security.
I nominated Ambassador George Bush to be CIA Director so we can now
get on with appropriate decisions concerning the intelligence community. I
need—and the Nation needs—his leadership at CIA as we rebuild and strengthen
the foreign intelligence community in a manner which earns the confidence of
the American people.
Ambassador Bush and I agree that the Nation's immediate foreign intelligence
needs must take precedence over other considerations and there should be con-
tinuity in the CIA leadership. Therefore, if Ambassador Bush is confirmed by
the Senate as Director of Central Intelligence, I will not consider him as my
Vice Presidential running mate in 1976.
He and I have discussed this in detail. In fact, he urged that I make this deci-
sion. This says something about the man and about his desire to do this job for
the Nation.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your efforts on behalf of Ambassador Bush's
nomination. I will deeply appreciate your efforts to expedite approval of this
nominee by your Committee and the full Senate.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable John C. Stennis, Chairman, Armed Services Committee, United States Senate, Washington,
D.C. 20510]
734
Message on the Observance of March of Dimes Birth Defects
Prevention Month. December 18, 1975
EVERY year more than 200,000 American babies suffer birth defects. Some of
these abnormalities are relatively minor and can be corrected or treated to reduce
their harmful effects. Others cause lifelong disability and limit individual fulfill-
ment. Still others are fatal, striking in either infancy or later life. Some of these
defects can be diagnosed before or immediately after birth. Others may not
show up until many years later.
Nearly a quarter-million babies each year are threatened by low birthweight.
Infants weighing less than five and one-half pounds are less likely to survive and
develop normally. Many are born prematurely. In others, the underweight is due
to abnormalities of pregnancy, including maternal malnutrition.
1976
