October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The President. It is my recollection that under the CETA program we have
requested and Congress has approved the full funding under the authorization
act which, for the current fiscal year, is somewhere in the magnitude of $3,200
million or $3,500 million.
It is my expectation that we will fund or recommend the funding of that
program, bearing in mind our current economic problems, at roughly the same
level. I think it is basically a good program. It incorporates not only the training
programs you are talking about but the summer youth program. And it would
be my expectation that unless there is a substantial change in the economic
situation, we hope there will be some gradual improvement, and we think
there will be.
We will fund CETA at a very substantial level and, hopefully, sufficiently
to meet the kind of programs you are talking about. It is my understanding
that in Tennessee you have had for several years a good statewide program in
this area.
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. And if the funding is more or less at the present level, I see
no reason why those programs could not continue.
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SALES
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I am James Putnam, a farmer and president of the
Tennessee Farm Bureau Federation. I have a short statement and then the
question.
Farmers were asked early this year to go all out for full agricultural produc-
tion in 1975 with the promise by this Administration that farmers would have
access to markets at home and abroad. They have responded with record, or
near record, grain crops.
Question: In view of recent actions taken by the Government concerning the
sale and shipment of grain to Russia and other countries, can we as farmers and
farm organizations have faith in this Administration to make sure these markets
are available to farmers?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is strongly yes. There has been a temporary sus-
pension for a very good reason. The farmers did go all-out. They have pro-
duced a record crop of wheat at 2,100 million bushels. They have produced a
record corn crop, although we don't have the final figures, of about 5,800 mil-
lion bushels. They have done, in the area of soybeans, also, an exceptional record
and a record crop.
Now, we have long-term purchase agreements with Japan and with other
1623
