[612]
October 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Détente is a policy of relaxing tensions for the good, not that it means a solu-
tion to every problem. But if we can negotiate rather than confront, and every-
thing is a two-way street so that no one gets an advantage, and we slowly but
successfully and constructively lead to peace, I think that is good for us at home
and for the world as a whole.
But I come back to what I said a moment ago. We must have the kind of
military strength-programs, policy, people, leadership—so that we
respected.
May I simply close by saying to you that it is always an inspiration to come
to New Jersey because you have a great challenge here. You have the peaks and
valleys of this great State, whether it is in the State legislature, the Governor's
office, or the Congress. New Jersey now, not only this year with your State
assembly elections, has a tremendous challenge to make some kind of a bal-
ance, but next year you have the opportunity to add to the three fine people you
have in Ed and Millicent and Matt. We must have, this year and next year, a
resurgence that will overcome the defeats that we took in 1974.
I have such faith in America, in its people, its policies, its dedication, and
conviction. And what we do in the political arena is so meaningful as to what
we do to help our economy or to direct our foreign policy.
So, I urge you, I plead with you to make your contribution with your neigh-
bor, your friend, your community, to make 1975 in New Jersey a bellwether
for what it can be in the United States in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:55 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom at the Robert Treat Hotel.
613
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Reports on
Highway, Traffic, and Motor Vehicle Safety Programs.
October 6, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
From the advent of the first gasoline-powered vehicles at the turn of the
century through the next six decades, this country developed a vast, flexible form
of transportation basic to its economy and way of life. This development was
marked by a tremendous network of roads, highways and satellite facilities, by
millions of vehicles, and by millions of drivers who drove them. It also was
marred by tragedy as the numbers of accidents, injuries and deaths kept pace
1602
