[530]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
to stay. Well, after an ovation like that, it won't take much convincing to get me
to change my mind.
1
Now I know why the Portland Timbers ¹ are doing so well. [Laughter] You
sure know how to make a fellow feel like a champion. Thank you very much.
Let me express my appreciation to Dirk [Edwards] and your fellow emcees,
Governor Bob Straub, Senator Mark Hatfield, and all of you great, young
Americans and, I say with confidence, the future leaders of this great country.
Obviously, I am delighted and pleased to join with so many energetic,
enthusiastic young Americans in this birthday celebration. I understand that
this rally is one of numerous Bicentennial activities in this area of our country,
and I commend your plans to remember the past but, just as importantly, to look
at the future. That is the right note for our Bicentennial celebrations through the
length and the breadth of America.
The youth organizations represented here tonight have contributed so much
in a constructive way to this great country. America owes very special thanks to
the thousands and thousands of men and women who donate their talents and
time to work with this tremendous reservoir of youth talent and capability.
The tradition of service of the Boy Scouts, the Girl Scouts, Campfire Girls,
4-H, Salvation Army, Red Cross, YMCA, YWCA, and the Boys Club is a very
solid part of our fine American system and tradition.
Tonight, I want to thank those organizations and the men and women
behind them for what they have done, are doing for America. We are deeply
indebted to each and every one of you, 214 million Americans who are very
grateful.
I know firsthand from a good many years in the Boy Scouts how meaningful
and important organizations of this kind are to youngsters growing up. I chal-
lenge all of you in this audience and all young people nationwide to continue this
fine tradition of service and the betterment of society.
As we celebrate America's 200th year, its 200th birthday, let's remember that
this Bicentennial isn't solely about patriots who made a successful revolution.
It is about all our Americans who took the dream of a new land, a new land of
freedom, and made it a reality over the years since 1776. Millions of men and
women whose names we will never know and whose heroism went unsung
made that dream live.
To be sure, we honor the wise and articulate men who wrote what I consider
two of the greatest documents ever devised by man—the Declaration of Inde-
pendence and the United States Constitution.
A team in the North American Soccer League.
1328
