[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
basic decision which, in effect, has precipitated the numerous court decisions
that result in court-ordered forced busing to achieve racial balance in public
school systems.
They allege that this is the way that the courts ought to achieve quality edu-
cation. I strongly, vehemently disagree with the Court's decision, based on the
Constitution, as the best way to achieve quality education. I have had that
view for 10 years or more.
Now, until the courts decide that there is a better way to achieve quality educa-
tion under their interpretation of the Constitution, there is nothing that a Presi-
dent can do, there is nothing that the Congress can do, except what the Congress
did a year ago under the leadership of Congressman Marv Esch, who introduced
an amendment in the House of Representatives, which was passed and approved
in both the House and the Senate, which listed seven or eight steps to achieve
the constitutional handling of how to achieve quality education, and the last of
that criteria was busing.
Unfortunately, few courts, few Federal courts, have followed the guidelines of
the Esch amendment. I wish they would. But until the Court either uses that
criteria or changes their way in which they want to constitutionally achieve
quality education, there is nothing a President can do, and not much more that a
Member of the House or Senate can do.
I think it is deplorable, I think it is the wrong answer, and I just hope that the
judges will use in their wisdom a way to find a better answer to what is going on
at the present time.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
The President. Don [Don Irwin, Los Angeles Times], how are you?
FEDERAL SPENDING
[18.] Q. Mr. President, when you spoke, sir, of Congress using its imagina-
tion in developing a way to respond to your tax cut proposal, did you have in
mind the possibility of a nonbinding resolution that would set them on a course
as an interim step?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Irwin, I have no intention of recommending a non-
binding resolution establishing a spending ceiling of $395 billion, which is $25
billion above what the ending figure is for the present fiscal year. I want the
Congress to put a little meat on the bone. I want the Congress to do something
in a meaningful way.
And Congressman Del Latta of Ohio, a very senior Member of the House
of Representatives, introduced day before yesterday a resolution which is a
1668
