November 3
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
keep. It seems to me that you really haven't answered the question: What did
Secretary Schlesinger do wrong that you didn't like?
The President. I have affirmatively answered the question by saying that
I wanted my own team, and I am keeping Secretary Kissinger because I think
he has done an outstanding job in the field of foreign policy.
I wanted a change in the Defense Department because I wanted, in that case,
a person that I have known and worked with intimately for a long period
of time, a person who is experienced in the field of foreign policy and who
served in the Department of Defense as a naval aviator. The President has the
right and I believe ought to have the team with him that he wants to carry
out the policies in the national interest. And the team I have selected will do so.
RONALD REAGAN
[16.] Q. Mr. President, how worried are you about Ronald Reagan?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I am not worried about any competitor, Democratic or
Republican.
PRESIDENTIAL TRAVEL
[17.] Q. Much of the criticism of your travel has been directed at the idea
that you are greatly concerned about a challenge from your right, and that
is why you have been to California three times. I was wondering if you feel
that criticism is justified?
THE PRESIDENT. It's ridiculous.
Yes, Tom [Thomas M. DeFrank, Newsweek].
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[18.] Q. Mr. President, there have been reports that the China trip is being
reduced from a possible 5 or 6 days in China to 3 or possibly 4 days. Is that so,
and if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. For a long period of time, Mr. DeFrank, we have had tenta-
tive plans to visit the People's Republic of China. Secretary Kissinger was there
several weeks ago. As far as we are concerned, those trip plans are still on, and
the length of the trip will be decided in the negotiations between Secretary
Kissinger and the Foreign Minister of the People's Republic. And I don't
think there is any significance in the areas that you have raised.
Q. Mr. President, hasn't there been a good deal of debate between Dr. Kis-
singer and Mr. Rumsfeld and others about the advisability of adding stops to
1799
