[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think Governor Milliken has been an outstanding Gov-
ernor. I think the State of Michigan has been most fortunate to have him as
our Governor. But I think this is a decision that Bill ought to make himself,
and I ought not to get involved.
Q. May I ask you one more question?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
DETROIT
[3.] Q. Has your Administration, or does your Administration plan to take
any action soon on the "Move Detroit Forward” plan?
THE PRESIDENT. We have directed every Federal agency that would have any
relationship to the “Move Detroit Forward” program to cooperate to the maxi-
mum, and there are a number of Federal agencies that do have money under
their various categorical and block grant programs.
At the moment, I don't think it is feasible to go beyond what they can do
within appropriations, and if they do that, there will be a substantial amount
of money made available. And we are doing it as expeditiously as possible. But
at this time, I don't think we should make any commitments beyond what is
authorized in the various appropriation acts.
GENERAL SECRETARY BREZHNEV OF THE SOVIET UNION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, with each passing week it would appear that the
prospects for a Washington summit this year with Chairman Brezhnev become
dimmer and dimmer, and I wondered if you could offer us any evidence to the
contrary?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been in contact, of course, with the Soviet Union.
In fact, our technical negotiators are trying to work out some of the answers
to the various technical problems that have really been resolved and we are in
agreement on.
There are some differences. We are continuing to explore ways to reconcile
those differences. But at this moment, we are not in a position to make any
announcement as to a set time when such a meeting between Mr. Brezhnev
and myself will be held.
FEDERAL TAXES AND SPENDING
[5.] Q. Jim Harrington, WXYZ-TV. Mr. President, the Democrats in the
Congress and the leaders have challenged you to be specific about what cuts
you would make to match that tax cut. Could you enumerate some programs
1658
