September 22
[581]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
better, we will sign an agreement. It looks optimistic, it looks encouraging, and
if we do, I think both the producer and the consumer at home and abroad will
be better off.
SOUTHERN AFRICA; THE MIDDLE EAST
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Fudah Hayati. I am a member of the
Northern California World Affairs Council, and I have a two-part question.
This country was instrumental in bringing about détente in the Middle East
with the Sinai accord between Egypt and Israel. Can you see this country play-
ing a similar role in southern Africa, specifically between Rhodesia and the
liberation movements? The second part of the question is, in light of the
reports of U.S. Marine maneuvers in the Mojave Desert carrying out desert
warfare, is there a possibility that U.S. troops would become involved in the
Middle East if détente did not hold?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no prospects of the United States military forces par-
ticipating in the Middle East. I see no reason for that to take place. We are on
a course of action which, if successful—and I believe it will be—that will pre-
clude that.
The United States has been trying to work not only in the United Nations
but elsewhere in the settlement of some of the very serious problems in Africa
between Rhodesia and South Africa and the nations that are emerging in Africa.
Unfortunately, there are some very serious problems, but I can assure you
that our best efforts will be utilized in that area as they have been in the Middle
East.
CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE
[8.] Q. I am Paul Zinner, and I teach at the University of California at
Davis. I am also a member of the World Affairs Council. Mr. President, I won-
der if you would give us some insight into the policy considerations that led
you to agree to a Helsinki summit in the middle of the summer, pretty much on
Mr. Brezhnev's timetable, and I wonder if you could also give us at least a brief
reading on the state of détente since Helsinki?
THE PRESIDENT. The timing of Helsinki was not important. The substance of
Helsinki, both in the language and the spirit-those are the important things.
The meeting in Helsinki between 35 nations came about because of 2 or 3
years of very detailed negotiations between East and West. And the various
amendments, the various compromises, in my opinion, have led or have the
potential of leading to a better relationship between East and West, whether
it is the confidence-building provisions, whether it is the relationship of one
1505
