[582]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
PRESIDENT'S TRIPS TO CALIFORNIA
[5.] Q. Mr. President, we are very glad to see you back in California again,
and I understand you will be returning again next month. The question is, why
three trips in less than a month and a half, and if this California blitz—if you
will pardon the expression—is really just to try to sidetrack Ronald Reagan's
shadow campaign for the nomination in '76?
THE PRESIDENT. Our plans to come to California 2 weeks ago and the plans
for this current weekend were made a good many months ago. They were
made because we have visited, or I have attended, a number of meetings of a
variety of organizations.
I spoke at Pepperdine University on Saturday, at Stanford University on
Sunday. I spoke at the AFL-CIO building and construction workers conven-
tion this morning, or on Monday. I spoke to the World Affairs Council in San
Francisco.
It is a whole list of very diverse organizations that give me an opportunity
to get acquainted with their interests and to indicate my policies. California is
a big, it is an important State. We want Californians to understand their
President, and I want to get to know Californians. It has really no relevance
as far as the political campaign is concerned.
I am coming back in October for a purely Republican Party function. That
is a different type of activity, and I think it is important for me, as the head of
the party, to participate.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[6.] Q. There is one other Californian you did speak to. You spoke to
Richard Nixon yesterday. Why did the White House wait until today to report
that, and will you accept Richard Nixon's help in your campaign in 1976?
THE PRESIDENT. My relationship with the former President is a personal one,
a personal friendship that has existed for 26 years. I don't think it is necessary
for us to volunteer when I call him or he should happen to call me.
It is my understanding that if Ron Nessen was asked, he would say yes, I
called the President, I am in the State where he lives, within a relatively short
distance of his home. I think it is a perfectly natural thing for longstanding
friends to talk on the telephone. His participation in 1976 is a matter for him
to decide, and we will wait and see what he does decide.
Q. If he decides, would you want his help?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think you accept anything in the political arena. A
person has to make a choice himself as to what he wants to do. We have no
1512
