September 30
[598]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tion. Successful registration drives this fall in every section of this State and
across the country are absolutely essential.
I know it is hard work. I know it is drudgery. I know it seems not very
exciting. But we must find party workers from new elements in our society.
We must identify our strengths, our weaknesses, and be frank where we must
improve. We must fine tune our party's organizations for the campaign ahead.
We must demonstrate that our party is determined to select and elect the best
possible candidates at the local, the State, and the national level.
And we must be cognizant that no candidate who can be a part of the im-
plementation of the philosophy in which we believe can be successful over the
years and even in this next election if we don't have a responsible, effective party
organization.
Not many people realize that in 1976 we are going to be operating under a new
Federal campaign law which just by the language and its interpretation we will
require a stronger working relationship between party organization and candi-
dates. The ability of Republicans to win elections at every level will depend on
the success of our registration drive and our determination to literally go from
door to door asking people who may not have voted before, who may have
voted differently, who may be disgruntled, who may be unhappy, to join us in
what I honestly think could be a great crusade for the next 13 months.
We have to find a party organization—and you obviously have it in Illinois—
and we must depend upon good financing. And this dinner tonight is the
best example of that kind of participation. Whether it is in the organization or
in the funding, our results will depend upon what you can do and have done and
will do.
Since taking office as President some 13 months ago, I have gone to 38 States
to let people know what this Administration is trying to do in Washington and,
more importantly, to learn what our fellow Americans want us to do. This
includes the broadest possible spectrum. Before the end of the year, I hope and
expect to visit the remainder of our States.
Now, obviously I can't discuss in the time allotted all of the issues and all of
the problems that I hear from people as I travel. I can't try to analyze and give
you what we think are the right answers to the problems, both at home and
abroad.
So, if I might, let me concentrate on several that are very pertinent, are very
important to us right now. It has some significance here in the great State of
Illinois.
1547
