September 26
[590]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Unfortunately, the statistics prove that crime is on the rise. Since 1960-and
this is hard to believe-reported crime has more than doubled. Last year we
saw the annual crime rate increase by 17 percent-the largest yearly increase
since the FBI began statistics in their department some 44 years ago.
This crime epidemic threatens the very foundation of our society, for it is
law which makes human society possible. Each of us has taken an oath to
uphold and to defend the Constitution which charges us with the duty, the
very solemn obligation, of ensuring domestic tranquillity.
But there can be little domestic tranquillity when increasing numbers of citi-
zens are robbed, mugged, raped, murdered. Each of us has a very unique oppor-
tunity to do something about this.
As you know, again far better than myself, a very large percentage of serious
crimes are committed by a very small number of offenders. The career criminal
program aims directly at solving this specific problem. And the success of this
program will pave the way for a far greater effort, a far sharper focus on career
criminals by our criminal justice system.
The good part about this program, as I see it, is that it is a grassroots program.
The Federal Government, through the Law Enforcement Assistance Act, has
awarded some $5 million in grants together with equipment, technical assist-
ance, and evaluation. But the day-to-day planning, the conduct, and the decision-
making are fundamentally yours at the local level.
I happen to believe that is the way it should be. With few exceptions, the
prosecution of serious crimes in this country is solely within the jurisdiction of
State and local authorities.
I gather from talking with the Attorney General and with others, you have
all had a very productive day even though the weather of Washington inter-
fered to some extent with your starting on time. Let me assure you we were a
little late getting started in the White House this morning for reasons that were
obvious, because of the weather.
If I might close with this observation. Even though Disraeli once said, “It is
with words we govern men," I might add my personal belief that it is with
words we also wear men down.
So, let me end by thanking you for coming here, for working so hard in the
preparation for this new operation and with the work that you will do when
you get back to your local communities. I think it is a program with a very
bright promise. And may God speed you as you proceed.
Thank you very much.
1533
