[535]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
mitted in accordance with the provisions of section 10 of the St. Lawrence Sea-
way Act (act of May 13, 1954).
It is interesting to note that, although traffic levels declined during the 1974
season, the Seaway Corporation nevertheless was able to continue its program
and retire a portion of its outstanding debt.
The White House,
September 8, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 24-page report is entitled "Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation-Annual Report
1974."
536
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the Republican
National Committee. September 8, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Mary Louise. Ted Stevens, Bob Dole, Guy Vander
Jagt, members of the National Committee, ladies and gentlemen:
It is just nice for Betty and myself to have an opportunity of seeing you all and
having you in the White House. And I hope and trust that in the months ahead,
when you meet here, that we can do this often, because this is a place where I
think we can get better and better acquainted, even more so than when I travel or
we travel to your respective States.
Let me say with great emphasis I believe that in the next election, 1976, it is
vitally important that we have a strong national Republican committee and that
we have equally strong State committees in every single one of the 50 States.
I can assure you that in the months ahead, a major part of my effort in travel
will be to work with you in your respective States for the strengthening of the
party. We must build from strength in each of the respective States. Now, that
includes not only party organization but it includes the financial aspects of the
party in each of the States.
Mary Louise has been more than kind in pointing out that I have tried to go
from one State to another-been to quite a few. We were a week ago in Maine
and Rhode Island, and last weekend in Seattle and in Oregon. We are going to
go to a good many other States.
It is my strong belief that if we can help or I can be helpful in this regard, it is
beneficial to the party in 1976.
I would hope that every Republican State organization could enter 1976 with
1350
