September 21
[579]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
takenly called this negative action, but it is not. It is positive action, the con-
structive way to achieve better legislation. And let me take a moment to explain.
From my 25 years in the House of Representatives and the time that I have
spent in the White House, I am convinced that the Founding Fathers put the
veto power in the Constitution as a very vital part of our system of checks and
balances in this great framework of government.
Recent history bears this out. President Truman exercised the veto 250 times
and was overridden only 12. President Eisenhower used it 181 times; he was
overridden only twice. But again and again the result of the initial veto was
to bring the President and the Congress together to arrive at a reasonable middle
ground, usually a sounder, more responsible measure than the original pro-
posal that came from Capitol Hill to the Oval Office.
To put it very simply, a veto often compels first the reconsideration by the
Congress of the previous action and then, undoubtedly, in most cases, a respon-
sible compromise.
I can promise you, if it is necessary to assure continued progress for this
Nation on a sound, economic base, I will continue to use the authority granted
in the Constitution to veto legislation I consider unsound as it comes from the
Congress.
If we are to continue the momentum in the battle against inflation, your
President cannot join forces with those who would spend, those who would
squander the investments in the future of millions of America's small savers,
including your policyholders.
The dynamic burst of productivity we call free enterprise has financed
enormous social and economic gain. No one would argue that the human
agenda of America is complete. We still have much to do, but let no one con-
tend that our free enterprise system has failed us. It has succeeded beyond the
wildest dreams of those who came before us.
Our task today is to get the mighty engine of free enterprise running at full
throttle again. The quick solution, and the wrong one, would be to load a lot
of new spending measures onto the taxpayer and unleash a flood of deficit
dollars into the Nation's economic mainstream. That might make the economy
leap up and shout hallelujah today, but the recovery would be very shortlived.
Soon the patient would be flat on his back, worse off than ever.
I will not be a party to such irresponsible action. From hallelujah to heart-
break in one quick surge is not the responsible way to make our economy
healthy in the future. Our task-yours and mine and that of millions of our
fellow citizens—must be to smooth out the peaks and the valleys in our eco-
1491
