[651]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Over the years, probably my closest friends in the Congress were those that I
served with from the State of Wisconsin. I won't list their names. You know
most of them. I wish my old buddy and golfing partner Mel Laird was here.
[Laughter] I will let you in on a little secret. The last time I played golf,
Johnny Byrnes and Mel were the opponents of a good friend of mine and my-
self. We have got a score to settle with them. [Laughter] We are going to catch
up. We are way behind.
But anyhow, I am delighted to see that Mel is kept so darned busy at the
Reader's Digest, because the Reader's Digest and the Republicans have a great
deal in common. The Reader's Digest takes things and cuts them down to size,
and that is just what we are going to do with some Democrats in 1976.
[Laughter]
I just wanted to stop and say hello and thank you all and share a few observa-
tions and comments. I am looking forward to getting together with you later
for a few minutes, where I can have a word or two at some greater length when
you and others move to the other hall.
Again, to Bill, to Fran, to all of you, I thank you from the bottom of my
heart.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:44 p.m. in the
Bradley Pavilion at the Performing Arts Center. In
his remarks, he referred to George Parker, Wiscon-
sin State Republican chairman, Ody J. Fish, Repub-
lican national committeeman for Wisconsin, and
former Wisconsin Representatives John W. Byrnes
and Melvin R. Laird.
652
Remarks at a Republican Party Rally in Milwaukee.
October 30, 1975
Bill, former Governor Warren Knowles, Congressman Bill Steiger, Congress-
man Bob Kasten, Chairman George Parker, Senator Krueger, Representative.
Shabaz, National Committeeman Ody Fish, Finance Chairman Bill Messinger,
Dinner Chairman Fran Furgeson, former Lieutenant Governor Jack Olson,
First Vice Chairman Alice Read, Second Vice Chairman Curtis McKay,
Dorothy MacDonald, Reed Coleman, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
That concludes my speech. Thank you very much. [Laughter]
Let me thank George Parker, most affectionately known as the State pen.
[Laughter] I enjoyed the fact that George met me at the airport along with
1770
