July 28
[450]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
450
Joint Statement Following Talks With First Secretary
Gierek of Poland. July 28, 1975
AS A result of the conversations held by the President of the United States of
America, Gerald R. Ford, and the First Secretary of the Central Committee of
the Polish United Workers' Party, Edward Gierek, both sides agreed to the
following Joint Statement.
I.
The President of the United States of America and the First Secretary of the
Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party reaffirm their deter-
mination to make their contribution to the consolidation of détente, to the
strengthening of international security, and to the development of bilateral
relations to their mutual advantage, as defined in the course of their previous
meetings and in accordance with the Joint Statement of Principles of United
States-Polish Relations of 1974, as well as other agreements concluded by the
two countries in recent years.
The President and the First Secretary welcome with satisfaction the convoca-
tion of the final stage of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
on July 30th of this year in Helsinki. Both sides consider the convocation of the
Conference a positive contribution to the continuing process of international
détente and express their hope that it will be regarded as an historic event.
Both sides expressed their will to do all they can so that the results of the Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, contained in the final document,
become a genuine and strong stimulus for positively shaping relations among
the participant states. They expressed their confidence that the implementation
of the decisions by all the participants of the Conference would contribute to
the further strengthening of peace in Europe and developing ever broader, all-
round cooperation among them. Both sides are in full agreement that security
in Europe is indivisible and that it remains closely linked with peace and security
in the world as a whole.
Both sides note that the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
will be followed up by future meetings at the level of representatives appointed
by the ministers for foreign affairs of participant states.
In the course of their exchange of views, both sides fully agreed that efforts
to strengthen political détente in Europe should be supplemented by a process
of military détente. In this context, the United States of America and the Polish
1061
