December 26
[748]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
747
Christmas Message.
December 24, 1975
MERRY CHRISTMAS! These two words conjure up all of the good feelings
that mankind has ever held for itself and its creator: reverence, tenderness,
humility, generosity, tolerance-love. These are the stars we try to follow. These
are the most enduring treasures we can bring to our world. I can remember a
few Christmases in my own youth when just about the only thing we had to
offer each other as a family was the love we shared, and the faith that together
we could see things through to a better future. And it did. It made us work
harder, study harder, try harder—and it brought out qualities and depths of
strength and character that none of us in those days thought we had.
The spirit of Christmas is ageless, irresistible and knows no barriers. It reaches
out to add a glow to the humblest of homes and the stateliest of mansions. It
catches up saint and sinner alike in its warm embrace. It is the season to be
jolly—but to be silent and prayerful as well.
I know this will be a particularly happy Christmas for me. I celebrate it
surrounded by those I love and who love me. I celebrate it by joining with all
of our citizens in observing a Christmas when Americans can honor the Prince
of Peace in a nation at peace.
The Ford family wishes you and your family a Christmas that brings all of
the joy, the fulfillment, and the inspiration of this most precious of seasons. May
God's blessings be with you all.
GERALD R. FORD
748
Statement on Actions To Combat Drug Abuse.
December 26, 1975
DRUG abuse is a tragic national problem which saps our Nation's vitality. It
is also a major contributor to our growing crime rate. All of us must redouble
our efforts to combat this problem.
Earlier this week I met with Representative Charles B. Rangel and other Mem-
bers of the Congress to discuss the problem of drug abuse. The Congressmen
reported the growing availability and use of illicit drugs and expressed their
1999
