[498]
August 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
One of the great things that I feel about our country is that people of different
political persuasions can sit down and try to work out the kind of problems that
we face in this Nation.
I can say to all of you from Montana that you are most fortunate to have a man
like Mike Mansfield not only as your Senator but as the majority leader in the
United States Senate.
Mr. Minister, would you please express to Prime Minister Trudeau my very,
very best wishes. One of the fine experiences a person has as President of the
United States is to meet heads of governments throughout the world. I can
say to those from Canada who are here today that the working relationship
between Prime Minister Trudeau and myself has been constructive and will
continue to be so as we seek to solve these problems between Canada and the
United States. Please give to him my very best wishes.
Obviously, I am tremendously pleased to be here to participate in the dedica-
tion of the Libby Dam, another multipurpose project, one of the superb projects
that the Army Corps of Engineers has constructed for the benefit of you in
Canada, but for all of us in the United States as well as the benefit of Canada.
As I look at this structure and know that some $500 million has been spent to
build it, I congratulate the Corps of Engineers for spending our tax dollars
wisely.
But I am also very pleased to be here because it provides me with an opportu-
nity to visit this beautiful “Big Sky” country, the kind of country that I have
heard about, not only from my son Steve, who spent the last year over in Lolo
and more recently up in the grizzly country, but my knowledge of Montana
goes back to my friendship with your delegation in both the House of Repre-
sentatives and the United States Senate.
The problem is that we in Washington sometimes forget how refreshing and
how beautiful America is, particularly this part of America, which has been
the inspiration for so many poets as well as painters.
Flying across this vast continent, to those of us who come from the Middle
West, is an inspiration. And I am filled with awe by how much we have accom-
plished in two short centuries. We have carved a civilization out of a wilderness.
Let us now make sure that we keep some wilderness carved out of our civilization.
All of you know better than I that Montana is one of our most rugged and
untouched areas. It stands as a symbol of our natural resources and of our
native spirit. Libby Dam is also a symbol of how a commitment to the environ-
ment can be balanced with our technological needs. It is a multipurpose project
1204
