[450]
July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
People's Republic attach significant importance to the Vienna talks on the
Mutual Reduction of Armed Forces and Armament in Central Europe and
Associated Measures and expressed their will to achieve progress in these talks.
The Polish side expressed its full support for the dialogue and development of
relations between the USA and the USSR-the two states which bear special
responsibility for world peace. The Polish side voiced its belief that in particular
the talks and the agreements concerning strategic arms limitation strengthen
world peace and provide a sound basis for further limitations and reduction of
strategic arms.
Both sides presented their respective views on the effectiveness of the Treaty
on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and were in agreement as to the
fundamental importance of the Treaty for preventing the danger of prolifera-
tion of these weapons.
They also considered that the Conference on the Law of the Sea was very
important for all countries of the world. Both sides expressed themselves in favor
of making all possible efforts to bring this Conference to a successful conclusion
next year, keeping in mind the just interests of all states.
They also reviewed matters related to the growing need to develop coopera-
tion among states, notably in the field of raw materials, energy, and food. They
reaffirmed their will to act, each side according to its own possibilities and
priorities, toward alleviating and solving the existing problems. The two sides
agreed that as a result of their bilateral cooperation in selected fields of energy,
they can considerably contribute to the solution of these problems to the benefit
of their own and other peoples.
The President and the First Secretary expressed themselves in favor of con-
tinuing, on all levels, efforts to promote international economic cooperation and
to remove barriers and obstacles.
Both sides intend to work toward broadening international scientific coopera-
tion. In this respect, the Polish side pointed to the significance of the Apollo-
Soyuz program, seeing in it a symbol of the opportunities arising from joint ef-
forts of nations for the good of all mankind in the era of international détente.
The President and the First Secretary confirmed their support for the United
Nations and for the objectives and principles set out in its Charter.
The two sides reaffirmed the usefulness of their contacts and consultations to
date and reaffirm their readiness to continue them on various levels and in
various forums.
1062
