[645]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
The greater risk is that any attempt to provide a Federal blank check for the
leaders of New York City would ensure that no long-run solution to the city's
problems will ever occur.
I can understand the concern of many citizens in New York and elsewhere.
I understand because I am also concerned. What I cannot understand—and
what nobody should condone—is the blatant attempt in some quarters to
frighten the American people and their representatives in Congress into panicky
support of patently bad policy.
The people of this country will not be stampeded; they will not panic when
a few desperate New York City officials and bankers try to scare New York's
mortgage payments out of them.
We have heard enough scare talk. What we need now is a calm, rational
decision as to what is the right solution—the solution that is best for the people
of New York and best for all Americans.
To be effective, the right solution must meet three basic tests:
It must maintain essential public services for the people of New York City.
It must protect the innocent victims of this tragedy. There must be policemen
on the beat, firemen in the station, nurses in the emergency wards.
Second, the solution must assure that New York City can and will achieve
and maintain a balanced budget in the years ahead.
And third, the right solution must guarantee that neither New York City
nor any other American city ever becomes a ward of the Federal Government.
Let me digress a minute to remind you that under our constitutional system,
both the cities and the Federal Government were the creatures of the States.
The States delegated certain of their sovereign powers—the power to tax, police
powers, and the like-to local units of self-government. And they can take
these powers back if they are abused.
The States also relinquished certain sovereign powers to the Federal Govern-
ment—some altogether and some to be shared. In return, the Federal Govern-
ment has certain obligations to the States.
I see a serious threat to the legal relationships among our Federal, State, and
local governments in any Congressional action which could lead to disruption
of this traditional balance. Our largest city is no different in this respect than
our smallest town. If Mayor Beame doesn't want Governor Carey to run his
city, does he want the President of the United States to be acting mayor of
New York City?
What is the solution to New York's dilemma? There are at least eight different
proposals under consideration by the Congress intended to prevent default.
1732
