October 1
[600]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I would prefer to do it through a SALT II agreement if we can get one.
That is fair to both sides and sets a cap. But if we can't, I can assure you that I
will recommend whatever the budget requirements are-adequate fundings for
SAC operations and for all other related strategic programs.
THE B-I BOMBER
[11.] Q. Do you believe that the B-1 will continue at full speed in spite of
the problems in Congress with the budget?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't guarantee what Congress is going to do. I can only
doubly guarantee you what I will do.
We are going to keep the B-1 program going to the maximum capability
productionwise, trainingwise, deploymentwise. I get very upset when the Con-
gress slows it down for one reason or another. I think it is wrong. But we are
going to keep after them because it is vitally important.
WELFARE PROGRAMS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, is your Administration proposing any new means to
lessen the welfare redtape and expenditures in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we are, on an almost daily basis, trying to do it in HEW.
I have got my Domestic Council now working on a way to try and remedy some
of the defects in the food stamp program—and there are many of them, not only
cost but bad management.
In the meantime, we hope to—well, we are, we are not hoping—Vice Presi-
dent Rockefeller is going to have a series of meetings around the country
where all people, those who want more or those who want less in the field of
welfare, can come in and testify and make specific recommendations so we will
have the benefit of people at the local level.
But in the meantime, we are working—I mean literally working-to try and
improve, cut down the mistakes and the cost of welfare so that we can get more
deserved welfare to the people who ought to have it and cut out those that
shouldn't qualify.
THE MISSING IN ACTION
[13.] Q. It is my understanding, Mr. President, you will be meeting with
Mrs. Caroline Stenderwick, a local representative of the MIA organization,
before your departure from Omaha. The families of these missing men tell us
they are seeking a more aggressive attitude from your Administration, especially
from Secretary Kissinger, in determining the fate of their husbands and fathers.
1559
