October 30
[648]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NEW YORK CITY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday you noted that tens of millions of Americans
have entered the “Golden Door” in search of liberty through New York. Since
World War II, there has been a tremendous migration within this country of
Puerto Ricans and of black Americans up to New York from the South. New
York has a tremendous welfare bill, and while we get some help from the Fed-
eral Government, we foot an awful lot of that bill ourselves. Do you think it is
time the Federal Government did more to help us in that regard?
THE PRESIDENT. Gabe, the Federal Government pays at least 50 percent of the
welfare bill in the city of New York. We are very substantial contributors. The
extra benefits over and above the Federal payment is a decision made itself by
the city of New York or the State of New York.
We are in the process, quite frankly, Gabe, of reviewing the whole welfare
program. There are so many pieces and parts of it, it is so uncoordinated, we
either have to junk it all and come up with a new one or we have to find ways
as an alternative to tighten up to give more to the people who deserve it and less
or nothing to the people who don't. And this is the problem we are facing, and
we hope to do something about it.
Q. Do you think the taxpayers of New York should be punished for their
compassion to fellow Americans?
THE PRESIDENT. We all have to live within our income, Gabe, and if they
have been overly generous over and above what the Federal Government con-
tributes, I think they have to be faulted.
MR. KLEIN. Alan Smith.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[7.] Q. Mr. President, we don't have much time, and this program has been
devoted primarily to the cities-that's as it's billed. However, I would be remiss
if I didn't mention another November 30 deadline, the end of the U.N. mandate
in the Golan Heights. Inasmuch as President Sadat of Egypt is in this country
now, might we expect some announcement from you or from Secretary Kis-
singer in the not-too-distant future about any potential for movement toward an
accord between Syria and Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said that the United States will not tolerate stagnation
or stalemate in the Middle East. I meant it. We are hoping that the parties
involved in that area of the world will participate in preliminary negotiations,
discussions, because we do have to go from the Sinai step to another step or to an
overall. And they all understand it. We are anxious that it take place, but we
1755
