December 8
[718]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NSC within the next week or 10 days, and of course, those meetings will deter-
mine to a substantial degree what we can do, if anything.
We certainly are of the same mind today, as we have been in the past, that a
SALT II agreement, if mutual, that in its responsibilities is in the best interests
of the United States, as well as the rest of the world.
It is really nice to see you all. Thank you.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:52 a.m., e.s.t.
718
Message to the Congress Reporting on Administration Efforts
To Settle the Cyprus Conflict. December 8, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting, pursuant to Public Law 94–104, the first of a series of reports
on efforts this Administration is making to help resolve the Cyprus problem.
Subsequent progress reports, as required by this legislation, will be forwarded
to you at sixty-day intervals.
In his speech before the U.N. General Assembly on September 25, 1975, the
Secretary of State outlined the Administration's policy on the complex Cyprus
problem as follows:
"The details of a Cyprus settlement are for the two communities themselves
to decide. However, in keeping with U.N. resolutions which the United States
has fully supported, the following principles are essential:
“A settlement must preserve the independence, sovereignty, and territorial
integrity of Cyprus;
“It must insure that both the Greek-Cypriot and the Turkish-Cypriot com-
munities can live in freedom and have a large voice in their own affairs;
"The present dividing lines cannot be permanent. There must be agreed terri-
torial arrangements which reflect the economic requirements of the Greek-
Cypriot community and take account of its self-respect;
"There must be provisions for the withdrawal of foreign military forces
other than those present under the authority of international agreements; and,
“There must be security for all Cypriots; the needs and wishes of the refugees
who have been the principal victims and whose tragic plight touches us all
must be dealt with speedily and with compassion."
1957
