[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
you
tell us
nationally as well as locally, and in view of this we would like to have
of the significant qualifications of Mr. Hooper for this very important position.
THE PRESIDENT. There are three on the Board; there are three spots on the
Board. Mr. Hooper's name was submitted out of a list of about 10 or 12. It was
submitted to me. The nomination is before the United States Senate. It is before
the committee that has jurisdiction. That committee is in the process of con-
ducting its own investigation, and the report from that committee will be sub-
mitted shortly, I am told, with its recommendation, and if it is favorable, it will
go to the floor of the Senate.
At the time that Mr. Hooper was selected, we did look into his business
qualifications, into his other qualifications, and the judgment was that he was
qualified for the position. But this is now a matter for the United States Senate
under the confirmation process. I don't think I should go any further than that.
The nomination is there. It is now a decision for the United States Senate to make.
STOCK TRANSACTIONS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I am Roy Meade representing the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers. As you know, individual stockholders, the backbone of
our free enterprise system, have left the market in droves, and it is necessary for
them to return before we have the viable stock market. What are your views
on double taxation of dividends, graduated capital gains tax when equities are
sold at a profit, and a liberalized capital loss treatment when sold at a loss?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the response to the first question, Secretary Simon
about a month ago went before the House Committee on Ways and Means and
recommended the Administration's view that we should find a method of inte-
grating taxation of corporate profits and the dividends paid to individual stock-
holders. Unfortunately, that recommendation was not treated too favorably by
the House Committee on Ways and Means.
We submitted that proposal because I believe that if we are going to create
jobs, we have to create the wherewithal for investment so that the plant and
the machinery can be purchased for the development of the job market.
Now, we have a tremendous need and necessity for investment capital for
job creation. Now, if the committee didn't like what we recommended, then
they ought to have, or they do have the obligation to come up with some answer
of their own.
Now in the second question, the House committee, in its consideration of
handling of the sale of the profit coming from the sale of securities last year,
1630
