[486]
August 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
authority to participate in agency proceedings, the Council will be an important
participant in my Administration's overall efforts to reduce both the scope
and cost of Government's interference in the economy.
I am concerned that Congress has given the Council new authority to require
detailed and periodic reports from the private sector. While Congress has
wisely mandated that any information pertaining to individual firms or persons
must be held strictly confidential and that the authority should be used wisely,
I feel strongly that abuse of this power would run counter to my belief that
Government reporting requirements have become a major burden to our
privacy and freedom. I am confident that the Council will exercise this new
authority with greatest care.
On balance, I believe this legislation ensures that the Council on Wage and
Price Stability will continue as a strong force as it monitors, but does not con-
trol, the actions of private and public organizations. The Council will continue
to be an important instrument in helping us achieve a speedy return to a healthy
and prosperous economy.
NOTE: The statement was released at Vail, Colo. As enacted, S. 409, approved August 9, 1975, is Public Law
94-78 (89 Stat. 411).
487
Statement on Signing a Bill Amending Child Support
Provisions of the Social Security Act. August 11, 1975
I HAVE approved H.R. 7710, a bill which would make a desirable change in the
tariff schedules affecting watches and watch movements manufactured in U.S.
insular possessions. It would also amend the new child support program which
became law last January as part of the Social Security Act.
The child support amendments, which were added to this bill shortly before
the Congress recessed, will provide some States needed time to change their
laws to comply with the new program, which became effective on August 1,
1975. They will also help in the orderly implementation of this program and
will strengthen the confidentiality of records in the program of Aid to Families
with Dependent Children by specifying the purposes for disclosure of such
records.
One of these amendments requires the Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare to develop standards to assure that unreasonable demands are not made
on individuals to cooperate with States in their child support collection efforts.
1148
