[732]
December 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have clearly stated ever since last October 6 that I would veto any tax cut if
you failed to cut future Federal spending at the same time. You have refused
at this time to put any limit on spending for the next fiscal year and instead
sent me a temporary 6-month extension of the present temporary 1975 tax levels
due to expire on New Year's Eve.
There is no need for withholding taxes to go up in 1976. There is no need
for a prolonged confrontation between us on this question. I believe and you
evidently believe that our nation will benefit by giving taxpayers a break in 1976.
The differences between us are these:
As I proposed last October 6, I want a larger tax cut in 1976 than we have had
in 1975-$28 billion to be exact-while the bill before me merely extends this
year's tax rate which works out to about $18 billion a year.
As I made clear over two months ago, I want any cut in Federal tax revenues
coupled with a cut in the runaway growth of Federal spending. Unless we
start doing this now we will run up larger and larger deficits and get farther
and farther away from a balanced budget. We will risk a new round of double
digit inflation which would invisibly tax every dollar the American people
have or earn in the future by a much higher figure than any temporary relief
this bill offers.
I said I would submit my recommendations for a $395 billion budget for
fiscal 1977 to you next January and I intend to do so. This represents a $28
billion reduction in the projected growth of Federal spending and—if you will
go along with me only on this overall ceiling-not on every detail as to where
the cuts should come-we could have a $28 billion tax cut next year without
adding to inflation, instead of this $18 billion cut that contains no spending cut
commitment.
The third difference between our positions as represented by the bill I am
vetoing is that your smaller tax cut extension does not give middle income tax-
payers their fair share of relief. My $28 billion tax cut proposal would remedy
this glaring inequity in the current schedule. While I want even lower Federal
income taxes than you have approved in this legislation, I am determined to
turn our whole tax policy toward a more fundamental reform. I believe we
should leave more and more dollars with the people to spend or save as they
please rather than send us more and more dollars to be spent in Washington.
I must return this bill, but this does not mean that taxes must go up next year.
I am aware of the new Congressional budgetary procedures for which I voted
when I was a member of the House of Representatives. I know that many Sena-
tors and Congressmen are trying in good faith to make them work in order to
1974
