October 30
[649]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
power by failing to exploit these opportunities. After twenty-five years of seem-
ingly irreconcilable differences, two parties to the Middle East dispute at last
have taken a decisive stride toward settling their differences, in joint reliance on
our good offices and continuing support. In the strategic Eastern Mediterranean,
two of our long-standing NATO allies look to us for a tangible sign of renewed
support and traditional friendship. In East Asia, friends and allies are anxiously
awaiting evidence that the United States intends to maintain its stabilizing role
in Pacific affairs.
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
I am also pleased to note the progress made by the Congress on H.R. 9005, the
International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1975, which authorizes
funds for our development and disaster assistance programs. Although we have
minor differences with the Congress on the formulation of this legislation, I
expect these to be resolved in the legislative process. The 244-155 vote in the
House clearly indicates that the Congress and the Executive Branch jointly
endorse the current reorientation of our bilateral development assistance pro-
gram focusing on basic human problems in the poor countries.
We must reaffirm our humanitarian commitment to some 800 million people
in the Third and Fourth World, who live in poverty, facing the daily reality of
hunger and malnutrition without access to adequate health and education
services and with limited productive employment. Improving the quality of life
for one-third of mankind living in conditions of despair has become a universal
political demand, a technical possibility, and a moral imperative.
Our foreign assistance programs, both development and security, are essential
for achieving world peace and for supporting an expanding international econ-
omy which benefits all nations. Our national security and economic well-being
in a world more interdependent than ever before in the history of mankind
warrant the fullest support of the American people and the Congress for our
foreign assistance programs.
ever,
In regard to the impact of these proposals on overall federal budget levels, I
fully recognize the proposed amounts are substantial. I should emphasize, how-
that total fiscal year 1976 expenditures for all types of foreign aid includ-
ing economic and military will still be roughly ten percent below the amounts
originally contained in my January budget because of the withdrawal of the
request for Indochina funding.
I am confident the Congress shares my desire to see the United States continue
to manifest to all nations its determination to play a role in the search for a
1761
