September 19
[571]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Don't believe those who tell you they are fighting to hold down your energy
costs. We have a growing scarcity of domestic energy. Government controls to
allocate this scarcity can't work, because our energy shortfall is constantly
increasing.
Those who procrastinate are not fighting to hold down your energy costs;
they are fighting to put off the critical decisions we have to make as a nation. The
truth is the American consumer can no longer enjoy cheap energy, at least not
in the lifetime of most of us.
Prices have increased and they will continue to increase, because foreign oil
producers from faraway shores who sell us 40 percent of our needs have com-
bined to raise their prices. They will increase even more as we become increas-
ingly dependent on foreign oil.
That dependence continues to grow every single day as our domestic produc-
tion continues to decline. That is why I insist on a new declaration of inde-
pendence—energy independence. I want and I need your help.
Under the plan that I submitted to the Congress in January, we will pay
American dollars to American companies to produce American energy for
American jobs and American profits and American taxes. That is a pretty good
program. Don't you think so?
The real danger to our economy is not the actions I propose, but the inaction
that stifles more production here at home and increases our dependence on oil
from abroad. That is the great danger—the loss of economic freedom by the
United States of America, the reckless risk of placing our national livelihood
and our national security in the hands of others.
That doesn't represent American independence, self-reliance, or the pioneer-
ing spirit. It is just plain chicken, and I don't think Americans admire it, want
it, or will stand for it.
I am counting on you—the “big, honest majority,” as Will Rogers called
you-and millions of others like you across America who will decide our
Nation's fate and who, in the final analysis, will be the producers and the pro-
tectors of America's greatness in the future.
Thank you, and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:59 p.m. at the
Independence Arch on the fairgrounds. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Edward L. Gaylord,
Oklahoma State Fair president.
1457
