[500]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
responsive, more efficient, and less costly. And I want to put an end to the
mountain of paperwork and the quicksand of regulation which big government
makes every businessman cope with.
Do you have any idea how many different Federal forms Washington sends
out and asks you to fill out? Would you believe it is over 5,000? Five thousand
Federal forms to keep Washington at work and businessmen from their work!
Believe me—and obviously you agree—this is not the way this great Nation
was built over a 200-year span. I can vividly recall how my father started a
small family paint factory back in, of all years, 1929. In those dire economic
circumstances, everybody pitched in. My specialty-and it didn't require much
skill-was mixing the paint and labeling cans. But my father was always out
there selling the merchandise and doing what makes sense for the business, not
what makes sense for the bureaucrats.
The Ford Paint and Varnish Company survived the Depression. And I have
often wondered if it would have if my father had had to fill out all of today's
forms and applications and those thousands and thousands of questionnaires
and, at the same time, cope with the patchwork of rules and regulations which
face today's businessmen.
My objective is to get the Federal Government as far out of your business, out
of your lives, out of your pocketbooks, and out of your hair as I possibly can.
To this end, within 3 weeks after I came into the Office of the Presidency last
August, I directed the heads of all Federal Government departments and
agencies to reduce the personnel for whom they had requested funds for the
remainder of the fiscal year by 40,000. Actually, I can report to you today that
their performance exceeded my directive. We ended fiscal year 1975 on June 30
of this year with a reduction or a cutback of 52,000 Federal employees under
the planned levels of a year ago.
As for those 5,000 Government forms, I can tell you this: Several months ago,
I directed Jim Lynn, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, to
examine, to analyze, to evaluate, and then throw out as many of these time-
wasters as he possibly can. And I am going to personally monitor it. To put it
very simply, I want to see the American businessman pushing merchandise, not
pencils.
You don't need a lot of bureaucrats looking over your shoulder and telling
you how to run your life or how to run your business. We are a people who
declared our independence 200 years ago, and we are not about to lose it now
to papershufflers and computers.
1214
