[557]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
listen to these arguments about they had to do this for the people and they
had to do that for the people and so forth.
I was reminded one time of a saying that was given to me a good many
years ago of a man who said, "Don't ever forget that a government big enough
to give you everything you want is a government big enough to take from you
everything you have.”
I thank you all for being here and supporting and making the party fiscally
solvent in the great State of Missouri.
I thank you all for the friendship you have given and the hospitality that
you have expressed. I love Kit Bond and Jack Danforth, and I love Gene Taylor.
I just hope that you will send them back for the good of Missouri, but for the
good of the country.
I can't say that I am going to wish you well on October 4, however, in Ann
Arbor, Michigan. I know you will play very well, and you will be treated
extremely well. I have played a few ball games in that stadium. But let me
say I love Missourians, and I thank you for the wonderful day and the fine
evening.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:09 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Alameda Plaza Hotel.
In his remarks, he referred to Lowell McCuskey,
Missouri State Republican chairman, and Dutton
Brookfield, chairman of the dinner.
558
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Dallas, Texas.
September 13, 1975
IT IS very nice to be in Dallas, and we are looking forward to not only the con-
vention but SMU and a nice luncheon, and then we go on to Midland. So, we
look forward to a full and a most enjoyable day here in the great State of Texas.
If you have any-I won't look at you, Walt [Walter Rodgers, Associated Press
Radio]. [Laughter]
REPORTER. How do you feel your protection has been all along, Mr. President?
The President. It has been great. The people have been so wonderful that I
just felt happy from the day we started until we finish here in Texas.
Thank you all very much.
Q. Concerning your stay in Dallas, did it ever enter your mind, before you
came here, what happened here 12 years ago?
THE PRESIDENT. Quite frankly, I hadn't thought about it until you mentioned
1416
