October 30
[650]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Japan. We want to maintain and encourage our friendly relations with the 150
million people of the Arab world. And we have a basic moral commitment to
the survival and security—and I say this with emphasis of the State of Israel.
The October 1973 war and oil embargo taught us that conflict in the Middle
East can quickly spread and cause serious international repercussions. Therefore,
our success in beginning the process of negotiations toward peace serves the vital
interest of this country while contributing to the well-being of the peoples of
the Middle East and peace of the world as a whole.
The recent Sinai agreement between Egypt on the one hand and Israel on the
other will maintain the momentum of this peacemaking process. There is a long,
long, hard road ahead, with many pitfalls, but I intend to continue what may
prove to be one of the most important achievements of American foreign policy
in a generation. We Americans—and I mean all inclusively—are writing a page
of world history that we can all be proud of.
And as I look around the world, I see our alliances with the Atlantic Com-
munity and Japan in better shape than at any time in the last decade. And I
thank all of you in this great Bay Area for the hospitality and thoughtfulness you
showed to our distinguished guests, the Emperor and the Empress of Japan. Our
cooperation on defense matters in these areas—the Atlantic Community and
Japan-our cooperation is sound, effective, and constantly being improved.
But Allied cooperation goes far beyond national security and defense. It
reaches out to include new areas of energy cooperation and now intensive con-
sultation to expedite our economic recovery.
In 2 weeks I will meet in Paris with the leaders of the large industrial nations
of the free world in an economic summit. If we all coordinate our strategies for
economic recovery, it is obvious that our joint efforts will reinforce one another
and benefit the peoples of all free nations.
The strength and solidarity of the free world, in my view, is the only basis
for seeking a reduction of tensions with our Communist adversaries. It is not
we who want confrontations. And I have made it clear that my Administration
will maintain a national defense second to none, and I will defend the defense
budget against all dangerous and ill-considered attacks or cutbacks. May I say
parenthetically, I will resist just as strongly those who want to dismantle our
intelligence-gathering community, which is a bulwark of America's strength.
And in dealing with any or all nations, I have made it clear that when
United States, are challenged, we will respond with resolution.
we,
the
We have a stable relationship of mutual respect with the People's Republic
of China. My visit there this year in a few weeks will be an undeniable demon-
1767
