[556]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
individual. We are all different. We shouldn't have mass education. We shouldn't
have mass government. We shouldn't have mass labor unions. We shouldn't
have ourselves computerized according to what some machine says.
The strength of America has been its diversity. The beauty of Joseph's coat
is its many colors. That is the strength of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:45 p.m. in the ball-
room at the Ramada Inn Southwest. In his opening
557
remarks, he referred to Jack Ranson, Kansas State
Republican chairman.
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner in
Kansas City, Missouri. September 12, 1975
Thank you, Dutton. Governor Kit Bond, Lieutenant Governor Bill Phelps, Jack
Danforth, Gene Taylor, Lowell McCuskey, ladies and gentlemen:
It is really great to be here, and I appreciate no end the more than generous
observations and conclusions. We have got a long way to go between now and
November of 1976, but I can't help but reminisce a bit that it was the Middle
West that kind of got me started back in 1965 on my interest in, and success in,
the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives. And I guess I am
a little nostalgic about what the Middle West can do in 1976, based on a little
history.
So, I thank the kind words from Dutton and I am most grateful for the very
warm reception, and I thank all of you for being here.
Let me say that I have a prepared text here, and as my friends from the press
know, on occasion I don't use it. [Laughter] So, I am not going to use it tonight.
They have written all their stories, and it will be in the papers, but I will just
talk to you as friends.
First, let me congratulate all of you in the great State of Missouri for the
outstanding Governor that you have in Kit Bond. Over a long period of time,
I have seen Governors come and go, and you get a feeling-those that are going
to stay and make a real record, yes, in their respective State, but potentially on a
broader basis. And I say in Kit Bond you have got a real fine Governor who
has a great future.
Somebody told me when I came to Missouri earlier today that Bill Phelps
had a special name, something like "Full-time Phelps." Well, I like to see the
number two man work at the job a hundred percent, and that is exactly what
Bill is doing, and congratulations, Bill.
1410
