[677]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Do you want your President to let some publicity-seeking individuals under-
cut, undermine, destroy the effectiveness of our intelligence-gathering com-
munity that is so important to the future and the care and security of the United
States?
If your answer is no—and I think I have heard it right—[laughter]—then
you want a Republican President and you need a Republican Congress to work
with him.
So, it comes right down to this: Strength at home, strength abroad, a record
of progress and peace—these are what the people want and what we Repub-
licans are prepared to offer. We want an America that is strong and just and free,
an America that stands for hope and promise and peace throughout the world.
Next year is one of major decision. The people of North Carolina and your
neighbors throughout America must decide what direction this country will
take as we enter our third century.
Let's make sure that the decision is for an America at peace, for a nation
renewed, for a people with pride, for a future that summons us to new chal-
lenges and new glory. Let's make 1976 a great, great year for America by making
it a great year for the Republican Party. And let us celebrate that great victory
together next November.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:22 p.m. in the Royal
King's Hall at the Royal Villa Hotel. In his opening
remarks, he referred to former North Carolina State
Republican Chairman Thomas S. Bennett, and Rob-
ert G. Shaw, incoming chairman.
678
The President's News Conference of
November 14, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. This is a new format, the first press conference
just for the local press, and I am looking forward to it.
Mr. Merriner, will you ask the first question?
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[1.] Q. Jim Merriner, Atlanta Constitution. Will Rogers Morton take an
active role in your campaign, and will Bo Callaway's role be downgraded in sub-
stance, if not in his actual title?
THE PRESIDENT. First, Bo Callaway is doing a fine job. He will continue
1866
