[552]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
columnists, Mr. Raspberry. And Mr. Raspberry has come to the conclusion that
court-ordered forced busing is not the way to achieve quality education for
blacks or whites in a major metropolitan area. That is a very significant decision
by Mr. Raspberry, who I think Mr. Dudman, for example, highly respects.
Q. I certainly do. In Boston and Louisville, where the court has ordered
busing, how well do you think the people of those two cities have conducted
themselves in bringing about court-ordered exchanges of black and white
students?
The President. There has been some disorders there over the last year or more.
Q. I am thinking about this fall. There have been Federal agents there, of
course, to try to maintain order. Are you reasonably well satisfied with the way
things have happened or not?
The President. So far there has been a minimum of local disorder. I hope
that that attitude can prevail in the months ahead as the police involvement
and the Federal marshal involvement becomes less and less. I am always an
optimist, even though I disagree with the method by which they are trying to
achieve quality education.
Q. Well, are you counseling the people of those two cities to cooperate with
the courts, or are you encouraging them to maintain their strong feelings in
some cases that this is an improper solution?
THE PRESIDENT. Last year I did a televised tape urging the people of Boston
to cooperate with the court and to maintain law and order. I did that then,
and I have counseled everybody that I talked with in Boston to encourage their
fellow Bostonians to obey the law and follow the court's action.
Q. We have time for one short question and one short answer.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[11.] Q. Mr. President, assuming your nomination, will you agree to broad-
cast debates with the nominee of the other party?
The President. Well, that gets into some problems involving the current
law. I am not sure that a public debate on television is the best way for the
public to analyze a candidate. I don't rule it out, but I won't make any firm
commitment at this time.
Q. What about a public debate on radio?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it is a possibility, but I would not want to make
a firm commitment at this time.
2 See 1974 volume, Item 142.
1382
