December 19
[737]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
renew, we demonstrate our conviction that it is more blessed to give than to
receive, to believe than to doubt, to hope than to despair, to love rather than
stand apart.
We are a national family called America. We come from varied backgrounds.
We live in areas far apart from each other. We have different dreams. But we
are united this Christmas by our common commitment to one another.
We have much to be grateful for as we enter this Christmas season. We are
at peace, and through our efforts significant progress has been made toward a
more durable peace throughout the world.
Yes, we have endured economic difficulties, but our Nation and we in the
American family can now look forward to a more prosperous new year. And
on this eve of our Bicentennial year, liberty and justice still burn brightly as the
guiding stars of our Nation.
We pray this Christmas not only for ourselves and our country but for all our
brothers and sisters on Earth. We ask for the strength and resolution to help lift
the burdens of poverty, ignorance, hunger, and disease from the minds and
bodies of men and women and children everywhere.
As we enter America's third century, let us make sure we carry with us our
abiding faith in the ultimate triumph of peace on Earth and the living example
of good will to all men and women. Let us join the great principles of our
past—spiritual and temporal-with the great promise of our future. With the
help of God, America's third century will be our proud legacy to so many
generations yet to come.
Tonight, as we light the national Christmas tree, Betty joins me in wishing all
of you a very merry Christmas and a new year of peace and happiness.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:50 p.m. at the 22d
annual Pageant of Peace ceremonies on the Ellipse
near the White House. His remarks were broadcast
live on radio and television.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
John W. Dixon, president, Pageant of Peace, Inc.,
and Ambassador Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa of Nica-
ragua, dean of the Washington diplomatic corps.
737
Veto of the Departments of Labor and Health, Education, and
Welfare Appropriation Act, 1976. December 19, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I return without my approval H.R. 8069, the Departments of Labor and
Health, Education, and Welfare Appropriation Act, 1976.
1979
