September 4
[526]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I know that the people in the leadership of the Republican Party like Dan
Evans and Bob Packwood and Joel Pritchard and many others—that the Re-
publican Party is prepared to help guide that kind of progress. Perhaps more
than at any other time in the history of our Nation, our party's principles
and its objectives match the hopes and aspirations of the American people.
Our Republican commitments to fiscal responsibility, to a vigorous free
enterprise system, to a strong national defense, to local control over local con-
cerns, and a personal freedom for the individual-these are commitments shared
by the vast majority of our fellow Americans and your Washingtonian friends
in this great State.
We believe, as Abraham Lincoln said, that “government should only do for
the people what they cannot do as well for themselves."
We believe that the American people have grown weary of government's
overblown promises and overbearing controls.
We believe the American people are ready to do great things for themselves
and for their country.
We are prepared to govern but not dominate the American people—that is
our pledge for the coming campaign and for the years ahead.
We can help to make these great years great ones for America, so much so
that we and our children and their children may say with new meaning and
with fresh enthusiasm the words of Daniel Webster: "Thank God I am an
American."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:45 p.m. at the to Ross Davis, Washington State Republican chair-
Seattle Center. In his opening remarks, he referred
526
man.
Remarks at a Republican Party Luncheon in Seattle.
September 4, 1975
Dan, and Bob Packwood, Joel Pritchard, distinguished public officials, ladies
and gentlemen:
It is a great delight and great privilege and pleasure to be here again in
Seattle. I always enjoy coming back to Washington because of your great,
although somewhat moist weather. And if you are in politics, it really is great.
It is the only place I know where you can be all wet and still get elected.
[Laughter] Scoop,¹ if you are listening, I am only kidding. [Laughter]
1 Democratic Senator Henry M. Jackson.
1299
