August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
like—I am very honest and very frank about it—but we will be moving in the
right direction.
MR. AGRONSKY. Let us take the direction in which we are moving, which we
are in today, leaving percentages aside. We have got better than 8 million
Americans who don't have jobs. We reckon now that there are something like
24 million Americans-12 percent of the population of this country-that are at
the poverty level or below.
And many of your critics make the point that while you are a good man and a
decent man, you don't show a sufficient amount of compassion, in their opinion,
for the people who are unfortunate in that sense, for the people who are on
welfare and people who live on food stamps.
THE PRESIDENT. Martin, our welfare program is very generous. Our food
stamp program is very generous. A good many Americans think that there are
too many abuses both in welfare and food stamps, and I think there are too many
abuses. If we could correct the abuses, we could be more compassionate to the
people who have a real need for both welfare and/or food stamps or both.
Now, you know, inflation, Martin, hits the unemployed even more drastically
than it hurts the people who are employed, so my compassion is across the
spectrum. It is not just aimed at the people who are employed. We want to
control inflation to help all Americans, including the unemployed. If we don't
control inflation, the ones who are hurt the most are the people who are unem-
ployed and the people on fixed incomes.
MR. AGRONSKY. Mr. President, no one would argue that inflation isn't a threat,
but the concern is that you seem to be more worried, really, constantly—and it is
a conscious decision on the part of your Administration—with inflation than
you have been with unemployment. And generally the whole thrust-
THE PRESIDENT. Martin, I must respectfully disagree with you. This Adminis-
tration has extended the unemployment compensation program to, I think, 65
weeks. We have broadened the eligibility of unemployment beyond what it ever
was in the United States. We have paid more money out in unemployment
benefits than any administration has ever done. So, we have shown in dollars
and in programs a deep concern for the unemployed. We have gone along with
a public service employment program up to the maximum authorized by the
Congress.
MR. AGRONSKY. But yet you have also vetoed an effort for a job bill that was
passed by the Congress.
The President. Martin, that was, I think, a poor label for a bad piece of
legislation. The facts are, I sent up a request for $1,900 million for public service
1123
