[638]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
638
Statement on the Observance of National Epilepsy Month.
October 22, 1975
AS WE enter our Bicentennial year, we can be proud of the quality of life and
health care available to most Americans. It is only right that we give special
attention to the problems of those whose disabilities keep them from realizing
self-fulfillment in education, employment, and family involvement.
Some 4 million fellow citizens are afflicted with epilepsy. Research has made
it possible for many of them to lead a normal life. But for many others the
answer lies in the future.
It is therefore most appropriate that we set aside a National Epilepsy Month.
In focusing on the needs of persons with epilepsy, the month of November also
pays fitting tribute to the thousands of volunteers who work with the Epilepsy
Foundation of America. These men and women help individuals with epilepsy
to find effective treatment, necessary education, and employment opportunities.
They improve our Nation's understanding of the disorder and our own sensi-
tivity towards those who are afflicted with it.
On behalf of all Americans, I salute the dedication and humanitarian concern
of all who engage in this noble effort. I hope that the coming year will witness
the conquering of new medical frontiers in this area.
639
Memorandum on Minority Banks.
October 23, 1975
[Dated October 22, 1975. Released October 23, 1975]
Memorandum for Heads of Departments and Agencies
This month marks the fifth anniversary of the program to help minority
banks by increasing their deposits from both the Federal and private sectors.
During that period, the number of minority banks increased from 31 to more
than 70 and total deposits have more than tripled from $396 million in 1970 to
$1.3 billion in 1975. The enterprise of the banks themselves has been the key
factor in this growth but the deposit program has played an important role.
During the past year the level of Federal sector balances with minority banks
has declined despite earnest efforts by Government departments and agencies.
1720
