October 29
[645]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
dedicated Secretary of State who is a man of
experience and vision.
While I propose a toast for President Ford, his
charming wife, and for the friendship between the
American and Egyptian peoples, I am sure that I
am expressing sentiments which are genuinely re-
ciprocated by President Ford, his assistants, and
compatriots towards a country that is known for its
fortitude, culture, and historical heritage.
I am certain that when my visit is completed,
the picture will be clearer to the American public,
to government officials, and legislators. This would
definitely lead to cementing the relations between
the American people and the Egyptian people as
well as the entire Arab nation.
May I propose a toast to the health of President
Ford and Mrs. Ford, our dear friends.
Ladies and gentlemen, I seize this opportunity
and present to our dear friend, President Ford, our
highest decoration. It is the Nile decoration. This
is a sign of great respect to himself and to the whole
American people.
As a token of our friendship and our admiration
to the First Lady and the ladies of the United States,
may I present our highest decoration, El Kemal.
645
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the National
Press Club on the Subject of Financial Assistance to New York
City. October 29, 1975
Mr. President, fellow members of the Press Club, ladies and gentlemen, guests:
I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to join you today and talk to you
about a matter of very deep concern to all Americans.
New York City, where one out of every 25 Americans lives, through whose
“Golden Door" untold millions have entered this land of liberty, faces a financial
showdown.
The time has come for straight talk-to these 8 million Americans and to the
other 206 million Americans to whom I owe the duty of stating my convictions
and my conclusions, and to you whose job it is to carry them throughout the
world as well as the United States.
The time has come to sort facts and figures from fiction and fear-mongering
in this terribly complex situation. The time has come to say what solutions will
work and which should be cast aside.
And the time has come for all Americans to consider how the problems of
New York and the hard decisions they demand foreshadow and focus upon
potential problems for all governments-Federal, State, and local-problems
which demand equally hard decisions for them.
One week ago, New York City tottered on the brink of financial default
which was deferred only at the eleventh hour. The next day, Mayor Beame
testified here in Washington that the financial resources of the city and the
State of New York were exhausted. Governor Carey agreed.
They said it is now up to Washington, and unless the Federal Government
1729
