September 30
[597]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Just before he died, J. Edgar Hoover had these prophetic words to say about
the rule of law in America, and I quote: "The tests of time and challenge in our
Nation's history have more than proven the majesty of the law.”
Mr. Hoover was so right. The continued dedication of the men and women
of the FBI to the preservation of the rule of law and the protection of citizens'
rights will be a monument even more enduring than this imposing building.
In a very real sense, we are gathered here to dedicate not merely a structure
of concrete and steel but to rededicate ourselves to the principles of equal justice
and liberty under law, which must motivate all the actions of the Federal
Government.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:18 a.m. in the courtyard of the building.
597
Letter to Congressional Leaders Urging Approval of United
States Participation in the Early Warning System in the
Sinai Peninsula. September 30, 1975
[Dated September 29, 1975. Released September 30, 1975]
I AM writing to emphasize the importance of a Congressional decision in the
coming week on U.S. participation in the Early Warning System which is an
integral part of the Agreement signed between the Governments of Egypt and
Israel on September 4 in Geneva.
Over the past two years, our Government has played an essential role in
helping defuse the tensions in the Middle East. We have chosen this course
because we recognized, as has every American Administration over the past 30
years, that the issues involved in that troubled area are central to the American
national interest.
The September 4 agreement, like the two preceding disengagement agree-
ments, was negotiated with the assistance of the United States. The parties
themselves have described it as a significant step towards peace in the Middle
East. It will reduce the risks of war, create new opportunities for negotiating
peace, and help provide a stable environment in which global economic dis-
locations can be avoided. This Agreement is in the overall national interest of
the United States.
There would have been no Agreement without provision for American par-
1543
