[620]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, was the veto useful then for the sake of making that point?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope so.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[12.] Q. Mr. President, you have taken a number of political positions which
are attractive to the conservative members of the Republican Party. I refer to
the tax and the veto of social programs, New York. Is it your campaign
strategy to keep to the right in your own party until after New Hampshire
and Florida and then move back to the center when you are running against
a Democrat?
THE PRESIDENT. I think if you look at my total record since I have been
President, and certainly while I was in the House of Representatives, I was
in the middle of the road both in domestic action as well as in foreign policy,
and I intend to stay there.
I think it is the area where most Americans agree. It has been my record for
27 years in politics, and I don't intend to deviate for any temporary political
advantage.
FEDERAL TAXES AND SPENDING
[13.] Q. Mr. President, there has been talk about the great difficulty of
combining the tax cut with the Government expenditure ceiling in one pack-
age. And we asked Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Simon, and they say, well, that
is up to Congress. Well, you are an expert in that subject as a former House
minority leader. What would you suggest along that line?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would suggest to the Congress that they go back
to December of 1967 where they will find that Congress for the next fiscal
year passed a spending limitation and at the same time took action on taxes.
And I would suggest they go back to June of 1968, and they will find that the
Congress passed a spending limitation at the same time they considered a tax
measure for the next fiscal year. They would learn from history and from
precedents that it had been done.
And if this new Congress, this reform Congress, can't use enough imagina-
tion to put together a tax reduction and a spending limitation, I think the
American people ought to know about it, because other Congresses have done
it, and the American people believe in a tax reduction and a spending limita-
tion. And I can't imagine Congress not having enough imagination to combine
a spending limitation and a tax reduction. If they don't, there ought to be
some changes up on Capitol Hill.
1654
