July 28
[448]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
pendence a reality, we have worked hard to broaden the scope of our common
interests.
I am deeply gratified by the expansion of contacts between our two countries,
by the rapid growth in trade, and by the new forms of bilateral cooperation
which have been able to develop between our two nations.
During your visit to Washington last October, Mr. First Secretary, we signed
the joint agreements of principles of U.S.-Polish relations, the joint statement
of the development of economic and industrial cooperation, and our two coun-
tries, Mr. Secretary, entered into agreements on coal research, health, environ-
mental protection, the avoidance of double taxation, and the cooperation in
science and technology.
These agreements are the latest evidence, Mr. Secretary, of our ability to
work together to improve the lives of our peoples, and I hope that we can
achieve even greater cooperation during this visit.
I look forward to our discussions, Mr. Secretary. I am confident that in re-
viewing our relationships we can strengthen the traditional friendship between
our two peoples and improve the prospects for world peace.
I am also very anxious to share our thoughts about the future and to hear
your views, Mr. Secretary, as we both prepare to participate in the Conference
for Security and Cooperation in Europe in Helsinki.
I believe that we will find areas in which both our countries can further con-
tribute to the achievement of lasting peace and progress among all nations.
In conclusion, let me express the greetings I bring with me from all Amer-
icans, including the millions of our citizens who are so proud of their Polish
background and their Polish heritage.
Niech zyje Polska! [Long live Poland!]
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 12 noon
at Okecie International Airport in response to re-
marks of welcome by Edward Gierek, First Secre-
tary of the Central Committee of the Polish United
Workers' Party. In his opening remarks, the Presi-
dent also referred to Henryk Jablonski, Chairman
of the Council of State, and Piotr Jaroszewicz,
Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime
Minister).
First Secretary Gierek spoke in Polish. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
The Right Honorable Mr. President, Madam Ford,
ladies and gentlemen:
On behalf of the highest authorities of the Polish
People's Republic, in the name of our people, I wish
to welcome you, Mr. President, on the Polish soil.
We are extending to you a welcome of most genuine
cordiality, while I myself am particularly satisfied
over our meeting again.
We are pleased to be able to play host to Mrs. Ford
and persons accompanying you, and among them
the Secretary of State, Mr. Kissinger. The doors of
Warsaw and of the entire country of ours stay wide
open for you with traditional Polish hospitality.
This is not your first visit to Poland, but it is for
the first time that you are visiting us as President of
the United States of America, as a leader of the
nation which for over two centuries our people have
been linked to with numerous and strong ties, mu-
tual friendship, and respect.
In your person, Mr. President, we welcome and
extend greetings to the American people, with whom
we desire to develop cooperation and share the
happiness of peace.
1057
