December 2
[707]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
At present, a more important question confronts
the Chinese and American peoples-that of the in-
ternational situation. Our basic view is: There is
great disorder under heaven, and the situation is
excellent. The basic contradictions in the world are
sharpening daily. The factors for both revolution
and war are clearly increasing.
Countries want independence, nations want lib-
eration, and the people want revolution. This tor-
rential tide of our time is mounting. In particular,
the Third World has emerged and grown in strength
and has become a force that is playing an important
role in the international arena, a force that must not
be neglected.
On the other hand, the contention for world
hegemony is intensifying, and strategically, Europe
is the focus of this contention. Such continued con-
tention is bound to lead to a new world war.
This is independent of man's will. Today, it is
the country which most zealously preaches peace
that is the most dangerous source of war. Rhetoric
about détente cannot cover up the stark reality of
the growing danger of war.
The wind sweeping through the tower heralds
a rising storm in the mountains. The wind is blow-
ing harder and harder, and nothing can prevent
the storm. In the face of this international situation,
the crucial point is what line and policy to pursue.
We consider that it is in the interest of the people
of the world to point out the source and danger of
the war, dispel illusions of peace, fully arouse the
people, make all preparations, unite with all the
forces that can be united with, and wage a tit-for-tat
struggle.
Hegemonism is not to be afraid of. It is weak by
nature. It bullies the soft and fears the tough. Its
expansion in all parts of the world bears the seed of
defeat. The outcome of a war is decided by the
people, not by one or two new types of weapon.
In this regard, the consistent policy of the Chinese
Government and people is dig tunnels deep, store
grain everywhere, and never seek hegemony. We
base ourselves on independence, self-reliance, and
millet, plus rifles.
The people are the makers of history. Mankind
always advances in storm and stress. The road is
tortuous, the future is bright. We are full of optimism
and confidence in the future of mankind.
President Ford's visit to China is a major event in
the present international relations. It is beneficial for
leaders of the two countries to have a direct exchange
of views on issues of mutual interest. We wish Presi-
dent Ford a successful visit.
In conclusion I propose a toast to the friendship
between the Chinese and American peoples, to the
health of President and Mrs. Ford, to the health of
the other American guests, and to the health of all
comrades and friends present here.
On the following day, the President went to the
Great Hall of the People in the morning for a meet-
ing with Vice Premier Teng. In the afternoon, he
met with Chairman Mao Tse-tung at his residence.
707
Statement on Signing the Education for All Handicapped
Children Act of 1975.
December 2, 1975
I HAVE approved S. 6, the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of
1975.
Unfortunately, this bill promises more than the Federal Government can
deliver, and its good intentions could be thwarted by the many unwise provi-
sions it contains. Everyone can agree with the objective stated in the title of this
bill—educating all handicapped children in our Nation. The key question is
whether the bill will really accomplish that objective.
Even the strongest supporters of this measure know as well as I that they are
falsely raising the expectations of the groups affected by claiming authorization
levels which are excessive and unrealistic.
Despite my strong support for full educational opportunities for our handi-
1935
