July 27
[440]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
not only in the United States but in Germany. And later today, we will probably
talk about what we might do for the further improvement of reciprocal efforts
in this area.
THE CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, might I add a footnote to that one, please?
The President and I, as well as President Giscard and Prime Minister Wilson,
will have the opportunity in Helsinki to hold a special meeting with foreign
ministers of these four countries. And the discussions of the last few days,
especially this morning's discussion, have been particularly useful, serving
among other things to prepare for that meeting. And at every opportunity, co-
operation in overcoming the world economic recession will play a central role.
We European nations and the governments of these European nations know
that the world economic recession can only be overcome if it is overcome on an
international basis in the same manner by all participants-above all, when it
is tackled in the same way by the industrial countries of the world. And that
means that the economy of the United States of America—by far the largest,
the most efficient and, as far as world trade is concerned, one of the most im-
portant economies and, as far as the finance and currency system of the world
is concerned, by far the most important—that overcoming this worldwide re-
cession is only possible if this most important economy of the Western World
leads the way.
The overview which the American President has personally given us in
regard to the latest developments in the American economy is one of the bright-
est aspects of the future development. But we don't by any means want to
exaggerate our hope and our optimism; rather, we are both conscious of the
fact that we—together with our other partners—will still have considerable
difficulties to overcome.
Q. Mr. President, are you discussing offsets during these talks?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, are we discussing offset. I am sure that we
will, but we haven't come to that point as yet.
Q. Mr. President, you have expressed your satisfaction with the results of
the CSCE talks in Helsinki. Will you push forward now to get results at last in
Vienna in the MBFR talks?
THE PRESIDENT. The MBFR talks in Vienna have been stalled for the last few
months. I think once the CSCE meeting has been held in Helsinki, we can now
concentrate on the MBFR talks, and of course, in my discussions with Chancel-
lor Schmidt, we will see how we can coordinate our efforts in this very im-
portant area.
Thank you very much.
1047
