[488]
August 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
U.S. ARMED FORCES
[14.] Q. Mr. President, my question is not on energy, it is on our young peo-
ple. My husband just retired after serving 22 years in the Marine Corps, and we
now live in Vail. And I am very concerned with the young people's attitudes
towards not only politics but making the military a career. What is your feeling?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, first, the attitude of young people today toward the
military should be affirmative. After all, 2,100,000 people serve in the Army,
Navy, Air Force, and Marines. They are the bulwark of our national security.
Fortunately, we have been able to increase compensation, improve housing;
we have improved their capability through weapons, et cetera, to more ade-
quately defend our national interests.
A career in the military today, in my judgment, is a very promising one with
all the benefits educationally, et cetera, that are available. I think it is regrettable
if the situation does exist that young people today don't look at the military with
admiration, because they should.
The military in this country, during my lifetime, has made America safe-
World War I, World War II, et cetera. And we should be graceful, not condemn
the people in the Armed Forces.
Q. It has happened since Vietnam.
THE PRESIDENT. But let me add this, and I know that during Vietnam there
was a great revulsion among many young people—I don't say all, but many. On
the other hand, it has been my experience in the last year to visit a number of
prominent college campuses-Notre Dame, Tulane, the University of Pennsyl-
vania, et cetera—and instead of Presidents being more or less precluded from
visiting college campuses, in those three as well as in other instances there was a
totally different attitude which I think is wholesome, and I have a lot of faith
in their present attitude and their future activities. So, I am an optimist rather
than a pessimist.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:36 a.m. at the Eagle's Nest Restaurant with business, academic, and civic
leaders attending the symposium.
1162
