[714]
December 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our conversations convinced me of the depth of understanding between the
United States and the Philippines, which will permit points on which we may
differ to be resolved without becoming items of major conflict.
As I leave today, I go home convinced that the relationship of mutual respect
and mutual trust between our two countries is the continuing basis for a true
alliance today as well as in the future.
On behalf of Mrs. Ford, our daughter Susan, and all of our delegation—yes,
all of the American people—I thank you and Mrs. Marcos and all of the people
of the Philippines for the gracious, the kind, and the wonderful reception that
we had. We are most appreciative.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:52 p.m. at the
Manila International Airport. President Marcos re-
sponded as follows:
For and on behalf of the 42 million Filipinos, on
behalf of the Republic of the Philippines, and on
my own personal behalf and that of my wife, I
wish you a happy trip home and hope that you will
bring with you to the American people the affec-
tion and good will that you have found in the
Philippines.
You came to Asia, Mr. President, with one mes-
sage underneath-that America has no intention of
withdrawing into the Pacific and into your hemi-
sphere and abandoning Asia and your allies in the
Pacific.
It is, therefore, with confidence that we face the
future. All Asian countries and Asian leaders take
courage in your work and shall mark your work
with resolution to move forward in preparedness
for their security as well as for their development.
The confidence that you instill in the Asian na-
tions today shall be met with the effort of obtain-
ing self-reliance, and it is our hope that the bond
of friendship and comity that now exists between
our two countries shall continue strengthening.
With the faith on the part of the Filipino people,
we can hopefully say, go with God, Mr. President,
and may you succeed on your mission of peace.
Thank you.
Earlier in the day, President Ford and President
Marcos went to Manila Harbor where they boarded
the presidential yacht for a trip to Corregidor Is-
land. During the trip, the two Presidents held a
mecting on the yacht.
715
Remarks at Pearl Harbor Memorial Ceremonies in Honolulu,
Hawaii. December 7, 1975
Admiral Gayler, distinguished guests:
We who remember Pearl Harbor will always remember. For us it is a moment
etched in time, a moment of shock and mixed feelings and, particularly, dis-
belief, a moment of shame and a moment of sorrow, of anguish and of anger,
an end to irresolutions, a summons to action, the start of a total commitment
that comes but rarely to men and to nations.
Whoever watched the Pacific churned by winds of war comes to this hallowed
1948
