October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
made some modifications. As I recall, we didn't take any particular stand on
that. And the last question, I have forgotten what the third point was.
Q. Liberalized capital loss treatment when sold at a loss.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't think the Administration has taken a stand on
that particular issue. If we have, it is a detail that I don't recall.
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR CHILDREN
[15.] Q. Mr. President, I am Arden Miller of the American Public Health
Association. I am concerned, as I know you are, with the well-being of this
country's children. By your public statements on welfare and by your veto of
the children's nutrition bill, you have indicated some ways in which you think
it is not appropriate for Government to give assistance to families of low and
marginal incomes to raise their children. Do you recognize that there is any
socital responsibility to assist parents in raising their children, and if so, what
are the intentions of your Government to meet that responsibility?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly do recognize that those who, for one reason or
another, do not have adequate funds for the raising of their children or for
their own sustenance or are unable to have an income-the Government does
have a responsibility.
Let me take, for illustrative purposes, the child nutrition bill, which I vetoed
several days ago. Under the bill that came from the Congress, it lifted the ceiling
for the child nutrition program to a figure of over $9,000. In other words, a
family that had an income of over $9,000, that family's children would qualify
for free lunches. I think that is far too high. I don't think it can be justified.
Now, that is from the point of view of who should get free lunches. I certainly
wholeheartedly endorse free lunches across the board for those children who
come from any family below the established poverty level, and I think the in-
come level there is $5,500. There is no question that the children that come from
a family of that level are deserving under the free lunch program. But I just as
strongly feel that the Government as such has no obligation to give free lunches
to children of a family that has an income of over $9,000.
And I must say I was quite disappointed to find that today the House of
Representatives overrode my veto by 370-something to 18. But let me assure you
that aside from the humane aspects—and I strongly support the feeding of
children as I have indicated—this will add over $200 million to expenditures
during this fiscal year, and it is somewhere in the magnitude of $600 or $700
million over expenditures in the next fiscal year, and all of that, of course, comes
out of that $395 billion ceiling we are talking about.
1631
