[657]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I felt it was very important at the outset because of the un-
usual circumstances under which I became President to have continuity, to have
stability in the area of national security and foreign policy. That was absolutely
essential. And as a result of that we continued a successful foreign policy.
As time went on I felt that in this area once we had confirmed with our allies
our assurances, once we had confirmed with our potential adversaries that we
were in a position to continue a relaxation of tensions, that then I could select,
without any rupture of those relations, the kind of people, the individuals that
I wanted to work with very, very intimately. And I have so selected.
Q. To follow up with a slightly repetitious question: Are you saying and
intending to be understood to say that neither personal nor policy differences
between Dr. Kissinger and Mr. Schlesinger contributed to this change?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press]. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-first news conference began at 7:30 p.m. in the East Room at the White
House. It was broadcast live on radio and television.
658
Statement on Departmental Consumer Representation Plans.
November 4, 1975
THIS MORNING I received an interim report from Virginia Knauer and Jim
Lynn on the status of the Departmental Consumer Representation Plans. I am
pleased with the progress made to date.
Last April, as you may recall, I requested each of the departments and agen-
cies in the executive branch to analyze their entire decisionmaking process to
determine where additional consumer input might be helpful in making Fed-
eral agencies more responsive to the needs of the American consumer.
The plans developed by these departments and agencies will be published
this month in the Federal Register. Following publication, there will be a major
effort to disseminate copies of these plans to all interested consumers as well
as other interested groups.
So there will be no delay, however, in this effort to open up to the public
the decisionmaking processes of the executive branch, I have instructed each
department and agency to move ahead at once on putting these plans into effect.
Adjustments can be made later as circumstances warrant.
1804
