November 26
[695]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
on my record-I think it is a good record—and I look forward to the campaign
between now and next November.
THE SUPREME COURT
[14.] Q. Mr. President, it is reported that Mrs. Ford is pressing you to
appoint a woman to the Supreme Court. And I wondered if you could tell us
what luck she is having and what influence she has on the positions that you
take in governmental matters such as this and others?
THE PRESIDENT. She does propagandize me on a number of matters. She
obviously has a great deal of influence. We have discussed this, but I don't think
I should indicate in any way whatsoever any individual that I might be con-
sidering.
As you may have noted in the list that was submitted by the Attorney General,
there were two women—the Secretary of HUD, Carla Hills, and Judge Cornelia
Kennedy of the district court in the city of Detroit. They are being considered.
I am sure that Betty would be very pleased, but I am not making any commit-
ment at this time.
Q. Mr. President, does she lead you to a more "liberal" position on things?
THE PRESIDENT. She, I think, has the identical political philosophy that I have.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[15.] Q. Mr. President, are you willing to take the pledge that Governor
Reagan has, not to speak ill of other Republicans, to observe the so-called 11th
commandment?
THE PRESIDENT. You are speaking of the 11th commandment?
Q. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. I have always thought that the first ten Commandments were
pretty good guidelines for most Americans, and I am going to abide by the
first ten. I think they will take care of the situation.
GENERAL SECRETARY BREZHNEV OF THE SOVIET UNION
[16.] Q. Mr. President, there has been increased speculation that there may
be another Ford-Brezhnev get-together in the works in either December or
January, perhaps when and if Secretary Brezhnev goes to Cuba. Can we expect
a Ford-Brezhnev get-together in the next 2 months?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said earlier, at the present time on the SALT II negotia-
tions we are making some headway, but we have not come close enough
to justify Secretary Kissinger going to Moscow and certainly not to justify a
meeting between Secretary Brezhnev and myself.
1911
