September 5
[532]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Like other vexing problems facing California and the Nation, we will not
conquer crime with a single rollcall or a stroke of the Governor's or President's
pen. But we must do what we can, and we must work together here and now
for the sake of our children and our grandchildren.
It was really for this reason that I wanted to discuss crime today and the
common front that we must create against it. Peace in our neighborhoods and
places of business is almost as important as peace in the world.
Keeping the peace is as heroic and essential on the part of those policemen
and policewomen who work the night shift as it is on the part of our military
personnel and civilian technicians standing watch around the world. The
courage and devotion of some, for the safety and survival of all, has brought us
through 200 years as a nation, and it will carry us forward to an even brighter
future.
Nowhere is the community of interest and the necessity of close collaboration
between the Federal Government and the States of the Union more obvious than
in the field of crime control. There is no more universal longing among our
people than to be free of fear and safe in their homes and in their livelihoods.
There is no issue—even in a spirited campaign year already beginning-in
which we who seek to serve the people can work harder without partisanship
or without demagoguery to bring about visible progress.
I have not brought along any patent medicine that cures all human ills to
peddle here in California. I have come simply to pledge to you my unrelenting
efforts to reduce crime in cooperation and consultation with you and with all
who have America at heart.
In moving against crime, with compassion for the victims and evenhanded
justice for the violator, California can be the pacesetter for the Nation, as you
have been in so many other challenges.
The genius of California has enriched all America beyond the wildest expecta-
tion of our goal-seeking ancestors. But I am not here to sing, “I love you, Cali-
fornia," either. I will save that for future visits, and I hope there will be many,
because I love your people. For today, it is enough to ask your help on this
complex but fundamental problem that confronts us all.
If we fail to ensure domestic tranquillity, any other successes we may have
as public officials will be forgotten. Peace on 10th Street in Sacramento is as
important to the people who walk and work there as peace in the Sinai Desert.
One man or woman or child becomes just as dead from a switchblade slash
as from a nuclear missile blast. We must prevent both.
Thank you very much.
1347
