September 12
[555]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. It is my recollection that in the budget I submitted in Janu-
ary, the arts and humanities program was one of the very few that got an
increase. The particular one you refer to, the arts, I recommended approximately
$85 million, about a 10-percent increase over the previous fiscal year.
The arts for the public-it is my recollection our deductions are appropriate
under our Internal Revenue Code at the present time. I think that is accurate.
So I am not going to recommend it be deleted.
Then let me say there has been some criticism that we didn't have in the
White House now an input in the arts and humanities. Well, I have got a pretty
good one in our family, and she is a lot more influential on me in this area than
any appointed person. I am married to her, and she does pretty well by it.
[Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at Stouffer's Riverfront Towers. He was
introduced by Gov. Christopher S. (Kit) Bond of
Missouri.
555
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Kansas City, Missouri.
September 12, 1975
IT IS delightful to be in this part of the country. We love it, and we are coming
back next August, and we are looking forward to a very successful convention.
We are just delighted to have the opportunity to be here in the Middle West.
REPORTER. Mr. President, can I ask you why you dropped the reference about
holding America hostage in the last part of your speech in St. Louis?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't recall any—you mean in the comments to the White
House Conference? I decided that I had followed the script sufficiently in vari-
ous speeches, and I thought I would incorporate some shortened version, give
the people more opportunity to ask questions. And so I just condensed it.
Q. Do you still feel that way, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I feel that what I said was the thing I wanted to say, and I
felt it was better that more people had an opportunity to ask questions than for
me to make a speech.
It is really nice to see you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:22 p.m. at Kansas
City Municipal Airport. The advance text of the
President's remarks to the White House Confer-
ence on Domestic and Economic Affairs held Sep-
tember 12 in St. Louis contained the following
paragraphs:
"You cannot begin to gain a sense of what is on
people's minds by sitting in the safety of the Oval
1405
