October 10
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and sewer pollution programs, which are going programs that are in the mill.
But to take the program I think you are referring to, I think the help would
come much too late and it wouldn't provide for the kind of meaningful things
that we could get from EPA.
Q. Is that just that program or any Federal funding for public works?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you will recall, back early this [last] fall I met with
10 or 12 Governors, and at their request, I did approve an extra allowance of
$2 billion for highway projects that could be initiated by June 30.
That program was in a going program where they had projects that were
ready for contracts to be let. I did that. We have been trying to expedite the
Environmental Protection Agency programs for water and sewer projects.
Those are the kind of projects that have specific meaning and can be gotten
underway quickly, rather than pulling projects out of a grab-bag, which I
understand is what that legislation involves that I believe you mentioned.
TAX PROGRAM
[22.] Q. Mr. President, you said last night that the tax program had as one
of its central purposes, if I understood you correctly, building more equity into
the tax system as it applies to individuals. If that is the case, would you explain
why it is equitable to give a tax cut of slightly more than $300 to people with
incomes of $50,000, and to take away the tax credit of $300 for those whose
incomes are $5,000 or less?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what you are talking about, Mr. Naughton [James
Naughton, New York Times], is that in the 1975 tax act, Senator Russell Long
got the Senate to approve what is called an earned income credit, and this is, in
effect—that was not a tax reduction. It was paying people who didn't pay taxes,
so that it was not a tax reduction—they weren't paying taxes anyhow.
What my proposal does is to treat that group of taxpayers just like all other
taxpayers. They don't pay any more taxes, and the amount that is going to a
well-off person is roughly the same in my proposal as it was in the 1975 tax act.
But where we would provide equity, we give a larger tax reduction to those
people who have an income—a family income between $8,000 and $25,000. This
is the group that got short shrift in the 1975 act, and this is the group that are
hard-working, industrious people who deserve a better break instead of getting
cut short on every tax reduction.
And so, I have complete faith in the way in which this tax reduction bill that
I am proposing is handled. The poor pay no more taxes than they were required
under the 1975 act. The very wealthy get no more tax reduction. But the middle-
1671
