[431]
July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Needless to say, I would have much preferred that you felt able to continue
fulfilling your challenging and strenuous responsibilities at Interior. I am confi-
dent that the exceptional skill and genuine concern for the well-being of our
fellow citizens which have always marked your public career would have served
the Nation well in that capacity.
As you return to private life, I want to express my appreciation for your out-
standing work on behalf of the Nation and our Party and for your friendship
and support and many personal kindnesses. Betty joins me in extending to
Bobbie and you our warmest good wishes for your health and every future
happiness.
With warmest personal regards,
[The Honorable Stanley K. Hathaway, Secretary of Interior, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: Secretary Hathaway's letter of resignation,
dated July 25, 1975, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It is with deepest regret that, for reasons of
personal health, I must ask you to accept my
resignation.
To have been selected to become your Secretary
of the Interior has been a singular honor, and I am
deeply grateful for the trust and confidence you
placed in me. Your Administration has achieved
JERRY FORD
great progress in restoring the Nation's morale
and sense of purpose, and I know we will con-
tinue to prosper under your leadership.
I extend to you and your family my heartfelt
wishes for success in the future.
Sincerely,
STANLEY K. HATHAWAY
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C. 20500]
432
Remarks Upon Vetoing the Education Division and Related
Agencies Appropriation Act, 1976. July 25, 1975
I AM today returning without my approval H.R. 5901, the education appro-
priation act, 1976.
Throughout my public life, I have believed-and still believe-that education
is one of the strong foundation stones of our Republic. But that is not the issue
in this appropriation bill.
The real issue is whether we are going to impose fiscal discipline on ourselves
or whether we are going to spend ourselves into fiscal insolvency. This is the
first major appropriation bill passed by the Congress this year. It would provide
$7.9 billion-$1.5 billion over the budget which was submitted in January.
Earlier this year, I drew a line on the budget deficit for fiscal year 1976 at
$60 billion. Even that deficit is too high. But on May 14, the Congress drew its
1034
