September 13
[562]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
cent increase in American money going overseas to buy a product that we
should be producing in greater and greater quantities right here in the United
States.
But the ill-advised policies go back some time and have kept us from freeing
our energy, our natural resources, our ingenuity. And the net result is we have
imported a lot more oil than we should, and it is getting worse and worse every
day. And we are paying more and more overseas, and we are sending that
money over for overseas jobs instead of having that money for jobs right here
in the United States.
For example, that $25 billion could provide more than one million jobs right
in America. That would cut our unemployment, for example, from roughly
8 million down to 7 million. That would be a good investment if we had the
right oil and natural gas policies.
Although the 4.5-percent unemployment rate in the Midland area in August
is below the national average, I understand that it is higher than usual. Unem-
ployment is a problem that is worrying many, many Americans. And I travel,
and I hear. It is a problem that must be solved by a healthy, thriving economy.
With foreign producers supplying 40 percent of our oil needs today and grow-
ing every day, American jobs and dollars are being held hostage by other coun-
tries because we are vulnerable to their foreign oil influence. We are unable to
control the price or the supply of imported oil. And that makes us, of course,
extremely vulnerable to economic disruptions here at home-disruptions which
we can ill afford if we are to continue to expand our great economic potential in
America.
If we don't give America's oil industry the incentives to search for new sources
and new production techniques through decontrol, and if we present the wrong
policies, we will, within 10 years, import more than half of the oil that we
need for our economy.
Energy keeps this country going. Energy is the heartbeat of our economic
system. Unless we make some tough decisions about energy now, the Nation
is in danger of suffering a serious energy emergency which could come at any
time, because they have the capability overseas of turning that spigot off. And
in a relatively short period of time, many of you know far better than I, our
capability of keeping our economic machine moving would be slowed down
and ended.
It just seems to me that decontrolling oil prices at home will move us toward
the absolute, essential policy of energy independence. Energy independence will
require that we find new energy sources and develop new methods, but those
64-630 O
·
77
-
32 (Vol. 2)
1431
