October 14
[630]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
is at the local level. And I was greatly impressed with Shirley and the others who
told me of what they are trying to do for the party, yes, but for their respective
communities, more importantly. And to the extent that you can, I urge you in
each and every case to give these fine candidates your maximum this coming
November.
If I might reminisce just a moment-this is early fall in the great State of
Connecticut—it hardly seems possible that about 40 years ago, I came from the
State of Michigan in August of 1935 and spent the next 5-plus years in New
Haven, working for one of the finest people that I have ever known. He gave
me my first job and was tremendously influential in helping to guide me in
how to handle the job. But more importantly he gave me the opportunity not
only to have a job but to further my education. For that wonderful opportunity
I want to thank, before all of you, a very old and very dear friend of
mine, Ducky Pond of Yale University.
to me,
I don't know how many times during that 5½ years, but there were many,
when Ducky and his wonderful wife, Anna, kind of looked after a lonesome
bachelor. And for that, Ducky, I am deeply grateful. But there is another good
friend of mine from Michigan here who, I guess, coached Eddie-Norm Daniels
is here someplace—who is now retired. Where is Norm? There he is.
I don't mind admitting a little nostalgia. I think it is good for a person to feel
strongly about people and about political parties and about principles, about
conviction. And I feel very strongly about returning to the great State of Con-
necticut where I had 5-plus wonderful years. And I thank all of the people who
made it possible.
But I am especially pleased to be in a State which over the years has done a
superb job in a very important area in our economy—I talk about insurance. I
am told that 14 percent of the insurance in America today is written from or
by people who have home bases here in this State. And all together I am advised
that premiums alone on policies sold nationwide by Connecticut insurance
companies total more than $13 billion annually. That is an impressive figure by
any standards. And since the bulk of these premiums are reinvested in Amer-
ica—in mortgages on homes and on commercial buildings, in the development
of America's resources, in stocks and bonds-I consider that a great vote of
Connecticut's confidence in the United States.
Some 200 years ago, Benjamin Franklin said that in this world nothing is
certain but death and taxes. But nowadays some politicians seem to take a
shortcut—they just tax people to death. But I don't think there is anything funny
1701
