September 4
[525]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Naturally, I thought of Seattle when I flew out in Air Force One. I suspect
that was made-wherever the plant is-right here. [Laughter] It is a great
aircraft. And of course, Seattle, with the Boeing Company, contributes very
significantly not only to the aerospace industry as a whole but, very importantly,
to our national security. And I compliment the company and particularly its
employees for this contribution to our domestic as well as military security.
But also as we flew, as we arrived in the Seattle area, we traveled over some
great, great country, the Northwest. I saw the wonderful fields, the grain grow-
ing. And it couldn't help but have an impact on me coming from my part of the
country and, particularly, now from Washington, D.C., to appreciate how vast
our Nation is and how diverse it is, not only in agricultural land but people,
natural resources.
When you add it all up, we in America have something that few, if any,
other countries in the world have. We have unbelievable assets that we have
inherited from others. It is our responsibility—and I know we will assume it—
to utilize these resources, whether it is land, natural resources, a harbor, a tech-
nical scientific capability. But we will use the resources of people to make this
an even better country in which to live.
I know all of us in the Congress, in the executive branch, and all Americans,
some 214 million, want America to keep moving ahead for the benefit of
everybody.
I thank you, Governor Evans, and all of you from the State of Washington
for your very warm welcome. I know I will have a real good time here.
Thank you again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:59 a.m. at Boeing Field.
525
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Luncheon in
Seattle. September 4, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Governor Dan Evans. Senator Bob Packwood,
Congressman Joel Pritchard, Chairman Ross Davis, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
It is wonderful to be here. I can't express sufficiently my deep appreciation
to Governor Evans. I do want to congratulate all of you for being here in par-
ticipation in a wonderful political activity.
Let me say that this kind of a meeting inspires me, as I am sure it does your
1295
