October 9
[620]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the kind of organization that is needed for a Presidential campaign. My ques-
tion is this: Has this criticism been conveyed to you, do you have any plans
for shoring up your campaign organization, and do you expect to retain Bo
Callaway for the duration of the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the last question first. I have great faith and
trust, and I fully support Bo Callaway. The criticism that I have heard-and I
understand that Lee Nunn wrote a letter to the White House; I have not seen it.
I have heard about it. Lee Nunn is a very dedicated person. He is a good personal
friend of mine. For various reasons, I guess he didn't fit in comfortably with
the organizational structure and the decisionmaking process of Bo Callaway.
It is an honest difference of opinion as to organization. So, Lee took the step
that he did. I certainly will examine his comments and criticisms and will bear
them in mind as we proceed ahead.
Q. I have a follow-up. Specifically, do you have any plans for improving your
campaign organization, or are you satisfied with Mr. Callaway's organizing
effort?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have a very, very good campaign organization,
and if you will go around the States, we have an excellent one in California.
We have an outstanding one in Illinois. We have a good one in Michigan. We
are putting together a first-class one in Pennsylvania. New York State is in ex-
cellent shape. In my judgment, we have established in many, many States
excellent organizations. I think we are really moving exceedingly well in the
nomination process.
Bo Callaway has worked hard. He has done a fine job. Our organization,
with a few exceptions, is in good shape. So, I have no specific plans to make any
substantial changes.
Q. Mr. President, if I might, the Associated Press today reported that the
President Ford Committee has taken in $700,000 for your campaign. The story
also says that one-third of that money came in the form of the maximum $1,000
check. Most of the rest, almost all of the rest, came in the form of very large
donations of checks of over $250 or more. Many of those donations came from
corporation executives, bank presidents, real estate offices, and so on. So, my
question is: Does this confirm the allegations of your critics that your Adminis-
tration is overly friendly with big business?
THE PRESIDENT. Nothing could be sillier. And the net result is that people
who want to contribute, contribute voluntarily, and I welcome those contribu-
tions. I can assure you that we are going to get a very broad-based contribution
1649
