[645]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
intervenes, New York City within a short time will no longer be able to pay
its bills.
The message was clear: Responsibility for New York City's financial prob-
lems is being left on the front doorstep of the Federal Government-unwanted
and abandoned by its real parents.
Many explanations have been offered about what led New York City deeper
and deeper into this quagmire. Some contend it was long-range economic
factors such as the flight to the suburbs of the city's more affluent citizens, the
migration to the city of poorer people, and the departure of industry.
Others argued that the big metropolitan city has become obsolescent, that
decay and pollution have brought a deterioration in the quality of urban life,
and New York's downfall could not be prevented.
Let's face one simple fact: Most other cities in America have faced these very
same challenges, and they are still financially healthy today. They have not
been luckier than New York; they simply have been better managed. There is
an old saying: “The harder you try, the luckier you get.” And I kind of like that
definition of luck.
During the last decade, the officials of New York City have allowed its budget
to triple. No city can expect to remain solvent if it allows its expenses to increase
by an average of 12 percent every year, while its tax revenues are increasing
by only 4 to 5 percent per year.
As Al Smith, a great Governor of New York who came from the sidewalks
of New York City, used to say, “Let's look at the record."
The record shows that New York City's wages and salaries are the highest
in the United States. A sanitation worker with 3 years experience now receives
a base salary of nearly $15,000 a year. Fringe benefits and retirement costs aver-
age more than 50 percent of base pay. There are 4-week paid vacations and
unlimited sick leave after only 1 year on the job.
The record shows that in most cities, municipal employees have to pay 50
percent or more of the cost of their pensions. New York City is the only major
city in the country that picks up the entire burden.
The record shows that when New York's municipal employees retire, they
often retire much earlier than in most cities and at pensions considerably higher
than sound retirement plans permit.
The record shows New York City has 18 municipal hospitals; yet, on an
average day, 25 percent of the hospital beds are empty. Meanwhile, the city
spends millions more to pay the hospital expenses of those who use private
hospitals.
1730
