October 14
[626]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Congress did nothing about your bill? What would the economic impact of that
situation be?
THE PRESIDENT. And you have the further assumption that the Congress
would sustain my veto?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Do you want to speak to that, Alan?
CHAIRMAN GREENSPAN. You mean override?
Q. No, I mean sustain—nothing would happen.
THE PRESIDENT. That was my assumption.
CHAIRMAN GREENSPAN. You mean talking about the withholding tax rates
then rising close to $12 billion and the like. I will be glad to answer that in some
detail, Mr. President, after you leave, and I was wondering whether if that
would be acceptable, Joe [Joseph Kraft, Field Newspaper Syndicate], or do
you want to go all through it now?
Q. Wouldn't it have a very substantial impact of a negative kind, and doesn't
it suggest you are going down a “death valley" route?
CHAIRMAN GREENSPAN. Joe, I would say that the analysis, which suggests a
significant negative impact, requires that you accept the rather questionable
rules of thumb which we are now building into our standard econometric
models, from which that type of analysis emerges.
I think there is very serious question about the validity of that approach in
the sense that I would argue the models that we now have built, unfortunately,
abstract from reality in a manner which I think is distorting. And I think it is
important for us to look at the real world as to what is happening and not merely
automatically assume that the real world is consistent with the models that we
build. It is not so.
Q. Mr. President, there has been some speculation as to how you reached the
$22 billion level of this transaction-
THE PRESIDENT. $28 billion.
Q. And there is no question-whether it is true, as alleged in the Wall Street
Journal, that you decided it in a golf course conversation with Melvin Laird?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. There is no validity to that latter part, that it was decided on
the golf course, no truth whatsoever.
We were trying to find an area where we could believably achieve reductions
and at the same time give the kind of tax relief which we believe is necessary.
And the net result was we came up with, I think it is, a 7-percent increase in the
growth of Federal spending, which takes us from 370 to 395 and, at the same
1687
