December 20
[739]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
COMMON SITUS PICKETING
[4.] Q. Mr. President, have you decided on situs picketing?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I haven't. That is another measure that I will be working
on this weekend. There is, of course, in the Administration differing views. The
American people have very strong convictions on both sides of that issue. We
have gotten a tremendous amount of mail in opposition to it. We are getting
some mail in favor of it. I am going to try and make an honest judgment over
this weekend.
Now, of course, that bill, as of this moment, has not come down from the
Congress. I hope it will be here so that the difficult decision can be made.
Q. Is there a difference in the mail, Mr. President? I mean, is the mail that
is against that bill-does it seem to be more from organized forces?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't tell, but the last count I showed there were something
like 620,000 communications against the common situs picketing bill and some-
thing less than 10,000, as I recall, for it.
RONALD REAGAN
[5.] Q. Mr. President, you have been working very hard on this budget and
had a hard time getting Congress to agree to any spending cuts. Do you have
any opinion on this proposal of former Governor Reagan's to cut $90 billion from
the Federal budget by turning this over to the States and local communities?
What do you think of that idea?
THE PRESIDENT. I met with, I think it was, nine Governors-Democrats as well
as Republicans—several days ago. And I got recommendations from them be-
cause the Governors, I think, play a very important role not only in running
their own States but in working with the Federal Government. And the con-
sensus—well, the unanimous view of all of those Governors was, don't put any
extra burdens on us and our taxpayers in each State.
I gather from that that any reduction in the Federal budget of $90 billion,
turning all of that extra responsibility over to each of the 50 States, would not be
acceptable and would not be supported by the 50 Governors.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[6.] Q. Mr. President, now that we are in the field of politics, tangentially,
can you--
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't answer it on that basis.
Q. No, I know you didn't, but we were trying to get in there, so I will try again.
1983
