[630]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
the facts of life are that in 1975 on a number of occasions where I have used
the veto, the Congress has sustained the veto, the Congress has gone back and
taken another look, and the net result has been far better legislation, far more
responsible spending. And so if we can work together, as we did in those cases,
we can avoid the need and necessity of a veto.
But let me add very quickly, I think there is a better way for us to achieve
fiscal responsibility. We need the help of the Congress in 1975 and 1976. And
your help is essential to convince the Congress that the American people want
a tax reduction and a spending limitation.
By working together we can make America's economic future bright and
prosperous and vigorous. But if we grow weary of our commitments and weak
in our resolve, our economic course will be in danger in the years to come.
A commitment to fiscal responsibility is nothing new to the Republican Party.
It is one of our founding principles as are the other commitments to a strong
national defense, to local control over local problems, to a vigorous free enter-
prise system, and to greater freedom of the individual and dignity for each and
every person in our society.
Here in Connecticut and all across the United States, we must show our fellow
citizens that their concerns their concerns—are our concern; that their hopes
for a strong and free and prosperous America are our hope. We must demon-
strate anew that the Republican Party is prepared to lead and to serve 214 mil-
lion American citizens responsibly, responsively, and effectively. We must
convince them that a Republican victory can be a great victory for them and
for our country.
I think we can help to make these years ahead of us great years for America
so that we and our children and their children may say with new meaning and
new and fresh enthusiasm these fine old words of a fellow New Englander,
Daniel Webster: "Thank God I am an American."
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:12 p.m. in the
Assembly Hall at the Hartford Civic Center. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Lloyd Elston,
John Filer, and Archie McCardle who were co-
chairmen of the dinner. Mr. McCardle was also fi-
nance chairman of the President Ford Committee
in Connecticut.
1706
