August 6
[475]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Mr. Prime Minister, your visit provides a timely opportunity for us to review
our cooperative efforts to deal with vital matters-food and energy, trade and
development. Such issues will be the major focus of international relations for
many years and perhaps for the remainder of this century.
The United States has admiration and respect for Japan's constructive contri-
butions to the search for solutions to the world's economic and political prob-
lems. It is imperative that we continue working together. We can report to our
peoples that our bilateral relations are respectfully intimate and remarkably
free of trouble. We are approaching new international challenges with a grow-
ing knowledge of the underlying issues and with creative and responsive
programs.
In your policy speech to the Diet in January, you said the whole of mankind
shares a common fate aboard the ship called Earth. I agree completely. I would
like Japanese-American relations to provide a pattern of cooperation for all
countries. Mr. Prime Minister, Americans look forward with pleasant anticipa-
tion to the visit this fall of Their Imperial Majesties, the Emperor and Empress.
Our citizens will extend a warm welcome. I am convinced that the visit of Their
Majesties will lend a new dimension to our relations. Mr. Prime Minister, I
sincerely hope your visit with us will be as productive for you as my trip to
Japan last year was for me.
Gentlemen, will you join me in a toast to His Imperial Majesty, to you, Mr.
Prime Minister, to the people of Japan, to continued close cooperation between
our two great countries.
NOTE: The President spoke at the dinner which began at 7:30 p.m. at the White House.
475
Joint Announcement to the Press Following Discussions
With Prime Minister Miki of Japan. August 6, 1975
1. PRIME MINISTER MIKI and President Ford met in Washington Au-
gust 5 and 6 for a comprehensive review of various subjects of mutual interest.
The discussions between the two leaders, in which Minister for Foreign Affairs
Miyazawa and Secretary of State Kissinger participated, were conducted in an
informal and cordial atmosphere. Their meetings were productive and reflected
the strength and breadth of the existing friendship between Japan and the
United States.
1113
