[512]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
lems at home are more programs, more spending, et cetera. And every time I
think of that solution, I can't help but repeat something that I have used as sort
of a guideline or a criteria, and I apologize to those I have said it to before or those
that have listened to it before: We must be certain that we understand that a
government big enough to give us everything we want is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have.
It is my judgment, in the third century of America's greatness—and I go
back to what I said at the outset-the American people still want their individual
liberty, and they are going to fight for it. They are going to demand it. They
aren't going to be overwhelmed by big government, big labor, big business, big
education, massive communication.
They want their individual freedom, and to the extent that I can, with your
help-this is what is important—no man can do it alone. Every one of you in
this room are a teammate. Every one of you, by being here tonight, have indicated
your willingness to work with us.
I thank you, and we will be out there working for you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:15 p.m. at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. John Slocum. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Mayors Vincent Cianci, of
Providence, and James L. Taft, Jr., of Cranston, and
513
H. James Field, Jr., Rhode Island State Republican
chairman; Jim DiPrete, dinner chairman; and Sec-
retary of the Navy J. William Middendorf II.
Message on the Observance of Labor Day.
August 31, 1975
LABOR DAY assumes a special significance this year as we prepare to celebrate
our National Bicentennial. Designated to honor America's working men and
women, Labor Day offers an excellent opportunity to review these contributions
in the light of the new goals that will guide us in the third century of our
independence.
America's workers are our national strength. Their skills have forged our
greatness. Their pride in quality craftsmanship sustains it. We owe the
unprecedented progress we have realized in this century to the initiative, deter-
mination and talent of the American worker.
We are a nation of working men and women whose willingness to sacrifice
and eagerness to support responsible economic policies have pulled us through
many rough periods in our past. This record provides inspiration and encourage-
ment in this difficult time. It also gives those of us who work in Government an
1276
