[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
about Governor Reagan. I would like to know if you are really worried about
Governor Reagan challenging you for the Presidential nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. Phil [Phil Jones, CBS News], I am not worried about any
Democrat or any Republican competitor. I expect to be nominated, and I think
the prospects are excellent to be elected President in 1976. And I don't sit
around worrying about any competitor, whether it is Republican or Democrat.
We are going to run our own campaign. I think we will have a good record
to run on, in foreign policy and domestic policy, and I will take my chances on
that record. And I am not going to worry about what some other candidate
does, whether it is a Republican candidate or any one of 20 Democrats.
Q. Senator Goldwater has been quoted as saying that he might support
Governor Reagan for the nomination rather than you. What is our reaction to
this, or do you think it will have any effect on your nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Goldwater is a very close, personal friend of mine.
I admire his record in the Senate. I saw the report. It is a newspaper story. I
have heard nothing——
Q. What do you mean by that? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it speaks for itself—[laughter]—and until I hear that
there is a change from what I think the attitude is of Barry Goldwater, I am not
going to comment about it.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[21.] Q. Mr. President, Dennis Pajot of the Oakland Press. Back here, we
hear a lot of concern about unemployment and a lot of talk about your record
of unemployment as the election year comes up. And we understand that one
proposal by Congress to address unemployment would be to increase Federal
funding for public works. I was wondering if you would veto such a program?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you are talking about the $5 billion program, which
I understand is somewhere in the House of Representatives, based on what we
know about those kinds of programs in past years of economic disability or
difficulty, I believe that it is uneconomical, it won't solve the unemployment
problem, and the probability is I would veto it.
We find—and this has been done historically—that if you have unemploy-
ment in one year and you take the kind of program you are talking about and
approve it, you are out of the recession or you are over your economic difficulties
before you put any number of people back to work.
It just takes a long time. If we are going to do anything, I think, in this area,
I think we ought to expedite our highway construction program, our water
1670
