September 22
[582]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
energy source, we do have to take the first step from research and development
to an operational plan to prove that it will work.
That first plan, so to speak, has to be perhaps financed by this joint govern-
ment private sector program. And that is what the energy resource corporation
will be aimed at, not in a long-range financing of energy sources, but aimed at
primarily—not exclusively—but primarily taking the position from completion
of research and development to the first use where there is a hesitancy on the
part of investors, because of the uncertainty to invest.
This is where I think we have to act. We did in the case of the synthetic
rubber plant in World War II. We did it in the Manhattan Project with the
atomic bomb. We did it in our effort to get to the Moon. We have done it with
COMSAT. It is a procedure that has been used in the past, and I think it can be
adequately used in the future.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[11.] Q. In doing so, you are leaving yourself open to a charge by probably
your critics that you are going to have billions of dollars in Federal funding
going to big oil and big business, and this leads me to the question: The public's
perception of your Administration is one that is friendly to big business. I think
in your relationship with labor leaders you would find that. And recently in a
Gallup poll, Mr. Gallup said that of the adults who were questioned—and he
addressed this nationwide-only 21 percent would own up to being Republicans.
And then you have the results of New Hampshire. Would this indicate to you
that you are in serious trouble in 1976 as a party and you as President?
The President. I think any of the polls that have pitted me against a Demo-
crat, with the exception of Teddy Kennedy—and even there, 1 month he is
ahead and the next month I am ahead-but pitting my own candidacy against
any other Democrat, every poll that I have seen for the last 6 months shows
that I would win.
We have got 14 months to go before the election, and my Democratic friends
have to pick a candidate first, and they are going to have a little trouble there.
But I welcome whoever they pick. But I think it categorically inaccurate and
unfair to say—and I don't think it is said by people who have thought it out—
that this Administration is predominantly interested in big business. That is
totally inaccurate.
We have increased our funding, for example, in a wide spectrum-education,
unemployment compensation, the whole area of human assistance. We have
1517
