[561]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
May I add also it is a great privilege to be here with Senator John Tower
and with Congressman Dick White and Congressman Harold Runnels. And
to be in the Midland-Odessa area is a great privilege despite this little sprinkle
that we are having. I know you want it, and I am delighted to be here despite it.
Now, I ought to thank also the mayors of Odessa and Midland, Mayor
Hemphill and Mayor Angelo, for being here. And I do want to express my
deep appreciation to the Odessa High School Broncos for being present and
the Lee High School Rebels. It seems to me there might be a little competition
between the two. [Laughter]
But most of all, I wish to express to the many, many of you who are here for
coming out on this occasion to give me and those with me a very, very warm
welcome. I just can't believe that in this temporary adverse weather that so many
of you would make the effort and be so generous in your warmth and friend-
ship. It makes a long 3 days a very rewarding experience to end it with this
kind of a welcome from so many wonderful people.
I love you, and I thank you, and I wish you the very, very best as I would good
friends from my own hometown.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:45 p.m. at Midland-Odessa Regional Airport.
562
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Permian Basin
Petroleum Museum in Midland. September 13, 1975
Senator John Tower, my former colleagues in the House-Harold Runnels and
Dick White-my former colleague in the House of Representatives and now
Mr. Ambassador, George Bush, our two mayors, Mayor Angelo and Mayor
Hemphill, Mr. Ramsland, and others:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have the opportunity
of being here and participating in this wonderful ceremony today.
This is a great, great crowd, and I appreciate your warmth and your cordiality.
But I couldn't have been more thrilled and more grateful for the tremendous
turnout of wonderful west Texans that were at the airport in untypical Texas
weather. [Laughter] It was a thrill, and I tried to express to them my gratitude.
It was a great opportunity to come to a wonderful part of this country.
George, you mentioned in passing that under certain very limited and pre-
scribed circumstances, you might have voted for me for Speaker. Well, I appre-
1428
