September 16
[565]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
That law included what was known then, and still is, as the Esch amend-
ment. I just happen to have a copy of the Esch amendment here-[laughter]—
that sets forth seven specific proposals that the courts should follow before they
actually use the busing remedy.
It is in Title 2 of the Education Amendments of 1974, Section 214. This section
establishes a priority of remedies, and it says, in effect, that the courts and other
Government agencies shall require the first of the following remedies, or the
first combination of the remedies, which would correct a denial of rights.
It says, for example, assigning students to schools closest to their homes,
taking into account both school capacities and natural physical barriers; two,
assigning students to the closest school, taking into account only school capac-
ities; three, permitting students to transfer from a school in which a majority
of the students are of their race to one in which a minority are of their race;
four, creating or revising attendance zones or grade structures without requiring
transportation; construction of new schools or closing of inferior schools; estab-
lishment of magnet schools. Then it goes on to say that students should not be
transferred to a school other than the school closest or the next closest to his
place of residence.
Now, those recommendations included in the law in many instances appar-
ently have not been followed by the courts. I think the courts ought to take
into cognizance the legislative recommendations that are as a matter of law
at the present.
Now, in addition, there are other things that I have mentioned before—
improved facilities, upgrading the teachers if necessary, including better pupil-
teacher ratios.
Q. Mr. President, that requires a lot more money than just the emergency
funds that you talk about. Are you going to propose increases?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't think it is going to require a great deal more
money, Bonnie [Bonnie Angelo, Time magazine]. Really, that is a very sub-
stantial sum, and it has been used up in Boston, and I believe it is being used
in Louisville.
It is not nearly as much money if you focus it in on the places where the
tension is the highest and the problem is the greatest, particularly if the courts
follow the law as was enacted by the Congress in 1974.
SCHOOL INTEGRATION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, on two occasions over the weekend in discussing
busing you mentioned a 1954 Supreme Court decision as the basis for busing.
1439
