[703]
November 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
The hardy people of Alaska and the alert Armed Forces stationed in this
strategic area are a source of great reassurance to all Americans. Let me reassure
you on this occasion that this Administration, while striving to preserve world
peace, remains aware that the best insurance for peace is the United States
military power second to none.
There will be no slackening of support for a first-rate Army, Navy, Air Force,
Marine Corps, and Coast Guard. We are vitally interested in the defense of
Alaska. Your defense right here is our defense in the Lower 48. Worldwide
diplomacy would not be credible without a credible military force, both in sub-
stance as well as in perception.
It is appropriate to stop here enroute to China. Alaskans are devoted to peace.
Just as Alaska adjoins Asia, America's interests are linked to Asia. You know
and I know that we must keep the Pacific peaceful.
There are fundamental differences between the American and Chinese
societies. We may not agree on some issues, but we found an important area of
common ground. Our mutual opposition to military expansion in Asia is basic.
So is our pledge of noninterference in the internal affairs of other nations. I will
seek to strengthen these understandings and to further advance a relationship
based upon mutual respect and mutual accommodation.
Alaskans-some may not remember here-experienced foreign invasion in
World War II. You know, as a result, better than most Americans how critical
a strong national defense is to American security.
Let me assure you we will be resolute in the pursuit of peace, but we will
never forget that freedom and independence come first and foremost.
Freedom and independence are precious to all Americans, but the words have
a very special meaning to Alaskans. Up here when you come in you can vividly
feel America's greatness, the sense of a fantastic potential not yet realized, a
frontier that you fought to protect, a pioneer spirit is today not only alive but
growing in Alaska. The oil which will flow gives your State an entirely and
totally new dimension.
We have become unacceptably dependent on other nations for oil that is our
economic lifeblood. Americans became painfully aware of our dependence on
foreign oil when an embargo followed the 1973 war in the Middle East. Long
lines at service stations and soaring utility bills brought home the personal hard-
ships which oil dependence imposes.
Even more chilling was the impact on our national economy, the loss of $20
billion in the gross national product, unemployment for more than a half a
million Americans, and pressures toward a national recession. We are deter-
1926
