[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[6.] MR. AGRONSKY. Let us carry it, not only the judgment but its implica-
tions—and you know the famous observation of Congressman Mann, “Next
time will there be a watchman in the night?" What concerns everyone in the
country is that after Watergate, we now have a crisis of confidence, in the CIA,
for example, a feeling that it is out of hand, that it is not sufficiently accountable.
That has to be an enormous concern for you as President. How do you feel
about the revelations of CIA? How do you relate them to the crisis of
confidence?
THE PRESIDENT. As a result of some of the revelations, I appointed the Rocke-
feller Commission. That Commission conducted a very thorough investigation
of the allegations concerning the CIA. That Commission has recommended to
me certain administrative actions that I should take and some legislative pro-
posals that I should submit to the Congress. My staff has taken the Rockefeller
Commission recommendations and the Murphy Commission recommenda-
tions—and that Commission got into the CIA to some extent—and I intend to
submit to the Congress specific proposals that I think will maintain the CIA and
our total intelligence-gathering community so they can do the job which is
essential for our national security on the one hand and at the same time preclude
our intelligence-gathering agencies from violating our constitutional rights as
individuals.
MR. AGRONSKY. That is a point that I would like to raise with you. A man
that you admire very much, one of your late predecessors, Harry Truman, in
conversations with Merle Miller on his concept of the Presidency, remarked on
the CIA, and I quote Mr. Truman: "Now, those fellows in the CIA don't just
report on wars and the like. They go out and make their own and there is no-
body to keep track of what they are up to. They spend billions of dollars on
stirring up trouble so they will have something to report on. They become a
government all its own and all secret. They don't have to account to anybody.
That is a very dangerous thing in a democratic society."
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the recommendations that have come from the Rocke-
feller Commission and from the Murphy Commission and the result of the
investigations in the House as well as the Senate, I think, will give to the Con-
gress and to the President the tools to correct the abuses that Mr. Truman spoke
of in his conversations.
MR. AGRONSKY. And that you perceive?
THE PRESIDENT. And that I think have to be done in the future to eliminate
any possibility of abuses such as Mr. Truman mentioned.
1128
