[578]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
guage in the agreement simply says we will study whether or not Israel has a
justification for the acquisition of that particular weapons system. I am certain
that we will, in the process of studying this, cover the whole range of its deploy-
ment, its warheads, and everything else.
Q. Is there any justification now for giving the Israelis a nuclear capability?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no present intention of us giving to any Middle
East nation any-
Q. Any means to develop?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no present intention of giving any Middle East
nation a nuclear capability, and that would include, of course, any expertise
for the development.
VIOLENCE IN AMERICA
[6.] Q. Mr. President, in your address you mentioned a very brief and violent
period of American history not too long past now. The news media has recently
focused our attention again on a very violent extreme political group. Why do
you suppose it is that a society such as ours fosters groups committed to violence
in a political form?
THE PRESIDENT. I am bothered about that. I honestly don't have the answer.
I would welcome any observations or recommendations from all of you as to
why, in a society where I think by any other standard that I have ever observed—
and I have traveled in a good many countries-we should have violence, and in
some of those far more oppressive societies don't seem to have any. If you have
any solution to the problem, I would welcome such observations.
Q. Mr. President, on that subject, perhaps when people are less inclined to
trust the legal system, they may think of looking elsewhere in making their own
law, which perhaps is where the violence comes from.
THE LEGAL PROFESSION
[7.] Q. On the subject of giving all the people of this country some kind of
legal ability to get legal help, it seems that there is very little chance now, that
people coming out of law schools who want to do public interest law, want to
give legal aid and public defense, can find a way to do that. It is very difficult
to get a job in the law now anyway, but especially in those fields, and I was
wondering what your Administration proposes to do to expand those kind
of—
The President. I signed the basic legislation which set up the new legisla-
tion, and I have appointed, or nominated—have they been confirmed yet, the
nominees?—the organization that will, I think, give greater opportunities for
1484
