[459]
August 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
to travel and to marriage between nationals of different states; and for the
protection of the priceless heritage of our diverse cultures.
They offer wide areas for greater cooperation: trade, industrial production,
science and technology, the environment, transportation, health, space, and the
oceans.
They reaffirm the basic principles of relations between states: noninterven-
tion, sovereign equality, self-determination, territorial integrity, inviolability
of frontiers, and the possibility of change by peaceful means.
The United States gladly subscribes to this document because we subscribe
to every one of these principles.
Almost 200 years ago, the United States of America was born as a free and
independent nation. The descendants of Europeans who proclaimed their in-
dependence in America expressed in that declaration a decent respect for the
opinions of mankind and asserted not only that all men are created equal but
they are endowed with inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.
The founders of my country did not merely say that all Americans should
have these rights but all men everywhere should have these rights. And these
principles have guided the United States of America throughout its two cen-
turies of nationhood. They have given hopes to millions in Europe and on
every continent.
I have been asked why I am here today.
I am here because I believe, and my countrymen believe, in the interde-
pendence of Europe and North America—indeed in the interdependence of
the entire family of man.
I am here because the leaders of 34 other governments are here—the states
of Europe and of our good neighbor, Canada, with whom we share an open
border of 5,526 miles, along which there stands not a single armed soldier and
across which our two peoples have moved in friendship and mutual respect for
160 years.
I can say without fear of contradiction that there is not a single people repre-
sented here whose blood does not flow in the veins of Americans and whose
culture and traditions have not enriched the heritage which we Americans
prize so highly.
When two centuries ago the United States of America issued a declaration
of high principles, the cynics and doubters of that day jeered and scoffed. Yet
11 long years later, our independence was won and the stability of our Republic
was really achieved through the incorporation of the same principles in our
Constitution.
1078
