[636]
October 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
The benefits to the American economy are that we have:
-obtained a stable, long-term foreign market;
-assured a more stable flow of payments from abroad;
-assured the American farmer that the Soviet Union will be a regular buyer
for grain at market prices;
-increased incentives for full production by the farmer;
-facilitated the hiring of labor, the purchase of new farming machinery,
and the general stimulation of agriculture and business;
-neutralized a great destabilizing factor in recent years;
-provided jobs for American transportation workers and seamen.
The United States during this harvest season can rejoice over the best crop
in years.
The favorable economic implications are obvious. We have obtained Soviet
commitment that additional purchase of grain in the current crop year will not
be so large as to disrupt the U.S. market. I have directed the Department of
Agriculture to continue to monitor closely export sales and the Economic Policy
Board/National Security Council Food Committee to follow closely grain
market price trends and related matters.
The long-term agreement signed in Moscow today promotes American eco-
nomic stability. It represents a positive step in our relations with the Soviet
Union. In this constructive spirit, the two Governments have also committed
themselves to begin detailed negotiations on mutually beneficial terms for a
5-year agreement for the purchase of Soviet oil. Negotiations will start this
month.
NOTE: Texts of the grain agreement and a letter
of intent concerning future oil negotiations are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 1187).
637
Statement on Signing the Japan-United States Friendship Act.
October 21, 1975
ALMOST a year ago, I had the great honor and pleasure to be the first Ameri-
can President in office to visit Japan. My trip convinced me more than ever that
we Americans can learn much from Japan's culture which will enrich the
quality of our lives.
One week ago the Emperor and Empress of Japan completed a visit to the
United States, the first such visit in history.
1718
