September 21
[578]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
young lawyers or other lawyers to participate. As a matter of fact, I recom-
mended for the first year's budget about $81 million, which is, as I recollect, a
slight increase over the existing amount, or the previous amount that had been
made available for the effort under the old setup.
I hesitate to refer to my own experience, but there was a great challenge when
I got through Yale Law School. I had an opportunity to practice in several
eastern cities, but it was a greater challenge to me to go back and open up a law
office with another young law school student—and we didn't have a client. We
worked about 14 hours a day, and we actually made our expenses the first year.
It was one of the great experiences of my lifetime. I think that is a great chal-
lenge. You ought to try it. [Laughter]
PROBLEMS OF THE CITIES
[8.] Q. My question concerns what has been termed the crisis of our large
cities. And one of the manifestations of this crisis are the recent problems we
are having in Boston and other cities with busing for quality education. Now,
it seems to me that one of the problems behind quality education in our big cities
is that the big cities lack the finances or resources to provide that quality
education.
Now, education is only one facet of this crisis. It also goes into the other social
systems-transportation, communications, recreation within the cities. I don't
recall hearing any programs recently by this Administration, the past Adminis-
tration, about reversing this-what I would term a spiral downward of our big
cities—to correct that problem. Because if we don't correct the problem in the
near future, killing the cities will thereby lead to a worsening of life in the
United States, if you want to use a broader term.
But with the exodus of people in cities going out to the suburbs, what you
have is that the people in the cities just get worse, and the financial structure
will deteriorate, the job structure will deteriorate. So, do you have any present
plans or any future plans to maybe reverse this trend?
The President. First, I think I ought to set forth a record you may not be
familiar with. In 1971 or 1972 the Congress passed-on the basis of the then
administration's recommendation-what we call general revenue sharing,
where $5-plus billion a year goes directly to cities-two-thirds to cities and local
units of government and one-third to the States, free, without any strings or
limitations.
That is a very substantial commitment, and about 2 months ago I recom-
mended its extension, with $150 million a year added, so that in the first year
1485
