[568]
September 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is now my pleasure to call upon Dr. Guy Stever, Director of the National
Science Foundation, to read the citations for each awardee.
Guy, will you come forward, please?
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
The awards were based on recommendations of the
President's Committee on the National Medal of
Science.
Saunders MacLane accepted the medal on behalf
of Kurt Gödel who was too ill to attend the cere-
mony, and Mrs. Nicolaas Bloembergen accepted the
medal on behalf of her husband who was in the
People's Republic of China.
The texts of the citations follow:
BRITTON CHANCE-For his contributions to our
knowledge of cellular and subcellular phys-
iology made through work on enzyme-substrate
complexes, on the kinetics of enzyme action,
and on the mechanism and control of mem-
brane-bound electron transfer during cellular
respiration.
ERWIN CHARGAFF-For fundamental chemical and
biological studies establishing the basis for
modern concepts of the mechanisms of pro-
tein synthesis and the genetic role of nucleic
acids.
JAMES VAN GUNDIA NEEL-For pioneering achieve-
ments in creating the science of human genetics
and discovering the genetic basis of several
human diseases.
JAMES AUGUSTINE SHANNON-For outstanding lead-
ership in biomedical research following an
earlier career in distingiushed laboratory in-
vestigation of kidney function and anti-
malarial drugs.
RUDOLF KOMPFNER-For his invention of the trav-
eling-wave tube and for major contributions to
communication satellites and to optical com-
munications.
RALPH BRAZELTON PECK-For his development of
the science and art of subsurface engineering,
combining the contributions of the sciences of
geology and soil mechanics with the practical
art of foundation design.
ABEL WOLMAN-For significant improvements in
the environment and in the health and prosperity
of large populations through the development
of better water supply and wastewater systems
for cities, regions, and entire nations.
KURT GÖDEL-For laying the foundation for today's
flourishing study of mathematical logic.
NICOLAAS BLOEMBERGEN-For pioneering applica-
tions of magnetic resonance to the study of
condensed matter and for subsequent scientific
investigations and inventions concerning the
interaction of matter with coherent radiation.
PAUL JOHN FLORY-For his outstanding contribu-
tions to our understanding of the modes of
formation and structure of polymeric substances.
WILLIAM ALFRED FOWLER-For his scientific con-
tributions to nuclear physics and astrophysics,
which permitted him to span both disciplines to
unravel the nuclear processes that control the
evolution of stars.
LINUS CARL PAULING-For the extraordinary scope
and power of his imagination, which has led
to basic contributions in such diverse fields as
structural chemistry and the nature of chemical
bonding, molecular biology, immunology, and
the nature of genetic diseases.
KENNETH SANBORN PITZER-For his pioneering ap-
plication of statistical thermodynamics and
spectroscopy to our understanding of the prop-
erties of organic and inorganic materials.
569
Letter Accepting the Resignation of William J. Casey,
President and Chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States. September 19, 1975
Dear Bill:
I have your letter of September 13, and it is with deepest regret that I accept
your resignation as President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States,
effective on a date to be determined.
1450
