[557]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
serious recession. We have gone through a very traumatic economic situation in
the last 12 or 13 months. But because we had a steady, forthright approach of
trying to do something constructive and responsible in the area of fiscal policy
and because we have not panicked and gone for a quick fix when a permanent
effort was the better way to go, we have made considerable, substantial headway
in the area of inflation.
We are down now half of what it was a year ago. That is not good enough,
and it won't be satisfactory. We are going to continue to try and control, regard-
less of the Congress, in the area of fiscal affairs. We are going to try and main-
tain the kind of steadiness and forthrightness and determination that is essen-
tial if we are going to keep our Federal budget under some degree of responsible
control.
Now, I have heard some criticism from some of my good Democratic friends.
They say a $60 billion deficit is too much. I agree. But we are trying to do
something about it, and they have established a deficit for the current fiscal year
not at $60 billion, or not at less than $60 billion, but $69 billion, and they have
already exceeded it by their own actions.
So, we can say in all honesty and sincerity, based on the record, that we are
truly seeking a policy of fiscal responsibility and doing something about it. All
we need are more troops, people that will stand up and say that we can't do
this, we have to be responsible and serious about how we handle the taxpayer's
money.
Yes, we have had unemployment much too high, and we are trying to do
something about that. But there are those who say if you just turn a spigot, all
of a sudden you can end unemployment. Most responsible people say there is
no quick fix. Most responsible people say that you have to seek to get the
increase in employment out of the private sector rather than out of the public
sector.
And I am glad to report despite the fact that unemployment is still at 8.4
percent that in the last 4 or 5 months—since March—we have added 1,500,000
more people gainfully employed in the private sector, and we are going to
have more progress in that regard. And I am convinced that if we don't panic,
if we don't get irresponsible, we can look forward to a slow but constructive
decline in the unemployment figure as we give individuals in the private sector
the kind of employment that is good for them and good for the country.
Let me speak for a moment, if I could, about energy. As you all know, in
1973 there was a blowup in the Middle East. The net result was that we had
1412
