September 12
[552]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Well, no, no, I must correct the record there. There is a
negotiation going on now between the United States and Israel as to the amount
of the first year's aid, economic and military.
When I submit the budget request for the total foreign aid program on a
worldwide basis, I will submit the details of the request of economic and military
aid for Israel just as I will do it in the case of Egypt. But that will all come as a
part of the package for the total worldwide foreign aid program.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, it has been suggested that we use our grain for Soviet
oil or for somebody's oil. You currently have someone working on that in the
Soviet Union now, we are told. What kind of a deal do you see, sir?
The President. We have a high level group of negotiators under Assistant
(Under) Secretary of State Robinson in Moscow now negotiating for a long-
term purchase agreement by the Soviet Union up to, say, 5 years for American
grain and other agricultural products. We feel that a long-term agreement with
minimums and maximums is in the best interests of the farmer and the country,
as well as our relations with the Soviet Union.
Now, there are some very preliminary discussions going on concerning grain
and oil, but they have not gone beyond very preliminary discussions.
Q. Have you reached some level of amounts when you talk in terms of oil?
Have you set a figure or a number of barrel amount?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no specifics, because these are preliminary discus-
sions. The Soviet Union, we understand, does have a surplus of oil. We have a
surplus of grain. So, at least we ought, in a very preliminary way, just discuss
any alternatives, but we have not gone beyond that.
Q. Has any kind of barter arrangement-if the Soviet Union cannot supply
the oil in exchange for grain, are you hoping that they will exert their influence
over the Arabs who listen to them?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is a better way to exercise our influence with the
Arab nations, and that is through the International Energy Agency, which was
set up or promoted primarily by the United States about a year ago, where the
basic industrial consuming nations have joined together to meet with the pro-
ducing nations, OPEC, for example.
We are negotiating directly with them. I think that has more potential than
relying on the Soviet Union to help us with the Arab nations.
Our relations with the Arab nations are good. I don't think we have to go
1379
