October 10
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
binding resolution. And I hope and trust that when the Congress returns, they
will approve the Latta amendment, or the Latta resolution, which does put a
firm ceiling of $395 billion, which is roughly $25 billion more than we will
spend in this fiscal year, but $28 billion less than the projected spending for the
next fiscal year. I want something meaningful, not a lot of verbiage.
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM
[19.] Q. Terri Jones, WJPR-TV. Mr. President, families in Detroit and
around Michigan are still suffering from massive layoffs. There is a bill that is
currently under consideration, bill H.R. 7887, that would give food stamp appli-
cants food stamps immediately upon application without waiting for the
qualifying period, and then if found ineligible, they would be cut off. What is
your reaction to that bill?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that there should be a determination as to a person's
qualification. There is too much room for abuse. That program has had more
abuses per capita than any other welfare or any other program that I am
familiar with in the Federal Government.
Under the proposal that I am going to submit when Congress returns, it will
add benefits to the people who need food stamps, but it will take a substantial
amount away from, or eliminate a lot of people who don't need food stamps. And
the net result will be a minimum reduction in the overall cost of about a billion-
plus dollars.
Speaking of the food stamp program, 5 or 6 years ago, when it got started, it
cost about $30 million a year. The present cost on an annual basis of the food
stamp program today is almost $7 billion. It has had the greatest growth in
dollars of any program in the Federal Government in the last few years, because
they have had too many abuses, and the program you speak of, in my opinion,
opens the door to more abuse.
People who should qualify can qualify and can get the benefits, I think,
expeditiously, and even under that present setup, the abuses are horrendous. So,
I think we ought to tie it down, give more to the needy and less to those that
shouldn't qualify.
RONALD REAGAN
[20.] Q. Mr. President, I have a two-part question involving Governor
Reagan. There are some reports in the past few weeks that are confusing. One
report one time will say that you have managed to blunt Governor Reagan's
conservative attempt, and then a few days later we have a report that your
campaign organization is in disarray and that your people are really worried
1669
