[531]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
wherewithal that creates the plants, the factories, and the machinery that in turn
requires the skill and the efforts of an American labor force second to none.
It is what we need, as I see it, to get all America back to work again.
The reforms this Administration has already proposed to the Congress will
establish the taxing policies which will help to bring about this capital formation
and job creation. They will give United States business and industry some of
the incentives of our economic expansion which is required. They will give
jobseekers a paycheck instead of a raincheck.
The time has come. Because of the recession, our plants, our factories are
underutilized. But the signs are clear for all to see that America's economy is
picking up speed. The wheels are beginning to turn. The order books are begin-
ning to open. The muscles of our Nation's industries are beginning to flex, and
we must make certain that they will be able to do their job.
Now is the time to eliminate the production bottlenecks and potential short-
ages that will surely occur unless we plan for the future before it is here. Four
trillion dollars by any standard is a lot of money. It won't be raised by the board
of directors skipping lunches.
But capital formation and job creation are only two aspects of the multi-
faceted problem. There are other important ways to improve our Nation's busi-
ness climate. We can help by getting government out of the way of business
when all that the government contributes is added cost, contradiction, and
confusion.
And confusion there is. The Consumer Product Safety Commission recently
bought 80,000 lapel buttons with a message promoting toy safety. But it de-
veloped that a lead paint had been used on the buttons. There was the danger
of lead poisoning if they were licked by children. So, the Consumer Product
Safety Commission had to ban its own buttons. [Laughter]
It is stories like that that are enough to make you lose your buttons. [Laughter]
Competition and the desire and the economic necessity to build a better mouse-
trap is what made our country the envy of the world. If you doubt it, the next
time you travel to parts of the world where the free enterprise system does not
exist, go into one of their department stores. Look at the variety of goods, the
quality of the workmanship, the imagination of design and packaging. But
above all, look at the price. Then consider this price in terms of what an average
worker in that country earns. Such a visit will only take a very few minutes,
but it will be the best lesson in instant economics and the productive genius
of the American industry that you could ever sign up for.
The free marketplace and the free enterprise system is the American con-
1338
