November 3
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[10.] Q. Could you tell us, Mr. President, when you and Mr. Rockefeller
first discussed his withdrawal and what reasons he gave you for it other than
what he stated in his letter?
THE PRESIDENT. The letter speaks for itself. I don't think I should amplify it.
And the accompanying statement, which was agreed to between him and myself,
indicates our personal views. I don't think we have to go beyond the letter or the
joint statement.²
2
Mr. Kole [John W. Kole, Milwaukee Journal].
GEORGE BUSH AND DONALD RUMSFELD
[11.] Q. Mr. President, will these changes that you have made, do you feel,
give you a more directly responsive intelligence community than you have had
hitherto. In other words, do you feel your putting Mr. Bush and Mr. Rumsfeld
in these two important positions gives you a more direct control over the
intelligence community than it has been previously?
The President. Mr. Bush and Don Rumsfeld are long personal friends of
mine. I have known of their fine record. I have an excellent relationship with
them. I am certain that they will contribute very significantly. And these are
my guys and the ones that I wanted. And I hope and trust that their confirma-
tion will be quick in the United States Senate.
FURTHER PERSONNEL CHANGES
[12.] Q. Mr. President, when do you expect to fill the vacancies-the Am-
bassadorship vacancies—in London and in Peking. And do you plan any further
changes is your campaign committee?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not addressed the questions of replacements for
Mr. Bush or Mr. Richardson, and I have no specific changes in mind at the
President Ford Committee. In due time there will be a person to succeed David
Packard.
Q. There will be no change at the top, sir-Mr. Callaway?
THE PRESIDENT. I have indicated what the changes are.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
[13.] Q. Mr. President, the Pentagon and Secretary Schlesinger have been
less than enthusiastic about the Administration's SALT policies. Can we expect
2 The joint statement, as released by the Vice President's press office, read as follows:
The President and the Vice President have a complete understanding between them regarding the Vice
President's decision. The letter speaks for itself. The initiative was the Vice President's.
1797
