[711]
December 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Thank you again, Mr. President, and to the Philippine people for your espe-
cially generous and warm welcome. May I add from the American people to the
people of the Philippines-Mabuhay [Best wishes].
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 4:30
p.m. at Manila International Airport in response to
the welcoming remarks of Philippine President
Ferdinand E. Marcos. President Marcos spoke as
follows:
President and Mrs. Ford, their daughter Susan, Your
Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentle-
men:
We are indeed happy and honored that the Presi-
dent of the United States and his lady and their
daughter have been able to pay a visit with us. And
they come to Manila in the course of a long journey
that has brought them to two of the most important
capitals of this region of the world-Peking and
Djakarta.
Mr. President, that you have come to Asia during
this, one of the most eventful periods of our history
and of your country, demonstrates the urgency of
your concern and the quality of your present under-
taking.
The relations between our two countries are old
and tested by time and events. Perceptions may
change, but these relations have remained. The
Philippines considers the United States its strongest
ally. It will so remain for a long time to come.
The world may be in a state of flux, and new
realities may present new challenges, new oppor-
tunities. In Asia today, Asian nations ask questions
that require and demand intelligent answers.
We have watched as you, Mr. President, from
the assumption of the Presidency of your great
country, sought to set the course of American diplo-
macy in a world of change, disruptive change. And
we have cheered from the sidelines as you sought
genuinely to expand the domains of peace.
This visit to Asia is in this direction. It therefore
occasions many expectations. As we remark these
dramatic changes, not only in Asia but throughout
the world, we cannot but observe that certainly
America's Pacific destiny is inextricably linked with
these changes.
As we look around the world, we see that it is the
destiny of America that while she alone may be
unable to solve all the problems of the world, there
is no serious problem of the world that can be
solved without America.
This is the burden that is borne by the American
people, and this is the weight of responsibility that
is on the shoulders of their President.
So, today, Mr. President, you come to a country
that is prepared to meet you with affection. In the
past, our relations have been marked with candor
and with generosity of spirit, as well as of the mind.
As we seek to reassess these relations in accordance
with the conditions and the temper of the times,
we shall need this same candor and this generosity
of the spirit and of the mind, for our two countries
are partners that have seen the growth of produc-
tive, cooperative undertakings, and which has al-
lowed America to maintain a concentration of the
greatest naval and aerial power in this part of the
world.
This partnership has served the Pacific and Asia
well, but there are new realities in the world. And
these new realities pose challenges and opportunities
not only to all peoples but especially to our two coun-
tries.
Our two countries seek new solutions to new
problems-yours as a great power, and ours as a
small developing country, but an independent and
free country nonetheless. And we, too, seek an
authentic role in the future.
Mr. President, I have great faith in the future
of our relations. On behalf of our people, I say
we have great confidence that you shall share with
us your wisdom and fill our minds with under-
standing.
Once again, I say with affection, we extend you
warm welcome.
Mabuhay.
1942
