[657]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
to see an acceleration toward an agreement now that this power shift has
occurred?
THE PRESIDENT. The Defense Department, Secretary Schlesinger and the
others, were very forthcoming and very strong in endorsing the agreement
that I reached at Vladivostok. They wholeheartedly agreed with the decisions
that were reached there. We expect to continue to pursue, but not under any
pressure, negotiations with the Soviet Union in strategic arms limitations. We
have differences. But I think it is in the national interest for us to continue to
work toward a SALT II agreement. But we are under no time pressure to
do so.
Q. But you do see the possibilities for a second-stage agreement, then?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be in the national interest if we can get
mutual concessions by the Soviet Union on the one hand and by us on the other.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, if you were Mr. Brezhnev, how would you analyze
the removal of an American Secretary of State who is known for his advocacy
of a strong national defense, possibly a stronger national defense than his rivals
in the bureaucracy?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you misstated "Secretary of State" at the outset.
Q. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say very emphatically there is no one in this
Government more emphatic for a strong national defense and the maintenance
of our own national security than myself, Secretary Kissinger, and Don Rums-
feld, and many others who I could mention by name. From the top on down, we
believe in strong national defense. And we have sought to implement it, and we
need some more help in the Congress. I won't speculate on what Mr. Brezhnev
might feel concerning these changes.
Q. Have you possibly been in contact with him directly or indirectly to explain
what they mean, to leave no misunderstanding on his part?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not.
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[15.] Q. Mr. President, with all due respect, sir, you have been talking
about your desire to make your own team, but in fact, you have replaced half
the team and you haven't replaced the other half. Mr. Kissinger and Mr.
Scowcroft are really part of someone else's team whom you have elected to
1798
