August 18
[491]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Before I leave this wonderful audience—and it has been, and I thank you so
much I have a very pleasant assignment to perform.
I have asked your great Governor Bob Ray to please join me at the podium.
Bob, the Iowa Development Commission has been very successful in pro-
moting exports of goods manufactured in your State. They have been so good,
in fact, that the U.S. Department of Commerce is giving its “E” award to the
Commission. The award is given for outstanding performance in promoting
exports from the United States.
I want to present it to you, Bob, on behalf of the Commission. The "E"
award has been well-earned. Iowa manufacturers exported slightly over $200
million of goods to the other countries in 1960. By 1972, this had been more
than doubled to about $575 million.
In just 2 years—2 very short years—this has jumped by over 60 percent to
more than $1 billion last year. Even though Iowa ranks 25th in population, this
State ranks 21st in the exporting of manufactured products. And when you
add the great agricultural products or exports that I talked about earlier, Iowa
ranks 12th out of 50 States in the Union. That's a great record to be proud of.
I congratulate you, Bob, and all of you good Iowans for adding so much to
this country's favorable balance of payments and, equally important, creating
more, many more, jobs in your great State.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:46 p.m. at the Iowa
State Fairgrounds. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Jean M. Kleve, president of the Iowa State
Fair Board.
491
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Reception in
Des Moines. August 18, 1975
Thank you very much, Bob Ray. Chuck Grassley, Mary Louise Smith, John
McDonald, Margaret McDonald—these Scotsmen seem to predominate around
here-Bill Goodrich, Tom Stoner, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen-
and I have to add a postscript-your new Miss Iowa is a most attractive young
lady:
Well, it is nice to be here on this occasion, but I must say, it has been a
wonderful opportunity to come back to Des Moines. I have a great fondness
for the people here, people in Iowa, and I thank you not only for the warm
reception at the State fair this afternoon but for the great reception here tonight.
I want you to know I appreciate it.
1167
