October 10
[623]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Everybody in this room knows of the tremendous impact that the automobile
industry has on our economy. When automobile sales are down, so in most cases
is our economy. When that tragedy happens, the carmakers don't take it lying
down. They fight back, and the country benefits. And we are proud of the
initiative and the leadership in the American automobile industry.
But let me use a very pertinent illustration, if I might. Take gasoline mileage
and what has been done in less than 2 years to increase it—the increase of auto-
mobile gasoline efficiency. The 1976 American cars will average nearly 13 per-
cent better in fuel economy than last year's models. That is on top of an
improvement of almost 14 percent from 1974 to 1975. The American automobile
manufacturers have gone more than halfway toward achieving the goal that
I laid down earlier this year, which was a 40-percent improvement in fuel
economy by 1980. Listen carefully. Do you know what this increased gasoline
mileage means, what the enterprise of the American automobile industry already
means in the terms of an energy crisis? It means, if every car in America
operated with the fuel efficiency of the average 1976 model, America would
save more than 17½ billion gallons of gasoline each year. That's not bad. But
even more significant, American motorists would save nearly $11 billion in
the cost of their gasoline each year.
That is a real contribution by American auto management and American
auto manufacturers and workers toward our goal of energy independence, not
to mention a mighty good incentive-if I could be a bit parochial-a good
incentive for everybody to buy a 1976 American-made car.
I congratulate the automobile industry and its workers for this great achieve-
ment. Their remarkable strides were made, and I emphasize this, without Fed-
eral funds and despite some of the restrictions and limitations laid down by
Government regulations. With dedication, with action like this, America has no
reason to be fearful of being overwhelmed by problems. The American people
are dedicated to problemsolving and progress, using the individual initiative of
our citizens rather than the dictation of a government.
Wherever I have gone as President, I have found a deep, abiding faith in the
future of this country. We have been through some very, very traumatic times
in the last few years, but in our 200-year history, we have overcome far tougher
problems and come through some much darker days.
Oh, despite the doomsayers, America has always transcended the moment and
achieved a better life for its citizens. And I have faith we will do it again, and I
believe we are on our way.
Last night at a news conference in Washington and today in Detroit, many
1679
