[695]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I have not communicated with him. And I would just hope
that Senator Mathias would continue to be a good Republican, as he has been
over the good many years that I have known him.
NEW YORK CITY
[12.] Q. Some Congressional leaders are saying that it may not be possible
to enact New York City legislation in time to avert a default by December 11.
Does the Administration have a plan to respond if this does occur?
THE PRESIDENT. The bill that I am submitting to the Congress is about a two-
or three-page bill. It is very simple. I think Congress can take it, hold hearings,
and act within a very short period of time, and I see no reason for any delay
whatsoever. And I am confident they will.
Q. Is there a contingency plan, sir, in the event Congress does not act in time
to avert default on December 11?
THE PRESIDENT. I asked earlier, as I'm sure you know, for a change in the
Federal bankruptcy law. That legislation is in the House and Senate commit-
tees; hearings have been held. If they want to take a precautionary measure—I
don't advocate it—they could enact the change in the Federal bankruptcy law. I
would rather have them take what I am sending up the day they get back from
recess so we don't have to go through the process of Federal bankruptcy.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[13.] Q. Mr. President, may I follow up on the Mathias question? Do you
share Senator Mathias' concern that there is a Republican drift to the right,
away from the central center voters, and that this might cost you the election?
THE PRESIDENT. I am certainly not drifting away from my traditional position,
which is in the middle of the political spectrum in the Republican Party.
Q. You will recall, I am sure, the days when the football days when Stagg
used to fear Purdue. My question is, do you fear Ronald Reagan, that he might
beat you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so at all, and I am looking forward to a good
campaign between now and November of 1976.
Q. Do you think that he is doing you a favor by running against you in the
primaries, or is this likely to be divisive?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to speculate on that, Mr. Sperling [Godfrey
Sperling, Jr., Christian Science Monitor]. I am a candidate, I'm going to run
1
See Item 646.
1910
