[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
health of candidates. And my first question is whether you would approve all
candidates' submitting themselves to an outside objective medical test before
they go to the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Reston, I would have no objection personally under any
circumstances. I have excellent health, I am proud of it, and I would have no
objection as far as I am concerned to having such an examination conducted
for and I think it might be very constructive for all others.
me,
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[18.] MR. RESTON. The second question has to do with the timing of letting
us know your preference for a Vice President. You run as a team but usually,
over the last few elections at least, we get Vice Presidents picked in the turmoil
of the convention. Is there anything to the proposition that the people have got
the right to know before you are nominated who is going with you, or who
your preference would be?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is some merit to that, but the question is how
soon. I have been at several Republican Conventions and watched a few Demo-
cratic Conventions. I think the way it has been done in the past is not necessarily
the best way. It has been done in several instances sort of at the last minute and
I have been distressed about that. Perhaps we can find a way earlier than the
last minute to indicate to the convention delegates and to the American people
that I would favor one over another. But we haven't focused in on just how
that might be achieved.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Will.
ALEKSANDR SOLZHENITSYN
[19.] MR. WILL. President Ford, I have here a copy of a June 26 memo
sent to the White House to Brent Scowcroft from the office of Secretary Kis-
singer concerning the question of whether at that time you should meet with
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. And the memo advises against that meeting saying,
and I quote, “not only would a meeting with the President offend the Soviets,”
the memo goes on to add, "such a meeting would lend weight to his (Sol-
zhenitsyn's) political views." Is worrying about that kind of Kremlin sensitivity
the sort of thing you and your advisers feel you have to do in the name of
détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that that is a significant aspect of carrying on
or the defeat of détente. There are much broader, more important issues than
that. The principal ones, of course, are trade, SALT, a wide variety of very basic
1832
