[615]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE FORD FAMILY
[12.] Q. This is a question for Betty Ford's husband. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. She is doing better than I am in the polls. So, you should ask
her.
Q. In light of the upcoming Presidential campaign, has she been advised or
will she be advised to curtail her candid comments, and will she or would she
comply?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I would be very popular at home if I tried to lay
down the law. She has very good judgment, but I do have to say this. In our
family everybody tries to be totally honest and frank. We think that is the best
policy. I don't think you get away with trying to deceive people. So, as long as
people are honest, I think you are in a better position to deal with the problems.
So, I think if Betty gets on the television or radio or is interviewed, she will
probably speak very frankly, as she always does.
Q. How do you feel about your son's statement that he experimented with
marijuana and your promise to say today whether or not you have tried it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say I never have. But I, again, would say that
everybody in our family tries to be frank and honest with one another, and we
brought our children up to be completely honest in their relations with us and
we with them and all of us with other people.
I think there is an old saying, "honesty is the best policy," because you inevitably
get caught if you don't tell the truth and your conscience is clear if you do tell
the truth. I can disagree with what some of our children do, but as long as they
are honest with us and at least give us an opportunity to express our views, I don't
think I should go any further.
GUN CONTROL
[13.] Q. Mr. President, shortly before Senator Everett Dirksen passed away,
I had an opportunity to sit down and discuss gun control with him. And he told
me in his own wry way that he felt like if we just enforced the laws that were on
the books today, there would be no need for any further legislation regarding
this. Now, certainly a man who should enjoy an opinion on that better than
anybody is a man who has been shot at. How do you feel about gun control?
THE PRESIDENT. I have some very strong feelings about it.
Q. I'll bet you do.
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think that the registration of guns nor the registration
of gunowners is the way to handle the problem. In my judgment, we have
some good laws on the books that, if enforced—which means prosecution, con-
1616
