[498]
August 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
open mind and an understanding of the problems of the other, I am confident
that many of the difficulties can be resolved.
The fact that the United States as well as Canada and 14 other nations are
working together as consuming nations in the International Energy Agency is
another indication of how not 2, but 16 nations can work together to solve a
problem that affects we on the North American Continent and those in Western
Europe, our allies in NATO.
We have resolved in this area, the 16 nations that are part of the organiza-
tion, to share in research and development to find an answer to the financial
problems that have arisen because of the high prices charged by OPEC nations,
and to solve the problems and work together in the conservation of energy in the
free nations, the industrial nations of the world. And if 16 nations can do it,
as we are seeking to do, I am absolutely confident that Canada and the United
States can do even better.
But I must say, on the other hand, that we must, all Americans and Con-
gress, must realize that this is our problem to meet and to solve. We cannot look
elsewhere for the total solution despite the efforts of cooperation.
More important, we can no longer pretend the national energy problem does
not exist. We must develop new sources of energy, not only oil and gas but
others such as solar, geothermal, and nuclear. We have delayed far too long.
Our vulnerability increases daily. We must act now to achieve the energy self-
sufficiency vital to all.
I will continue to work with the Congress and particularly with Senator
Mansfield and others on the leadership on the other side of the aisle so we can get
this effort off dead center.
Together we must succeed in this effort, not for any personal glory or party
gains, but for the benefit of the American people and the free world in which
we live.
Before closing, let me say how deeply pleased I am that the harmony this
multipurpose project has created between technology and environment is
equally reflected in the warm relationship that we in the United States have
with our neighbors to the north. Relations between Canada and the United
States have long been characterized by friendship and partnership. This dam
stands as a powerful reminder of the mutual benefits such close cooperation can
accomplish.
The poet Tennyson once wrote, and I quote: "Nothing in nature is unbeauti-
ful." I believe that mankind has the responsibility of preserving that beauty.
Let us, therefore, take heart as well as pride in the creation of the Libby Dam.
1206
