[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
so that the net gain to the United States in foreign trade was roughly $12 to $13
billion. That was significant, vital in our trade relationships around the world.
I believe that we can use food in a variety of ways: one, for humanitarian
purposes, for those less well off than ourselves, but in addition, for a wide variety
of other reasons, including foreign policy objectives.
At the present time, we have a top negotiating team in Moscow, for example,
negotiating for a long-term sales contract with the Soviet Union so that if and
when they buy, they buy under the terms of an agreement, not on sudden
stopping and starting, as they have in the past, with 1972 buying a lot and several
other years buying very little.
We think it is in the best interest of agriculture for us to have long-term con-
tracts or agreements with the Soviet Union, as we do with Japan, as we do with
other countries. We think this great resource produced by less than 6 percent of
the American people, those that live on the farm, can be used in a wide variety
of ways. And we are going to do it for the benefit of all the 214 million
Americans.
Thank you.
Mr. Douthit.
EDUCATION
[3.] Q. Yes, Mr. President. I am Bill Douthit, the executive director of the
Urban League of St. Louis. Mr. President, your posture in the public press has
appeared to be that of being opposed to busing. Now, some well-intentioned
whites are opposed to busing, as well as some blacks, but, Mr. President, my
question is, how do we achieve quality education without isolating large seg-
ments of our population from each other?
THE PRESIDENT. I am glad that you put the emphasis where I think it be-
longs—namely, quality education. Quality education under the method utilized
by the courts is aimed at forced school busing. That, of course, came out of the
1954 Supreme Court decision.
I firmly say without any hesitation or qualification that if the court says some-
thing has to be done, it will be done, as far as this Administration is concerned.
No question about that. On the other hand, it is my judgment that there is a
better way of achieving quality education for all schoolchildren than by the
court method.
It is most interesting. A very able black newspaper columnist by the name of
William Raspberry, in the Washington Post this morning, said that court-
ordered, forced busing was not achieving quality education. I wholeheartedly
agree with him.
1390
