September 5
[532]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
In 25 years that I served in the Congress, I made many friendships with former
State senators and assemblymen from Sacramento whose constituents have con-
sistently sent them back to Washington. Although they represent a wide spec-
trum of political persuasions and interests, they were, almost without exception,
able, hard-working legislators who quickly reached positions of great im-
portance and great influence in the House of Representatives, where they could
make California's voice heard. And believe me, they did.
As a delegation that is now the largest in the Congress, Californians were
often able to temporarily put partisanship aside on matters of great concern to
your State as well as to our Nation. This, after all, is the way our two-party sys-
tem works at its very best. I long ago came to admire California legislators from
afar. And I thank you very, very sincerely for this opportunity to meet in this
historic chamber.
Since California is almost a model of the whole United States-in its di-
versity of industry and agriculture, its urban and rural interests, its internal
and international trade and commerce, its steady growth and the attendant
challenges in transportation, education, employment, and human needs—almost
any national problem would be an appropriate one to discuss in California
context. Any subject that is of major importance to Californians is also of deep
concern to all Americans.
In the 13 months that I have served as President of all of the people, my
priority goals have been set by the circumstances which confronted our Nation
and still do: to work steadily and prudently toward peace and the reduction
of conflicts which threaten peace, globally or regionally, without weakening
either our defense or our resolve; to reverse the current recession and to revive
our free economic system without reigniting the inflationary forces and
through such Federal stimulants and incentives as will create productivity and
permanent, private jobs and genuine economic growth; to develop a compre-
hensive short- and long-term program to end our growing dependence on
foreign sources of energy and provide the abundant and sure energy supply
that is essential both for jobs and to competitive production for the future; and
finally, but certainly not least, to encourage among all Americans a greater spirit
of conciliation, cooperation, and confidence in the future of this great country
and the institutions of self-government which for 200 years have served to
create a more perfect Union.
Today, I could devote my time to any one of these goals, because all are of
concern in Sacramento as well as in Washington.
California has a very vital stake in peace and the important breakthrough we
1341
