November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. RESTON. But, Mr. President, can the United States really stand the possi-
bility that you may be wrong about New York?
The President. I have carefully considered that. I have gotten advice not
only from experts within my Administration but I have read considerably about
the views of others, and it is, I think, the weight of the evidence that if New
York City unfortunately goes into default, there will not be any serious ramifica-
tions in the money markets of this country.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Will.
RONALD REAGAN
[14.] MR. WILL. Mr. President, based on your knowledge of Ronald Reagan
personally, his political philosophy, and his record as Governor of the largest
State in the Union for two terms, is he qualified to be President?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I ought to be the judge of that. The voters in
the various primaries in the first instance will be the judges of that. I don't
like to either be critical on the one hand or praising on the other. I have to look
at it from my point of view, which is my record and my aims and ambitions.
I think it would be unwise for me to comment one way or another on that.
He, as far as I know, had a tough situation in California, did a good job. But
to go beyond that, I don't think I ought to.
MR. WILL. But in those primaries, Mr. President, you are going to have to
tell the voters why, on the basis of what specific issues, they should vote for you
rather than for Mr. Reagan. Are there differences between your view of the
world and Mr. Reagan's?
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to speak affirmatively in those primaries where
I campaign. I will talk about my record. That is the way I have always run a
campaign. I never under any circumstances was critical of an opponent. I don't
think that is the way to sell yourself or your program to the voters in this
country.
MR. WILL. But without being critical, can you point to a political difference
between you and Mr. Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe there is a fair degree of unanimity. I am in the
middle of the road. He may be somewhat to the right. But on many basic issues
we have a considerable degree of unanimity.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Broder.
PENDING LEGISLATION
[15.] MR. BRODER. Mr. President, two or three short questions on domestic
issues: The Senate Democratic leaders are coming down to see you tomorrow
1829
