[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
progress in both areas. Inflation is about half of what it was a year ago; unem-
ployment soared. On the other hand, the trend is in the right direction, and I
am convinced beyond any doubt that unemployment will continue its down-
ward path. It is still too high, but I think the trend is right and the prospects are
encouraging.
In foreign policy, we had, of course, a setback in Southeast Asia. But if you
take a look at what has been accomplished elsewhere, whether it is in NATO,
where we have convinced our allies that the American people are going to
stand strong in that area, they absolutely believe that the United States is going
to be a firm partner. And I think the personal relationship with leaders in
Western Europe is as good, if not better, than anytime in the last 20 or 30
years.
If you look to the Pacific, despite the problems in Vietnam, our relationship
with Japan is the best in the history of this country. We have kept faith with
other countries in the whole Pacific area, and they believe that the United States
will stand in the future firmly for the freedom that they have and the oppor-
tunities for a better life for all of their people.
Let me just summarize, if I can, my New Year's resolutions so you won't
have to ask the question. [Laughter] I am going to make as a New Year's reso-
lution a dedication to the strengthening of spiritual and moral values among 215
million people. And I noticed yesterday we passed 215 million people, accord-
ing to the Bureau of the Census.
I am going to resolve that we do everything possible to improve the eco-
nomic circumstances, not only of ourselves—that being my prime concern—
but the economic well-being of people throughout the world, because I think
that contributes to stability, not only at home but worldwide.
And I, of course, will resolve that we have peace with ourselves in this coun-
try, but peace with the world as a whole.
So, why don't you ask questions.
Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
QUESTIONS
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[2.] Q. Mr. President, why do you think that you are going to be able to
defeat Ronald Reagan in his bid for the Presidency? And what do you see as
the key differences in actual approach? I know he doesn't have Federal experi-
ence, but over and beyond that, where are your differences on the main issues?
2002
