[679]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
retained its status in this great world in which we live largely because of wide
bipartisan support to this view.
We know from experience and history that weakness invites war—military
strength is the only certain foundation for peace. America must preserve its vital
alliances and first-rate defense capabilities.
As long as I am President, there will never be any weakness in the Administra-
tion's commitment to military power, a power second to none. I can assure you
this policy has not changed and it will not change.
I am deeply concerned by the tendency of the Congress to spend for less
essential items at the expense of defense. I refer specifically to a cut of over $7
billion in the new defense budget which I sent to the Congress in January of
this year. This could weaken our hand at a time when we want no potential
adversary to misjudge our resolve. It is the duty of the Senate to restore those
funds that the Defense Department regards as essential and vital to our national
security.
Our defenses, however, are only as good as our intelligence services. History
tells how the city of Savannah, how it fell during the American Revolution
because of the superiority of British intelligence. Courage alone could not save
Savannah when the brave Georgians were taken by surprise.
Intelligence operations today are much more sophisticated. We must protect
the rights of American citizens to cherished liberties, but we must also guard
against foreign espionage. I will cooperate with the Congress, as I have, as it
responsibly investigates the intelligence agencies to develop any legislation that
may be necessary to preclude future abuses. But I will do everything in my power
to assure that vital information does not fall into the hands of potentially hostile
forces.
I will not stand idly by while our essential intelligence services are unilaterally
dismantled in a world where the agencies of other nations work totally in secrecy
and with unlimited resources.
Next November, the American people will provide some resounding answers
to the questions raised tonight. You and many others will say no to defense cuts,
no to runaway spending, no to stifling controls, no to overregulation, and no
to the discredited idea that every question must be answered by expensive govern-
ment programs.
But you and many, many others like you will say yes to the responsible Repub-
lican proposals, the responsible Republican solutions, and say yes to the Repub-
lican ticket.
Like all of you and like millions like us throughout the country, we believe in
1882
