September 20
[573]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Do you want your President to accept deep slashes in a defense program? I
say this with very sincere and deep conviction myself. It would make America
number two in a world where only number one really counts.
Do you want your President to permit America's defense intelligence system
to be crippled and leave this Nation naked to the mercy of potential enemies?
I think your answers are obvious, and I think those are the answers that the
American people, by and large-Republicans, Independents, discerning Dem-
ocrats, the Republican Party—are in tune with: your needs, your hopes, and
your aspirations.
We believe, as you do, in the principles which made this Nation great, and
believe me, I think I see in this great audience a heck of a lot of people that are
going to go out and fight hard, give time, effort, talent, and everything else,
especially enthusiasm, to carry this message to the American people.
If we do, I am optimistic as to the results in the Presidency, the Congress, the
governorships, the State legislatures, and the local offices on November 2, and
America will be better off for it.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:05 p.m. in In-
dependence Hall at the Lincoln Plaza Inn. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Bill McLean, recep-
tion chairman.
573
Interview in Los Angeles With Television Reporters.
September 20, 1975
BOB ABERNETHY. Good evening and welcome. I am Bob Abernethy, KNBC
News. With me to question the President are KNBC News reporters Jess Mar-
low and Warren Olney.
Mr. President, welcome.
RONALD REAGAN
[1.] A prominent California Republican said the other day that he thinks it
would be healthy for the Republican Party if Ronald Reagan were to try to get
the GOP nomination for the Presidency. Do you agree with that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see any serious problems in that regard. I have always
thought that competition in the political arena was healthy for the candidates
and for the party. I certainly feel that former Governor Reagan and myself are
close enough personal friends that we can have any competition without having
1461
