November 14
[677]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
cans, will be equal and totally fair without race or religion or sex ever being a
factor. I hope and work for the day when the human mind and the human
spirit are no longer shackled by ignorance and prejudice, when all the children
of God are brothers and sisters.
You have the opportunity here at NCCU to break more shackles and join in
America's competitive life through a good education. Seize the opportunity and
use that wonderful opportunity and the experiences here. It may never pass
your way again.
I know that your own Dr. Helen Edmonds, whom I was delighted to see a
few minutes before the ceremony began, distinguished professor of history and
former alternate delegate to the United Nations, and other faculty members are
helping to prepare you for life's competition.
Dr. Edmonds met with me shortly after I assumed the Presidency and elo-
quently told me some of the concerns and aspirations of blacks and of women.
As President of all the people, these concerns are my concerns. These aspirations
are my aspirations. I will do all that I possibly can to help you and millions like
you achieve them.
But my real message today aims at an even greater and nobler goal for which
we strive—the communion of Americans, our coming together to face a
common destiny as one people and one nation. This goal is truly worthy of all
Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:44 a.m. in Mc-
Dougald Gymnasium. Prior to speaking, he received
an honorary doctor of laws degree from William
C. Friday, president, University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Albert N. Whiting, chancellor, North Carolina
Central University, and Rev. Phillip R. Cousin,
pastor, St. Joseph's African Methodist Episcopal
Church of Durham.
677
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Reception in
Raleigh, North Carolina. November 14, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Jim. My good friend Governor Holshouser, Jesse
Helms, your fine Senator, Congressman Martin, Tom Bennett, Bob Shaw, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I have one thing to add to the story that Jim Broyhill tells. I did spend almost
a year down at Chapel Hill Pre-Flight School. So, that is another 10 months
to my service in the great State of North Carolina. [Laughter]
1861
