[578]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the second program-the second 5-year program—the annual amount will be
about $6,250 million a year that just goes to those cities and to those local units
of government and to those States, free of any limitations.
So, they did get a real shot in the arm for financial resources from the Federal
Government to meet some of these local problems. Plus in the field of transpor-
tation, last November, December, I signed an $11.5 billion transportation act.
And without getting into the details, I had a significant impact in getting the
House and Senate to reconcile differences and to make that available. And this
is primarily a mass transit act aimed at major metropolitan areas. Well, there are
other programs that I think have sought to help and assist major metropolitan
areas, New York City included. And just in passing, New York City last year
in all its Federal programs, all of them, got $4,300 million from the Federal
Government. We have not neglected New York City.
Q. Mr. President, I realize there are the various programs that you have just
mentioned. But it seems in my view that the amount of resources that have been
devoted to the cities require a much more substantial amount than the programs
you have just outlined, because the cities are large, the problems are massive
and should be tackled, and must be tackled in a systematic, organized, manner.
I gather from what you are saying is that you think that the programs that you
have outlined—and maybe some others you haven't right now—are sufficient to
tackle the problem at this current stage?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so. It has been my general feeling that just the massive
piling on of more money to cities doesn't necessarily solve the problems. The
programs have to be well worked out, coordinated, and I think there is a fair
assumption, a basic assumption I make, that the Federal Government ought
not to try and determine how those cities meet their local problems. We do
make substantial contributions financially, but the actual stimulation of new
ideas to meet their problems ought to come from those communities.
With citizen participation in the housing act last year-where we went from
an old housing program of about seven or eight categorical grant programs
where we had urban renewal, Model Cities, a whole bunch of them—what we
did was to eliminate the categorical grant programs, give them the same money.
We had a hold-harmless provision in that law so they all got at least no less than
they got before. And we said, now you get this money, you have community
hearings and every city is required by law to have community hearings-so
that the people make recommendations to their local authorities for the expendi-
ture of this money.
Now, in the communities that I am personally familiar with, I think the
1486
