September 13
[562]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ciate that willingness, and under those circumstances—but you even went
further than that—you voted for me for Vice President. [Laughter]
I am delighted to be here in west Texas, an area that is so obviously rich in
natural resources-oil, natural gas, cattle, good land-but, more important than
anything else, good people.
I am particularly pleased to take part in the dedication of this very fascinating
petroleum museum. I just wish that the ceremony could have been held outdoors,
because I was honestly looking for that shower of rose petals from the top of
the rig. [Laughter] Believe me, in the last year, when it comes to oil from the
Congress, I have had very little roses coming up. [Laughter]
But I think it is very significant that that drilling rig outside is named Santa
Rita, the patron saint of the impossible. When it comes to the good of the
country, Americans have always joined together and worked together to achieve
the seemingly impossible.
I am certain that in the weeks ahead, the Congress and I will be able to do
so-to give our Nation an energy program that will cut us from the dependence
on interruptible foreign sources of oil. America's energy independence must be
decided by us. It cannot be entrusted to the policies or to the passions of others
in far-off lands.
I want to thank very deeply the man who invited me, not once but many
times to come out here—my long-time and very close, personal friend George
Mahon.
George indicated during the 12 years I was privileged to serve on the House
Committee on Appropriations, I worked up from the real bottom and finally
got to the top. But in the process of that 12 years' experience, we spent literally
4 to 5 hours a day, 5 days a week, 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 months a year trying to help
develop a strong national defense program, trying to help implement a strong
foreign policy. And in the process of those many hours, we became close,
intimate friends, despite the fact that there was a partisan dividing line—
theoretically, at least-between us.
I honestly count George Mahon one of my closest friends in my period of
time in the Congress of the United States, and I appreciate that friendship,
George. And believe me, if I lived in this district it would be awfully easy for
me to be out in the spotlight, in the headlines for George Mahon. Of course, the
principal reason I would be doing that is because of Helen [Mahon], not George.
[Laughter]
But it is nice to be here also with John Tower, who I know comes from a
great part of Texas and who has been such a wonderful Senator on behalf of
1429
