[600]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Is there anything especially hopeful you will be able to tell Mrs. Stenderwick
when you meet with her today?
THE PRESIDENT. I have met at least once as President and once as Vice Presi-
dent with the representatives of the MIA. In addition, on several occasions, in
other communities-Dallas, for example-I have met with either parents or
widows of MIA's.
I can assure you that the Defense Department, the State Department, and
myself have made every possible effort that we can to get the North Vietnamese
to permit us to move in and check on the sites or the locations where we under-
stand there is some possibility a crash might have occurred or a person might
have escaped.
But the North Vietnamese have totally violated the January 1973 accords by
failing to permit us to carry out these investigations. Now, the House of Repre-
sentatives has just approved and appointed a committee to investigate the whole
subject. We will give that committee, under Congressman Montgomery of
Mississippi, our full cooperation, lay out in detail what we have done and what
the problem is which, in this case, is North Vietnam. I can assure her, as I am
saying here, that we have made and will continue to make a maximum effort
in this regard.
ENERGY
[14.] Q. I was going to ask a very light question, Mr. President, but now I am
afraid to after that heavy answer. Some people feel that there is a lack of leader-
ship or perhaps I should say a lack of inspirational leadership from the top in the
energy crisis situation, and I will tell you what I mean by that.
All of the accent seems to be put on how can we become independent of for-
eign sources—and obviously we have to do that-but shouldn't more emphasis
really be put on conserving, because this is probably only the forerunner of a
number of world shortages and we don't have any feeling of crisis about it. Now,
do you really think, for instance, this country should continue to use 30 to 35
percent of the world's energy?
THE PRESIDENT. We have always said the answer to the energy problem for
the United States is, one, stimulation of new sources and conservation of the
energy we have. Every document I have ever sent to the Congress, every statement
I have ever made, emphasizes both new sources of energy and conservation of
those that we have.
In my energy program that I submitted in January of this year, we put a
considerable amount of emphasis on conservation. The United States has
1560
