[494]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
common sense. And we miss you, Ancher, but you've got a good replacement
in Tom.
I guess you gather from what I have been saying that every visit I have ever
made to Minnesota has been memorable, and this has been no exception.
As I was getting off the plane last night at the Twin Cities International
Airport, an amazing thing happened to me. Somebody asked me how to get
to the State capital in St. Paul. [Laughter] What made it so amazing—it was
Governor Anderson. [Laughter]
It is also a pleasure to be in Minnesota, the land of 10,000 lakes, which, I
understand, is now known as the land of 15,000 lakes. In a way, that recount
could be a great lesson for the Republican Party. [Laughter]
Like those lakes, I think there are a lot more Republicans here in Minnesota
than any
of us realize. We just have to go out, find them, and get them interested
and to the polls.
There has been a tremendous parade of my associates in Washington coming
to Minnesota lately. Secretary Kissinger was here last month. So was Earl
Butz. I thought I better come out to Minnesota and find out for myself what was
attracting everybody to this great State.
But what I found is really what I have known for years-Minnesota is one
of the most beautiful States in the Union, has some of the friendliest people
anywhere, and it has some of the hardest working, most dedicated Republicans
that I have ever met.
Of course, I have had some great associations with people from Minnesota
in the House of Representatives-Al Quie, who is one of my long and very
dear friends; Bill Frenzel, an outstanding Member of the House of Representa-
tives, who is respected on both sides of the aisle; Tom Hagedorn, who is a
newcomer. But I am convinced, having seen Members come and go, like Grey-
hound buses sometimes, that Tom is going to stay for a long time, like Al and
Bill.
The only problem I think you have, you've got quality—you just need a little
more quantity. [Laughter] So, if you could sort of add to the delegation, it
would not only help your State, in my judgment, but it would give some strong
support to Al and Bill and Tom.
As I travel around the country-and I have traveled a bit on nonpolitical
meetings—I am optimistic about the Republican prospects for next year's elec-
tion. I think we are going to have the right kind of candidates, the issues, the
money, the workers, and more importantly in the final analysis, the votes to win.
1182
