[677]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our industrial production, which is a fundamental in our society, rose at an
annual rate of 20 percent nationally, between June and September. And just as
importantly, productivity of our people that work in the factories and on the
field, the productivity of American workers has been steadily improving for
months. And that is progress, and that is probably the best way to beat inflation
in this country.
The number of Americans with jobs went up by nearly 1,600,000 between
March and October alone, and that is progress. For the last 8 months, we have
averaged a billion-a-month balance-of-trade surplus in the United States, and
boy, that is really progress.
Inflation has been cut by more than half between 1974 and 1975, down from
12-percent double-digit inflation to the range of 6 percent. Obviously, that is not
good enough, but it is still progress. And we are going to make more and more,
particularly if we can get this spendthrift Congress to hold the line.
These are all signs of progress, of growing economic strength, stability, and
vitality. Now, to maintain this momentum, the American people must demand
that their elected officials hold the line on government spending and look past
the next election to the next generation and to long-time economic growth and
strength.
This is the responsibility of people in public office today. The painful lessons
of the past prove beyond any doubt that we cannot spend our way into prosperity,
but we can certainly spend our way into the poorhouse. And we don't want that.
Any family in North Carolina knows it, I know it, and I hope we can convince
the Congress of it before they bring the whole country to the brink of economic
default. We simply cannot go on spending money like we have been spending in
recent years. We couldn't afford it then, and we can't afford it now.
I have sent to the Congress a very simple plan to slow down the alarming rate
of growth in the Federal budget and to give the American people a much
deserved tax cut at the same time. I proposed a tax cut of $28 billion to be
matched by a $28 billion reduction in the growth of Federal spending—very
simple, but very sound.
As you might have expected, the Democrats in the Congress like the idea of
the tax cut, but they are singing that old "can't do" chorus on the spending cut.
They have decided that with an election year coming up, it wouldn't be wise to
upset the various special interest groups which have lobbied so hard to keep on
spending Federal money like there was no tomorrow.
1864
