[615]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
decision, and hopefully that decision is right, and you have to go on to the next
one.
But, if you worry and worry and worry, I think that eventually affects your
other judgment, so in my case, in perhaps somewhat the same way, I handle it
as President Lincoln did.
NATURAL GAS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, there have been several predictions of a serious
natural gas shortage for this country, as you know, and especially the area of
the South and east Tennessee this winter. What is the Administration doing to
relieve the situation, and do you think it can be headed off?
THE PRESIDENT. I have recommended to the Congress some emergency gas
legislation, which would permit individual consumers in a State like Tennessee
to go down to Louisiana, to Oklahoma, or to Texas, buy the gas that is available,
and transport it through the pipelines at a rate that would get them the natural
gas.
I hope the Congress passes that legislation. It is vitally important, and I can
assure you we are doing everything possible to remedy the problem.
Q. Thank you, sir.
Q. I think our time is running out, Mr. President. Again, let me say how
much we appreciate your meeting with us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I have enjoyed it. It has been a real
pleasure, and we are delighted to be here in Knoxville.
Q. Well, we hope you enjoy your visit, brief as it is.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:35 p.m. in the Knox
Room at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. It was taped for
broadcast on television that evening. Participants in-
cluded Juanita Glenn of the Knoxville Journal, Lois
Thomas of the Knoxville News-Sentinel, Randy
Prewitt of WTVK, Carl Williams of WBIR, Sam
Brown of WATE, and Hop Edwards of WSJK.
616
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the White House
Conference on Domestic and Economic Affairs in Knoxville.
October 7, 1975
Thank you very much, Bill. Governor Blanton, Governor Carroll, Governor
Waller, Governor Holshouser, Governor Rhodes, Governor Busbee, Governor
1618
