October 29
[647]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Congresses then doubled the budget to $200 billion in only 8 more years. Unless
we bring sanity to the spending madness of the present Congress, the Federal
budget in the coming fiscal year will more than double again to an estimated
$423 billion.
Where did these massive increases come from? That is a good, legitimate,
honest question that ought to be asked by all people, Democrat, Republican, or
otherwise. Because of the mountains of Federal debt incurred through soaring
Congressional spending, annual interest-annual interest-on the public debt
almost tripled in the last 10 years. From $11 billion in a period of 1 year, interest
has
grown to $32 billion in 12 months.
Another example. Between 1965 and 1975, Democratic-controlled Congresses
increased spending for the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare by
nearly 400 percent-400 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, how can this Democratic
Congress now tell the American people—and listen, because this is the crux of
the issue that we are to be faced with in the months ahead-how can the
Democratic Congress now tell the American people that it cannot hold down
anticipated spending for fiscal 1977 by a mere 7 percent? They have no answer.
Just over 3 weeks ago, I made the Congress a perfectly reasonable proposition.
The Congress wanted to cut income taxes again next year, but go right on spend-
ing to the tune of another $60 billion deficit.
I said, okay, let's have a tax cut, an even bigger, more equitable, and permanent
tax cut than you are considering, a tax cut of $28 billion. Americans do need more
of their own paychecks to spend. But along with a tax cut, let's have a comparable
$28 billion cut in the growth of Federal spending. They go hand in hand,
partners in trying to save America's fiscal situation now and in the future. Let's
set a spending ceiling of $395 billion instead of the projected $423 billion, and
start right now to cut back our annual deficit so that we can have a balanced
budget, an honest one, a certain one within 3 years.
Did Members of the Congress say okay, we will try? You know the answer.
They didn't. They howled, they cried, they said I was being political. Tell me—
and this is a thoughtful distinction-tell me why is it political to want to cut
spending along with taxes, but it is not political to cut taxes and go right on
spending for politically popular programs?
Do you realize that under the laws Democratic Congresses have already writ-
ten-they are in the statute books right now and have been for the last several
years—without a single new appropriation or program, and despite everything
I can do as President by vetoing further increases, our Federal expenditures will
automatically increase next year by $50 billion? No new programs, no changes
1743
