[615]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
it was over in a fraction of a second. So, there was no opportunity for me to do
anything about it.
In the case of the incident in San Francisco, I was on one side of the street
and was waving to the crowd on the other, waiting to get into the limousine,
and I heard this noise that frankly sounded like a firecracker. And those who
are more knowledgeable than I said duck and sort of hit me on the back and
got me down on the sidewalk and into the car. But again, that happened so
rapidly that you honestly don't have time to think about it.
Now, the question about whether the media is responsible, I don't think the
media is responsible. I look at it this way: A President has certain responsibili-
ties to see people around the country. You should not act in a daredevil fashion,
and I don't intend to. You have to act prudently, and I do intend to act with
prudence.
I believe that if we do it right, I can continue to travel without any serious
hindrances, and it is my intention to do so.
Q. Do you find yourself fearful now whenever you are in crowds?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. I know for one thing that the Secret Service has
taken every possible precaution. And as I said a moment ago, they do a very
fine, fine, really a superior job. So, whatever you do in life, there are certain risks.
I was talking to Senator Brock and Senator Baker on the way out, along with
[Representatives] John Duncan and Jim Quillen, and I said I probably had
more potential risk when I was driving my automobile than I do at the present
time. So, it is just one of those things that you expect certain risk to be involved.
It is too bad, but that is the way it is.
FEDERAL APPOINTMENTS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, we understand that you may soon be making appoint-
ments to the National Labor Relations Board. One is the General Counsel, and
one member of the Board, and that you also may be faced with a vacancy on the
Supreme Court. We are wondering if you have given any thought to these
appointments, and if you would consider achieving a better ideological balance
by appointing conservatives to these posts?
THE PRESIDENT. I would naturally be sympathetic to any appointment in
positions of responsibility to those who had a political philosophy or a philo-
sophical view that coincided with my own.
I think that is a very natural reaction on the part of a President. But I have
not related that thought in relationship to any of the positions that you have
indicated.
1612
