[499]
August 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States and take home with you many happy memories of your visit to
Chicago and to the United States as a whole.
Let me also congratulate the members of the Chicago Yacht Club on your
centennial celebration. I hope your next 100 years will be as rewarding and as
memorable as this.
There are so many great champions and so many great celebrities in the
yachting world here this evening, and I have been talking to Bill Parks about
all of you who are really experts and great dignitaries in this area.
But I have to admit that one skipper and crew in particular has caught my
eye. I'd like to ask them to stand up and take a bow-the skipper of Star
Number 5607, Ding Schoonmaker and his very talented and capable crew,
Jerry Ford. [Laughter]
Jerry, all I can say is, I've been crew and now I'm a skipper, and believe me,
being a part of the crew is easier. [Laughter]
Everyone I have talked to, both before and during the dinner, is already
aware of the fact that I am not an expert on sailing, but I have done some of this
over in Michigan's wonderful inland lakes and a bit on Lake Michigan over on
the other side of this lake.
I was a crewmember, but never qualified as a skipper. Then when I got into
the Navy, I served all of my sea duty in World War II on an aircraft carrier in
the Pacific, the U.S.S. Monterey. But if you will pardon a little pride and
nostalgia, of course in the South Pacific, the Monterey, according to the crew,
was also a star.
Since then, the only sailing I have done has been an occasional cruise up and
down the Potomac. And so while it is a new world, as far as I am concerned,
what you have told me tonight through Bill Parks and others about star racing,
I like and admire.
For instance, I understand there will be six races in this championship, and
the rules permit each skipper to throw out his worst race. Mayor Daley, I know
a lot of politicians—[laughter]—I know a lot of politicians who would like to
have those same rules in the game. [Laughter]
But the aspect of star racing that I admire most is the emphasis on personal
skill and instinct. What really counts, as all of you know very well, is the
skipper and the crew and how they measure up against every other skipper and
the crew. Equipment and design are not the determining factors. Experience,
know-how, and guts really are the criteria.
Tonight, Mr. Mayor, I am extremely grateful to you and to all of you for
allowing me to share some of the flavor, the stories, and some of the excitement
1208
