[512]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
share of Congressmen and a few Senators. The domination, the monopoly of a
political party in the South has been broken.
The net result is that the people in those 10 or 11 States are getting better gov-
ernment. If I might respectfully suggest, I think it would be good to have that
same kind of competition right here in Rhode Island.
Obviously, I have thrown away the text that my very dedicated and very com-
petent speechwriters have prepared for me. [Laughter] But as I look over this
audience, I'd like to talk straight from the shoulder-what I believe, what I feel
is good for all of you, for Rhode Island, and more importantly, for the country.
We've got a few problems in America and, to be frank and honest and candid,
instead of trying to hide them and gloss them over, I think we ought to be very
frank.
We have trouble in our economy. A year ago we were faced with 12- to 14-
percent inflation, the worst in this country for a good many years. We have to lick
that problem. In the last 12 months we have cut it in half, roughly speaking. That
is not good enough, but we aren't going to lick it if we let the Congress spend
and spend and spend, as they are prone to do.
Let me tell you, I am on the way to a record of vetoes. [Laughter] But I think
they have been good for America, and they haven't been negative. Let me tell
you why they are positive.
In that great Constitution that we have in this country, it says the President
of the United States has the right of veto. That is a constitutionally given
authority to the President of the United States.
Now, the Congress has the opportunity and the responsibility to pass legisla-
tion, but the Constitution also gives to a President the responsibility to veto it if
he thinks, in his judgment—representing all of the people, not a parochial in-
terest, a provincial interest-and I have done it quite a few times.
But you know what the net result is, and this is the proof of the pudding.
Let me just take two examples to prove that the utilization of a veto is a con-
structive, not a negative weapon—and I emphasize it is a constitutionally given
authority.
Early this year I submitted a request, as Buddy and Jim know, for $1,900
million-$450 million for a summer youth program to keep the young people,
principally in our disadvantaged areas, off the streets and to keep them occupied,
plus another $1.5 billion to try and give public service employment during the
critical period that we are facing with unemployment.
The bill went to the House, and they added $2 billion, if I remember, and
then it went to the Senate, and they added another $1 billion. So, it came down
1272
