August 25
[501]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
DÉTENTE
[8.] Q. Back to an international issue, Mr. President, the continuation of
détente with Russia under your Administration has been criticized that Russia
has the advantage in this. How do you look at that?
THE PRESIDENT. I categorically deny that. Détente as it has proceeded is a
two-way street. It can't answer every question that arises in the international
scene, but détente has been very helpful in easing and relaxing tensions between
the Soviet Union and ourselves.
In my judgment, there has been a balanced give-and-take by the Soviet Union
and by ourselves. I can assure you that in the process of negotiating the strategic
arms limitation agreement number two, there will be no unfair advantage
gained by either side.
It has to be a completely fair and equitable reduction in strategic nuclear
capabilities, but it is also important to understand that if we don't get a SALT
II agreement, it means that the arms race continues, that we, the United
States, will have to spend roughly $2 billion to $3 billion more a year to keep
even with the Soviet Union in their planned strategic arms program.
So, it is to the advantage of both sides, the Soviet Union and ourselves, to put
a cap on the nuclear arms race, as Mr. Brezhnev and I did on a temporary basis
at Vladivostok in December of last year.
I can assure you that we will be tough Yankee traders, and I expect them to
do the same. The net result will be a responsible cap on the nuclear arms race.
If we do that, it makes our overall economic picture, our overall budget picture
a great deal sounder and better.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
[9.] Q. On arms limitation, how do you look at it right now? Can we be
optimistic, pessimistic? We have worked on it so long.
THE PRESIDENT. I am optimistic, but I recognize there are some yet contro-
versial issues and some technical matters that will satisfy both sides. We have
to be able to have a high degree of capability of verification as to whether or
not the Soviet Union is living up to the promises made if and when a SALT
II agreement is made.
We have a tremendous technical capability in this regard, through a variety
of means. I am sure they feel the same way.
But if the technical problems of verification, if other matters of balance are
worked out—and I think it is possible-I think we will have a SALT II
agreement.
1221
