November 2
[654]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
A long, long time ago, I was a part of the Navy. I was very proud of that
association for some 47 months. I learned a lot. I hope I contributed a little.
But I know from firsthand experiences the trials and tribulations of serving in
our uniformed services.
The men and women who serve do a superb job. But the wives and the
children of men in service—Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard—
are likewise making a great contribution, because I know of the sacrifices they
make over the years in performing their part of this service. And I thank them
for what I know they do.
Let me say, in conclusion, that the meetings that I am having today and the
ones that I had earlier in the week with President Sadat relate to a better and
more peaceful world. But I can go and have these discussions, these talks from
a position of strength, and all of you are a very vital and important part of that
strength.
So, it makes my job easier, it makes our country more secure to know that
we have people like you serving in our national security forces.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:25 a.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Rear Adm. Norman
Green, USN, commander of the Jacksonville Naval
bases, and Capt. Karl Bernstein, USN, commanding
officer of Jacksonville Naval Air Station.
654
Toasts at a Dinner in Jacksonville Honoring the President and
President Sadat of Egypt. November 2, 1975
Governor Askew, President Sadat:
Let me express how deeply Mrs. Ford and I appreciate the opportunity of
being here in your great State, Governor. And may I say that the warm welcome
that the people of Florida, and particularly this area, have given to President and
Mrs. Sadat is a true reflection of the character and the depth and the feelings of
the people of Florida for one of our most distinguished guests.
I am grateful for your part in making this evening possible, because it is
highly significant that our distinguished guest has come to your State at the
conclusion of a very great trip to our country and to many parts of it.
Last Monday night it was my pleasure to host the distinguished President of
Egypt and to indicate to him on that occasion how strongly the American people
felt that his statesmanship and leadership had produced a tremendous result, a
1777
