November 7
[663]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
History teaches one unavoidable lesson-and I have listened to my dear
friend John McCormack speak like this for a good many years—no nation can
preserve its national interests unless it can defend them. In an era of ballistic
missiles and nuclear warheads, when weapons bridge continents in minutes,
America's defense requires the utmost of our industrial skills and technological
genius. The time when America could spend 1 or 2 years gearing up for war
is gone forever. Today our security, our prosperity, indeed the very survival
of the ideals for which this country stands, depends upon our ability to counter
any potential aggressor on little more than a minute's notice.
In my years of Government service, I have been second to none in my firm
and consistent support for a powerful national defense. As Congressman, Vice
President, and as President, I have resisted the powerful economic and political
pressures to cripple our defense budget. You can be certain I have just begun
to fight. America's Armed Forces today are second to none. And I will take
whatever steps are necessary to see that they remain second to none.
I am worried—and you should be worried-about the defense situation in the
Congress today. Last January I submitted a defense budget calling for $97.8
billion in fiscal year 1976. The House of Representatives cut this by $7.6 billion.
The Senate Appropriations Committee has voted to restore only $564 million
out of this cut. Under the most optimistic circumstances, there could be a reduc-
tion in our defense budget of more than $7 billion.
In my judgment, that big a reduction is far too much. If the United States
is going to remain strong, it will require the cooperation of the Congress. I
deplore what the Congress has done to the defense budget to date, and I urge
that the Senate restore the essential funds that the Defense Department has
deemed vital to our national security. It is not just this year's cuts that worry
me. Let's look at the trend.
Ten years ago, expenditures for defense represented 41 percent of the total
Federal budget. Five years later, it was 36 percent. For the fiscal year 1976 bud-
get, this current fiscal year, defense represents approximately 27 percent. As
defense expenditures go down as a percentage of total Federal expenditures,
domestic spending programs have gone up-a bigger percentage of Federal
outlays.
Defense is the only part of the Federal budget the Congress cuts with a ven-
geance. If this trend continues to the year 2000, according to mathematical
projections, the United States defense will be reduced to one soldier with one
rifle—just like the statue at Concord and at Lexington.
America's security rests not only in our strength and our preparedness but in
1813
