[482]
August 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
the many, many challenges that mankind faces on Earth, the future of us here
will be far, far brighter.
Along these lines, I am pleased about the plans for the Apollo and Soyuz
crewmembers and their families to tour the United States and the Soviet Union
together. You will enjoy meeting the people in both countries who followed your
great scientific undertaking over television and who prayed for your success and
your safe return. Today I am extremely happy and very pleased to present to the
three Apollo astronauts and the project director who headed the vast support
operation here on Earth, a small token of our country's gratitude and respect,
the NASA Distinguished Service Medal.
It is a very high honor for me to award this medal to four gallant men who
have made us all very, very proud to be Americans. So, at this time, it will be
my pleasure to present Tom Stafford, Deke Slayton, Vance Brand, and Dr.
Glynn Lunney with the NASA Distinguished Service Medal.
[At this point, Lt. Comdr. Thomas A. Coates of the White House Communications Agency
read a combined citation, the text of which is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 11, p. 852). Apollo crewmember Vance Brand then responded as
follows:]
MR. BRAND. Mr. President, throughout your years in Congress—your leader-
ship there, your great support of man's exploration of space—your Presidency,
we wanted to have a token present to give to you from man's first international
mission, so the crew chose your Presidential flag. And on behalf of the crew, the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and all the people here, this
is for you, sir. Your flag was flown on the space mission.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much. How many million miles did
it fly, about 3 million miles?
Well, I do want to thank all three of you as well as Glynn and the people that
were associated with the operation. This will mean a great deal to me, to the
White House, to the American people, and I thank you very, very much. We
will appropriately hang it in the Oval Office someplace.
Thank you all very much for your participation in, I think, one of the finest,
best things that has happened not only to the United States but the world.
I congratulate again not only the three astronauts but those associated with
them. It made me very proud, as I know it made 214 million Americans very
proud, of not only them but their scientific backup and what it meant, I
think, in a broader sense to the world as a whole.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:02 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
1142
