August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
have it? It is just that cold and understandable. We will do the best we can,
but if you can lobby the Congress, I will appreciate your help.
COMMUNITY SERVICES
[18.] Q. Mr. President, I am Marshal Loewi, representing United Com-
munity Services of Greater Milwaukee, Milwaukee's combined united fund and
planning council. We would like to know if it would be possible to set up a
direct working relationship between the policymaking Federal agency officials
and the voluntary or private planning and service delivery agencies of major
cities as Milwaukee—the purpose being to make the most of our collective dollar
and leadership resources in responding to human needs.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know why those arrangements can't be established.
Primarily those services would come from HEW, I would believe. There is no
reason, in my judgment, why that arrangement can't be established, and we will
make a note and get our new Secretary of HEW to try to move them.
STUDENT LOAN PROGRAMS
[19.] Q. Mr. President, I am Bertram McNamara, president of the board of
regents of the University of Wisconsin System. College-aged students are find-
ing it increasingly difficult to finance their education. The so-called needs cri-
teria used in Federal aid programs cuts off eligibility at about $9,000 in family
income. Recent Census Bureau studies show that almost 70 percent of all
American families are thus ineligible.
Furthermore, the Department of Labor's modest family budget without
higher education requires about $14,000 annually. This means that the Fed-
eral aid programs discriminate against middle-income families, including both
blue collar and white collar workers. Is your Administration aware of this
problem? If so, what program changes are contemplated?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my recollection—and I stand to be corrected if wrong—
that we recommended in the three or four programs—the loan guarantee pro-
gram, the basic opportunity grant program, and what is the other one-well,
there is another one-a work study program-better than a billion dollars, as I
recollect, has been made available in this current fiscal year for student assistance.
This is higher than it was last year in total. It seems to me that that is a lot
of money to either grant or loan, and if there has to be any correction in the
figure—you quoted $9,000—it is my best recollection that there is a criteria es-
tablished by law and there has to be a change in the law. Is that correct? That
is my understanding. So, if there is a change, we will have to work with the
Congress.
1241
