[552]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are seeking to enforce very vigorously the equal employment opportunity
legislation. I appointed a friend of mine from Michigan, Lowell Perry, who
you may or may not know, as the new Chairman of that very important [Equal
Employment Opportunity] Commission, and they are going to do a good job.
So, through a combination of circumstances, the general improvement plus
specific actions, I believe that blacks as a whole, particularly those in the lower
end of the spectrum economically, will be the beneficiaries.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI AGREEMENT
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a question about the Middle East.
The United States, for the first time, is becoming directly involved there, and
quite deeply, with the prospect of stationing technicians. Don't you owe it to the
American people in these circumstances to make public every American com-
mitment that is being made and every detail of the deal that the United States
has helped bring about between Israel and Egypt?
THE PRESIDENT. We have submitted all of the official documents to the two
committees in the Congress-the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and
the House Committee on International Relations—and Secretary Kissinger has
testified to those two committees and the two Armed Services Committees.
We are working out arrangements to give the documents that I mentioned
plus the content of any other communications between me and the heads of state
of Egypt on the one hand and Israel on the other.
Now, we have committed to give the content of those documents and those
communications, but I do not think—it has never been done in the past—that a
direct communication between a President and another head of state should be
made public. As long as the content is there, the commitment is there. I think
that is adequate assurance to the American people.
I would add, the commitment that we have made at the request of Egypt on
the one hand and Israel on the other—they made them to us—authorizing up to
200 U.S. technicians, nonmilitary, in a U.N. buffer zone—all of the details con-
cerning that part of the agreement will be made public.
Q. The exact words, though, won't be available. The sense of it will be filtered
through selected Congressmen and Senators. Is that not right?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the exact words of our commitment of up to but not
more than 200 American technicians will be made public, no question about
that.
Q. I understand that, but things like the level of aid that is to be given to
Israel and
1378
