December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Number two, I think we have to convince these people who have disassociated
themselves with both Democratic and Republican parties that they can achieve
far more success working within the two parties. I have always found that it
is better to be playing the game rather than sitting on the sidelines, and I think
that is what these people-well-intentioned, dedicated individuals—have to
realize. They can do more constructively for their country if they are working
within the framework of the two-party system.
And there is enough breadth in the political philosophy of both major par-
ties, I think, to permit most Americans to be a participant, either as a Democrat
or a Republican. And I know they can get more done and contribute more
significantly.
THE PRESIDENT'S CABINET
[18.] Q. Mr. President, you mentioned, at the beginning, your team-how
proud you are of it. What if, during this year, some members of your Adminis-
tration become an issue themselves and make it more difficult for you to get
things through Congress? How would you then assess their value to your
Administration?
The President. Bonnie [Bonnie Angelo, Time magazine], I don't anticipate
that. I think all of the Cabinet members have done an excellent job in their
relations with the Congress, considering particularly the fact that the Congress
was controlled by a better than 2-to-1 margin by the opposition party. It is a
thought that never entered my mind.
Q. But you don't see Secretary Kissinger's problems on the Hill as being
substantive?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. I think his formulation of foreign policy as
Secretary of State, his execution on my behalf of foreign policy has been good.
And I do believe that the Congress, as we move in 1976, will appreciate the
constructive efforts. And I don't foresee any problem in that regard or any of
the other Cabinet people.
LEGISLATIVE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR 1976
[19.] Q. Mr. President, you have repeatedly asked us to look at your record
and asked the voter to look at your record. I think on the Hill you generally
earned a reputation as a man who thought that the less government there was
perhaps the better it was. You have a State of the Union coming up in 2 or 3
weeks. Can we expect any new programs in that State of the Union or do you
believe we are at a time in history where a Presidential candidate can run on
2013
