[625]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
625
Remarks Upon Signing a Bill Implementing United States
Participation in the Early Warning System in the Sinai
Peninsula. October 13, 1975
I AM deeply gratified today to sign this important measure which was approved
last week by an overwhelming majority of both Houses of the Congress. My
signature reaffirms the commitment of the United States to work toward a just
and lasting peace for all nations and all peoples in the Middle East.
The Sinai agreement, which American civilians will help support, is a sig-
nificant step toward an overall settlement in the Middle East. But neither the
United States nor Egypt nor Israel see it as an end to itself.
The war in October 1973 brought home to Americans just how dangerous
another Arab-Israeli conflict would be, not only for the people of the area but
for the entire world. It also brought home the pressing need for a just settlement
of the problems which underlie the tension and instability in that part of the
world.
As a result, for 2 years our Government, with the government of the coun-
tries directly involved, has been engaged in vigorous diplomatic efforts to pro-
mote the prospects of peace on the basis of Security Council Resolutions 338
and 242.
With the help and the negotiating skill of Secretary of State Kissinger, we
have made great progress, in good part because of the trust placed in the
United States by both Israel and its Arab neighbors. This confidence must be
maintained if there is to be further progress and if the United States is to retain
the mutually beneficial relationships it has established with Israel and the Arab
States.
We must continue our diplomatic efforts with the parties in order to sustain
the momentum toward peace generated by the Sinai agreement, and the United
States must accept the responsibilities which flow from our stake in peace in the
Middle East and from our bilateral relationships which form the foundation for
success in our diplomatic efforts.
I will soon consult Congress on what is required to sustain these bilateral rela-
tionships, just as the Administration has consulted Congress very fully over the
past month on the latest diplomatic step, including the use of United States
civilians to further the peace process.
We anticipate the same support and understanding by the Congress. The
1684
