December 22
[742]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in this legislation are authorities for a strategic storage system, conversion of oil
and gas fired utility and industrial plants to coal, energy efficiency labeling,
emergency authorities for use in case of another embargo, and the authorities
we need to fulfill our international agreements with other oil-consuming
countries.
Second, the pricing provisions of this legislation, properly implemented, will
permit the gradual phasing out of controls on domestic oil. The bill seeks to lower
retail prices in the short term and runs the risk of creating a false impression that
we can have all the energy we want at cheaper prices. But over time, this legisla-
tion removes controls and should give industry sufficient incentive to explore,
develop, and produce new fields in the Outer Continental Shelf, Alaska, and
potential new reserves in the lower 48 States. I fully intend to use the flexibility
which is granted to me by this legislation to expedite the decontrol of crude oil
in order to increase domestic production. I do not expect the Congress to stand
in the way of such actions.
I know there are some who fear that this legislation could mean that the energy
industry will be subjected indefinitely to governmental controls which would
create further distortions and inefficiencies. As one who believes that minimizing
governmental interference in the marketplace is essential to a strong economy
and more jobs, I share those concerns. Accordingly, I pledge that I will work to
ensure that by the end of 40 months, governmental controls over domestic oil
prices will be fully phased out. We will begin immedaitely, as authorized by the
legislation, to remove all current price and allocation regulations except those
on crude oil prices.
Third, I am also persuaded that this legislation represents the most construc-
tive bill we are likely to work out at this time. If I were to veto this bill, the
debates of the past year would almost surely continue through the election year
and beyond. The temptation to politicize the debate would be powerful, and
the Nation could become further divided. The most responsible action now is to
set the best course we can and stick to it.
On balance, therefore, I find that this legislation is constructive and puts into
place the first elements of a comprehensive national energy policy. It permits
me to remove the $2-per-barrel oil import fee. It provides a foundation upon
which we can build together toward our goal of energy independence.
Now we should move forward to complete the legislative tasks I set before
the Nation last January. Specifically, we still need natural gas legislation to deal
with immediate shortages and to increase our supply of natural gas over the
long run. The only solution is to deregulate the price of new natural gas. The
1993
