[475]
August 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
2. The Prime Minister and the President reaffirmed the basic principles and
common purposes underlying relations between Japan and the United States
as set forth in the Joint Communique of November 20, 1974, on the occasion
of the President's visit to Japan. In so doing, the Prime Minister and the Presi-
dent noted that Japan and the United States, while sharing basic values and
ideals, differ in their national characteristics and the circumstances in which
they are placed; and yet the two nations, acting together, have drawn upon the
strengths inherent in such diversity to build a mature, mutually beneficial and
complementary relationship.
They emphasized the fundamental importance in that relationship of con-
structive and creative cooperation between the two countries toward the shared
goals of world peace and prosperity. Expressing satisfaction with the open and
frank dialogue which has developed between the two Governments, they
pledged to maintain and strengthen this consultation. To this end, the Minister
for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State will review twice a year bilateral
and global matters of common concern.
3. The Prime Minister and the President discussed developments in Asia
following the end of armed conflict in Indochina. The President, recognizing
the importance of Asia for world peace and progress, reaffirmed that the United
States would continue to play an active and positive role in that region and
would continue to uphold its treaty commitments there. The Prime Minister
and the President welcomed the efforts being made by many nations in Asia
to strengthen their political, economic and social bases. They stated that Japan
and the United States were prepared to continue to extend assistance and
cooperation in support of these efforts. They agreed that the security of the
Republic of Korea is essential to the maintenance of peace on the Korean
peninsula, which in turn is necessary for peace and security in East Asia, in-
cluding Japan. They noted the importance of the existing security arrange-
ments for maintaining and preserving that peace. At the same time they strongly
expressed the hope that the dialogue between the South and North would
proceed in order to ease tensions and eventually to achieve peaceful unification.
In connection with the Korean question in the United Nations, the Prime
Minister and the President expressed the hope that all concerned would recog-
nize the importance of maintaining a structure which would preserve the
armistice now in effect.
4. The Prime Minister and the President expressed their conviction that the
Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between Japan and the United
States has greatly contributed to the maintenance of peace and security in the
1114
