August 30
[512]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
fails, if we aren't successful, the potential controversy in that part of the world
could be explosive for the world as a whole. So, we are fortunate to have Henry
Kissinger over there working with those two countries now and, hopefully, on
a broader basis in the years ahead.
We have had some disappointments in foreign policy, and we won't get into
those, because I think we have to look forward. We have to realize that it is
important for America to strengthen our alliance in Europe.
It is important that we continue to work with Japan in the Pacific and to
strengthen our world relations in Latin America and Africa, that we work with
those less developed countries as well as the industrial countries of the world.
We must, as I see it, at least try to ease tensions and to achieve relaxations of
competition between the Soviet Union and the United States. In the months
ahead, we are going to be negotiating with Mr. Brezhnev on SALT II.
About 10 days ago, I made a speech in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to the Ameri-
can Legion, and I said détente means a relaxation, an ability to try and talk with
those with whom we don't agree in order to bring peace and to maintain it in
the world.
We are seeking to put a cap on the arms race, the nuclear arms race. I hope
we will be successful. It means that we will make some compromises and the
Soviet Union will make some compromises. It will be a two-way street. It will be
an agreement, if we achieve it, that is good for us, for them, and for the world
at large.
But let me say very categorically, if we don't achieve a cap on the nuclear arms
race, if the United States is to keep pace, if the United States is going to be second
to none in this area, it will be my obligation as President of the United States
to go to the Congress and ask for substantial increases in military appropriations
to keep our nuclear capability second to none.
That extra $2 or $3 billion a year, without a SALT II agreement, is needed
and necessary. I would prefer—I would prefer a cap. I would prefer that we
could agree that we shouldn't build these extra missiles and add to our military
capability. And that is why we are going to negotiate, because it is in the best
interest not only of ourselves and the Soviet Union but mankind as a whole to
stop this fruitless arms race.
Let me say that despite the problems in the economy and energy, despite the
difficulties we face as we work with our allies and negotiate with our adversaries,
I am an optimist about America. I think the American people believe that we
have a great future just as we have had a great past.
I know there are some in this country that think that the solution to our prob-
1275
