[552]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
spending and the seeming preoccupation with intelligence probes and pay
raises and recesses, what can be done to restore confidence, believability, and
credibility in government?
THE PRESIDENT. There are a number of things that I think can be helpful.
There isn't any one thing that will answer the perplexing problem that you
have posed.
I happen to believe that a President traveling around the country, meeting
people, is one way. The alternative for a President is to sit in seclusion in the
Oval Office. I don't think that adds to the credibility or improves or enhances
the public impression of Washington.
On the other hand, I think the Congress, which is an integral part of our
Government, one of the three major branches, has an opportunity to also project
itself and to improve its credibility by the work that it does, the answers that
it gives, and its efforts to meet firsthand the American people.
There are some substantive matters that have to be solved that would enhance
the credibility of the Government as such. We are making slow progress but,
I think, constructive progress, out of the recession. Employment has gone up
by about 1.5 million in the last 5 months, even though the unemployment
statistic is still too high.
We are making headway in meeting the challenge of inflation. It is half now
what it was a year ago. It is not good enough. We are going to have to do
better. But as we move forward in meeting the challenge of our economy, that
will enhance our Government's credibility with 214 million people.
Also, energy must be solved, and this is probably the most frustrating domestic
problem that I have faced. Having submitted a plan, a comprehensive program
to make the United States invulnerable against foreign oil cartels in January,
I hate to admit it, but the Congress has done nothing affirmative either on
their plan—if they have one-or on my plan, which I submitted.
I think the American people are frustrated in this area, and our credibility
as a government is harmed. I still think we can do something here, but we have
to achieve this improved credibility two ways-by people in Government ap-
pearing to be human and by having the Government do things affirmatively.
Q. Mr. Flach.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[5.] Q. Mr. President, the latest poll shows that Nelson Rockefeller is not
doing too well in the form of popularity. I wonder if you'd give us some
thoughts on the polls and how much faith you have in him and whether
1376
