August 15
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
make us vulnerable to economic and political disruption, we would still have to
utilize our coal reserves. The fact is-we are energy-dependent as a society.
With our Nation's reserves of oil and natural gas being depleted and with the
uncertainty of foreign supplies, we must utilize existing energy sources and
develop new ones.
Our energy dependence on imported oil, at an average cost of $25 billion per
year, prompted my comprehensive energy program in January and makes
intolerable the Congressional delay of the past 6 months and requires tough
action right now. To help reduce dependence on imports and stem the outflow
of American dollars and American jobs, I will veto the 6-month extension of
price controls on domestic oil, which the Congress passed just before recessing.¹
Since last January, this Administration tried very hard and very constructively
to work with the Congress to find a compromise on decontrol. The Congress
twice rejected reasonable Administration compromises. I feel that I went more
than halfway with the Congress on this critical issue.
Approval of this extension would mean only more months of delay without
the critically needed incentives to promote conservation and spur domestic oil
production. An extension would continue price uncertainties for consumers and
producers alike and tend to increase our dependence on foreign oil sources. More
important, it would signal to foreign producers our inability to face up to the
problem.
Your representatives in Congress should keep this in mind as they vote to
sustain my veto in September. This is particularly important at a time when
producing nations are considering increasing the price Americans will have to
pay.
To cushion the impact of sudden decontrol if the Congress sustains my veto—
as it must—I will lift the special import fees on crude oil and petroleum products.
If the Congress fails to sustain my veto and continues counterproductive price
controls, I will have no other choice than to continue import fees. These fees were
imposed in the first place to induce conservation and reduce consumption and
our reliance on foreign oil, which is vital to our national security interests. It is
incomprehensible to me that the Congress would jeopardize our ability to
achieve energy independence at this critical hour.
Unless we decontrol so-called old oil and implement the other elements of my
energy program, an increasing share of our oil supply will be coming from high-
priced and unreliable foreign sources. Hence, gasoline and other petroleum prod-
1 See Items 537 and 538.
1151
