[716]
December 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
In Indochina, the healing effects of time are required. Our policies toward
the new regimes of the peninsula will be determined by their conduct toward
us. We are prepared to reciprocate gestures of good will—particularly the return
of remains of Americans killed or missing in action or information about them.
If they exhibit restraint toward their neighbors and constructive approaches to
international problems, we will look to the future rather than to the past.
The sixth point of our new policy in the Pacific is that peace in Asia requires
a structure of economic cooperation reflecting the aspiration of all the peoples
in the region.
The Asian-Pacific economy has recently achieved more rapid growth than
any other region in the world. Our trade with East Asia now exceeds our
transactions with the European Community. America's jobs, currency, and raw
materials depend upon economic ties with the Pacific Basin. Our trade with the
region is now increasing by more than 30 percent annually, reaching some $46
billion last year. Our economies are increasingly interdependent as cooperation
grows between developed and developing nations.
Our relations with the five ASEAN countries are marked by growing maturity
and by more modest and more realistic expectations on both sides. We no longer
approach them as donor to dependent. These proud people look to us less for
outright aid than for new trading opportunities and more equitable arrange-
ments for the transfer of science and technology.
There is one common theme which was expressed to me by the leaders of
every Asian country that I visited. They all advocate the continuity of steady and
responsible American leadership. They seek self-reliance in their own future and
in their own relations with us.
Our military assistance to allies and friends is a modest responsibility, but its
political significance far surpasses the small cost involved. We serve our highest
national interests by strengthening their self-reliance, their relations with us,
their solidarity with each other, and their regional security.
I emphasized to every leader I met that the United States is a Pacific nation. I
pledged, as President, I will continue America's active concern for Asia and
our presence in the Asian-Pacific region.
Asia is entering a new era. We can contribute to a new structure of stability
founded on a balance among the major powers, strong ties to our allies in the
region, an easing of tension between adversaries, the self-reliance and regional
solidarity of smaller nations, and expanding economic ties and cultural ex-
changes. These components of peace are already evident. Our foreign policy in
recent years and in recent days encourages their growth.
1954
