[530]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Boy Scouts as guides on Mackinaw Island in Northern Michigan to tell the
people who come to Fort Mackinaw about the history of that fortress. I spent a
whole summer there with seven other Eagle Scouts. That was probably the great-
est recognition and probably the greatest thrill that I had among my many
years as a Boy Scout, a Boy Scout leader, and assistant scoutmaster, and I guess
everything else.
Q. Mr. President, don't you feel that the opponents of détente are gathering
more support and eventually will jeopardize the improving relations between
the United States and the Soviet Union?
The President. Let me say with sincerity and strong belief that if the op-
ponents of détente are able to destroy this relationship, there must be a recogni-
tion by them that they are potentially destroying a means of communication,
a means of relaxing tensions between the two super powers.
Détente has not been an answer to every conflict and confrontation between
the United States and the Soviet Union, but détente has given the opportunity
for the relaxing of tensions and the easing of confrontations, and détente has
avoided some very potentially explosive head-to-head confrontations between
the Soviet Union and the United States.
So, if the opponents of détente, those who want to be a cold warrior in
peacetime, destroy this means of communication, this capability of avoiding
confrontation, then they have to assume a serious responsibility.
I would rather use détente for peace than to destroy detente and increase the
possibilities of war. So, I am in favor of détente, because it gives us a tool to
avoid war. And I will strongly not only defend it but use it so that we can
achieve peace, maintain peace, and at the same time avoid a holocaust, whether
it is in the Middle East or elsewhere.
Q. Mr. President, what are you doing-like what is the toughest thing that
you are doing in Washington?
THE PRESIDENT. What is the toughest thing I am doing in Washington? Well,
there are a number of very difficult problems, Brian. One is to get the Congress
to pass an energy program-either my program or one of their own. Unfor-
tunately, they haven't done either. But there are some other very important
matters.
I can assure you that Secretary Kissinger and myself spent literally thousands
of hours working on how to help in the negotiations between Israel and Egypt,
and that was a tough problem. We were very helpful, we were fortunately suc-
cessful in keeping the momentum for peace going. That was a tough problem.
Of course, the decisions that had to be made at the time of the Mayaguez
1332
