[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
gainfully employed by 1,650,000. So, we are making headway in job opportu-
nities, in jobs themselves.
From that, we have to recognize the abnormal unemployment in the area of
the minorities. Through the Comprehensive Employment Training Act, CETA,
we are trying to take the minorities, give them training, and get them from
training into meaningful jobs.
There are, of course, other efforts that are being made in the field of education.
One of the problems is making sure that minorities are adequately educated so
they can handle some of the jobs where there are openings, and we are seeking
to make special efforts in those areas.
I think those are basically the programs that have to be pushed in order to meet
the problem, and it is a serious one in the unemployed among minority youth,
particularly.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, Anne Gillenwater. I represent the Commission on
the Status of Women. First, I wish to express my appreciation for the interest
and concern that has been demonstrated by our First Lady for women's issues.
The President. All of the polls I have seen, she does much better than I.
[Laughter]
Q. My question: Since the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is
inoperable and there has been no concerned attempt to address the serious prob-
lems of women, we want to know what attempts are going to be made by this
Administration to answer our needs in employment, child care, and women's
future role in today's society.
THE PRESIDENT. Are you speaking of EEOC?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. We just appointed a very fine person as the new Chairman,
and I just submitted the name for reappointment of a member-I apologize,
I can't think of her name-Mrs. Walsh.
Under the new Chairman, I think you will see some very strong, affirmative
action by EEOC, as I think it should, not only among minorities but as far as
women are concerned. He is a very fine person. I know him personally. He
comes from an excellent background, and it is my opinion that you will be
very pleased with the new efforts by that organization under his leadership.
COAL MINERS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, Jack Kaiser, representing the UMWA. Excuse me
just a minute, I am a little excited. [Laughter] I am representing the United
1626
