October 29
[647]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
balance the revenues and expenditures of a city which may need to seek
relief under the Bankruptcy Act. The attached legislative proposal will provide
the incentives needed to force such a city to make the hard decisions required
to achieve this important objective. The draft legislation will accomplish this
without improper intrusion into the internal governmental affairs of any State.
We do not wish for any city to have to undergo bankruptcy. However, recent
events remind us we cannot ignore the fact that there must be relief legislation
ready and available in the event insolvency forces resort to relief under the Bank-
ruptcy Act. I can assure you that the Executive Branch would be prepared to
work with the bankruptcy court in a proceeding under the proposed Act.
Administration witnesses will be pleased to consult with and advise the Com-
mittee to which this legislation is assigned. This legislation is urgently needed.
I respectfully urge its early consideration by the Congress.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
647
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
Remarks in Los Angeles at a Republican Party Fundraising
Dinner. October 29, 1975
CHUCK, I can't express deeply enough—and as deeply appreciative that I am—
of those more than generous words. Let me add, if I might, my great gratitude
for the tremendous turnout here tonight that expresses a faith, a conviction, a
dedication to the principles and the things that all of us believe in as Republicans
in effectuating what we seek and desire at the local, the State, and the Federal
level.
But, let me say first I am delighted that Andy Hinshaw and Don Clausen
are here, Ev Younger, of course Paul Haerle, and your incomparable leaders
in the State, Margaret Brock and Bill Banowsky.
I have had the opportunity in several meetings this afternoon and this evening
to meet or renew acquaintanceships with some of the members of the legislature
that I have met and, of course, those local officials that are so essential and
vitally important. And I had the privilege again of renewing acquaintances with
individuals I served with in both the House as well as the Senate. It is just nice
to be here, and I can't express adequately my appreciation for the warm
welcome.
1739
