October 10
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
where the Attorney General and others have taken their oath of office to handle
matters of this sort.
I can think of one recent case where, after a period of some 19 months, they
finally found the individual that they were seeking to find, and apparently, in
this case the problem is very difficult. But I have full faith in the ability of those
who have that responsibility.
LABOR UNIONS
[8.] Q. A followup question, and elaborate on it.
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. Would you like to see something similar to the McClellan committee back
in the fifties look into reports of mob connections specifically with the Team-
sters or other unions?
The President. That, of course, is a responsibility of the Congress itself, the
Senate, in the case as it was back in the fifties. They could do it now if they
wanted to.
If you are referring to allegations that I have heard about or read about con-
cerning the Teamster pension fund and any relation to that and how it has
been handled, the Congress passed last year, I believe I signed into law a
pension reform act.³ And under that legislation, the executive branch of the
Government has the full right to make any investigations.
Under that legislation, those who handle the pension funds have to make
very specific reports on a very short-term or periodic time, and it seems to me
that in that area it is the responsibility of the Department of Labor to investigate
that aspect of this particular case.
Q. Is that being done, sir, or do you know?
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure it is.
MICHIGAN-MICHIGAN STATE FOOTBALL GAME
[9.] Q. What is your prediction on the game in Lansing tomorrow?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they are both my friends, and I like my friends.
[Laughter]
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I notice that former President Nixon is back in
circulation with his old friends. I am wondering, given that, if you have talked
to him, plan to talk to him, one; plan to see him; or if, given his interest, his
3 See 1974 volume, Items 45 and 46.
1661
