[603]
October 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
when the Pacific Ocean, symbol of tranquillity, was
instead a rough and stormy sea, and have built today
unchanging ties of friendship and good will.
I feel immeasurably gratified by this happy de-
velopment and look forward with great anticipation
to the future of our relationship.
Mr. President, you visited Japan last year as the
first incumbent President of the United States to
do so and impressed us deeply by your eagerness
to meet and mingle with our people.
I know that your visit has contributed greatly to
the mutual trust between our two peoples. Although
our stay in your country is for but a brief 2 weeks,
we hope to meet with Americans from every walk
of life and to glimpse a variety of American sights.
We will be happy if we, too, can contribute to
everlasting friendship between our two peoples
through our visit.
May I thank you again, Mr. President, for your
warm hospitality. Permit me, also, to extend to all
the citizens of your great country my best wishes for
continued prosperity.
604
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Stanley S. Scott,
Special Assistant to the President. October 2, 1975
Dear Stan:
I have received your letter of October 2, and it is with sincere gratitude for your
many years of dedicated public service that I accept your resignation from the
White House staff upon a date to be determined. You have served very effec-
tively as Special Assistant to the President and before that as Assistant to the
Director of Communications of the Executive Branch. I know the work has been
demanding, but with your ability, candor and energy, you have made significant
contributions in the important field of minority relations. I am sorry to lose you.
I fully understand your desire to accept a new assignment at the Agency for
International Development. The appointment will provide you with a larger
opportunity to lend your well-deserved reputation and your expertise in govern-
ment to helping alleviate some of the difficult and complex problems facing
Africa. The United States is committed to helping to solve those problems and
your appointment reaffirms that commitment.
In departing the White House you may be sure you take with you my best
wishes as well as my deep appreciation for a job well done. As you join AID I
am confident that you will continue to provide the leadership needed for your
important new responsibilities.
Warmest personal regards,
[The Honorable Stanley S. Scott, The White House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
NOTE: Mr. Scott's letter of resignation read as
follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It was more than four years ago that I was asked
to join the White House staff as Assistant to the
JERRY FORD
Director of Communications, and later as a Special
Assistant to the President.
Mr. President, as I discussed with you earlier, I
would now like to pursue other challenging responsi-
bilities in government, and hereby submit my
resignation effective at a date to be determined.
1584
