[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
level. But on the basis of the latest figures, the darkest days of the recession are
behind us. The American economy is starting a sustained recovery that we all
desire.
We are not out of the woods yet. However, as far as the recession is concerned,
I think a lot of progress has been made. Unemployment is far, far too high
and must be brought down. We must get our factories producing at maximum
capacity again, and while we continue fighting the recession, we must also
fight just as hard against rising inflation.
The July increase in the Consumer Price Index was a clear warning that we
must not relax for one moment in the battle against inflation, and we will not.
Today, you have already heard from some of the key people, some of the real
experts in my Administration on energy, inflation, unemployment, and new
incentives for the working people and employers. I hope we can go further into
these, into other areas in the questions that I think some of you have saved up.
Thank you very much, and the first question.
QUESTIONS
REGULATORY REFORM
[2.]_Q. Mr. President, my name is Ed Watson, representing the Association
of Commerce. Businessmen are having extreme difficulty operating private busi-
ness under a burgeoning Federal bureaucracy with its overabundance of pro-
grams, regulations, laws, and edicts, and the increasing mountains of govern-
mental report forms they require. I would like to ask, Mr. President, what
progress is being made in your announced effort to turn the tide and ease the
bureaucratic burden on business?
THE PRESIDENT. First, when I took office, I took a look at the total Federal
civilian employment. Working with the Director of OMB, we decided that
we could cut back 40,000 on the total number of Federal employees, the planned
number for the next fiscal year.
I am glad to report to you that we ended up the fiscal year June 30 this year
with a reduction of 52,000 less Federal employees than was planned a year
earlier.
A few weeks ago, I was in the process of preparing a speech, and I asked how
many questionnaires, how many forms have to be filled out by the American
people when you put them all together from all agencies.
And I found, to my utter amazement, that there were some 5,200, as I recall.
I couldn't believe it, I have told Jim Lynn-where is Jim; is he here?—
1226
