November 29
[703]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
mined to liberate ourselves from this threat. We cannot afford it now or in the
future.
In our vast Alaskan reserves, we have the means to help accomplish the goal
of energy independence. We have the physical resources, the economic resources,
the ingenuity, and the national will. All of our natural resources— -oil and oil
shale, natural gas, coal, uranium—and all of our technological capability must
be fully utilized if we are to stop depending on unreliable foreign suppliers of
energy for the United States.
The liquid gold which will flow from Alaska's North Slope to the rest of the
country will have a tremendous impact on the Alaskan economy, yes, and that
of our entire Nation. Alaskan oil is closer to making a significant contribution
to our national energy supplies than any other single source of energy.
I was delighted when the pipeline portion of the project for tapping Alaska's
oil reached its halfway mark last October. And I am told it is ahead of schedule,
and we are all deeply grateful.
I wish I could report that all aspects of our energy program were moving as
quickly. But let me add, we are making headway and we are going to achieve
energy sufficiency and energy independence for 214 million Americans.
Today, it will be my good fortune to tour a part of the pipeline, to get a first-
hand look at your accomplishments. And I look forward to seeing the largest
privately financed construction project, as Senator Stevens said, in world history.
We expect that oil to flow through the pipeline by the middle of 1977, about
19 months from now. By the end of 1977, the daily flow will reach 1.2 million
barrels. This is more than one-eighth of all domestic crude oil production ex-
pected at that date. By 1980, the Alaskan North Slope could deliver 2 million
barrels per day. And that would be 20 percent of America's total national crude
production. When your oil production reaches that level, America will save, at
today's prices, at least $25 million each day in payments for foreign oil. Alaskan
oil will reduce the loss of dollars to foreign oil producers by nearly $10 billion
each year by 1980.
There will be a huge economic benefit for the entire United States, and
especially for Alaska. Crude oil produced in Alaska last year was valued at
nearly $350 million. Last year's 70 million barrels of oil from Alaskan wells
was only one-tenth of the production expected from the North Slope in 1980.
Imagine the revenue—I am sure you will appreciate it, Governor—when oil
begins to flow through that pipeline.
The influx of workers to your State has been dramatic. Last September, the
total labor force amounted to some 21,000. The payroll obviously invigorated
1927
