[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
employment or a jobs bill that included $450 million for a summer youth em-
ployment program and the remainder for the public service employment. That
shows my interest in the youth who wanted employment this summer, and it
shows my interest in the people we could hire in the public service area.
Now, what the Congress did was to take my recommendation and add $3
billion in pork-barrel programs that wouldn't have solved the problem of the
people unemployed today. It was pure Congressional politics of a pork-barrel
kind, and that is the reason I vetoed it. And what happened? After I vetoed it, the
Congress recognized they were wrong and they sent back a bill that included my
public service employment, my summer youth program, and added a few hun-
dred million dollars just to satisfy their ego. Now, the truth is we got a good
program through and we didn't get a pork-barrel program shoved down the
American people.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[3.] MR. DUKE. Let me take this to a somewhat different plane, Mr. Presi-
dent. There are critics who suggest that you have not provided the kind of
broad roadmap for the country's future which this Nation with its many prob-
lems desperately needs today.
James Reston, writing in the New York Times yesterday, suggested there
remains a strain of doubt about your leadership. David Broder, in the Wash-
ington Post, suggested that you may in reality be a provisional President.
Does it disturb you that you do not appear to have captured the hearts and
minds of a great many Americans?
THE PRESIDENT. I read both of those articles, and they are very able colum-
nists. I think we will, with the next State of the Union message, have some
areas that will point the direction in the long run for our country.
I instituted this year what we call a "no new program” approach. Why did
we do that? We had to solve our current problems first in order to get our fiscal
situation under control. Once we have achieved that result-and I think we
have made substantial headway-then we can take a look at and make recom-
mendations for the long range that will meet some of the problems that are
raised by Scotty Reston and Dave Broder, and by others.
MR. AGRONSKY. How do you deal with this perception that people have about
the lack of leadership, and not only for you but for the Republican Party?
For example, Senator Brock of Tennessee, of your party, said the Republican
Party must come to stand for something and until it does that the word “Re-
publican" will be associated with Watergate and big business, hard times.
1124
