[508]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
won our letter in football. But frankly, I am always a little apprehensive when
a former football player introduces me.
It all goes back some time ago when I was introduced by a former teammate
at the University of Michigan, where I played a good many years ago. This
friend of mine got up, and he said, “Ladies and gentlemen, it might interest
you to know that I played football with Jerry Ford for 2 years, and it made a
lasting impression on me. I was quarterback. Jerry Ford was the center. And you
might say it gave me a completely different view of the President!” [Laughter]
As a nation, we pause this weekend to pay tribute to our country's working
people. Let us this year give this weekend a very special meaning by considering
not only the working people but the millions of our fellow citizens who are out
of work through no fault of their own.
So today, I will address myself to the working people and to those who are
temporarily unemployed in Maine, elsewhere in New England, and all over
America.
Here in Maine and throughout New England you have a work ethic of
individual enterprise, Yankee ingenuity, skilled craftsmanship, and an inde-
pendent spirit devoted to freedom. Your determination is as enduring as your
legendary rock-ribbed coasts.
But you, like many other Americans, have endured more than your share.
You are among the citizens who suffered the heaviest impact of the recession,
inflation, unemployment, and the energy crisis. I am especially aware of the
special burden of the energy crunch on Maine and your neighboring States in
New England. I am also aware of the frustration of individuals on fixed incomes.
Labor Day is no holiday for those who are out of work. The level of unem-
ployment in the United States is too high today by any standard.
I have heard some references to so-called acceptable rates of unemployment.
I do not recognize the acceptability of any level of unemployment as long as
there are people who want to work and can't find jobs.
We in Washington are determined to help create enough new jobs, on a
sound economic basis to make every day a real Labor Day. And we are going
to do it.
When statistics are published on the loss of jobs, there are some losses which
are not published. I refer to the loss of hope among the high school and col-
lege graduates seeking their first job, the loss of self-esteem among the heads
of households who are laid off, the loss of security and living standards that
people worked for years to achieve, and most important of all, the loss of faith
1248
