[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
have 2 years between now and the next meeting in 1977, and the test will be,
have all 35 countries lived up to the agreement? It offers a hope. The reality
will depend upon the execution.
I happen to believe that world pressure will force all countries, Communist
countries and other countries, to live up to the agreement.
MR. DUKE. But let's just take one example, Mr. President. You talk about a
peaceful change in borders being in the agreement. Now realistically speaking,
do you think that the Russians would give up the Baltic territory, which they took
over at the end of World War II? Do you think they would give up the Eastern
European countries? Do you think that they would negotiate to give back these
countries their independence?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me put it the other way around. If we had not gone to
Helsinki, do you think the Russians would have permitted any of the things you
are talking about? In Helsinki, they at least signed an agreement that says you
can change borders by peaceful means.
MR. DUKE. But does it mean anything, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they have signed something that says you can change
borders by peaceful means. Prior to Helsinki, there was no such agreement.
MR. AGRONSKY. Mr. President, you used a very good phrase at Helsinki. You
said "Peace is not a piece of paper," a very memorable phrase, and it conveys this
idea that we are talking about now. Many of your critics—and let's take it all of
the way from Solzhenitsyn¹ to George Ball, a former Under Secretary of State—
have voiced concern about legitimizing what, for example, George Ball calls the
Soviet stolen empire, and asks, how do you reconcile that with Western ideals?
The point Ball makes, the point Solzhenitsyn makes: that it is our obligation
to follow policy that is more concerned with morality and principle than the
acceptance of these borders would indicate.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Martin, I go back to the peace treaties of Yalta and
Paris and Potsdam and the agreement by the Germans themselves to establish
those borders. Those were peace treaties that established borders for all of Eastern
Europe and all of Western Europe. Those are factual things done in the forties,
the fifties, et cetera.
The Conference on European Security and Cooperation didn't change any
of those, but it did say—and every one of the nations did sign—something that
is different, that there can be peaceful adjustments of borders.
Nobel laureate Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
1132
