[606]
October 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Your Majesties, to stop in Alaska at the beginning of your first foreign travel
as an Emperor and Empress. On that occasion, your stay was much too brief.
Last year, I had the great honor of being the first incumbent American
President to visit Japan. And I am grateful, deeply grateful, and was obviously
most impressed with the wonderful reception that I received from you, as well
as the people of Japan.
The first official visit to the United States by a Japanese Emperor, occurring
as it does during my Administration, is another source of great personal satis-
faction. It was my profound pleasure earlier today to welcome you officially to
the United States on behalf of all of our people.
While the cultural heritages of our two countries are quite different, our
people share a very common aspiration and a similar commitment to democratic
freedoms and institutions.
Your Majesties, we confront together the challenges of an advanced industrial
society and seek a very peaceful world in which all nations prosper and all
people pursue fulfilling lives.
Because Americans and Japanese have patiently nurtured these very funda-
mental bonds, our cultural differences have been a source of mutual enrichment
rather than a barrier to friendship and to understanding.
Through the interaction of our peoples, Japan has very profoundly influenced
America. Japanese cherry trees, as we all know, are well known to Americans
because of their very prominent place in the heart of our National Capital.
These very beautiful cherry blossoms symbolize the profound cultural influence
of Japan on modern America.
Japan's art, its architecture, its pottery, its prints, its gardens, and almost above
all, its graciousness, all have enriched American life and American thought. The
Japanese emphasis on consensus and harmony in human relations also influences
the life as well as the work of the American people.
Because Japan's influence upon America has been very subtle, it is not always
easily recognized. Therefore, Your Majesty's visit provides Americans an oppor-
tunity to pause and acknowledge your country's contributions to our national
culture.
Your Majesties, I can assure you that America places the highest possible value
on our distinctive and mutually beneficial relations with your nation. Americans
are determined to preserve, Americans are determined to strengthen our ties of
friendship and cooperation with Japan.
Ladies and gentlemen, in that spirit, I ask all of you to join me in a toast to
Their Majesties' continued good health and to the perpetuation of the sincere
1586
