September 20
[574]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I value what I learned from both, and I am all for an open marketplace for
ideas and learning experiences. Private institutions both complement on the one
hand, and compete on the other, with public education in America. Millions of
Americans have enjoyed the diversity of benefits this dual system has produced.
I believe that every American who has a desire to learn should be given the
chance to learn. Today, California's independent 4-year colleges and universities
have an outstanding record of providing such great opportunities.
They have enrolled, for example, a higher percentage of black students than
any public sector of higher education in this State. Further, independent 4-year
colleges rank very high in the percentage of Mexican-Americans enrolled, and
they provide more students with more scholarships than any public segment of
California education.
They have proven this point, which we should emphasize: They have proven
by their own example that the road to quality higher education need not be a
narrow one traveled only by a select few.
As Aristotle said centuries ago, "All who have meditated on the art of govern-
ing mankind have been convinced that the fate of political communities
depends on the education of youth.”
But today one segment of America's educational capacity is in serious trouble.
The institutions of private education in the United States are being battered and
buffeted in ways that may ultimately jeopardize their survival.
We should remember and never forget that the term "private education" is
misleading, because these institutions, though privately endowed, serve im-
portant public functions, and at a great savings to the American taxpayer. We
should remember that this is something that is too often forgotten. California,
for example, now counts about 100 independent colleges and universities within
its great borders. It is estimated that these institutions carry 30 percent of the
State's postsecondary education workload. Each year they provide, with almost
no cost to the taxpayer, more than $1 billion in educational research and related
services in California alone.
In return, these institutions and their students received less than 3 percent of
the total State funds spent for higher education in California. It is through the
support of alumni and friends such as Leonard Firestone, Margaret Martin
Brock, Frank Seaver, and so many others who have helped Pepperdine build
this magnificent campus, that independent education survives and grows in
California and throughout the United States. And we thank them all for it.
California's independent schools have amassed $2½ billion in capital assets
and in dollars. Each year they attract an additional $400 million from private
1473
