December 8
[718]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
for a solution and that all aspects for a settlement could be discussed at the inter-
communal talks. Turkey has also indicated that it would encourage the Turkish
Cypriots to engage in meaningful negotiations within the intercommunal frame-
work. There is also a recognition in Ankara that a discussion of their position on
territory is essential once the intercommunal talks have been resumed and that
troop reductions as well as steps to resolve the refugee issue are essential ingredi-
ents to any Cyprus settlement.
Similar meaningful changes have occurred in the Greek and Greek-Cypriot
negotiating positions with respect to such subjects as the organization of the
future central government and the division of responsibilities and delegation of
authority to the future regional administrations.
In sum, we have seen, as have our principal Western allies, a narrowing of
differences on most of the key issues necessary to negotiate a Cyprus solution.
The range of disagreement between the parties now seems to us surmountable.
Under such circumstances, it should have been possible in November to bring
the parties back to the negotiating table. However, once a date had been sched-
uled in New York for the Cyprus debate at the U.N. General Assembly, the
parties felt compelled to await the outcome before sitting down with the U.N.
Secretary General to resume actual negotiations.
Now that the United Nations has completed its consideration of the Cyprus
question and passed a new resolution calling for intercommunal negotiations,
efforts to schedule new talks are underway. We have consulted U.N. Secretary
General Waldheim and the Governments of Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus. Our
common interest is to have renewed negotiations of sufficient depth and duration
to allow full discussion of all key substantive issues. There is every reason to
believe this kind of negotiation will begin in the very near future. To facilitate
this effort, I have asked the Secretary of State to give special emphasis to the
subject of Cyprus negotiations when he meets with the Turkish and Greek
Foreign Ministers during the NATO Ministerial meeting in Brussels in the
second week of December.
We now find ourselves at an important juncture in the search for a Cyprus
settlement. The negotiating framework which has emerged finally should allow
early and orderly discussion of the most serious substantive issues, including
refugees which hold the key to a final settlement. We have succeeded in moving
to this point in large part because, since early October, the United States has been
free to resume an active, evenhanded role among all the parties. The outcome
of the resumed Cyprus negotiations may depend upon our ability to maintain
this role in the months ahead.
1959
