October 29
[647]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We approach a year of decision, as I see it, for all Americans. It is the year
to save the two-party sytem or abandon America to a one-party rule. It is a year
to stop the annual growth of Federal budgets that already have amounted to
more than we spent to win World War II. It is a year Republicans must stress
our differences with Democrats rather than with other Republicans. It is a year
to win elections instead of arguments. It is, above all, the year to build a plat-
form big enough to hold all who care about America and believe in the prin-
ciples of the Republican Party.
Two hundred years ago our forebears set out to build a new kind of a nation
which would govern itself through the political mechanisms of self-correcting
balance. The governmental balance of powers which they envisioned and which
we have perfected over the years is not limited to the constitutional separation
of legislative, judicial, and executive branches of the Federal Government, nor
are the balance scales of justice the property of the judiciary alone. Justice, as
Hamilton and Jefferson for once agreed, is the goal of all government.
Balance is essential among the Congress and the President and the Federal
courts, but so is balance among the States and the cities and the Federal estab-
lishment; so is balance among the conflicting needs and interests of the rich,
the poor, and the majority in the middle; so is balance among all the conflicting
claims of pressure groups and special interests within our complex society—and
it is so complex—and if freedom is to endure, so is balance between our two
great political parties.
And so is balance in our bookkeeping. If you don't believe it, just look what
is happening to New York City. The only thing wrong with New York City—
and I had a few words to say about that today-is that too many things have
gotten out of balance, including far, far too many budgets. The only thing
wrong with this country is that too many things have gotten out of balance,
including too many budgets.
The balance has shifted against business and industry to the degree that both
the freedom and the enterprise are being taxed and regulated right out of the
free enterprise system.
The balance on taxes has shifted to penalize hard-working, law-abiding
Americans, and especially taxpayers in the middle-income groups, and to re-
ward able-bodied adults who want benefits without work.
The balance has shifted against the disadvantaged, the poor, and the pen-
sioners who live on fixed incomes as the Congress fires up inflation by voting
benefits for many, many who don't need them at the expense of those who do.
The balance has shifted against the States, counties, and cities that practice
1741
