[543]
September 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
As you know, I am a firm believer in decontrol, and just let me thank you for
the way you have decontrolled your pocketbooks tonight. [Laughter]
I also wish to thank you for the Capitol Hill Club. I thank you from the bottom
of my heart, and the Capitol Hill Club thanks you from the bottom of its
treasury. [Laughter] But anyhow, your generosity—and I say this with sin-
cerity—has kept the Capitol Hill Club from becoming an over-the-hill club.
Now, there are a lot of people who are participants in making this affair pos-
sible, and the one that I can speak most forthrightly about is the Vice President.
Harold Collier has been working hard, and Chuck Marck has, along with many
others. But the Vice President undertook a responsibility at my request to see
how it might be done to get everything organized and straightened out. And
Nelson, in this case, as in every other that I have asked you to do, you have done
a superb job, and for that I am deeply grateful.
I never like to make a speech in the Capitol Hill Club because the atmosphere
just isn't right. [Laughter] And obviously, the atmosphere isn't right here
tonight to make a speech. Betty and I would both prefer to simply mill around
and shake hands, to get acquainted with those we don't know and to renew ac-
quaintances with those that we have known for so many years, both in Wash-
ington and elsewhere.
We, on occasions like this, like the informality and the opportunity to just be
friends. And so my remarks tonight will be very short; in fact, they are almost
over. [Laughter] Is that short enough?
But the future of the Capitol Hill Club is much brighter tonight because of
your participation. And for those of you who don't know the history—and I
won't recount it except in summary—it began up here where the new library
annex is, the Madison Library, and then it went over to the hotel and finally it
came here.
In the process, some great people participated in making it feasible. Jim
Auchincloss was probably the father of the idea, but after him a great many
other people likewise were strong and helpful.
I got involved a few years ago. And I believe the future existence of this club
is extremely important to our Republican family, and I mean a Republican
family that encompasses everybody in the Republican Party.
So when I, after talking with Harold Collier and Chuck, found that we
needed a real boost from some stalwart people, I asked Nelson to take the leader-
ship. He did. But I thank you for coming, and I thank especially you for giving.
CLUB MEMBER. Westchester County is here tonight.
THE PRESIDENT. I know it's here tonight, but I see a lot of people from Texas,
1362
