[695]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-third news confer-
ence began at 7:30 p.m. in the East Room at the
White House. It was broadcast live on radio and
television.
696
Remarks on Greeting the National Women's Basketball Team
From the People's Republic of China. November 28, 1975
ON THIS very beautiful day, the day before we leave for the People's Republic
of China, it is a special privilege for me to meet the basketball team that is
representing the People's Republic of China.
When Mrs. Ford and I were in the People's Republic of China in 1972, we
visited a good many areas in China, including Liaoning Province, Shenyang,
Anshan, as well as Peking and Canton. Every place we went we saw more
basketball courts than even in the United States.
I predicted then that we would have in the United States some very rugged
competition on the basketball court, both the men as well as women. We saw
young boys and girls at a very early age learning to play basketball with small
balls and lowered backboards.
I am sure that this fine team from the People's Republic will do very well
in competition against our American teams. I understand there is a game tonight
out at the Federal City College. I wish it was possible for me to attend, but I
will look forward to reading the results in the paper tomorrow morning.
The visit of these fine young ladies from the People's Republic is another
step in the normalization of relations between our country and the People's
Republic. I strongly believe that cultural exchanges, educational exchanges,
competition in athletics are all important in trying to expand this normalization
of relations between the two countries.
I am looking forward to the trip beginning tomorrow morning to visit again
the People's Republic of China. It is a trip of great significance. It will be
another step in the effort on the part of the two Governments to expand our
relations and to broaden the normalization.
It is vital from our point of view that this dialog, these discussions continue,
and I am looking forward to the trip, as I know the Secretary of State is. And
Mrs. Ford and Susan and I are most anxious to have the opportunity of visiting
your country.
We welcome you to the United States. We know that you will be warmly
received. I know the contests will be good. I am a little prejudiced as to who I
hope might win.
1916
