[612]
October 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
or Democrat-one of the key ingredients in making our country great is the
existence of a two-party system.
Competition in the political arena is healthy, whether it is in the Congress of
the United States or whether it is in your State legislature. An evenly balanced
legislature or a House of Representatives or a United States Senate is good.
When we compete with views, with programs, with words, we inevitably work
out better answers if there is no overwhelming numerical advantage on one side
of the political aisle or the other.
And I understand you have a great election coming up here very soon in the
State of New Jersey. And it is my understanding out of the 80 members of your
assembly, the Republican Party is, unfortunately, limited to some 14.
They are all quality, they all survived, they are doing their best. But when you
have 14 out of 80, your ability to make significant contributions are very, very
limited, considerably handicapped.
What you need in the State of New Jersey is a competitive political situation
in your assembly. And each and every one of you have, in my judgment, an
opportunity, as well as an obligation, to right that balance so that in your assem-
bly you will have the kind of political competition which is good for this great
State.
So, I urge each and every one of you to maximize your efforts, forget your
interparty differences, work together so that when the election is held this fall,
you can say that you made your individual contribution to having a competitive
situation in your assembly.
You have good candidates. You have good principles. You have a real chal-
lenge. And I just hope for the benefit of your great State you can elect about 27
more good Republicans in your assembly in the State of New Jersey.
As Cliff Case said to me the other day, the great thing about our party here
in New Jersey and, frankly, across the Nation is that we have within our ranks
Republicans of every ideological stripe. We have conservatives. We have mod-
erates. We have liberals. We have all the variations from one shade to another.
I happen to think that this diversity is good, and this is what gives the Repub-
lican Party the vitality that we have had since its formation over 100 years ago.
Let me add a postscript, if I might. Unity is what gives a political party its
victories. And if we are to accomplish what we have to do, whether it is in the
executive branch or the legislative branch, victory gives us the tools with which
to achieve those principles from which we build and for which we stand.
I understand from every source, whether it is in one part of the political
spectrum or the other, there is a growing and necessary unity in the Republican
1596
