[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
a great job. When you have somebody that works on a team with you, why do
you want to change?
MR. DUKE. Mr. President, on behalf of Martin and myself and all of us in
Public Broadcasting, I would like to thank you for the privilege and the op-
portunity to come here and visit with you today.
MR. AGRONSKY. With which I concur. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Martin. Thank you, Paul. It has been very
enjoyable.
NOTE: The interview began at 10:25 a.m. in the
Solarium at the White House. It was taped for
broadcast on the Public Broadcasting Service at 8
p.m. the same day.
480
Remarks at the Swearing In of David Mathews as Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare. August 8, 1975
Thank you very much, Cap. Secretary-designate, Members of Congress, Mr.
Chief Justice, distinguished guests, including, as I understand it, three former
Secretaries of HEW-Wilbur Cohen, John Gardner, and Arthur Flemming—
ladies and gentlemen:
Cap, I am very grateful for your more than generous and very kind introduc-
tion. Now that you are leaving, Cap, I would like to take just a moment to
tell you and to tell all the people here what I really think of you. [Laughter] I
was hoping the day would never come when I had to tell you this. But since you
insisted on leaving, you asked for it.
Cap, you are terrific. Those of us who have known you for a long time know
that in each of the important positions that you have held in the Federal Govern-
ment-Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, Director of OMB, Secre-
tary of HEW-I think you have demonstrated the commitment, the talent, the
tireless hard work, and a very deep sense of patriotism that represents the very
highest order of public service. And we thank you very, very much.
With your retirement from public life, we are losing, as I see it, a leader of
uncommon ability. You have earned the respect, admiration of your colleagues
and your country, and we in Government will miss you, Cap, and this city will
certainly and surely miss your lovely wife, Jane. Betty and I, all the people as-
sembled here, and so many more throughout the country join in wishing you
both a very happy and a very successful return to the private life in your
beautiful State of California.
1138
