[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
an employable age. We have to have a society that gives them an opportunity
for work, and we are going to.
I can't predict with precision what that growth rate ought to be, whether it is
higher or lower than what we have had, but we are going to have a sufficient
growth to provide that job opportunity.
Now secondly, I happen to be sufficiently optimistic that if we manage our
resources adequately, we can provide those job opportunities and still not despoil
our environment, like we have for the last 20 or 50 years.
We have been trying to catch up, to make up for the deficiencies in this area
that were our responsibility for the last two or three decades. We have made
substantial progress.
I think we are reaching a point now where there can be a balance to recover-
ing our environment, preserving it, and saving it in the future and, at the same
time, maintain an economy that has a growth factor to take care of the job
requirements of the young people entering our society.
Russ Train is here. I don't know whether it came from his shop or not, but I
do know a little bit about the Great Lakes. We were in a serious problem 5 years
ago, and through a wide variety of activity forcing municipalities to improve
their pollution controls, forcing industry to take corrective action, I saw some-
thing over the last several days that the Great Lakes have stopped their degenera-
tion and are now affirmatively being cleaned up.
Believe me, that is an important factor in that area where some 10 or 11
States depend on that fresh water for their livelihood.
INTEREST RATES ON SAVINGS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Kemper Freeman, Sr. I am president of
the Bellview Chamber of Commerce, and I am here representing the Puget
Sound Chambers of Commerce. The savings institutions are looked to as a
primary housing source of financing with all the benefits for better living and
the stimulation of the construction industry and our whole economy as out-
growths. The question: Will the Federal Government require private savings
institutions to operate under Federal price ceilings on savings interest rates and
at the same time permit Federal Government agencies to out-compete for savings
dollars by paying higher than the legal limits for interest, and thus causing the
savings to be withdrawn from the home financing?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best evidence that this Administration doesn't
believe in that is the fact that over the last 8 months the in-flow, the net in-flow
in savings and loans has been the biggest in the history of the United States.
1314
