August 1
[459]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Second, the success of détente, of the process of détente, depends on new
behavior patterns that give life to all our solemn declarations. The goals we
are stating today are the yardstick by which our performance will be measured.
The people of all Europe and, I assure you, the people of North America
are thoroughly tired of having their hopes raised and then shattered by empty
words and unfulfilled pledges. We had better say what we mean and mean
what we say, or we will have the anger of our citizens to answer.
While we must not expect miracles, we can and we do expect steady progress
that comes in steps-steps that are related to each other that link our actions
with words in various areas of our relations.
Finally, there must be an acceptance of mutual obligation. Détente, as I have
often said, must be a two-way street. Tensions cannot be eased by one side alone.
Both sides must want détente and work to achieve it. Both sides must benefit
from it.
Mr. Chairman, my colleagues, this extraordinary gathering in Helsinki proves
that all our peoples share a concern for Europe's future and for a better and
more peaceful world. But what else does it prove? How shall we assess the
results?
Our delegations have worked long and hard to produce documents which
restate noble and praiseworthy political principles. They spell out guidelines
for national behavior and international cooperation.
But every signatory should know that if these are to be more than the latest
chapter in a long and sorry volume of unfulfilled declarations, every party must
be dedicated to making them come true.
These documents which we will sign represent another step-how long or
short a step only time will tell-in the process of détente and reconcilation in
Europe. Our peoples will be watching and measuring our progress. They will
ask how these noble sentiments are being translated into actions that bring
about a more secure and just order in the daily lives of each of our nations and
its citizens.
The documents produced here represent compromises, like all international
negotiations, but these principles we have agreed upon are more than the lowest
common denominator of governmental positions.
They affirm the most fundamental human rights: liberty of thought, con-
science, and faith; the exercise of civil and political rights; the rights of
minorities.
They call for a freer flow of information, ideas, and people; greater scope
for the press, cultural and educational exchange, family reunification, the right
1077
