[428]
July 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
able to fly this flight, and I am surprised it came off as well as it did. We are
looking forward to doing more.
THE PRESIDENT. I hope it was not so routine that it was dull.
MR. SLAYTON. It wasn't dull at all. It was beautiful. And we had a lot of work
to do, and I think we enjoyed it a lot.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Deke, one of your colleagues that I talked with told
me that you are aging a bit to be an astronaut. How does it feel for an old-
timer to be in space?
MR. SLAYTON. Well, it feels great, sir. I can't really explain it. I hope we can
show you a few pictures when we have an opportunity, and that might help to
make you appreciate it as much as we did. But I think the only way you are
really going to appreciate it is to get up there. And I hope some day we can
take you up there in the old space shuttle.
THE PRESIDENT. I saw you moving around there a few times. You looked as
agile as those younger fellows that you were helping out.
Let me say that the word that I would like to pass on to Deke is that your
brother and his wife, who had an unfortunate accident just a day or two before
you took off, I understand have come along well, and we certainly wish them all
a very rapid recovery following that accident.
MR. SLAYTON. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I certainly appreciate
your concern.
THE PRESIDENT. Vance, would you mind making a comment or two? You
brought the Apollo in. What was your biggest challenge in the encounter on this
particular mission?
VANCE BRAND. I think probably the last 2 days, where I had the most to do.
The entry itself was probably the biggest challenge, Mr. President, and I thought
it was really interesting. That fireball was really beautiful, and it was really
pretty neat skimming over the Earth at 25,000 miles an hour.
THE PRESIDENT. To all three of you, how will it feel to have an opportunity to
sleep in a regular sack for a change?
GENERAL STAFFORD. Fantastic, Mr. President, fantastic.
Say, the two cosmonauts said they certainly appreciated the call from you
while they were up there, and they were remembering when they were with
you down there at the picnic.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am sure you were as glad as we were that their re-
covery went without any incident, without any problem, and I am sure that they
feel the same way about the successful landing of all of you.
I know you have got a lot of important business to do, so let me just say your
1028
