November 3
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
QUESTIONS
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[2.] Q. Thank you, Mr. President, for your rundown on the personnel
changes. There has been one other personnel change, or a suggested change
today. And I wonder, in your estimation, Mr. President, has the Vice President,
by his action today, sacrificed himself on your political behalf, and have you in
any way urged him to do so?
THE PRESIDENT. The decision by Vice President Rockefeller was a decision
on his own. He made the decision and delivered to me personally the letter
that has now been published.¹
The Vice President has done a superb job and will continue to do so in the
months ahead. But under no circumstances was it a request by me. It was a
decision by him.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. A follow-up question. Would you accept Gov-
ernor Reagan or former Governor Connally as your running mate next year?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a long time, many months, to discuss and to think
about that matter. I will give it my closest attention as to my running mate.
¹Earlier in the day the Vice President had presented a letter to the President at the White House. The
text of the letter, dated November 3, 1975, and released by the Office of the Vice President, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
The time is virtually at hand when you will be firming up your program for the Presidential primaries,
the Republican National Convention and the Presidential Campaign of 1976. Involving, as this must,
difficult calculations, considerations and decisions, it will clearly help you in this task if the range of options
is simplified at the earliest time.
As I have told you and the American people, I have been honored by your nomination of me as Vice
President and by the approval of the Congress. In association with you in the months since that time, I have
come to have the highest regard for your dedication to the Presidency and for your courage, resolution and
forthrightness. Your friendship and that of Mrs. Ford mean much to Mrs. Rockefeller and myself.
My acceptance of the Vice Presidency, as you know, was based upon my concern to help restore national
unity and confidence after the shattering experience of Watergate. Working under your leadership toward
this goal has been challenging and rewarding as our basic institutions are surmounting the unprecedented
crisis and the nation is returning to its regular elective presidential pattern next year.
Regarding next year and my own situation, I have made clear to you and to the public that I was not a
candidate for the Vice Presidency, that no one realistically can be such, and that the choice of a Vice
Presidential running mate is, and must be, up to the Presidential candidate to recommend to a national
party convention.
After much thought, I have decided further that I do not wish my name to enter into your consideration
for the upcoming Republican Vice Presidential nominee. I wish you to know this now for your own planning.
I shall, of course, continue to serve as Vice President to discharge my Constitutional obligations and to assist
in every way I can in carrying on to cope with the problems that confront the nation until the installation
once again of a President and Vice President duly elected by the people of this great Republic.
Sincerely yours,
NELSON A. ROCKEFELLER
1793
