September 13
[560]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I am proud of our free economic system which corrects its own errors, con-
trolled by the marketplace of free and enlightened consumers.
I am especially proud of the role of free education in preserving individuality.
Education is vital to my vision of our third century. Only education can equip
individuals to take responsibility for their own lives in the face of pressures of
mass systems of society. Education must provide the perception upon which
rests the quality of individuality.
I challenge educators and students to regain the excitement that made America
great. Each generation brings a new spirit of competition, new reservoirs of
enthusiasm, new responses to the humanitarian needs of others, and regenerated
pride in personal independence.
This generation bears a very special task-the preservation of individualism.
You are the bulwark of individualism. So is your family. So is your local com-
munity and, especially, schools like Southern Methodist University, which join
the public educational institutions in cross-germination of ideas.
My own background included two experiences in higher education: one, the
University of Michigan, the other Yale University; one public, the other private.
I value both. I buy an open market for ideas.
Education is the key to diversity which will determine the kind of people
we will be. It must not become a mass product. All the armies, weapons systems
of our defense will mean absolutely nothing without self-reliant individuals
who retain the cherished qualities of Americanism. That is one great purpose
of education.
Educated men and women not only provide answers to problems but keep
open the options in a society that make life worth living. Our real first line of
defense is the quality of individual life-in moral and spiritual values, com-
passion, courage, love of community and country, creativity, innovation, enter-
prise, originality, and healthy sportsmanship, and fair, but tough, competition.
None of these attributes of individuality can be mass produced. They must be
encouraged. They will grow within each man and woman.
But that growth can be nourished. On the portico of Angell Hall on my old
campus at Ann Arbor, there is an inscription from an act of Congress, adopted
in 1787-the Northwest Ordinance Act-which states: "Religion, morality,
[and] knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of
mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged."
The American tradition can inspire the highest virtues. But the government
cannot achieve personal fulfillment for each of you. Your future depends upon
your own determination to develop your highest potential.
1425
