October 9
[620]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't necessarily say on my candidacy. I hope on my
election.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, a two-part question: Is there any delay in the formal
announcement of our negotiations with the Soviets on the wheat sale, and as
a companion question, are we also negotiating with the Russians on the sale
of their oil at a favorable price to us?
THE PRESIDENT. We have coming out tomorrow, I think at 3:00 or 3:30, an
announcement as to the status of our wheat, corn, soybean crop reports. When
we put on the temporary suspension of the sale of these commodities overseas
to the Soviet Union and to others, we said we would await that crop report. As
soon as we get that report, I presume there will be some announcements as to
further sales to one or more countries.³
Now, we are negotiating right at the present time with the Soviet Union for
a 5-year sale of grain of an annual amount which is very substantial, with an
option, perhaps, for them to buy more. It will be a very good agreement if some
of the final details are worked out.
At the same time, there are some negotiations going on involving the pur-
chase by the United States of Soviet oil. Whether or not the two will be tied
together is not firmly decided yet. We are more likely to have one announced
and then continue negotiations on the other. But on the other hand, it is possible
that we will be successful in both.
Q. Mr. President, will the price, do you hope, be lower than the established
price by OPEC?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as far as grain is concerned, of course the Soviet Union
will buy our grain in our open American markets at the market prices. You
don't buy in an open market in the Soviet Union; you pay what the Govern-
ment decides. Now we hope that in the negotiations we can negotiate a favorable
price, but we have not concluded those negotiations at the present time.
MARIJUANA
[8.] Q. Mr. President, in Knoxville earlier this week you were asked by
an interviewer for your thoughts on your son's use—or saying that he smoked
marijuana, and you said that you admired his candor, but you sort of stopped
there. I was just wondering, Mr. President, could you tell us what are your
thoughts about young people using marijuana?
3 See Item 622[1].
1651
