October 9
[620]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
program say that since your $28 billion in tax cuts would start on January 1,
about 9 months before the spending cuts, that what you really have is a highly
inflationary fiscal policy for the first part of next year. What is your response
to that, sir?
The President. I don't want any misunderstanding on that. Our tax cut
proposal tied in with a spending limitation was not aimed at affecting the econ-
omy in any significant way whatsoever. On the other hand, if the Congress is
critical and wants to put a spending limitation on the last 6 months of fiscal
1976, I will be glad to cooperate with them. I think that might be very whole-
some in that the present spending limitation that the Congress has imposed for
fiscal '76 is too high. So, if they want to cooperate for the last 6 months of fiscal
1976, I will be right there helping them.
Q. Mr. President, to follow that, would you say why you went as high as
$28 billion at a time when your economic advisers suggested that economic
recovery was not only on schedule but ahead of schedule?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I indicated a moment ago, the proposal for a tax
cut and a spending cut was not aimed at necessarily affecting the economy. It
was aimed primarily at getting a meaningful tax reduction on a permanent
basis to get us straightened out in where the burden of Federal taxes should
fall on individuals, giving a bigger tax break between the incomes of $8,000 to
$25,000.
In addition, the proposal was aimed at getting a handle on this tremendous
growth in Federal spending. As I indicated the other night, if we don't pass one
new law, if we don't make any change whatsoever in eligibility or rates, the
increase in Federal spending in the next 12 months, from July 1, will be $50
billion—an increase in spending of $50 billion. We picked the figure of $28 bil-
lion as a reduction in that $50 billion in order to get some of these escalation
programs under control.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[4.] Q. Mr. President, on another subject, the Vice President says that high-
level Administration critics of your $100 billion energy plan should either sup-
port the plan or resign. Do you agree?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't seen any public statements by any of my advisers
that they are not in accord with the recommendation that I am submitting
officially to the Congress tomorrow.
We have some differences in an administration where I have a number of
very able, articulate individuals. They don't always agree on every subject. But
1647
