October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
should New York City default on its obligations, and do you plan to bail them
out with Federal taxpayers' dollars?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have been told by a number of economic experts
that if by chance New York City should default and can't borrow the money
to meet its current operating expenses, that the impact of such action or of such
occurrence happening could be containable, as these experts tell me. That is the
phraseology they use.
I have heard enough of them say that that I believe that it is accurate. The
more serious problem is if New York City can't meet its obligations, can't
borrow the money or have it from other sources, now that we have the problem
of New York State having seome difficulties. But I can't believe that a State with
all the wealth that New York State has can't meet that problem.
The problem of New York City is a serious one. I have great sympathy for
the people of New York City. I do believe there is a solution, but it has to come
from the local and responsible State authorities or the local city authorities.
There is no legislation at the Federal level that would permit the executive
branch to move in and do anything under these circumstances. The Federal
Reserve Board has certain authority that can help in the financial community,
but neither it nor the Federal Government per se has any authority to bail out
New York City.
Most people don't recognize that in either this fiscal year or last fiscal year
the Federal Government made available in various programs to the city of New
York about $3,500 million, roughly 25 percent of their revenue.
So, the Federal Government has not been negligent in trying to help the city
of New York over the last several years. They are in a lot of trouble, and it has
not happened overnight. And so far, there has not been any viable program
presented that I have seen that will get them out of their difficulty, but we will
have to wait and see.
I hope they can make it, but the Federal Government, or the executive branch
of the Federal Government, has no authority to do anything.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
The President. Out in Omaha a week or 10 days ago, I asked an audience
like this, when the question was asked, how many in the audience would rec-
ommend that the Federal Government move in and rescue New York City.
I asked this very solemnly, and I asked it very seriously.
How many in this room would recommend that the Federal Government
go in and take care of the financial situation the city of New York has. It is a
serious matter, but it would have a very serious impact on our structure.
1637
