[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
this theme that the less government, the better government; we are not going
to offer new programs, we are going to offer less programs?
THE PRESIDENT. Aldo [Aldo B. Beckman, Chicago Tribune], I think it de-
pends on how you define new programs. If you think I am going to send up a
laundry list of liberal, expensive programs that will cost the taxpayers more and
expand the Federal Government, the answer is categorically no. On the other
hand, if you define a new program as a restructuring of an area within the gov-
ernment, the consolidation, for example, of services rendered by the Federal
Government in a more efficient, more effective way, the probability is yes. And
let me give you an illustration.
In 1974 on the recommendation of the then administration, the Congress
passed the Community Development Act of 1974, which took, as I recollect,
seven categorical grant programs to communities throughout the United States.
And those seven programs were combined in one block grant program for
municipalities all over the country. That was a new program in concept, and
it has worked well. It has gotten greater participation among citizens in these
communities, it has given more flexibility to the cities to meet their problems,
and I think it, on a cost-plus basis, has been a good investment, far better than
the other program.
I think that is a new program, and there is a distinct possibility that in the
State of the Union we will recommend certain consolidations in areas where
there have been so many categorical programs, so much overlap, so much in-
efficiency, so much unhappiness by mayors and Governors with the problems
that they have with this multiplicity of programs.
If we can consolidate in three or four areas-and I think we can-I think
the taxpayer will get a better return and the beneficiaries will get better service.
PRESS SECRETARY NESSEN. Mr. President, you have another meeting scheduled
fairly soon.
THE PRESIDENT. Can I be the good guy? [Laughter]
MR. NESSEN. And let it go on longer? You always do that.
Q. Mr. President, can I follow that up with one question? Several weeks ago
at one of Budge's [Godfrey Sperling, Jr., Christian Science Monitor] break-
fasts, Mel Laird said that he thought that one thing you had to talk about was
national health insurance. That very afternoon Vice President Rockefeller pre-
sented his report to you from his various town meetings around the country, and
there is a paragraph in there that said national health insurance-I believe it said
“mandatory”—it was a very strong word—recommending it. Might you include
some discussion of national health insurance in your State of the Union Address?
2014
