October 29
[645]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
They are all variations of one basic theme: that the Federal Government should
or would guarantee the availability of funds to New York City.
I can tell you, and tell you now, that I am prepared to veto any bill that has as
its purpose a Federal bailout of New York City to prevent a default.
I am fundamentally opposed to this so-called solution, and I will tell you why.
Basically, it is a mirage. By giving a Federal guarantee, we would be reducing
rather than increasing the prospect that the city's budget will ever be balanced.
New York City's officials have proved in the past that they will not face up to
the city's massive network of pressure groups as long as any other alternative is
available. If they can scare the whole country into providing that alternative
now, why shouldn't they be confident they can scare us again into providing it
3 years from now? In short, it encourages the continuation of "politics as usual”
in New York, which is precisely not the way to solve the problem.
Such a step would be a terrible precedent for the rest of the Nation. It would
promise immediate rewards and eventual rescue to every other city that follows
the tragic example of our largest city. What restraint would be left on the spend-
ing of other local and State governments once it becomes clear that there is a
Federal rescue squad that will always arrive in the nick of time?
Finally, we must all recognize who the primary beneficiaries of a Federal
guarantee program would be. The beneficiaries would not be those who live and
work in New York City, because the really essential public services must and
will continue. The primary beneficiaries would be the New York officials who
would escape responsibility for their past follies and be further excused from
making the hard decisions required now to restore the city's fiscal integrity.
The secondary beneficiaries would be the large investors and financial institu-
tions who purchased these securities, anticipating a high rate of tax-free return.
Does this mean there is no solution? Not at all. There is a fair and sensible way
to resolve this issue, and this is the way to do it.
If the city is unable to act to provide a means of meeting its obligations, a new
law is required to assure an orderly and fair means of handling the situation.
As you know, the Constitution empowers the Congress to enact uniform bank-
ruptcy laws. Therefore, I will submit to the Congress special legislation provid-
ing the Federal courts with sufficient authority to preside over an orderly reor-
ganization of New York City's financial affairs—should that become necessary.
How would this work? The city, with State approval, would file a petition
with the Federal District Court in New York under a proposed new Chapter
XVI of the Bankruptcy Act. The petition would state that New York City is
1733
