[509]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
That is exactly what we in the Republican Party are prepared to offer the
American people. Perhaps more than at any time in our Nation's history, our
party's principles and its objectives match the hopes and the aspirations of the
American people. Our Republican commitment to fiscal responsibility in govern-
ment, to a vigorous free enterprise system, to a strong national defense, one
second to none, to local control over local matters, and to personal freedom for
the individual-these are commitments shared by the vast majority of the
American people and, I am sure, downeasters.
Let's open, as I see it, the party's door to all Americans who happen to believe
as we do the principles that I just set forth, rather than opening that door just a
crack for a very limited few. Let's work together for a common victory rather
than working against each other for a sure defeat.
The victory we seek as Republicans is not just a Republican victory. It is one
we can share easily and properly with all the people of Maine and with all
Americans. It can be a victory of action over apathy, decisiveness over delay,
confidence over confusion. It can be a victory of responsive, responsible govern-
ment that sees to people's needs but does not order people's lives.
This is the kind of victory that we can work for, we are working for, the kind
of a victory that will make the next 4 years the best 4 years for peace, tranquillity,
domestic progress, and a renewal of the hopes and the aspirations of all that came
before us and for the betterment of all that follow.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:17 p.m. in the Con-
vention Hall at the Holiday Inn. In his remarks,
he referred to Jack Linnell, Maine State Republican
510
chairman, Hattie M. Bickmore, Maine State Repub-
lican vice chairwoman, and former Representatives
from Maine Robert Hale and Stanley R. Tupper.
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Warwick,
Rhode Island.
August 30, 1975
I SPENT years here when I was a few years younger. So, I know New Eng-
land very well. I know a good many people up here. I love the country, and
I think I am a good candidate.
REPORTER. They say your oil policy doesn't make you a friend of New
England.
THE PRESIDENT. We have to integrate New England's oil policy with the
overall policy of the United States. It is more important to New England that
we have a good energy policy than it is any other part of the United States.
1258
