August 4
[469]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I have valued our discussions coming, as they do, immediately after the Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, in which both you and I par-
ticipated, representing our two countries.
I am pleased, Mr. President, that you and I are agreed on the need for all
participating states to implement its documents fully and in good faith. If we
do so, we will contribute to greater stability, increasing contacts between our
peoples, greater cooperation throughout Europe. We will contribute, of course,
to the important goal we both share—a world in which all peoples enjoy peace,
prosperity, and security.
I am pleased that our views have been close on many, many of the matters
facing our two peoples and all of mankind. It is essential that we now work to
broaden our spirit of understanding and agreement, to achieve a better realiza-
tion within the international community of the interdependence of human
societies and their problems. The need for cooperation in seeking solutions to
the universal problems is very critical.
Mr. President, your country, with its own courageous determination to main-
tain its independence, can fully appreciate the importance to the American
people of our celebration of our 200 years of freedom. It is a time for Americans
to reflect upon the basic values that brought success to the Original Thirteen
Colonies' struggle for self-government.
We are proud of the significant contribution through the years of Yugoslav-
Americans to our national growth and development. They constitute a bridge of
understanding, good will and kinship between Yugoslavia and the United
States-and let us expand that bridge.
As I close, I raise my glass in deepest appreciation to you in a toast to you, Mr.
President, and to Yugoslav-American friendship.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 3 p.m.
at the Federal Executive Council Building in re-
sponse to a toast by President Tito.
President Tito spoke in Serbo-Croatian. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
May I again express once again my great satisfac-
tion for having you in our country. Your visit is one
more important contribution to our traditionally
good relations, and I am convinced that the further
cooperation between our two countries will be pro-
moted in all fields.
Although your stay was short, you could, Mr.
President, see for yourself that the peoples of
Yugoslavia lavish friendship toward the American
people, and they wish the existing ties to be con-
solidated and sanctioned.
Yesterday and today we had very interesting
talks which showed that your country, as well as
ours, are very interested to peace in the world and
progress in international cooperation. On many
questions we have the same views, and we are
equally ready to contribute to the solution of major
international problems.
I think we are on the good road because even on
the question on which our positions are different
there has been new consideration being expressed
and recognized for further dialog. We know that
the United States has a great responsibility for
peace in the world and the development of inter-
national cooperation and that on your involvement
depends, in a large measure, the solution of many
questions.
We appreciate the effort you are engaging in this
direction. Applying consistently the principles of
1105
