[560]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let us apply the theories of education in the laboratory of life. I urge students
and graduates and faculties to direct their genius, their energy to the solution
of the problems facing America. I challenge you to help make not only America
but American life beautiful, inspiring. You can do it.
Let us take a new look at ourselves as Americans. By seeking a real partner-
ship between the university and the rest of society, you can give greater mean-
ing to your own life and help all Americans enhance the quality of their lives.
I look at Southern Methodist University and other privately supported insti-
tutions of higher learning-both in harmony and in competition with public
institutions—to help regenerate the values that make American life so very
special.
Students who prefer different philosophies of learning should be able to choose
among the widest possible variety of options. This ensures that diversity so
essential to educate the whole person—the physical person, the intellectual per-
son, and the spiritual person.
In private education there is a direct citizen participation in the educational
process. SMU is not dependent on government funding that establishes a rigid
requirement or rigid guidelines. To maintain its very unique qualities, Southern
Methodist University takes responsibility for its own support. And I commend
its supporters, and you should all be most thankful for them.
I am concerned about the very heavy burden falling upon the working,
middle-class citizens who are struggling to pay tuitions and costs at both public
and private colleges. I am also concerned that private higher education is now
in financial difficulty.
Private institutions provide a leavening and stimulating influence for the
public universities and the public colleges. Their continuing strength and
vitality are essential to higher education. We must help to keep this competition
going between the private as well as the public colleges and universities. Educa-
tors must innovate and respond to the world in which students of all ages and
all backgrounds find themselves.
Private institutions can best serve by emphasizing their uniqueness, not by
succumbing to any temptation to imitate the public university. But neither
students nor government will support a private college just because of its antiq-
uity or its history.
They must offer something truly different, truly important. Private educa-
tion, free of government constraints, enjoys boundless freedom to experiment
in vital areas that may fall outside general public support.
1426
