[488]
August 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
and up to Interior and up to OMB to work out the details. We can't be oblivious
to the impact on the local community. And the Federal Government has at
least a leadership responsibility in this area.
Q. Mr. President, in responding to the first question, that of Councilwoman
Klug, and in saying that you thought the Federal Government should take
leadership in dealing with the impact problems and the energy impact on
communities, I think you dealt not only with the question I was prepared to
ask but the questions of several others of us. Thank you, very much, Mr.
President.
COAL
[11.] Q. Mr. President, in your January energy message, you spoke of the
need for opening 250 major new mines, coal mines, in the decade between that
time and 1985. The area mining supervisors of the U.S. Geological Survey
Offices in Billings, Denver, Santa Fe, and Salt Lake have on file at this time
over 40 mining plans involving annual production exceeding 180 million tons
a year.
Federal coal is involved in all of these cases. None of these mines are proceed-
ing at this time, due to Federal laws or the lack thereof, Federal agency regula-
tions or the lack thereof, or court interpretations of both those regulations and
statutes. What is the Federal Government going to do or what is it doing to get
these mines in operation?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you the specifics. We will have Frank Zarb on the
program later, and Frank is the head of the FEA. And if he doesn't know the
answer right now, he will have it when he appears. [Laughter]
But if I could add, we are now producing about 600 million tons of coal in the
United States on an annual basis. Our 10-year goal by 1985 is to go from 600
million tons per year to 1,200 million tons per year.
This will still not deplete us in coal availability for 200, 250, maybe 300 years.
So, as we try to more efficiently use coal and more environmentally use coal and
as we try to make our country less vulnerable to foreign oil sources, we have got
to get either Congressional, administrative, or court action on some of those
problems you are talking about.
WILDLIFE PRESERVATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, generations of Americans have enjoyed and valued
very highly a priceless wildlife heritage. In the future conflicts and trade-offs
between energy development and conservation ethics, what priorities do you
1160
