[491]
August 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Republicans have always believed that personal initiative and private enter-
prise—not a meddling, musclebound Government, a Federal Government—are
what made this Nation great.
Today, more and more Americans, as I see people from the 50 States, are
reaffirming that view. They want personal initiative and private enterprise to
be rewarded. Hard work and diligence are the foundation in many respects
in any endeavor that we undertake. Frankly, that is one reason why I am trying
to free American business from the shackles of government overregulation,
why we, on a daily basis, in the White House are seeking to free the individual
citizen from the pressures of a faceless bureaucracy, insensitive to personal dif-
ferences and personal desires. I think Republicans have always believed that
local control over local problems is better than turning to Washington for every
single solitary solution.
Today, after nearly 40 years of seeing reruns of “Washington Knows Best,"
in the halls of the Congress and elsewhere, the American people are ready for
a fresh start. And we are going to give it to them.
That is why I have proposed what we call a new agenda for America's fu-
ture. And I ask the American people through what we hope to do in a series of
community meetings around the country, I ask the American people to help
me write that new agenda.
There is a message I think we have to get across to our fellow citizens, a
message that says loud, that says clearly, “Republican government is common-
sense government; it is the most effective government." A message that says,
"Republicans stand for and work for the very same things that the majority of
Americans believe in.” And finally, a message that says, "We can win the elec-
tions of 1976 from the courthouse right here in Des Moines to the White House
in Washington. Let's do it!"
If we broaden our party, bringing in to join us those who have a philosophical
agreement with us-and I think we must-opening our door wide to all Amer-
icans rather than opening it just a crack for a few, if we work together for a
common victory, as we must, rather than working against each other for sure
defeat, I am convinced that 1976 can be a great election year for all of us.
Together, you know, there is so much that we can do for our party, for the
American people, but primarily for our country. Let's get to work. Let's get it
done. Let's make sure 1976 is a banner year. And let's make sure, let's make
certain that that banner says, "Republican."
Thank you very much.
1170
