[465]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
The two Presidents welcomed progress achieved in technical and scientific
cooperation and expressed themselves in favor of exploring possibilities for
mutually beneficial cooperation through the conclusion of collaborative agree-
ments on energy, including nuclear energy, environmental protection, public
health, and in other fields.
Both sides noted the conclusion, in December 1974, of the first long-term
governmental agreement on cooperation and exchanges in the fields of culture,
education, science and technology and will continue to give it full support. The
two sides stressed the importance of this agreement for better mutual under-
standing of spiritual and material values, for expansion of links in these fields
between their respective institutions, organizations and associations, and for
contacts between citizens of both countries. In this context, the two Presidents
welcomed exchanges and contacts between youth groups.
Regarding the coming anniversaries of major events in the histories of both
nations-the Bicentennial of the United States and the Centennial of Romanian
State independence—the two Presidents agreed that these events will provide
occasions for further expanding mutual understanding.
The two Presidents noted that, in the spirit of the 1973 Declaration, a num-
ber of humanitarian problems have been solved. They agreed to continue to
take action in this field.
President Ford expressed his concern over the recent disastrous floods which
had affected Romania. He voiced admiration for the valiant efforts of the
Romanian people to overcome the effects of this natural calamity. President
Ceausescu thanked President Ford for his concern and the aid extended by
the United States.
The two Presidents agreed that the successful conclusion of the work of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe represents an important
step toward the achievement of greater security and cooperation on the con-
tinent. In order to achieve broader understanding among all the peoples of
Europe, they stressed the need for abiding by and implementing all the pro-
visions of the final act adopted at Helsinki. The two Presidents expressed their
determination to strive for effective disarmament measures which strengthen
the peace and security of all peoples in Europe.
The two Presidents emphasized their support for a just and equitable inter-
national order in which the right of each country, regardless of size or political,
economic or social system, to choose its own destiny free from the use or threat
of force will be respected. In such an international order, each country may
1098
