[582]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
department, the Congress approved a procedure for arbitration in case the
Government and the employees couldn't get together. That does in effect pro-
vide, number one, for a procedure for a final determination, and it also includes
a provision that prohibits a strike by postal service employees. I voted for that
legislation.
GUN CONTROL
[2.] Q. Mr. Ford, on another topic, there are reports that a man was arrested
and booked today here in San Francisco on suspicion of threatening you.ยน And
also, following your own close brush with death in Sacramento a couple of
weeks ago, I wonder if this has convinced you at all that we need tough gun
control legislation in this country, or are public officials going to have to travel
across the country with a bulletproof vest and a prayer?
THE PRESIDENT. I did recommend to the Congress early this year a rather
comprehensive approach to crime control, a new proposal that would make it
much more difficult for individuals to get what we call Saturday night specials,
which are the cheap handguns that are used extensively for illegal purposes.
In addition, I proposed to the Congress that we have much more severe pen-
alties for a person using a gun in the commission of some other crime and for
mandatory sentences in order to get people who use guns in the process of
committing a crime or alleged crime.
It seems to me that that approach is far, far better than the approach of some
people who recommend that gunowners should be registered and that hand-
guns and long guns ought to be registered.
I prefer to go after the person who uses the gun for an illegal or criminal
purpose. That, to me, is a far better approach than the one where you require
registration of the individual or the gun.
ISRAEL
[3.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday Secretary of Defense Schlesinger said that
any new weapons that we introduce into the Middle East or Israel should not,
to use his words, overawe Israel's neighbors. In the interim agreement we have
signed with Israel, we are promising new weapons, and there is the prospect
of the Pershing missile, which has the range that could touch just about all of
Israel's neighbors. Now, aren't we creating the prospects of the seeds for a mon-
strous new arms race in the Middle East?
1 That morning, following his delivery of a note containing a threat to the President's life to the cashier
of the St. Francis Hotel, Benedict Silicio was arrested at 10:40 a.m. in Union Square Park by Secret Service
agents and local police.
1510
