August 18
[490]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It is a policy not of Government handouts, but of Government hands off.
However—and this is equally important—let me assure you that your Govern-
ment will be involved when your interests are at stake.
For example, charges have been made by some foreign buyers that Amer-
ican grain shipments on occasion have been of lesser quality than specified by
shippers and weights have been under what they should be. Unfortunately,
some of these charges are true, but our farmers are not at fault. And just as
importantly, I will not permit our farmers' integrity to be jeopardized.
I can assure all farmers and their overseas customers that we will move
vigorously to clean up the problem. We will demonstrate to the world the
validity of America's reputation as an honest and dependable supplier of high-
quality farm products. That's the kind you raise in Iowa. That's the kind we
will ship from our ports.
In recent weeks, a great deal of interest has been aroused by Soviet purchases
of American grain. So far—and I emphasize “so far"-these purchases total
9.8 million tons. That's about 382 million bushels.
As you all know, the Agriculture Department's August crop forecast, which
was announced last week, calls for record crops of corn and wheat and above-
average crops of other grains. Estimates of corn and wheat harvest were down
slightly from the July 1 forecast because of dry weather. But we still expect a
record crop. We are grateful, and we thank you.
Looking ahead—and I use these words advisedly-we anticipate further pur-
chases of grain by the Soviet Union. While our crops look good and we expect
a record harvest, it is still premature to confidently predict our final production.
Accordingly, as Secretary of Agriculture Butz said, we have asked American
exporters to temporarily—and I emphasize "temporarily”—delay further sales
to the Soviet Union.
Additional sales to the Soviet Union must be in our best national interest—in
the interest of all Americans, farmers and consumers alike. We must be sure that
we have enough grain to meet our needs and the needs of our traditional
customers, who have consistently bought from us throughout the past several
decades. Year in and year out, farm incomes are dependent on a pattern of ex-
panding exports to long-term customers.
Let me emphasize that our sales of grain and other foodstuffs to the rest of the
world is one of the brightest areas of our economy. These sales ensure a firm,
fair price for your hard work and your tremendous investment. These sales
create jobs on the farm and in the factories of manufacturers and suppliers. They
have given us self-sufficiency in nutrition that is the envy of the world.
1165
