December 17
[732]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
inflation which would invisibly tax every dollar you have or you earn in the
future by a much higher figure than any relief this bill offers.
The Congress offers only to keep a temporary lid on taxes while leaving the
Federal cash register wide open for whatever spending Congress wants to take
out in an election year. That I cannot and will not accept.
I said I would submit a $395 billion budget for fiscal year 1977 next January,
and I intend to do so. This represents a $28 billion reduction in the growth of
Federal spending. If Congress will go along on this overall ceiling—not on every
detail as to where the cuts should come-we could have a $28 billion tax cut next
year without adding to inflation.
I must return this bill to Congress, but this does not mean your taxes must go
up next year. The Congress still has time before Christmas to send me back a
tax cut extension for 1976 coupled with a clear commitment to cut the growth
of Federal spending. Such a signal to the country and to the world that the
Federal Government in Washington is at last facing up to its responsibility to
control runaway spending would be the best Christmas present overburdened
American taxpayers have had in decades. I am willing and waiting to sign such
legislation.
There is only one real issue here, and it requires some very plain speaking. The
American people want tax relief, need tax relief, and deserve Federal tax relief.
But they also want uncontrolled Federal spending to stop. Their Government,
the officials they entrust with the power to tax and to spend taxes, for years and
years have not been playing fair with them. Their Government has been raising
Federal benefits knowing full well those benefits have to be paid for by future
taxpayers or by the merciless tax of constant inflation.
The American people know this. You know it, and I know it. Upon serious
second thought, I am sure the majority of the Congress will recognize it. The
only honest way to reduce taxes is to reduce the spending of tax money.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
732
Veto of a Tax Reduction Bill.
December 17, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my approval the bill, H.R. 5559, sent to me today.
1973
