[624]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
means to utilize and build upon our capabilities in space. Already there are
commercial as well as scientific interests involved in making use of what this
potential shows for us.
The history books, of course, that will be written in the years ahead will
recognize that these five individuals were really great pioneers in an effort
between these two countries. And it indicates, of course, or the history books
will indicate that this was the beginning, and hopefully a good beginning, of
this new era before us.
Now, as a token of this mission, we have a rather unique presentation to be
made by General Stafford to the cosmonauts. And at this point, General Stafford,
would you proceed with the ceremony?
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS P. STAFFORD. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. President.
To start with, we have one minor presentation before that. When we linked
together, we had plaques made-aluminum-for the United States and the
Soviet Union, one on each side, and we have put those together. So at this time,
sir, to start with, both crews would like to present you with the plaque that
was put together.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me express to all five of you my deep personal gratitude
for this wonderful symbol of what you all can do in space and what you have
achieved. I am sure that General Secretary Brezhnev values this, cherishes this
as much as I do.
I will certainly have this in the office in a very prominent place, and I thank
both of you as well as our own three astronauts for the wonderful thoughtful-
ness in making this presentation.
GENERAL STAFFORD. To Aleksei and Valeri, President Ford wanted to make a
presentation that was symbolic of the mission. I think it is very unique in its
symbolic effort. It is the communications and power cables between the com-
mand module over to the docking module, and on these was carried the voice
communications right after our hookup and through most of the television
transmissions you saw.
First to Aleksei and then to Valeri Kubasov.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say again, General Stafford, that I know that all of
you from the United States had a wonderful visit in the Soviet Union. You
traveled extensively and were warmly received by the people of the Soviet
Union.
I am certain that the two Russian cosmonauts will be equally and very
warmly welcomed throughout the United States. I recall vividly the warmth
that you received in the welcome when we went over to Alexandria, Virginia,
1682
