September 21
[578]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
country is going to get involved overtly or covertly, I think, is a mistake for the
President of the United States.
I made a comment the other day-to show how sensitive the subject is—I
was asked a question about the situation in India, and I said it was sad and
added a qualifying phrase. It created, apparently, some great stir in India.
So, it is a very sensitive subject, and I just don't think I should discuss it.
Q. Do you rule out the United States ever again participating in the over-
throw of another country?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not want to rule it out or decide otherwise. It has
been done apparently in some cases in the past, but I don't think a President
should—in this very sensitive area—make any commitment one way or another.
CHARTER ON ECONOMIC RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF STATES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I was just wondering what your reaction was to the
introduction of the economic charter by President Echeverría in the United
Nations?
THE PRESIDENT. As I recall, Senator Chuck Percy, who is our representative
at the United Nations, led a very determined fight against it—and I have great
respect for Senator Percy—and Senator Percy, I know from personal conversa-
tions with him, was extremely well prepared in meeting the proposal that Presi-
dent Echeverría made, or was made on behalf of him at the United Nations.
And as a result of Senator Percy's strong feelings and well-documented argu-
ments, the United States was one of a limited number of nations that voted
against it. He was acting for the United States. I was President, so I support him.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[5.] Q. Mr. President, my question relates to a commitment to Israel to, I
guess,
discuss the possibility of providing them with the Pershing missile. In this
morning's paper, I guess, you are quoted as commenting from Los Angeles
yesterday, I believe, that you don't presently know whether or not the Israelis
possess the nuclear warheads that can be carried on these missiles. My question
is that before we would make a commitment to give them these missiles, is this
something that we would undertake to find out? And if it turns out they do
presently have these warheads, would we still give them the missiles?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the basic shopping list that was submitted by Israel is
a very extensive one. They want substantial arms aid, including some very
sophisticated weapons systems, and the Pershing missile and the F-16 are among
those listed. In the case of the Pershing missile, the language, the precise lan-
1483
