December 13
[727]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Third, this Administration and every other administration since 1964 have
urged the Congress to consider carefully trade-offs between wilderness values and
other resource values and uses. These trade-offs are particularly important
within the National Forest System where wilderness is but one of several very
important resources that must be managed for the benefits of all Americans.
The Flat Tops Wilderness contains important forest, water, recreation, wildlife,
and forage resource values that will now be partially or completely forgone.
Moreover, a mineral survey has not been conducted within much of the area
which the Congress added to the Administration's Flat Tops Wilderness pro-
posal. However, because mineral resources within the general Flat Tops area
are believed to be minimal, I have decided not to insist that additional mineral
studies be undertaken.
I am hopeful the Congress will work more closely with the executive branch
regarding proposed additions to the Wilderness System. Several National Forest
Wilderness proposals now being considered by the Congress would include
acreages significantly larger than those proposed by the Administration. In some
cases, the additional areas would more than double the acreage we proposed.
More careful consideration must be given to these proposals if we are to main-
tain a high-quality Wilderness System while protecting many other important
management opportunities for these lands.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 267, approved December 12, 1975, is Public Law 94-146 (89 Stat. 802).
727
Message Congratulating Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser of
Australia on His Election Victory. December 13, 1975
I WISH to extend to you my congratulations on the Liberal Party/National
Country Party coalition victory in the recent Australian election. Americans
continue to attach great importance to the warm friendship and close coopera-
tion between the United States and Australia, and to the ANZUS alliance which
symbolizes the basic identity of our values and objectives.
I look forward to working with you and your government as we face the
challenges of strengthening the structure of peace and economic cooperation.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
1969
