August 30
[508]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
508
Remarks at the Maine AFL-CIO Field Day Program in Augusta.
August 30, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Governor Jim Longley. Mr. Dorsky, my good
friends Senator Ed Muskie and Bill Hathaway, my good friends Bill Cohen
and Dave Emery-Members of the House of Representatives where I had the
privilege of serving so long in Washington, D.C.-Mayor Elvin, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and great pleasure for me to be in the State of Maine,
and I thank you for the very warm and very friendly welcome. It is just wonder-
ful being here. And let me express my deep appreciation and gratitude to your
fine Governor. I have gotten to know him since his election last November,
and he has been helpful, cooperative, friendly, and we have developed a good
personal relationship. And I thank you, Governor, for your kind words this
morning.
I have known, of course, Ed Muskie and Bill Hathaway a long time. I worked
closely with Bill Cohen. I have gotten to know Dave Emery. And although
there may be some differences in party labels, I am always delighted to work
with your delegation in trying to solve not only the problems of Maine but the
problems that we face in this country. And I thank all four of you for being
here this morning.
I especially am indebted to Mr. Dorsky for inviting me to participate in this
wonderful project and to be here this morning, showing the unanimity and
unity that we can have when we face some of the overall civic community
projects that must be done if we are to help those less fortunate than ourselves.
Let me say on behalf of the children of Pineland Hospital and Training
Center, may I thank all of you that are here today for your participation and
your contribution to provide them with this much needed therapeutic swim-
ming pool.
If there is anyone who recognizes and values the therapeutic benefits of a
swimming pool, it's myself. And I salute the Maine AFL-CIO, its members, its
friends, its supporters, for bringing this pool, this means of therapy, this means
of a little bit of happiness as well into the lives of these unfortunate and troubled
children. On behalf of all of your fellow citizens around the country, I express
their appreciation for your efforts.
Governor Longley and I have one thing in common: In college, we both
1247
