October 30
[650]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
you make more automobiles in California than we do in Michigan-[laugh-
ter]—I am delighted at the great upsurge in automobile buying and the popu-
larity of new American cars that use less gas. The 1976 models average nearly
13 percent better in fuel economy than last year's cars. This is on top of an
improvement of almost 14 percent from '74 through '75.
It is an interesting statistic, but I think it shows the ingenuity of the American
businessman to meet a challenge. This increase in efficiency means that if
every car in America operated with fuel efficiency of the average of the 1976
model, America would save 17 billion gallons of gasoline each year. Even more
significant, American motorists would save nearly $11 billion in the cost of
gasoline each year.
We have also had a turnaround from the danger of large foreign trade
deficits. We are now achieving $1 billion a month U.S. trade surplus, and we
have accomplished this change from a year ago for the last 8 consecutive
months, an average of $1 billion trade surplus for America.
We should be proud that we are competitive in the world, and this is the best
indicator of America's products, America's ingenuity, and America's labor.
But we are not only progressing at home but also advancing into a stronger
position internationally.
Thirty years ago this month, the Charter of the United Nations, drafted
here in San Francisco, went into effect. This charter pledged that the peoples
of the United Nations were determined to reaffirm faith in the fundamental
human rights, in the dignity and the worth of the human persons, in the equal
rights of men and women and the nations large and small.
The American people firmly believe in these principles, and we have had
great hopes for the United Nations in the generation since then. The United
States has always acted in the U.N. to defend these principles.
At the beginning of September of 1975, the Seventh Special Session of the
General Assembly took place on the subject of economic development and
global cooperation. The United States assumed a firm leadership role at this
session. We made clear that economic pressures and attempts at economic
blackmail would never succeed. Instead, if any nations, rich or poor, were
going to achieve their objectives of progress and well-being, the only possible
approach was realism and a cooperative attitude.
In this spirit, the United States offered a series of constructive and realistic
proposals, in whose implementation the other nations would share a respon-
sibility. Our proposals formed the basis of recommendations that were finally
1765
