November 20
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
White House documents which apparently fall within the subpoena. None of
these documents are from my Administration. These were carefully reviewed
and, after I received the opinion of the Attorney General that these documents
are of the type for which Executive privilege may appropriately be asserted, I
directed Secretary Kissinger not to comply with the subpoena on the grounds
of Executive privilege. I made a finding that, in addition to disclosing highly
sensitive military and foreign affairs assessments and evaluations, the documents
revealed to an unacceptable degree the consultation process involving advice
and recommendations to Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon, made to them
directly or to committees composed of their closest aides and counselors. Thus, in
declining to comply with the subpoena, Secretary of State Kissinger was acting
on my instructions as President of the United States.
With respect to the two subpoenas directed to "... the Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, or any subordinate officer, official or
employee with custody or control . . .", the really important point here is that
the NSC staff has made a major effort to deliver the documents requested. As
you know, additional documents were made available to the Committee after
the deadline of the subpoenas and indeed after the Committee voted on the
November 14th resolutions. There has been and continues to be an effort on the
part of the NSC staff to provide the Committee with the information and
documentation it needs. In fact, a very comprehensive volume of information
has been made available which provides the Committee a substantial basis for
its investigation.
This effort was undertaken, notwithstanding the fact that the subpoenas
themselves were served on November 7, made returnable only four days later,
and called for a broad class of documents, going back in one subpoena to 1965,
and in the other to 1972. Substantial efforts were required to search files,
identify items covered, and to review them for foreign policy and national
security reasons in accordance with procedures which have been previously used
with information requested by the Select Committee.
In addition to our efforts to substantially comply with these two subpoenas, I
have been advised that there are serious and substantial legal and factual ques-
tions as to the basis on which the Committee seeks to find Secretary Kissinger
to be in contempt. The subpoenas were directed to ". . . the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, or any subordinate officer..." and were
in fact served on the Staff Secretary of the NSC. Secretary Kissinger had no
responsibility for responding to these subpoenas nor for supervising the response
to them. After November 3, he was no longer my Assistant for National Security
1889
