[496]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
who are willing to sit down and talk with those who have potentially conflicting
interests.
And although I think in most cases we have come out with a good answer,
admit there are some areas where we are still in some disagreement. But I know
that we can have a responsible energy program and still not destroy our envi-
ronment, and that is our objective.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Stanley Johnson, president of the Illinois State AFL-
CIO. Labor was critical of the Administration which you had to take over some
time ago in the crisis of government. We commend and appreciate your low-key
approach to that particular crisis.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. Labor, as you know, was quite critical of the national direction of govern-
mental policy in the previous Administration. What disturbs us again is probably
some of the same advisers are still in your Administration.
Now, these advisers may have caused you to veto several measures. At this
point, we also have to respectfully disagree with your vetoes. The recent study of
the Library of Congress indicated some of those measures would have added
some 638,000 jobs, the bulk of which would have been in the housing and build-
ing industry. As you know, that industry is a good bellwether of our total
economy.
Therefore, Mr. President, our question is, how can we tell the jobless, who are
not interested in theory, that they must continue to bear the heaviest cost of a
projected economic turnaround, which may not help them very soon?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, sir, I think you have to look back at what the circum-
stances were in August of 1974. At that time, we had inflation of 12 to 14 percent.
And I admit at that time we had 5-percent unemployed. But that high inflation
rate was hurting everybody, those employed and those unemployed. And if we
hadn't done something to try and check inflation, I am convinced we would be
still in a disastrous recession.
Now, we have had a tough time. We have had to take some stern measures.
But the net result is we have made substantial progress against inflation. But the
most encouraging thing is—and this is what I would tell the unemployed—I
would tell them that in the last 2 or 3 months, the number of gainfully employed
has gone up over a million and that the prospects are that we will continue to
add to the total number of employed and that although the rate of unemploy-
ment may be higher than we want-and obviously it is—we will do it while we
1192
