September 22
[581]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
subject, but I would appreciate your personal comments, assuming that you
were to continue in office, that what you believe our leadership role would be in
attempting to meet the needs for redistribution of the world's wealth, assuming
that there is some need, and to meet the aspirations of these countries?
The President. I don't believe that we should, as a nation, participate in the
redistribution of world resources. I don't think that ought to be our objective.
Our attitude as a nation was submitted to the United Nations in their special
get-together about 10 days ago by Secretary Kissinger. This was a practical
answer to the Third World request for economic understanding, political
understanding.
There appeared, prior to Secretary Kissinger's presentation, the distinct possi-
bility that there would be a head-to-head confrontation between the United
States and the other industrial nations of the world and the Third World,
because the underdeveloped or Third World nations were complaining very
bitterly about the fact that their natural resources, whether it is bauxite or tin
or coffee or the multitude of other natural resources, were not getting a fair
shake in the world, at least from the industrial nations. What they wanted was
really the establishment of a new world economic order. I don't believe the
United States should commit itself to a new economic order.
We believe, as it was expressed in Secretary Kissinger's prepared text, that we
should take the individual resources such as bauxite or tin or copper, et cetera,
and on a practical, case-by-case example, try to find through negotiations a
proper way for those nations to participate in the growing world opportunity
for a better life for all their people. And the net result of the Secretary's presen-
tation was that instead of a head-to-head, irreconcilable confrontation, the atti-
tude and the atmosphere at the United Nations was totally different.
And it is my opinion that that good feeling and better understanding will be
productive in the subsequent meetings of the United Nations and that we ought
to carry on as we said we would, working with those nations in some way to
make sure that they don't have the peaks and valleys of high prices and over-
abundance and that they can have a relatively stable return, not under the
umbrella of a new world economic order, but under some practical negotiated
agreements that will take care of the real problems in each instance.
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SALES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Barney Rocca, Jr. I am a member of the
World Affairs Council, the Commonwealth Club, and a past president of the
World Trade Association of the Greater San Francisco Bay Area. My question
1503
