August 30
[509]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
so vital for all of us in the world in which we live. And I thank you, Bill and
Dave, for the work you are doing in this regard.
I think it is perfectly obvious that I have looked forward to coming to Maine
for a long, long time. I like your people, I love the country, and I am just
delighted to see what I see here today.
I am especially pleased to see so many young people in the audience. I think
that typifies the spirit and the actuality of the Republican Party in Maine. I
don't want you to cross off us oldtimers, but we need the young people in our
political party, because they are going to be the strength not only in the next
election but they are going to embrace and make actual the things that we
believe in, the principles that we espouse, and those that we are dedicated to.
I think the best illustration of the youth in your party is the fact that you have
two young Congressmen, a young State chairman, a young executive director, a
State Senate majority that is, as I am told, 15 years younger on the average than
their Democratic counterparts.
And the point is quite clear: Here in Maine we can all say with great pride,
Republicans have their eyes firmly fixed on the future instead of their feet
frozen in the past.
Seventy-five years ago, the Speaker of the United States House of Representa-
tives, Thomas Brackett Reed came to this great city of Portland and said, and
here I quote: “Here's to the State of Maine, the land of the bluest skies, the
greenest earth, the richest air, the strongest and, what is better, the sturdiest
men, the fairest and, what is best of all, the truest women under the sun.”
I come to Portland today to second that motion. [Laughter]
I don't think there is a better place than Portland and no better way than a
good old-fashioned clambake to celebrate the last weekend of summer. I ob-
viously appreciate your invitation and thank you for the extremely warm
welcome.
You know, it's easy to see that Maine Republicans are enthusiastic, along with
a lot of other people in the great State of Maine. It appears to me that this
enthusiasm, which I think is vital and necessary not only for the Republican
Party but for Maine and the country, is contagious, and I congratulate you for it.
I have seen this kind of enthusiasm as I have been privileged to travel around
the United States. This enthusiasm is infectious, and everyplace I go I like what
I see as far as the Republican Party is concerned and what I see among our
fellow Americans generally. If we can keep this kind of enthusiasm going for
the next 14 months, I predict that 1976 will be a year of victory for the Repub-
1255
