[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
The conclusion has finally been reached, after the multitude of programs that
were approved by the Congress in the 1960's, that all of those programs put
together just have not solved our domestic, social, economic problems in this
country.
I guess Jim Lynn pointed out this morning we have over a thousand categorical
grant programs. And as you look at the cost and the number of employees
involved, they just don't balance out in many, many cases as the answer to the
problems here at home in Milwaukee or Grand Rapids or elsewhere.
It is my judgment that we have turned a corner, and I am going to be out as
much as I can, indicating that we at the Federal Government level have to help
the States and the local units of government with money and less categorical
grant programs, because I happen to believe that the mayors and the Governors
and the State legislatures have a far better understanding of the local problem
and can,
with the help of the Federal Government in money, solve some of
these problems better than by dictation from Washington, D.C.
WILLIAM J. BAROODY, JR. [Assistant to the President for Public Liaison]. Mr.
President, unfortunately we have time for just one more question.
THE PRESIDENT. Can I add and make three?
MR. BAROODY. Yes, sir, it is your option. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. We might even go a few more.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[16.] Q. Mr. President, I am Frank Kessler. I represent the German-Ameri-
can Societies of Milwaukee. I wish I had been question number 13 because Mr.
Brown took the punch out of my question.
Now, we all know that the United States has a considerable armed force
spread all over Europe. Their purpose, of course, is to support our European
allies in keeping the Russians from taking a foothold in Western Europe.
Now, newspaper reports say that Secretary of State Kissinger has made quite
a few commitments to Israel, and I have two questions.
Now, you can say yes or no—[laughter]—and if for reasons-
THE PRESIDENT. Can I say maybe? [Laughter]
Q. If for reasons of security, you won't answer question number one, I will
accept that. [Laughter]
Question number one is: In addition to financial help, do we have to send in
the Marines?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I believe, sir, that it would be inappropriate for me to
comment publicly on any of the most delicate negotiations that are going on at
the present time.
1238
