[526]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
a serious mistake that could affect our future, because at any day there could
be a turn-off of a substantial part of our energy capability.
America can't look down the road with optimism for success if our security is
dependent on somebody else. So, if you have influence—and I know you do—
try to get some action in the Congress on this important issue.
Let me turn quickly, if I might, to the situation in the economy. I start out by
saying unemployment is too high, inflation is too bad. But let me be quite candid
with you.
A year ago, the rate of inflation was roughly 12 percent, maybe 12 to 13, the
highest inflation in this country for this century at least. Some corrective ac-
tions were taken. We tried to put the lid on fiscal policy, and there were some
restrictions as far as monetary policy.
The net result is we made slow but steady progress in achieving some success
in reducing the rate of inflation. We are down now somewhere between 6 and
7 percent. That is not good enough, but if we do what we have been doing, I
think we can continue progress in this critical area.
I said at the outset in discussing this subject that unemployment is too high.
The Governor was talking to me, and I think it is 9 to 10 percent in your State.
But because of the initiative of the Governor and others in your State, you have
taken it down from what it was—what, 16 percent, roughly?—several years ago.
I commend you and the policies that you followed during that span of time
were right. It is not easy, as the Governor and others know, to tackle this
problem, and it is no easier on a national basis than it is on a State basis.
But I am convinced, as we look at the statistics and look at the future—and let
me quote one or two that are important—even though unemployment, the rate
of unemployment has been between 8.5 and 9 percent for the last 2 or 3 months,
since March of this year we have had an increase in the number of people em-
ployed of 1,200,000. In other words, the people are being put on the payroll in
increasing numbers.
The unemployment rate is affected by the total number who are also in the
labor markets and the number that are unemployed. But as long as we keep
steady progress, I am convinced that we can come out of a recession, the worst
we have had since World War II, not with a quick fix that will only lead us to
a more serious problem in a year or two, but we can come out of it with a sound
and secure position as far as inflation is concerned and a healthy, growing econ-
omy that will provide jobs for people.
That is what we want, and we have to provide around a million and a half
1302
