July 27
[440]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
opportunity to speak with each other. But I assume that he will tell you that
himself.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me express on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself our great gratitude for the
warm reception that we have received from you and Mrs. Schmidt and from
the German people.
It is a great privilege and pleasure for Mrs. Ford and myself, as well as my
colleagues, to be in Germany, and I have appreciated very greatly the op-
portunity to meet with you this morning and to discuss with you and your
associates the problems that you mentioned—the general political situation and
the economic circumstances, both in Europe as well as in the United States.
Let me say with great emphasis that all of us in the United States are deeply
grateful for the wonderful contribution that people from your country have
made in the history books of my country. And I should say that all of us, as we
approach our Bicentennial in the United States, are most appreciative of the
very generous gift given to the United States when President Scheel was in my
country a few weeks ago.¹
The importance of discussions on the economic field, of course, are very, very
vital. We in the United States are making a turn toward a healthier economy.
We have bottomed out, as they say in the United States, and are slowly be-
ginning an upturn in our economy.
But we fully recognize that the economy of the United States is an integral
part of the economy throughout the world and particularly that of Western
Europe. It is my intention, on behalf of the United States, to work very, very
closely with you in Germany and the other European countries to make sure
that the progress we are making is also progress that can come in Europe as well
as the rest of the world.
We, of course, are on our way to the meeting in Helsinki, where 35 nations
will get together on the CSCE arrangements or agreements.
I believe that the Helsinki meeting can and will be a further step in achieving
what we all want-the betterment of relations between East and West.
I am optimistic that the results achieved in Helsinki will be for the better. I
look forward to my participation as a result of the long negotiations that have
taken place.
Let me conclude my observations by saying that in the field of energy, in the
economic field, in the political field, in the defense field, the policies of the United
States will be closely aligned with those of your government, Mr. Chancellor,
1 See Item 331.
1045
