[488]
August 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
488
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the Vail
Symposium in Vail, Colorado. August 15, 1975
ENERGY PROGRAM
Thank you very much, Mayor John Dobson. Chairman of the symposium and
City Manager Terry Minger, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
[1.] Obviously, I am very pleased today to meet with a group considering
how to deal with the energy problem instead of debating its existence.
Our energy problem is like a giant puzzle. Solving this puzzle requires the
piecing together of many complex and interlocking parts and pieces. When the
parts are properly fitted, we will have a program that decreases energy con-
sumption, increases domestic fuel supplies, and stimulates new energy tech-
nology. Our immediate goal is to increase production of domestic oil and gas
while decreasing wasteful consumption by increasing efficient use of fuel.
In meeting this objective, however, we must establish the framework for the
inevitable transition to an energy economy that does not rely on depletable
resources, for within the next 25 to 50 years, oil and gas, which constitute two-
thirds of the fuel we now use, may be far too costly to burn at any price.
As one important piece of our energy puzzle, our national coal reserves
contain greater energy potential than the Middle East reserves of fuel. Increased
use of coal is vital to energy independence. This resource must be developed
and consumed with a commitment to balancing energy needs with environ-
mental concerns.
With almost half of the Nation's coal reserves in our western part of the
United States, you in this region are justifiably concerned about the quality
of development. As one who has visited Vail many, many times, I share very
deeply this concern.
But let me emphasize this: We can tap our national energy resources without
despoiling the environment. We will be able to do so, however, only in an
atmosphere of realism-not antagonism.
This Administration is committed to seeing that improved mining technology
ensures safe and environmentally sound production of coal. We also need im-
proved technology to burn coal directly without producing environmental dam-
age. The Nation's capacity to convert coal into clean gaseous and liquid fuel can
and must be developed.
Even if our reliance on imported oil for 38 percent of our current use did not
1150
