[703]
November 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Alaska's economy. Of course, there have been problems in absorbing so many
newcomers from the Lower 48, but you have done a splendid job. And by any
standard the benefits far, far outweigh the disadvantages. When the pipeline is
completed, oil tax revenues will greatly benefit all the citizens of Alaska and
stimulate your entire economy.
It doesn't take a great deal of reading to know that your State is blessed with
many priceless natural resources. Now, some feared-and I think it was under-
standable—that the pipeline would destroy this great environment that you
have in the State of Alaska. Actually, by a fair appraisal, the pipeline has proven
to be an outstanding example of how our ecology can be preserved while energy
needs are met. We can—yes, we must-have both a decent environment on the
one hand and decent energy on the other, and we will.
The example that you have set in Alaska has convinced me and, I am sure,
many others in the Congress and throughout the United States that we can
have both. We can use your example to have balanced policies, for both are vitally
important to our future.
Alaska's energy wealth doesn't stop with oil. It is estimated that Alaska has
almost 32 trillion cubic feet of recoverable natural gas, only slightly less than
the total reserves in the Gulf of Mexico. I can assure you it is urgently needed in
other States of the Union.
In flying up here, I had the privilege of learning something else—that Alaska
has unbelievable reserves of coal. Yes, our drive for energy independence relies
very heavily upon Alaskan oil, gas, and coal reserves. And all Americans are very,
very proud that Alaska has contributed so much by accelerated construction of
the oil pipeline. Obviously, your contributions in the future will even be greater.
In addition to oil and gas, Alaska will help to meet America's critical needs for
other essential minerals.
I salute Alaska. I count on Alaska. The State of Alaska is separated geograph-
ically from our other States. It took us just a little over 7 hours to fly to Fairbanks
from Washington, D.C. Yet, all of us in the Lower 48 feel very close in our hearts
to the people of Alaska and your great State.
I am very mindful, as I stand here today, of the pride I felt some years ago
when, as a Member of the Congress, I voted for Alaskan statehood. And you
have never let me and those others who voted for it down at all. We are very
grateful for your efforts.
We were told then, and it has been said many times since, Alaska is America's
last real frontier. Your pioneer spirit is developing not only our natural resources
but vital human resources.
1928
