[531]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
It was said that California and the West seemed to be doing better than the
rest of the Nation, but for how long no one was sure. Interest rates were rising.
So was the rate of inflation and, even worse, the rate of unemployment. The
American economy was about to take a roller coaster dip into the future.
Since that meeting, America and, to a large extent, the rest of the world,
has made that economic dip. Most of the industrial nations of the world have
mutually experienced an unnerving drop in gross national product and in levels
of prosperity. The descent was sudden and at times almost frightening. But our
vehicle, the American free enterprise system, has once again proven sound. A
year later finds our economy on the straightaway and beginning to climb.
I was particularly interested in a comment made by Mr. Davis—the disap-
pointing results of productivity in America. The statistics just released a day or
two ago indicate that we have made for the first time in some months a rather
significant improvement and increase in productivity in America, and I whole-
heartedly agree with him that this is an area where we must maintain an uphill
climb in the increase of productivity.
Today, 85 million Americans are at work in jobs that offer more pay, more
fringe benefits, greater security, more generous pension plans, and safer work-
ing conditions than ever before.
From March through July of this year alone, more than 1,200,000 Americans
have found jobs and are gainfully employed. And the figures for August, re-
leased this morning in Washington, add another 275,000 jobs to this total. So,
we are making progress.
This is an increase in jobs that would have strained an economist's imagination
just a few decades ago. We have problems, but a true sense of perspective allows
us to see our accomplishments as well. But the problems must be met and solu-
tions must be found.
There is a phrase in the jargon of economics that has always irritated me. The
phrase is, and I quote, "an acceptable rate of unemployment." I know of no ac-
ceptable rate of unemployment as long as there is any American who wants a
job and cannot find one.
There is nothing theoretical about unemployment. The graphs, the charts,
the percentages often tend to obscure the human tragedy of involuntary
unemployment.
How can cold statistics ever adequately portray the trauma of lost jobs, lost
savings, and lost pride? America's greatest national resource is her people, and
I intend to see that that resource is not endangered.
One of the prime goals of my Administration is to get America out of neutral
1336
