August 3
[467]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. This summit was an-
other step in the continuing efforts to reduce tensions and increase international
cooperation.
It represents progress which we, together with other Conference participants,
must build upon. Full implementation of the Helsinki documents promises
greater security, greater cooperation, not only in Europe but among people
everywhere.
The meeting of the United States, Yugoslavia, and 33 other states in Finland,
also serves as the latest reminder that today's world finds the people of the
world increasingly interdependent.
As we meet today and tomorrow in Belgrade, so soon after our participation
together in the Helsinki Conference, we are mindful of the need for coopera-
tion by all nations on urgent international problems.
I am confident that our discussions will make a very positive contribution in
this direction.
Thank you,
country.
the people of Yugoslavia, for your gracious welcome to this great
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:29 p.m. at Surcin
Airport in response to remarks of welcome by Yugo-
slav President Josip Broz Tito.
Later in the day, the President met with President
Tito at the Federal Executive Council Building.
467
Toast at a State Dinner in Belgrade.
August 3, 1975
Mr. President, Madame Broz, ladies and gentlemen:
I am very, very delighted to be back in Yugoslavia. Twelve years is much too
long to be away.
Mrs. Ford and I thank you most sincerely for the warm and wonderful wel-
come of your people and for your own very gracious remarks, Mr. President.
While I am deeply appreciative of the justly renowned Yugoslav hospitality
shown to Mrs. Ford and to me personally, I am very mindful that this kind
expression represents the friendship which the Yugoslav people feel for the
American people.
I can assure you, Mr. President, that this sentiment is fully reciprocated on
our part. We Americans have long valued our ties of friendship with Yugo-
1101
