September 30
[598]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
benefit of world peace. I, therefore, urge strongly that action be completed as
early as possible and no later than Friday, October 3.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters sent to
Speaker of the House Carl Albert, House Minority
Leader John J. Rhodes, Senate Majority Leader
Mike Mansfield, Senate Minority Leader Hugh Scott,
and the chairmen and ranking Republican mem-
bers of the House International Relations Commit-
tee and Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
598
Remarks in Chicago at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner.
September 30, 1975
My former colleagues in the Congress-Chuck Percy, Bob Michel, John Ander-
son, Robert McClory, George O'Brien-Bill Scott, your fine State official, Don
Adams, Jerry Millbank, from the National Finance Committee; Harold Smith,
my good friends, Les Arends and Marguerite Church, and of course, my good
friend and great helpmate, Dick Ogilvie, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
This has turned out to be a rather unusual evening for me tonight. One of
your newspapers suggested very strongly that I not come to Chicago, and Mayor
Daley suggested very strongly that I do come to Chicago. I hope you good
Republicans don't mind if on this occasion I come down on the side of Mayor
Daley. [Laughter]
In the short time that I have been here this evening, I can assure you from the
very bottom of my heart that I am especially pleased to be in Illinois when the
outlook for the Republican Party in Illinois is so very bright.
I have had the opportunity of meeting and talking with many, many of those
who are becoming or hope to become a part of your State ticket, and obviously
it is going to be a very strong State ticket in 1976. You have excellent candidates
for local and State offices, and I certainly get the impression that we will have
some good, strong, new candidates for the Congress.
But what pleases me the most is the fact that I find a tremendous enthusiasm
among your State leaders. And so I come to this great State with a new sense
that in the heartland of the Middle West-literally the heartland of our coun-
try-in Illinois we have good reason to be enthusiastic, and I urge you to multi-
ply your efforts between now and November 2, 1976.
1545
