[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
the advantage that you gained from the office, and so forth? Do you have any
thinking on that?
The President. I think that, Charlie [Charles L. Bartlett, Chicago Daily
News], is easily answered. Continuing to work in this office and to work on
the problems, to be President, is the best way to ensure that any campaign in
any one of the 30 States is conducted in the proper way. And that is the way I
expect to do it.
Q. Does that rule out the hand-to-hand kind of thing the “sheriff” campaign-
ing would do?
THE PRESIDENT. We expect to make some appearances, obviously, in various
States where there are primaries. But the main responsibility I have and the
best way to preserve the dignity of the office and the best way, in my opinion,
to convince the people that I ought to be the nominee and the President is to
work at the job here.
Q. Why was so much time spent this past year, 1975, on the road in cam-
paigning when in effect you are reversing procedures? In 1975, the year before
the election, you were on the road a great deal and traveling, and in 1976, when
the campaign begins, you are in the Oval Office.
The President. I think the circumstances are quite different. In 1974 the
Republican Party nationally took a very bad beating. We lost a number of House
seats, a number of Senate seats, a number of governorships. The preservation of
the two-party system in this country is of maximum importance, and the Re-
publican Party in many States, organizationally speaking and financially, was
in terrible circumstances. I think a President has an obligation to his party,
and he certainly has an obligation to the preservation of a two-party system.
And
efforts in 1974, 1975, the kind of traveling you are talking about, was
aimed at rebuilding the party, maintaining a two-party system. I think that
job has been principally accomplished. The party across the Nation is in much
better shape, organizationally speaking, financially speaking.
my
Now we come to 1976, and it becomes more personal because of the primaries
for the President. I am going to do the job here. I think that is the best way to
convince the people. We will make some appearances, obviously, but it won't
be on the magnitude that I did in 1974 and 1975.
Q. Mr. President, did you sit down at some point in recent months with your
associates and work out any kind of game plan for, first, winning the nomina-
tion, or is it sort of a week-to-week improvisation as it sometimes appears?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, we are in close consultation with Bo Callaway and
the people that are associated with Bo on the purely political side.
2010
