August 5
[473]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
473
Remarks Upon Signing a Bill Restoring Rights of
Citizenship to General Robert E. Lee. August 5, 1975
Governor Godwin, Senator Byrd, Congressman Butler, Congressman Harris,
Congressman Satterfield, Congressman Downing, and Congressman Daniel,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am very pleased to sign Senate Joint Resolution 23, restoring posthumously
the long overdue, full rights of citizenship to General Robert E. Lee. This legis-
lation corrects a 110-year oversight of American history. It is significant that
it is signed at this place.
Lee's dedication to his native State of Virginia chartered his course for the
bitter Civil War years, causing him to reluctantly resign from a distinguished
career in the United States Army and to serve as General of the Army of North-
ern Virginia. He, thus, forfeited his rights to U.S. citizenship.
Once the war was over, he firmly felt the wounds of the North and South
must be bound up. He sought to show by example that the citizens of the South
must dedicate their efforts to rebuilding that region of the country as a strong
and vital part of the American Union.
In 1865, Robert E. Lee wrote to a former Confederate soldier concerning
his signing the Oath of Allegiance, and I quote: “This war, being at an end, the
Southern States having laid down their arms, and the questions at issue be-
tween them and the Northern States having been decided, I believe it to be the
duty of everyone to unite in the restoration of the country and the reestablish-
ment of peace and harmony."
This resolution passed by the Congress responds to the formal application of
General Lee to President Andrew Johnson on June 13, 1865, for the restoration
of his full rights of citizenship. Although this petition was endorsed by General
Grant and forwarded to the President through the Secretary of War, an Oath
of Allegiance was not attached because notice of this additional requirement
had not reached Lee in time.
Later, after his inauguration as President of Washington College on Octo-
ber 2, 1865, Lee executed a notarized Oath of Allegiance. Again his application
was not acted upon because the Oath of Allegiance was apparently lost. It was
finally discovered in the National Archives in 1970.
As a soldier, General Lee left his mark on military strategy. As a man, he
stood as the symbol of valor and of duty. As an educator, he appealed to reason
1111
