[683]
November 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
683
Statement on New York City's Financial Situation.
November 19, 1975
I AM gratified that the leaders of New York appear to have accepted primary
responsibility for solving the financial problems of the city and are proceeding
in the direction of a long-term solution in accordance with the State constitution
and laws. I am impressed with the seriousness of their intentions as described by
Governor Carey in his letter to Secretary Simon and await further concrete
actions by the State and the other parties concerned.
The bailout bill now before the House of Representatives is irrelevant because
it does not address the current situation, and I would veto it.
I am convinced that if New York continues to move toward fiscal responsibil-
ity, all parties concerned can look forward to a satisfactory resolution despite
the current obstacles.
If they continue to make progress, I will review the situation early next week
to see if any legislation is appropriate at the Federal level.
In the meantime, should New York leaders fail to implement their intentions,
New York City could still be forced into legal default. Therefore, I am asking
the Congress once again to enact special amendments to the Federal bankruptcy
laws which would ensure that such a default, if it occurs, would be orderly.
684
Statement on the Death of Generalissimo Francisco Franco
of Spain. November 20, 1975
IT WAS with sorrow that I learned of the death of Generalissimo Francisco
Franco, who led his country for almost four decades through a significant era
in Spanish history. With his passing, I express deepest sympathy to his wife and
family on behalf of the Government and people of the United States.
We wish the Spanish people and the Government of Spain well in the period
ahead. The United States for its part will continue to pursue the policy of friend-
ship and cooperation which has formed the touchstone for the excellent relations
existing between our two countries.
NOTE: Generalissimo Franco was Chief of State from
1936 until his death on November 20, 1975.
Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller and U.S.
Ambassador to Spain Wells Stabler represented the
United States at the state funeral of Generalissimo
Franco on November 23. On the previous day, they
attended the swearing in of Prince Juan Carlos as
Spain's Chief of State and proclamation as King.
1886
