November 29
[700]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The San Jose Conference of Plenipotentiaries for the amendment of the Rio
Treaty constituted the final step in a process which began in April 1973 when
the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, with the support
of the United States, began an effort aimed at modernizing the instruments of the
Inter-American System so as to make them more responsive to today's needs.
The Protocol thus represents the end product of a conceptual and drafting
process which began more than two years ago.
The most significant changes embodied in the Protocol in the Rio Treaty are
(1) a provision for lifting sanctions by majority vote rather than the two-thirds
vote required for all other decisions under the Treaty; (2) specific provision for
non-binding recommendations and for conciliatory and peace-making steps as
well as for binding measures; (3) a narrowing of the geographic area in which
the “attack against one, attack against all" applies, eliminating Greenland and
some high seas areas, and limiting its applicability to attacks against other states
parties (instead of all "American states"); (4) the incorporation of a more
complete definition of aggression than appeared in the original treaty, following
the lines of the definition approved in 1974 by the General Assembly of the
United Nations; and (5) the addition of an article providing that "collective
economic security” shall be guaranteed by a special treaty (a provision to which
the United States submitted a reservation at the time of signature). While the
inclusion of an article on collective economic security represents an unfortunate
detraction from the Protocol's balance and good sense, on the whole, the amend-
ments improve this basic instrument of inter-American security and peace-
keeping.
It is significant from the point of view of the United States that many other
proposed changes were not embodied in the Protocol. For example, a proposal
supported by some that would have limited the "attack against one, attack
against all" concept to attacks coming from within the hemisphere was soundly
defeated. Similarly, efforts to limit the authority of the Organ of Consultation
to deal with a broad range of acts which could endanger the peace of America
were unsuccessful. The result, in our view, was a reaffirmation of the basic
principles of the Rio Treaty rather than a weakening of them. Nevertheless,
I believe the protection of interests of the United States with respect to its posi-
tion on the concept of collective economic security requires a formal reservation
to that Article when the United States deposits its instrument of ratification,
along the lines of the reservation made at the time of signing.
The various amendments to the Treaty are dealt with in detail in the enclosed
report by the Department of State and the summary of amendments.
1921
