[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE NATION'S GOALS
[8.] MR. SPIVAK. Mr. President, you have been criticized by some members
of the press for not having a clearly stated philosophy and a set of relevant goals.
Can you tell us what your goals are for this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Spivak, I would like to give you the vision that I have
for the future of America. It is a vision where I think the government will not
dictate the lives of the American people, where the government, on the other
hand, will be compassionate with those who are unfortunately unable to take
care of themselves. It is a vision that will permit the people to govern the govern-
ment, and on the other hand, it will permit the American people to lead their
own lives within the laws and the Constitution as they desire for themselves.
And it is a vision, also, that means that the United States should continue its
never-ending pursuit of peace through strength, reassuring our allies and con-
sulting and discussing with our adversaries. It is a very broad goal, but it is the
kind of vision that I think is needed and necessary for the decades ahead.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. President, when you formally announced that you would
seek the Republican nomination for the Presidency, you said you wanted, and
I quote, to finish the job you began. Is that the job you mean, by what you
just said?
THE PRESIDENT. In the broadest possible terms, yes.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[9.] MR. SPIVAK. You have been in office now for 15 months. What do you
think your major accomplishment has been towards that end or towards any
end?
THE PRESIDENT. There are at least three things that I feel are great pluses. I
feel very strongly—and I think the polls reflect it—that I have restored public
confidence in their government at the Federal level. I believe also that we have
made considerable headway in handling constructively a very serious economic
situation that developed shortly after I became the President. I believe also that
we are slowly but surely making headway toward a resolution of our depend-
ence on foreign oil. We are getting, hopefully, a bit of progress and necessary
action in the area of energy independence. In addition, we have continued to
strengthen our alliances in Europe, we have had a very successful result in the
Middle East with the Sinai agreement, and we are continuing to work with
both the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China in a constructive way.
These are the broad areas where I think we have made significant progress.
1826
