September 9
[538]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
incentives to spur domestic production and the energy problem will get worse
and worse.
If my veto is sustained, I still will accept a 45-day extension of price controls
to provide time to work with the Congressional leaders who have assured me
that they will seek an acceptable compromise during this period. If this further
compromise fails, however, I will take the following actions to ensure an
orderly transition from government controls to the free market:
-I will remove the previously imposed $2 per barrel import fees on crude
oil and a 60 cents fee on petroleum products.
-I will again press the Congress to enact a windfall profits tax with plow
back provisions and to return the money collected to the American consumer.
-I will propose legislation to provide a gradual transition from price con-
trols for small and independent refiners.
-I will propose legislation to provide authority to allocate liquified petro-
leum gases, such as propane, to supply these important fuels at reasonable prices
to farmers, rural households and curtailed natural gas users.
-I will seek authority to provide retail service station dealers legal remedies
to protect their interests against unwarranted actions by the major oil companies.
Since January, I have gone more than halfway in order to reach a responsible
compromise. Obviously, we have talked and delayed long enough. We must act
now to protect not only ourselves, but future generations of Americans. I urge
Members of the Senate and the House to sustain my veto and get on with the
job of meeting this problem head-on.
The continued failure of Members of the Congress to enact a National Energy
Program puts us increasingly at the mercy of foreign oil producers and will
certainly result in Americans paying substantially higher prices for their fuel.
The White House,
September 9, 1975.
NOTE: The Senate sustained the President's veto
on September 10, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
For the President's statement on the Senate action,
see Item 542.
1357
