October 13
[624]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Party we must open the doors wide of this great party of ours to all Americans
rather than opening it just a crack for a few. We must work together for a com-
mon victory rather than separately for certain defeat. If we do, 1976 and the years
beyond will be great ones for all Republicans but, more importantly, vastly more
important for all Americans, so that we and our children and their children will
be able to say with new meaning and conviction, with fresh enthusiasm, the
words of Daniel Webster, "Thank God I am an American.”
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 p.m. at Cobo
Hall. He was introduced by industrialist Max Fisher,
who was active in Republican Party fundraising
events.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to William F. McLaughlin, Michigan State Repub-
lican chairman, Bob Evans, former chairman of the
board of American Motors, and George Romney,
Governor of Michigan 1963-69 and Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development 1969-72.
624
Remarks at a Meeting With the Crews of the Apollo-Soyuz
Test Project. October 13, 1975
OBVIOUSLY, I am extremely delighted to have the opportunity to greet each
of the astronauts and cosmonauts, this time on Earth. As I recall, we talked
together last July.' At that time you were making great history, and our con-
versation was at the range of about 140 miles from the Earth itself. It was a
great occasion with the Apollo and the Soyuz being linked at the same time.
But let me say that this is a great demonstration, what took place, because
it shows that there can be and there is cooperation between the United States
and the Soviet Union in the area of space. But actually, the handshake, in my
opinion, was far, far more significant than the talk that had been going on prior
to the operation.
But even more significant, of course, was the activity of literally thousands
and thousands of scientists, technicians, and others in putting together over a
3-year period a successful effort which shows what can be done between the
people and the governments of two great nations. And this joint effort, I hope
and trust, will be but a forerunner of what we can do on an expanded basis,
not only in space and science but in many other areas.
Now, when the space shuttle becomes operational at the turn of the decade,
we will be on the threshold of even greater opportunities, a new era in space
activity. These reusable space vehicles will provide effective as well as economical
See Item 412.
1681
