September 22
[582]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Not if it is properly handled, Sid. The shopping list that the
Government of Israel submitted to the United States Government included a
very substantial number of weapons, most of which are defensive in nature.
The Pershing missile request we—the United States—only promised to study.
We made no commitment that we would make that weapon available. And in
the process of study, we will have some time to see how the peace efforts, the
Sinai peace agreement proceeds along with potential other agreements in that
area. But there is no commitment by us, except to study, for the delivery of a
Pershing missile to the Middle East.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANT SITING
[4.] Q. Mr. President, today in a speech you said that you envision some
200 nuclear powerplants by the year 1985. Here in California enough citizens
are concerned about the safety and disposal problems of these plants to have
put it in issue on the ballot in June to ban the construction of them. How do
you feel about the safety problem and about the disposal problem?
The President. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which was established
by the Congress last year and which is now in operation, and the energy research
and development organization, which was likewise established by the Congress,
both are in the process of studying safety, nuclear power development, et cetera.
So far, I believe that the overwhelming preponderance of the evidence indi-
cates, number one, that we have a safe nuclear power capability and further-
more, that if there are any serious questions, that the further research and de-
velopment will result in even a higher degree of safety, better safeguards.
I think in light of our serious, almost critical energy shortage, that it is
unwise for any State to ban the development and the utilization of nuclear
power in the future.
We expect to build 250 nuclear powerplants, as I recall, in the next 10 years.
If 49 other States do it, I can imagine there could be a serious, adverse economic
impact on the State of California. It would potentially—I don't say certainly,
but potentially—interfere with the economic development of the great State of
California. It would mean the loss of potential jobs as we need more jobs for
the young people, for others.
I think there is a better approach than an arbitrary ban, because the safety
record so far and the prognostications of responsible people indicate to me, at
least, that the danger is not a serious one, and if there are any problems, they
can be resolved.
1511
