[517]
September 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
By the agreement between Israel and Egypt, the momentum has been con-
tinued. And I am convinced that when the Congress and the American people
see what has been achieved and objectively look at the alternative of no success,
that the Congress and the American people will support our role.
Reporter. What sort of criticism do you anticipate, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not sure there will be too much criticism, but there will
be some legitimate questions asked, such as what is the anticipated role of the
limited number of American technicians, civilian experts.
I can assure the Congress and the American people that the number will be in
the range of 100 to 150. They will be civilians; they will be technicians; they will
have no military role; they will be in the United Nations zone.
So, this contribution by the United States, I think, is a constructive one and
not one that has great peril or danger. The United States will, of course, con-
tribute assistance to Israel, and we will continue our aid to Egypt.
This, I believe, is another constructive effort by the United States to this peace
agreement, this effort to, in the long run, provide a permanent, fair, and equitable
settlement of the many differences in the Middle East.
Q. If Congress should not approve the stationing of technicians there, will
the agreement fall apart?
THE PRESIDENT. It would have a very serious impact, because the contribu-
tion of the United States is important, and those technicians are a vital ingredient
in assuring both Egypt and Israel that the agreement will be upheld. So, a
turndown by the Congress would have serious repercussions.
Q. What will be their role, Mr. President? They are not acting as policemen
to enforce the agreement, are they?
THE PRESIDENT. They are not. They are going to be stationed in what you
can call warning stations, and their role will simply be that of a technician and
have no other responsibilities.
Q. Mr. President, has there been any Russian comment on the presence of
technicians themselves as distinguished from some criticism of having the early
warning teams outside of the U.N. zone?
The President. I have read of some questions being raised. I have not seen
any—and I don't believe there is any-direct objection.
Q. Mr. President, why is it necessary to have Americans to do that? Can't
other people be trained to do that, or is it more than just the technical skills
they will bring to that that makes it important?
THE PRESIDENT. It is a very highly, very sophisticated technical knowledge,
and we have Americans who are trained and who can carry on that responsi-
1286
