September 21
[577]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I hope I haven't overlooked anybody, but if so, I will blame the dedicated
Stanford men and women who serve in my Cabinet and as my counsellors in
the White House.
The contributions of the Stanford alumni in all branches of our Govern-
ment in Washington are tremendous. I hope we have many, many more in the
future, and I say that as a Yalie and a Michigander.
It is a tremendous pleasure to be here at the Law School today, to be a part
of this very special dedication. The students and faculty of Stanford have always
demonstrated an outstanding devotion to the concepts of truth, justice, and
equality under the law. And yesterday you did it once again. When it comes to
equality, you can't be any more equal than that game with Michigan-19 to 19!
Well, what better place than a law school to celebrate a hung jury. [Laughter]
Today's dedication of this impressive new home for the Law School is cer-
tainly no tie; it is one more victory in Stanford's unbroken record of educa-
tional excellence. The dream of Senator and Mrs. Stanford that children of
California should be their children, with the help of many who followed their
generous example, has broadened to the benefit of its young men and young
women of all America and the world.
Back in 1968 when plans for this Law School complex were completed, there
was a serious question in many sober minds whether the rule of law in this
country was breaking down. Assassins gunned down a candidate for the Pres-
idential nomination and one of our most eloquent civil rights leaders. In 1
week, riots and arson and looting swept 125 cities in our country, including
the Capital of our Nation. Violent disorders, demonstrations, and defiance en-
gulfed many, many of our communities.
In the midst of this environment, I was to make the 275th commencement
address at the College of William and Mary, which produced such giants of
constitutional history as Thomas Jefferson and John Marshall.
As a result, I got an early start on my Bicentennial rereading of our Nation's
beginnings. And I asked myself what were the most precious possessions the
first settlers of American wilderness brought with them across the Atlantic?
What was nurtured here in the New World to be carried across the mountains,
across the plains, across the deserts, and over the High Sierra to the Golden
Gate of California? What made us the unique Nation and people that we are
today?
For the most part, the first American immigrants were poor, they were out-
casts, they were persecuted, they were disadvantaged, they were dissenters, and
they were rebels against the Old World Establishment. They brought little
1477
