July 26
[436]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
spectively, I cited a number of reasons why I could not approve those bills. Those
objections remain valid for the measure before me today.
As in last year's bills, S. 66 would authorize excessive appropriation levels. I
realize that in considering the bill this year, the 94th Congress made some
reductions in the total cost of the measure. However, the levels authorized are
still far in excess of the amounts we can afford for these programs. The bill
would authorize almost $550 million above my fiscal year 1976 budget request
for the programs involved, and it exceeds fiscal year 1977 levels by approxi-
mately the same amount resulting in a total increase of $1.1 billion. At a time
when the overall Federal deficit is estimated at $60 billion, proposed author-
ization levels such as these cannot be tolerated.
When I signed the Tax Reduction Act of 1975, I pledged to do everything
in my power to keep this year's deficit from exceeding $60 billion and to re-
strain the longer-run growth in Federal spending. I stated that I would resist
every attempt by the Congress to add to that deficit. Bills currently being con-
sidered by the Congress would add $25 billion to the fiscal year 1976 deficit and
$45 billion to next year's deficit. If they were to become law, they would lock
us into a permanent policy of excessive spending and make the Federal budget
a primary cause of inflation for years to come. To avoid this, I have no choice
but to veto these bills if the Congress insists upon sending them to me.
Apart from its excessive authorization levels, S. 66 is unsound from a program
standpoint. In the area of health services, for example, the bill proposes exten-
sion and expansion of Community Mental Health Centers projects which have
been adequately demonstrated and should now be absorbed by the regular
health services delivery system. S. 66 also would continue and expand such sep-
arate categorical programs as Community Health Centers and Migrant Health
Centers. In addition, it would authorize several new narrow categorical, and
potentially costly programs which duplicate existing authorities, including $30
million for the treatment of hypertension, $17 million for rape prevention and
control, $10 million for home health service demonstration agencies, and $16
million for hemophilia treatment and blood separation centers. Three new
national commissions on specific diseases also would be established. The ex-
pansion of the Federal role in health services delivery through such narrow
categorical programs is not consistent with development of an integrated, flex-
ible health service delivery system.
The Administration repeatedly and vigorously has opposed measures such
as S. 66 and urged passage of a more effective and more equitable approach to
Federal assistance for health services. H.R. 4819 and S. 1203, which reflect our
1039
