December 18
[733]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
gain control of the currently uncontrollable growth of Federal spending. You
still have time before Christmas to send me back a tax cut extension for 1976
coupled with a clear commitment to cut the growth of spending. Such a signal
to the country and to the world that the Federal government in Washington is
at last facing up to its responsibility to control runaway inflationary spending
would be the best Christmas present overburdened American taxpayers have had
in decades. I am willing and waiting to sign such legislation.
There is only one real issue here, and it requires some plain speaking. The
American people want tax relief, need tax relief and deserve tax relief. Their
government—the officials they entrust with the power to tax and to spend taxes—
for years and years has not been honest with them. Their government has been
cutting Federal taxes with one law and raising Federal benefits with another,
knowing full well those benefits have to be paid for by future taxpayers or by
the merciless tax of constant inflation, which even taxes the poor.
The American people know this. Upon serious thought, I am sure the ma-
jority of this Congress will recognize it. The only honest way to reduce taxes
is to reduce the spending of tax money.
I am returning this half-way legislation and asking you to send me a bill
that goes all the way, that takes the honest and responsible first step toward a
balanced Federal budget, a stable economy, lower taxes and reduced rates of
government spending.
The White House,
December 17, 1975.
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained the
President's veto on December 18, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
For the President's statement on the House action,
see Item 735.
733
Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee
Concerning the Nomination of George Bush To Be Director of
Central Intelligence. December 18, 1975
Dear Mr. Chairman:
As we both know, the Nation must have a strong and effective foreign intelli-
gence capability. Just over two weeks ago, on December 7th while in Pearl
Harbor, I said that we must never drop our guard nor unilaterally dismantle our
1975
