[642]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
landed on the United States land yesterday night, up
to this moment.
We have come here with open hearts and open
arms. We have come to put the relation between our
two countries in its proper position and to thank
you, Mr. President, personally, for what you have
done since last June up until this moment, which
could be considered as a turning point in the history
of the Arab-Israeli conflict in the area that we live.
I shall always look forward to welcoming you,
Mr. President, in Egypt. I assure you that my people
will hail you for all the efforts, the sincerity, the
honesty that you have pushed the peace process in
the last months. And we have achieved together the
second disengagement agreement which will be a
very important milestone on the road of peace in
our area.
Again let me thank you, Mr. President, and thank
the American people for all you have done. And I
must mention now how my people are grateful for
the great help they received from the United States
in preparing the Suez Canal for navigation again
and for the prosperity of the whole world.
I assure you, Mr. President, and our friends the
American people that we shall always work for
peace together and achieve for the coming genera-
tions all of what we feel of inspirations built on
peace based on justice.
Thank you very much.
643
Toasts of the President and President Sadat of Egypt.
October 27, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Sadat, ladies and gentlemen:
It is obviously a very, very great honor to have Mrs. Sadat and you with us this
evening, and particularly for me to have the opportunity today, tonight, and
tomorrow, and next Sunday, to strengthen our personal relationship.
Although you have been in our country before, Mr. President, this is the first
state visit by an Egyptian President to visit the United States. I believe your visit,
Mr. President, symbolizes the very close working relationship of our two coun-
tries and what has been achieved in the last 2 years.
We honor you tonight as a friend of the United States and for your commit-
ment to provide your people many of the same goals that the American people
have striven for and cherished over the long 200 years of our young history.
You are committed, I know from our personal discussions, to improving the
conditions of life for all Egyptians, and for the people of the entire Arab world.
You have recognized that we must work together to overcome the tragedy of
unfulfilled lives-lives marked by disease, malnutrition, undereducation, under-
employment, and the devastation of war.
Americans—and I say this from personal contact-respect your vigorous pur-
suit of peace and your efforts to devote your nation's energy and your nation's
resources not to continue conflict, but to meet the needs of your people.
We in the United States are committed to work with you toward such worthy
goals. Failure to achieve peace in the Middle East will affect the lives of Ameri-
1724
