September 2
[518]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
bility. And I believe that both Egypt and Israel have faith that ours will per-
form that function in a responsible and fair way.
Q. I suppose the criticism that is going to be leveled against that is that by
putting those people there you increase the danger that they could become
hostages and the United States could be drawn in, in a direct way, into a new
conflict. Is that part of the reason they are there?
THE PRESIDENT. They are not there for the potentiality of being held hostage.
They are there to perform a technical responsibility, and I have no fear that
they can or will be held hostage under any circumstances.
Q. Mr. President, there has been some talk about the figure of $3.1 billion in
aid to Israel. Is that accurate?
THE PRESIDENT. That is not an accurate figure. Our aid will be significant,
but I would not at this point wish to comment on the precise dollar total.
Q. What is the next step in the Middle East? Are you going to try to nego-
tiate a Syrian-Israeli agreement now?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only say that this is a step in the overall settlement. The
precise next step has not yet been discussed. I will, of course, talk to Secretary
Kissinger on his return, but having achieved this, I can only say our overall
objective fits in with the two U.N. resolutions, 242 and 338.
Q. Is there any change in the picture on your dealings with Congress on the
oil veto? It is still expected it will lead to a veto ?
The President. I wouldn't want to go beyond what we said—when was it,
Friday morning? I am encouraged. I am always optimistic. But until Con-
gress returns and until we hear from the Democratic leaders, I don't believe I
should comment further.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at approximately 12:30 p.m. at Camp David, Md.
518
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the Boards of Governors
of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank Group.
September 2, 1975
Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chairman, Mr. McNamara, Mr. Witteveen,
Governors, ladies and gentlemen:
Welcome again to Washington.
At your meeting last year, the major areas of concern were the international
1287
