October 29
[645]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The record shows New York City operates one of the largest universities in
the world, free of tuition for any high school graduate, rich or poor, who wants
to attend.
As for New York's much-discussed welfare burden, the record shows more
than 1 current welfare recipient in 10 may be legally ineligible for welfare
assistance.
Certainly, I do not blame all the good people of New York City for their
generous instincts or for their present plight. I do blame those who have misled
the people of New York about the inevitable consequences of what they were
doing over the last 10 years.
The consequences have been a steady stream of unbalanced budgets, massive
growth in the city's debt, extraordinary increases in public employee contracts,
and total disregard of independent experts who warned again and again that
the city was courting disaster.
There can be no doubt where the real responsibility lies. And when New
York City now asks the rest of the country to guarantee its bills, it can be no
surprise that many other Americans ask why.
Why, they ask, should they support advantages in New York that they have
not been able to afford for their own communities?
Why, they ask, should all the working people of this country be forced to
rescue those who bankrolled New York City's policies for so long—the large
investors and big banks?
In my judgment, no one has yet given these questions a satisfactory answer.
Instead, Americans are being told that unless the rest of the country bails out
New York City, there will be catastrophe for the United States and perhaps
for the world.
Is this scare story true? Of course, there are risks that default could cause
temporary fluctuations in the financial markets. But these markets have already
made a substantial adjustment in anticipation of a possible default by New
York City.
Claims are made that because of New York City's troubles, other municipal-
ities will have grave difficulty selling their bonds. I know that this troubles
many thoughtful citizens.
But the New York City record of bad financial management is unique among
municipalities throughout the United States. Other communities have a solid
reputation for living within their means. In recent days and weeks, other local
governments have gone to investors with clean records of fiscal responsibility
and have had no difficulty raising funds.
1731
