[631]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, I have heard some comments up on the Hill, the House and the Senate,
that it can't be done. Having spent 25 years there, I know it can be done if there
is a will.
I am familiar enough with the parliamentary procedures to know first it has
been done. People say, who don't want to do it, that you can't put a spending
limitation and provide for a tax reduction at the same time.
The facts are there was a combination of a tax bill and a spending limitation
twice within the last 10 years. It was done because it was needed-back in 1967
it was done and again in 1968. So, I have no sympathy for those who say it can't
be done, Congress can't do it.
The facts are it was done. The facts are they can do it. And the facts are they
should do it because the American people are demanding this kind of equity
as to taxes and this kind of responsible action as far as the expenditure of your
tax moneys are concerned.
Let me just add one further comment. We have undertaken an effort to try
and get Government out of business in a responsible way. We think there is
overregulation by the Federal Government-and that includes the executive
branch of the Federal Government, it includes the so-called independent regula-
tory agencies.
I had a check made the other day, and the Office of Management and Budget
came up and told me that there were something like 5,200 forms sent out by all
Federal agencies requiring that businessmen file this and report that. I couldn't
believe it. And I have ordered the Office of Management and Budget to tell every
department and every agency in the Federal Government they had to find a
way to get along with fewer. And I have given them a target, and a year from
now we are going to have fewer of those forms, and I hope simpler ones.
In the process of analyzing these 5,200 forms that the American people have to
fill out, they came up with this astounding figure-that if these forms are filled
out as required by law, businessmen and others would spend nearly 130 million
manhours to complete them each year. It is unbelievable, and I don't think in
total they justify that kind of extra work on behalf of our society.
But what we are really trying to do in the months ahead—and I hope the
Congress will cooperate-is, one, to get a responsible handle on the growth of
Federal spending; at the same time, to develop some greater equity in our tax
laws and a stimulant for the long-range growth of this country; and at the same
time, to give our system a better opportunity to work with less and less unneces-
sary Federal regulation.
Let me conclude with just this final observation: We have gone through in the
1710
