[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
program. I think, for the time being, we have got to do a little more in-depth
study before we commit ourselves to any program of that kind.
CONSUMER PROTECTION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, it is a real pleasure having you here in Seattle with
us today. My name is Ken Bostock. I am representing the Washington Commit-
tee on Consumer Interest. Recently in a widely reported speech before the Hard-
ware Manufacturers Association in Chicago, you promised to get government
out of their business, their lives, their pocketbooks, and their hair. [Laughter]
Now, this same theme has been echoed throughout the day by your staff and
Cabinet members. Now, virtually everyone agrees with that laudable goal, even
consumer advocates. Unfortunately from our perception, too many times the
perpetrator of unnecessarily restrictive governmental regulations is not con-
sumers, rather it is a business, an industry, or a profession that seeks to limit the
ability of others to enter the marketplace and compete with them.
Well, my question to you is: It has been reported in the news media that you
intend to veto the legislation creating the Agency for Consumer Protection when
it reaches your desk. First, is that true, and secondly, if so, given the best efforts
of previous administrations to accomplish this same goal and the continuing
failure of Federal agencies to lessen these regulatory burdens, why are you
rejecting this opportunity for instituting significant regulatory reform?
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to veto the bill. I've so indicated that to the House
and Senate. I am going to veto it for several reasons. One, it fits into the category
of no new programs. Secondly, it would, under the legislation as it has been
introduced—would cost, over a 2- or 3-year period, just for administrative costs,
$60 million. Thirdly, I think there is a better answer to the adequate protection
of consumer interests as far as the Federal Government is concerned.
All the Cabinet members here as well as their associates in the Cabinet know
that Virginia Knauer, who is the White House consumer head, has gone to every
department and sat down with the Secretary and his staff saying, "What are you
doing in your department to protect consumer interests?" And in some instances
we have found that Cabinet officers or their departments weren't doing enough
and were doing a lousy job. Virginia has my full support to make sure that
departments perform.
I think that is the way to do it rather than to establish a separate agency that, in
my judgment, is unnecessary and is costly. And I prefer the approach that I out-
lined, because I think it can work and it is better and it will do the job without
the establishment of another bureaucracy, another layer. It is not that we don't
1316
