August 1
[459]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But those principles, though they are still being perfected, remain the guid-
ing lights of an American policy. And the American people are still dedicated,
as they were then, to a decent respect for the opinions of mankind and to life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for all peoples everywhere.
To our fellow participants in this Conference: My presence here symbolizes
my country's vital interest in Europe's future. Our future is bound with yours.
Our economic well-being, as well as our security, is linked increasingly with
yours. The distance of geography is bridged by our common heritage and our
common destiny. The United States, therefore, intends to participate fully in the
affairs of Europe and in turning the results of this Conference into a living
reality.
To America's allies: We in the West must vigorously pursue the course upon
which we have embarked together, reinforced by one another's strength and
mutual confidence. Stability in Europe requires equilibrium in Europe. There-
fore, I assure you that my country will continue to be a concerned and reliable
partner. Our partnership is far more than a matter of formal agreements. It is a
reflection of beliefs, traditions, and ties that are of deep significance to the
American people. We are proud that these values are expressed in this document.
To the countries of the East: The United States considers that the principles on
which this Conference has agreed are a part of the great heritage of European
civilization, which we all hold in trust for all mankind. To my country, they are
not cliches or empty phrases. We take this work and these words very seriously.
We will spare no effort to ease tensions and to solve problems between us. But
it is important that you recognize the deep devotion of the American people and
their Government to human rights and fundamental freedoms and thus to the
pledges that this Conference has made regarding the freer movement of people,
ideas, information.
In building a political relationship between East and West, we face many
challenges.
Berlin has a special significance. It has been a flashpoint of confrontation in
the past; it can provide an example of peaceful settlement in the future. The
United States regards it as a test of détente and of the principles of this Confer-
ence. We welcome the fact that, subject to Four-Power rights and responsibili-
ties, the results of CSCE apply to Berlin as they do throughout Europe.
Military stability in Europe has kept the peace. While maintaining that
stability, it is now time to reduce substantially the high levels of military forces
on both sides. Negotiations now underway in Vienna on mutual and balanced
1079
