October 10
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
us 60 days and we will pass it," and then they said, "A few more months and we
will pass something, another few months." It has been 9 months, and they
haven't passed an energy bill. Apparently, they can't do it.
After I announced the $28 billion tax reduction and a $28 billion cutback in
the growth of Federal spending, all I heard from Congress was, "We can't do it.
The rules of the Congress won't permit us to do it."
And then they had a lot of other alibis. Well, their plaintive plea was, "We
can't do it." Now I cited, as you know, Mr. Barnes, last night two instances—
one in 1967, one in 1968-where those Congresses did do it. And all they have
to do is go back and look at the history books, the Congressional Record, and
they will find it can be done. And I hasten to add, and very seriously, this
Congress is called, or was called, a reform Congress. They reformed a lot of
other rules.
Now, it would seem to me to satisfy the legitimate desires of the American
people that they get a $28 billion tax reduction and get a reduction in the
growth of Federal spending, that this Congress of 535 elected people ought to
find a way in the parliamentary situation to respond to the desires of the
American people. It takes a little imagination. It takes a little effort. Instead
of whining and whimpering, as Ron Nessen said, they ought to get out there
and do the job.
Q. Is that a slogan you are going to be using though, about a "Can't Do
Congress"? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as soon as they pass a tax reduction of $28 billion and a
reduction in spending growth of $28 billion, we will stop using the term.
SCHOOL BUSING
[17.] Q. Mr. President, the name is Mitch Kehetian of the Macomb Daily.
In our county and in counties across this State and Nation, again we have local
elections coming up next month. And again the local candidates are talking
about forced busing. Others say it is rhetoric. But just several weeks ago you
yourself reaffirmed your position opposed to forced busing.
We hear it in Congress, we hear it on Capitol Hill, we hear it in Lansing, we
hear it in Macomb County, Oakland County, yet the buses keep rolling and the
judges keep ordering more buses. Could you tell me what I can go back and
tell our readers in Macomb County as to what the truth is on the question of
busing? Is it rhetoric, or are they coming?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have a Constitution, and the courts have the obli-
gation to interpret the Constitution. And the Court, back in 1954, made the
1667
