November 3
[655]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
New York City. This current fiscal year, the budget for New York City is $12.2
or $12.3 billion. The Federal Government taxpayers from all over this country
contribute 25 percent of that—over $3 billion. So, the Federal Government has
been very generous in its help and assistance over the years with the city of New
York.
Now, I have said that if necessary, after default, that the Federal Government
would find a way in conjunction with the court to provide essential services—
fire, police, emergency hospital actions. I think that is essential to maintain the
proper atmosphere in New York City. But I do not think that we should go in
with a so-called bailout.
Now, you know, New York City has 8 million wonderful people, but they
have been the victims of public officials who haven't been forthright with them
over the years, and we have to find a mechanism to straighten out their sad fiscal
affairs.
I believe my recommendation is the way to do it. It involves no Federal fund-
ing, if the right actions are taken by the city and the State. It involves the poten-
tial of some Federal assistance through the court, if necessary, for fire, police, and
so forth.
Q. A lot of those 8 million persons, sir, are voters.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have to-in this case it is so fundamental-look
beyond any political consequences. This is a very fundamental issue, and I am
trying to do what is right-right for the people of New York City, for whom I
have nothing but great sympathy and compassion, and at the same time, pre-
clude the encouragement of other local units of government of being as irre-
sponsible as the case has been in New York City. So, we will not only have New
York City but we will have 10 or 15 other communities. That is the real danger.
Then, if I might come back to this point, supposing we bail out New York
City as some are recommending? Then you have a flood of other communities
that have equal problems. In the final analysis, who is going to bail out the
United States?
Q. Mr. President, at least one columnist thinks there is a great deal of hypoc-
risy in talking about money management in New York City. He points to the
fact that there are a great many Federal programs that are as equally irre-
sponsible and equally high spending. He sees a bit of divisiveness between
criticizing New York on one hand and being part of a Federal Establishment
that has spent up to the hilt on the other hand.
THE PRESIDENT. I couldn't agree with you more. And if you go back to my
State of the Union Message in January of 1975, you will find that I said that
1785
