[562]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
solutions will not come overnight. And you are far more knowledgeable in
those areas than myself.
Action must be taken now to spur the search for new sources. Research and
development are critical elements in any proposed national energy program.
We are spending, as George Mahon knows, in a variety of ways and in the so-
called exotic fuel areas, better than $2 billion a year—solar, geothermal, et cetera.
But in the next few years, we will have to rely on our most readily obtainable
domestic energy sources—and what are they? Oil, natural gas, and coal—if we
are going to meet our energy needs.
Natural gas is one of the most environmentally acceptable forms of energy.
But despite the many pluses of natural gas—and they are wonderful by any
standard—the history of the Federal Government's policy toward this valuable
asset has been a very sorry one.
Over the past 20 years, the Federal Power Commission, as required by Con-
gressional legislation, has kept interstate prices at an artificially low level, and
that has seriously hampered exploration and development.
I think—and I say this quietly, but with firmness and determination—we
must stop Federal regulation of prices on new gas for interstate use.
There are approximately 16 States in the Union that are potentially going
to have a serious economic disruption this winter. You can take New Jersey,
North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Michigan, Ohio, et cetera.
Because of the shortsighted policies of the Congress over the last 20 years, we
could have not only a shortage in natural gas in those areas but the economic
consequences in jobs will be extremely serious. And the negligence of the Con-
gress over this last few years in not recognizing that problem is inexcusable.
I hope we can move on some emergency legislation, but we cannot ignore
the need and necessity for a permanent solution. Natural gas deregulation, it is
obvious, is a high priority goal of myself and the Administration.
I think solving the energy problem goes back to some of our basic American
principles. We must put back into our economic system some of our old-
fashioned incentives that took us from 13 poor struggling colonies to a Nation
of 50 States with unbelievable economic power and progress.
The profit incentive—the search for a better life-populated this continent.
It brought thousands of pioneers to west Texas-men and women willing to
risk all to find a livelihood on the land or in the land.
We should ask ourselves: What has made America unique? The explanations
are as varied as the Nation itself, but I am convinced that one key to America's
1432
