[526]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Secondly, they are highly skilled technicians. They are nonmilitary, and
they will operate in the U.N. zone with roughly 7 to 8,000 U.N. military
personnel.
Now they are, under these circumstances, a contribution to peace, and they
are not vulnerable as our early technicians were, or military personnel were
when we sent them to Vietnam. There was a war going on. The North Viet-
namese didn't want our military personnel in there. This is a totally different
situation. Both sides in a period of peace want American civilians to be there
surrounded by U.N. peacekeeping forces, and this is added insurance for the
maintenance of peace in that important area of the world.
Let me quickly turn to another subject. We have an opportunity later this
year, possibly, to put a firm cap on strategic arms. It was my privilege last
November and December to meet in Vladivostok with Secretary Brezhnev, and
we made a broad agreement to put a cap on strategic arms-they having to cut
back and we having to level off. Now, we anticipate further negotiations some-
time in the next several months-hopefully, the possibility for an agreement.
I think the prospects are encouraging, and if we are successful, it will be pos-
sible for us to have a more economical military budget and still have American
security and still be second to none.
On the other hand, if we don't get a strategic arms agreement, SALT II,
there will be no choice on my part except to ask the Congress for another $2
billion in funds for additional strategic arms; because if there is no cap agreed to
between the Soviet Union and the United States, and they go off-as they have
a capability of doing, of increasing their ballistic missiles, increasing their high-
performance manned aircraft, and increasing their submarine construction and
their other strategic arms—if they go off as they have a capability, the United
States can't sit idly by.
But the choice is a better one—to put a cap on that can be monitored and
where you have an opportunity to control it.
The United States, I can assure you, is going to be strong domestically in
energy and our economy. The United States is going to be strong internationally.
We will be a leader for peace in the future as we have in the past. But to do
that, we must be strong at home and capable in our national security program.
Your great State makes a contribution in so many ways, not only in the leader-
ship of your Governor but in the products that you produce, whether on the
farm or in the factory.
I thank you for your help. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:14 p.m. in the Georgian Room at the Olympic Hotel.
1304
