[574]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
But as Bill has said and all of you I am sure know, her interests are far
broader than that in civic and community affairs. Her generosity is extremely
well known. As she indicated, she has a very deep commitment to not only
Pepperdine as an institution but to the students here at Pepperdine. And that
covers, again, many, many things that she does that are not too well known.
She has a little special fund that helps deserving and needy and fine students.
I am told that Margaret, on many occasions—to a civic function, to a com-
munity activity, wherever people come in from the outside-she will support
it and make sure that the younger people participate. The emphasis on youth,
I think, has helped to keep Margaret just as youthful and attractive as she is
today.
This beautiful house is a great tribute to her real deep interest in Pepperdine,
and I can't imagine a nicer couple and family than Bill and Gay and their four
fine sons being the first occupants and establishing a great precedent as a family.
And may I just close because I am going to talk a little later and I don't want
to preempt here what I might say down there.
But I have, of course, had an opportunity to look into what Pepperdine stands
for. It stands for excellence in education and anything that is related to excel-
lence—whether it is in the arts or in athletics, in business, professions, I whole-
heartedly support—and Pepperdine, in the field of education, does represent that
high standard.
And the 8,000-some students who attend here, some at this campus and some
at the other campuses, are likewise getting the benefit of not only excellence but
great leadership.
I thank you all very, very much for coming, and it is a pleasure to participate,
Margaret, in these dedication ceremonies. And both Betty and I are delighted
to see you again, and we thank you for your help to this great school.
Thank you very, very much.
[The President spoke at 11:07 a.m. at Brock House. Following his remarks, he proceeded
to Firestone Fieldhouse for a meeting with student leaders and dedication ceremonies for
the fieldhouse. The President spoke at 12:03 p.m. at the ceremonies as follows:]
Dr. Bill Banowsky, Ambassador and Mrs. Firestone, distinguished academic
delegates, special guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Today, you have conferred upon me the honorary degree of doctor of laws
and granted me the status of an honorary alumnus of Pepperdine University.
Obviously, these honors are very deeply appreciated, and I am equally grateful
for the especially warm welcome here in southern California.
1470
