November 14
[678]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and a lot of citizens up there want a representative from Georgia on the Board of
Directors?
THE PRESIDENT. If Mr. Hooper is not confirmed for the TVA Board mem-
bership, I will certainly consider qualified individuals from any of the States
that are affected by TVA, including Georgia.
PERSONNEL CHANGES IN THE ADMINISTRATION
[18.] Q. John Patrick, TV-5 News Scene, WAGA-TV. Mr. President, Time
magazine this week was highly critical of your dismissals of Messrs. Schlesinger
and Colby, labeling it bad management and subverting morale in many Govern-
ment departments. Do you consider having your own team more important than
the effect of another high-level change in your Administration ?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the changes that I made, or have recommended, are
constructive. I was pleased yesterday that the Senate Committee on Armed
Services voted 16 to nothing to approve Don Rumsfeld as Secretary of Defense.
I think that is a good indication that he is a highly qualified man and will do a
good job. I think George Bush will do the same in the CIA. I believe that Elliot
Richardson later, when he replaces Rogers Morton, will be a highly qualified
and a good appointee. I think these are all constructive, and I respectfully dis-
agree with the conclusions as you state them.
Q. Mr. President, do you plan any other changes in your Administration very
soon?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any Cabinet changes in mind. I think it is fairly
well set.
But I would like to clarify one thing. Again, up in Raleigh, I was asked a
question by one of the students relating to the Cabinet, and I said it was set. And
then somebody raised a question, well, does this preclude Carla Hills, Bill Cole-
man, Ed Levi, and others from maybe being considered for a United States
Supreme Court appointment.
I want to clarify it by saying that if I nominated any one of those three, I would
think it was a promotion. So, it is in a different category than asking someone
to resign from the Cabinet. That would be a promotion, and I would not say
that I am precluding them from being considered for a Supreme Court
appointment.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[19.] Q. Mr. President, Charles Hayslett, with the Journal. Your remarks of
a few moments ago suggested a healthy respect for Governor Wallace's political
1875
