August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
502
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the White
House Conference on Domestic and Economic Affairs in
Milwaukee. August 25, 1975
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
Thank you very, very much, Bill. Mr. Watson, Mr. Schmitt, the heads of other
organizations that have cooperated so wonderfully in setting up this White
House Conference, Congressman Bob Kasten, distinguished members of my
Administration, and ladies and gentlemen:
[1.] I have been a part of the Federal Government now for some 26 years,
and it saddens me to see the ever-widening communication gap between Wash-
ington and our fellow Americans.
I believe the despair among many, many Americans is over the difficulty that
they have in making their wishes best known to the people that they com-
municate to in Washington. And this difficulty, I think, can best be summed
up on the envelope of a letter I recently received. It was plaintively addressed to
President Gerald Ford or Vice President Nelson Rockefeller or Secretary of
State Henry Kissinger or just plain anybody who will listen. [Laughter]
Well, as you have seen during today, I, along with other key members of
the Cabinet and the staff, have come here to listen. We have kept the speeches
to a minimum and, hopefully, our responsiveness to a maximum.
With the reputation you in Wisconsin have for hard work and keen tech-
nical know-how, I look forward to your questions, your concerns, your ideas
about the future of our country. But first let me very briefly touch on some of
the basic directions I believe our Nation can and should take in the months
and years ahead.
Obviously, the economy is one of our principal concerns. Gradually, step by
step, the American free enterprise economy has created over the years a better
life for more people than any other system in the world. Yet in the past year, we
have seen it pass through some very difficult times. Recession on the one hand,
inflation on the other, have strained the economic security of millions and mil-
lions of Americans.
Some of the causes of our economic difficulties were beyond our control.
International development prompted the skyrocketing oil prices. Others were
the result of government activity, such as inflationary spending at the Federal
1225
