November 14
[678]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But there is a long way to go. We have it on paper, they have promised, but
we don't have any action at the present time.
THE SUPREME COURT
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am Bill Cotterell with United Press International.
Sir, what qualities are you looking for in a Supreme Court Justice? How much
have you narrowed down the list, and does it include any Democrats, women,
Southerners, or, sir, members of your Cabinet? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I am looking for the best person-the best person qualified.
We have a preliminary list that the Attorney General has put together. I have
asked a number of people to suggest names, and a number of people have made
such suggestions. They are being communicated to the Attorney General. He
will consult with the bar. Their observations will certainly be considered by me.
The list could be quite comprehensive, but until it is submitted to me as a firm
list by the Attorney General after this consultation process, I can't make any
determination who will be on it and who won't be on it. But we are trying to
expedite it, because it is vitally important that the vacancy on the Court be filled
as quickly as possible.
Q. How quickly do you think you can do it?
THE PRESIDENT. I hesitate to put a deadline, but I can assure you we are
trying to maximize the speed, because the Court does need a full nine-member
membership. They have some very serious cases coming before it. And I would
hope that within 3 weeks at the most we would have some name submitted to
the United States Senate.
SENATOR EDWARD BROOKE
[5.] Q. Katherine Johnston, Associated Press. Mr. President, you said today
in North Carolina that you would consider the possibility of Senator Edward
Brooke running as your Vice-Presidential mate in 1976. Do you consider Brooke
a serious contender, and would a black enhance your chances of winning the
election?
THE PRESIDENT. I was asked a question by one of the students at North Caro-
lina Central University, was there anyone in a minority group who I would
consider. And I readily said Senator Edward Brooke, a man of experience,
integrity, and certainly an outstanding Member of the United States Senate.
I don't rule out anyone. The field is wide open since the Vice President with-
drew. At the proper time, I will make a specific recommendation. I am simply
saying that Senator Brooke is certainly a person, among many others, who ought
to be considered.
1869
