August 19
[496]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
let me be sure, some of the actions of individual locals or even in some cases
my friends' actions by the national AFL-CIO. But we have no plans at this time
for any legislation along the lines you are suggesting.
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Eldon E. Witt. I am the executive secre-
tary of the Illinois Association FFA. In Illinois, we are proud of the progress
that vocational education has made, and I must admit that some of us registered
some disappointment with the veto of [H.R.] 5901. Now, my question is this-
THE PRESIDENT. 5901-I don't remember the numbers of all of these, the names
of all of these. What is 5901?
Q. This is a bill, a vocational education funding appropriation. And I am
asking now, are you aware of the language of House bill 17304, which is a new
vocational education bill getting us away from this continuing resolution. And
is vocational education a high enough priority at the national level to warrant
support of this bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, until I have read the language of the bill-and I nor-
mally only read the language of the proposed laws that come down to me—
I can't make any honest, in conscience, make any commitment.
I can tell you this, however, that I think the record of this Administration in
supporting education, including vocational education, is a good one.
As a matter of fact, in the education recommendations in the budget for fiscal
1976, which is the year that began this July, there is a considerable amount
more in funding recommended than in the previous fiscal year.
I am concerned about education, but in the multitude of requests for money
that come from a tremendous number of good causes, and the availability of
our country's resources in taxes or in borrowing, somebody—and unfortunately
in my case it is me--I have to somehow weave in the proper relationship and
the proper priorities.
But I can tell you from my own personal history in the Congress and other-
wise, we will do as well as we possibly can for vocational education.
THE PRESIDENT. Won't you all sit down just a minute? They have asked me
to sum up with another minute or two.
I thank you, and I think it is obvious to you I have enjoyed this stimulating
and informative session. I have tried to gather that these are two-way confer-
ences; two-fold is one way to put it, two-way communication another.
1197
