[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
MINORITY BUSINESS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Edward Bolton. I am representing the
Milwaukee Business Federation. We appreciate the problems facing minority
business are similar in kind to those facing big business. However, we are
acutely aware operationally that there is a significant and severe difference in
degree. In management, the legacy of unequal and marginal opportunity has
left us with limited skills and experience to face a business climate and tasks
that require an above-average capacity.
Today's economic conditions more acutely affect minority business than it
does the general business sector. Still, we are the last to experience economic
upturns and the first to feel the severely critical impact of shortages.
In regulatory areas, we have retained several specialists to complete the paper-
work who also get theirs off the top, and most of the time it seems the rest
goes to the IRS.
We are somewhat aware, Mr. President, of the existence of Federal aid and
support programs for minority business, but as a rule in the past have not been
involved in planning, policymaking, or program decisions.
A quasi-poll of our membership indicates that a majority of business persons
are not familiar with the major Federal programs for minority business, and
of the one-digit percentage that did respond positively, a majority indicated
inadequate results.
My question, Mr. President, is: What is your Administration planning to do
to stabilize and develop minority business and to mend this communication
gap between the Federal administration and the actual minority business
community?
The President. The minority business effort is in the Department of Com-
merce, as I recollect. My impression is that it has done a good job under difficult
circumstances. Rog Morton-I will consult with him tomorrow to see why it
isn't doing better. [Laughter] So, I can assure you that we recognize it is a tough
area to take people who are not necessarily trained in business management,
to give them an opportunity to undertake an enterprise on their own. We have
to help them with money, with business management techniques, sales, et
cetera.
I have had some experience when I was representing the district over in
Michigan, and I saw some sad examples of people who were gotten into busi-
ness and not carefully guided, as they had to meet the payroll, the tax burdens,
et cetera. If we are not doing a good job there, we will do our utmost to improve
it.
1232
