[667]
November 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
faithful"—semper fidelis—to the cause of freedom. Let us pray that that same
proud motto "Always faithful”—may always be the mark of each and every
one of us, now and forever.
I salute you all and all Marines everywhere on your 200th birthday.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:31 a.m. at the
Marine Corps War Memorial. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Gen. Louis H. Wilson, USMC,
Commandant of the Marine Corps, William P. Cle-
ments, Jr., Deputy Secretary of Defense (Acting
Secretary), J. William Middendorf II, Secretary of
the Navy, Rene Gagnon, a participant in the flag-
raising at Iwo Jima, and Felix deWeldon, sculptor
of the monument.
668
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate on Designation of Developing Countries for Purposes
of the Generalized System of Preferences.
November 11, 1975
[Dated November 10, 1975. Released November 11, 1975]
IN accordance with the requirements of Section 502(a) (1) of the Trade Act
of 1974, I hereby notify the House of Representatives (Senate) of my intention
to designate additional beneficiary developing countries and territories for pur-
poses of the Generalized System of Preference (the "GSP") provided for in title
V of the Trade Act of 1974. This is to be done by amending Executive Order
11844, of March 24, 1975 (enclosed at Tab A), in the manner described below.
The following countries and territories are to be added to the lists of desig-
nated GSP beneficiaries set forth in section 1 of E.O. 11844:
Cyprus
Hong Kong
Israel
Romania
Somalia
Turkey
Christmas Island (Australia)
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
My intention to designate each of the countries and territories as GSP bene-
ficiaries reflects the following considerations:
a. The expressions of their desires to be designated as beneficiaries;
b. Their levels of economic development, including their per capita gross
national products, their general living standards as measured by levels of
health, nutrition, education, housing, and their degrees of industrialization;
c. Whether or not other major developed countries are extending generalized
preferential tariff treatment to them;
1840
