September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
support protecting consumer interests, but we think there is a better way to do
it rather than a new bureaucracy.
REGULATORY REFORM
[13.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Bob Polachek, and I am here represent-
ing the Washington Bankers Association. In his remarks, Mr. Seidman, I be-
lieve, mentioned that the executive branch would be taking a hard look at the
effectiveness of all the regulations, particularly those that have been laid on
business and industry in recent years, as to their real public benefits versus cost.
We see more rather than less regulation in the immediate future. What is
actually being done at the executive level to address this problem realistically?
The President. I don't deny that the trend has been for more regulation
rather than less. We have initiated efforts to work with regulatory agencies to
get them to knock out some of the regulations that have been in effect that are
no longer necessary, that are obsolete or obsolescent. This is going to be, un-
fortunately, a slow process.
One thing that is forgotten—and I will bet that 99 percent of the regulations
that are in effect are mandated by Congressional action and are included in
statutory law. I just know that is true. So, one of the problems we have is to get
Congress to modify existing law or to rescind present law.
I am not saying that we can't make any improvement. I think we can. But
we are hamstrung unless we get Congressional support.
Now, in order to get this action going, I had a meeting with all of the perti-
nent committee heads and their minority counterparts about a month or two
ago. They are as interested as we are. And I believe the White House, working
with the Congressional committee leadership, can get some laws amended or
laws rescinded, and then we can really start knocking out some of these un-
necessary, obsolete, obsolescent regulations. We are going to try, I can tell you
that.
OCEANOGRAPHIC PROGRAMS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I am John Murray. I am president of the Wash-
ington Newspaper Publishers Association. Incidentally, I am number 13 on
the program. If anybody thinks this was a put-up job, I have had to change my
question three times. [Laughter] I also serve as chairman of the Oceanographic
Commission of the State of Washington.
My question-which I just wrote, so I know you don't know it-does the
Administration have any specific plan to aid or promote oceanographic pro-
1317
