August 30
[509]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I recognize, of course, that New England does rely more heavily on imported
fuel than any other region of the country and that your regional economy feels
the effect of energy disruptions more rapidly and even more severely than in
any other.
You know as well as Bill and Dave, better than our neighbors in other areas
of the country, the importance, the absolute necessity of achieving energy in-
dependence for America. We cannot tolerate being vulnerable to outside
national interests over which we have no influence. Energy must be developed
internally. Energy must be developed from our own natural resources so that
America is invulnerable to foreign sources.
And you also know that energy is absolutely essential, not just for running
the machines of industry but for fueling the whole economy of this region as well
as the Nation. I think all of you fully recognize that a healthy economy means
more jobs for more people, one of the principal concerns of me as well as Bill
and Dave and the Congress.
You know the danger of being at the mercy of some force beyond our control.
And in this case, in energy, it is the Middle East, the OPEC nations.
I think you understand firsthand the inconvenience, the uncertainty, even the
suffering that that kind of a situation can create, where somebody can turn a
spigot off in the Middle East and we could be in dire trouble.
And you also know the system—if I might change the subject—that the
system of checks and balances which this Nation's founders wrote into the Con-
stitution 200 years ago wasn't designed as a roadblock to progress.
When I said a year ago that I wanted a good marriage with the Congress, I
meant it, and I still believe it. But a good marriage requires the best efforts of
both partners to make it work. It requires compromise, it requires moderation in
meeting the problems and the challenges in a marriage or in the relationship
between the White House and Capitol Hill.
I must say that so far I have seen little compromise and less moderation in
the policies and the legislative proposals of the Democratic Congress that was
sworn in, in January of this year.
What we as a nation need—and I say this with the deepest sincerity and the
strongest conviction that I have—what we need is more of the politics of coopera-
tion, not the politics of confrontation. What we need is to carve out solutions so
that our problems can be solved. We shouldn't confront just to get political
issues for partisan purposes.
It is my judgment that the American people want action, not debate, not
delay. They want a responsive Government committed to responsible progress.
1257
