[630]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the Republican Party. And now that he has the top job in the Republican
Party, or the top chair, I should say, in the Republican Party in Connecticut, Fred
tells me, and I think it is obvious, he isn't going to be doing much sitting on it in
the next 18 months.
Fred, it is obvious you are going to make 1976 a good year for our candidates
and for the philosophy that we stand for. But in addition, you are going to get a
great deal of help from your outstanding vice chairman, Jeanne Nelson, and
from the rest of those of you who are active participants either in the party or-
ganization in getting out the vote or in raising the money. And it seems to me
that with all of this talent here, you have the nucleus for a very broad-scale
victory in 1976.
I was very pleased and very proud to have an opportunity to sit next to, talk
with an old friend and an old colleague, a Senator of great strength, courage,
and wisdom-Lowell Weicker. It was my privilege and real pleasure to serve
with him in the House of Representatives and to have a few months where I was
presiding in the Senate. I know firsthand that he serves you with great distinc-
tion, and I hope and trust that the people of this fine State make certain that
Lowell Weicker is returned for 6 more years in 1976.
Having served 25-plus years in the House of Representatives, I know the kind
that come who will stay and serve well and the kind that come and have prob-
lems and don't stay very long. And in Stew McKinney and Ron Sarasin you have
the kind of Representatives in the House who do a superb job for all of those
in their respective Congressional districts, who are respected on both sides of the
aisle, who seem to attract attention from their colleagues because of their
capability, because of their service in doing a job not only for the district and
the State but the country. And so I say to you, send Ron and Stew back but add a
few, will you, in 1976?
Although I never had the privilege of serving in a State legislature, I know
from many, many experiences with State legislators all over the country and a
few opportunities to speak to a State legislature or two, that this is really one
of the most important functions or operations in our government. And I hope
and trust that after the disastrous year of 1974 that you in Connecticut will see
to it that you gain or regain control in your State legislature in 1976.
A couple of weeks ago I was honored to have a number of your mayoralty
candidates come down to the White House, and Shirley¹ was among them.
And I talked to them about the election that is coming up in not too many
weeks. I happen to believe that the foundation of a firm, strong political party
1 Shirley Scott, Republican candidate for mayor of Hartford.
1700
