[725]
December 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
tain our excellent record in air safety. Therefore, I am requesting a report from
you summarizing the circumstances surrounding these incidents and identifying
the steps that are being taken to avoid similar problems in the future.
This matter merits immediate attention, particularly as we enter the holiday
season when air travel will be heavy.
GERALD R. FORD
726
Statement on Signing a Bill Designating a National Forest Area
in Colorado as the Flat Tops Wilderness.
December 13, 1975
I HAVE approved S. 267, which designates a 235,230-acre Flat Tops Wilderness
within the Routt and White River National Forests of Colorado.
The Congress and the executive branch have worked together during the
past 11 years to augment the National Wilderness Preservation System estab-
lished by the Wilderness Act of 1964. The System, now including more than
12 million acres, shows that much progress has been made in securing for all
Americans the benefit of an enduring resource of wilderness. Last year, in two
separate messages, I proposed a total of 52 new additions which, if accepted by
the Congress, would add about 15 million acres to the Wilderness System.
Although I have signed S. 267, it should be noted that the bill designates an
area some 93,000 acres larger than the approximately 142,000-acre wilderness
proposed by President Johnson in 1968. Furthermore, it illustrates three concerns
of mine regarding the designation of wilderness within the National Forest
System.
First, the Administration has strongly and consistently urged the Congress
not to designate National Forest areas as wilderness where the evidence of man's
activity is clearly apparent. The Flat Tops Wilderness, nevertheless, includes
some constructed reservoirs, partially constructed roads, and private lands with
cabins and other improvements.
Second, Administration proposals for National Forest Wildernesses follow
careful study and are designed to assure that the proposed boundaries would, to
the maximum extent possible, follow recognizable natural features and be located
to facilitate protection of the wilderness. The Flat Tops Wilderness boundaries,
in contrast to the Administration's proposal, contain several narrow and deep
boundary indentations that will be difficult to define and manage.
1968
