[501]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
MRS. FORD
[10.] Q. Mr. President, there have been many things written and said across
the country and here in Milwaukee about some recent viewpoints expressed by
Mrs. Ford.¹ You are quoted as saying that you think perhaps those remarks may
have cost you some votes or something. What kind of an effect has that had,
sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, those remarks to which you refer, I said kidding her.
She's got a good sense of humor, and she understood that my remarks were in
that atmosphere.
Let me just again put this in proper perspective. Our family-my wife, our
four children, and myself—are very close. We have a tradition in the family of
individual members of the family speaking their mind, discussing matters with
their children, with their mother or father, and we speaking quite frankly to
our children.
The family is closely knit. We have great affection and admiration for one
another, and certainly I couldn't have had a finer marriage. My wife and I
have been married almost 27 years now, I guess, and we have a minimum of
differences, but we have a frank expression between ourselves.
Now, what Betty was really trying to say was, because of the closeness of
our family and the understanding between children and parents, we are deeply
concerned about the moral standards by which the family has been raised.
In that atmosphere, her discussions with any one of the four children are
aimed at making sure-positive—that the moral standards that we have lived
by and believe in are adhered to.
I think there unfortunately has been a misunderstanding. We are proud of
the family. We think we have a high moral standard within the family. And
we are close as a family, and at the same time, we have a give-and-take among
the children as well as among ourselves.
So, I am real proud of what Betty tried to say, and I regret there might have
been some misunderstanding of what she did say.
TELEVISION INTERVIEWS
[11.] Q. This is the first appearance that you have made on local television
in this kind of an interview, and one of your aides is quoted in the Wall Street
Journal as saying you are doing this because you are dynamite on television.
[Laughter] Do you feel you are dynamite?
¹ Mrs. Ford's remarks were made on the August 16, 1975, broadcast of CBS News' "60 Minutes."
1222
