[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
grams such as fish farming, ocean mining, and other new economic uses of
oceanographic resources?
THE PRESIDENT. I know in general we do have such a program. It is under the
control and jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce. Rog Morton can give
you the specifics, but we have a program. It probably ought to be expanded,
because the potential in the seas is really unbelievable.
Many people think there is a greater potential for society on a global basis in
the sea than there is in the atmosphere. So, I suspect there will be pressure,
increasing pressure to expand that particular program.
SECRETARY MORTON. There will be.
THE PRESIDENT. Rog just says because I said that he is going to recommend
more. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to particularly point out that
Puget Sound is a great place to start. [Laughter]
CLEAN AIR ACT
[15.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Bruce McPhaden. I am the regional vice
president of Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation, located in Spokane,
Washington, in the beautiful, warm, sunny, eastern part of this great State of
ours.
THE PRESIDENT. You couldn't do any better than you had today right in
Seattle. [Laughter]
Q. Come to Spokane.
My company operates three major plants in the state of Washington, with
total employment of approximately 3,500 people. Our company is one of seven
major aluminum companies located in the Northwest representing approxi-
mately one-third of the domestic aluminium industry. Today, I am repre-
senting the Association of Washington Business, of which I am a director.
Like you, Mr. President, and your distinguished Administration, business
and industry in the Northwest has been concerned about three fundamental
problems: One, getting our economy moving again and people back to work,
but doing so without further inflation; two, solving our serious energy problem
so that we can continue to have reliable and low-cost power essential to the
health of our economy and financial system; and three, making the best use
of our limited capital to improve productivity to better compete and produce
jobs.
We have been pleased to note that your Administration has recognized the
1318
