November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
unemployment in the neighborhood of 8 percent or 7 percent or 6½ percent
for years? Isn't there an argument for the Government to do something about
providing jobs?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been very proud of the attitude and feelings of the
American people who have been, unfortunately, unemployed. They have shown
great restraint and understanding. In order to help them, we have extended
unemployment benefits, as I indicated earlier, to 65 weeks. We have done a
number of other things to help people over this unfortunate situation in which
they find themselves.
I believe that this excellent attitude that the American people who have been
unemployed is a reflection of the strength of our people and the faith that they
will have. And if we move up in employment as we have—we have 1,800,000
more people gainfully employed today than we had 6 months ago—there is a
growing optimism.
Now, the unemployment figures we have today are far too high, but the trend
is right and this gives encouragement, I think, to people who understand there
is no quick fix. And some of the programs that are aimed to solve this problem
would lead us into the same trap we have had before-short-term benefits and
long-term losses. And the American people are smarter today than they ever
have been in knowing that those kind of programs are not right for the country.
MR. MONROE. Mr. President, have you had a chance since you have been
President to sit down and talk with persons who are unemployed?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had a few individually, and from time to time I have
been at these White House Conferences around the country, some 10, where
individuals who represent the unemployed have been able to ask me questions
and to solicit answers. So, in effect, I have had a communication with either
individuals in a limited number of cases or with those that represent them. So,
I think I have gotten their views and gotten an understanding of their problem.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Reston.
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
[24.] MR. RESTON. Mr. President, in the early days of the Republic, the
American people took great chances on young men in the Presidency. Now
here we are looking at '76 and most of the leading candidates are old geezers
like me, in their sixties. Now we seem to have misplaced a generation here some-
where. Is the system out of phase? What explains this?
THE PRESIDENT. I think age is a state of mind and, obviously, a state of health.
I am in the early sixties. I feel as vigorous mentally and physically as I ever have
1835
