[518]
September 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:39 a.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Sheraton-Park Hotel at the opening
session of the annual meetings of the International
Monetary Fund, International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development (World Bank), International
Development Association, and the International
Finance Corporation.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
W. Lawrence Hebbard, Secretary of the IMF,
Gumersindo Rodriguez, chairman of the annual
meetings, Robert S. McNamara, President of the
IBRD, and H. Johannes Witteveen, Managing Di-
rector of the IMF.
519
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Trademark
Registration Treaty. September 3, 1975
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to its ratifica-
tion, I transmit herewith the Trademark Registration Treaty, signed at Vienna,
Austria, on June 12, 1973, together with the Regulations under the Trademark
Registration Treaty. I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report
of the Department of State with respect to the Treaty.
The Trademark Registration Treaty will establish an international trademark
filing arrangement, through which persons and companies residing in one of
the member States can more easily register trademarks (including service marks,
and collective and certification marks) and maintain these property rights in all
of the member States.
Separate actions in approximately 150 jurisdictions (i.e. States, possessions,
territories, etc.) are now required of United States companies in order to extend
the protection of a trademark throughout the world. The complexity and high
cost of establishing and protecting trademarks in international markets through
the diverse national laws and procedures is a serious problem for international
business concerns.
This Treaty would alleviate these problems by establishing a uniform inter-
national registration procedure through which national trademark registration
effects in the member countries may be secured, maintained and renewed on a
central international register of marks. With a few exceptions, the effects of
international registration are subject to the substantive legal requirements of the
participating States.
One of the exceptions is that for the first three years after the filing date of the
application for registration, no member State may refuse trademark protection
on grounds that the mark has not been used during that period. Because of this
provision, and others of lesser importance, it is necessary, in order to implement
the Treaty, that our national trademark law ("Trademark Act of 1946, As
1290
