September 22
[581]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
having publicly demonstrated certain mistaken intelligence assessments on
the likelihood of a breakout of war between the Arabs and Israel in 1967. I am
wondering if you intend to facilitate this committee's further investigation
along these lines.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me make several comments, and then I will try to
answer the precise question.
In the first instance, you must understand that all of the intelligence agencies—
the CIA and the others have responded to the Pike committee's request for
classified information. There has been no reluctance on our part to give to
that committee all of the requested intelligence information, and I think they
recognize that.
I can assure you of a second point-that under no circumstances will there
be any action by me or people working with me to use the classification process
to prevent the exposure of alleged or actual criminal action by any Federal
authority.
Secondly, there will be no action by myself or my associates to classify so that
we protect errors, mistakes that were made over the last 28 years since the CIA
was established by law.
The real problem is not their having this classified information. The prob-
lem is how they have to use it for the legislative purpose for which the commit-
tee was established. Since they have all of the information, it is not automatically
necessary that they make it public. They can examine it in committee, and
they can determine from such an examination all of the information that is
needed for the legislative purpose for which the committee was established.
I have no reluctance at all, if we could just put a circle around the United
States and give 214 million Americans all of the material as to sources of intel-
ligence, techniques of intelligence, procedures of intelligence. I would have no
reluctance whatsoever, if we could confine it to 214 million Americans. But I
just don't think that is very practical. [Laughter]
Some of this information is so sensitive that a few years ago the Congress
passed a law saying that any communications intelligence—that is a very tech-
nical term, but it is very significant-if divulged by any individual—it excepted
Congress, and it should, and I am not alleging they are violating the law—but
that kind of intelligence, its source, its techniques, its procedures, was made a
serious criminal offense by Congress itself. And it is the judgment of a number
of the technically qualified people in the intelligence area that there was an
error made in the release of some information out of the stacks of classified
1507
