September 9
[537]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
537
Remarks on Vetoing a Bill To Extend Domestic Oil
Price Controls. September 9, 1975
I HAVE today vetoed S. 1849, which would have extended for 6 months price
controls on domestic oil. So there is no question in the minds of the American
people and the Congress, let me tell you why I have taken this action:
-first, to save American jobs;
―second, to protect our future economic stability and our national security;
—third, to assure that this Nation, after months and months of delay, achieves
a comprehensive national energy program for future independence from
foreign suppliers.
Since Federal price controls were placed on domestic oil 4 years ago, Amer-
ica's bill for imported oil has continued to rise from just over $3 billion annually
to more than $25 billion today, an increase of 700 percent. I am talking about
American dollars, your dollars, to pay for foreign oil and for foreign jobs. This
$25 billion could provide more than 1 million jobs for Americans here at home.
Put another way, the average American family today is paying out $350 a year
to foreign oil-producing nations which could and should be spent in this country
to put Americans to work.
If I signed this bill continuing controls, America's start on the road to energy
independence could be delayed indefinitely. I am well aware of the reluctance
of Members of the Congress to face up to such a very difficult problem just as
an election campaign is getting underway.
For more than 8 months, I have tried to get the Members of this Congress
moving on a solution to this urgent problem of national energy independence.
My latest effort at a compromise with the Congress has resulted in nothing more
than this proposed 6-month extension of the existing law, which is no answer at
all to a program of energy independence for the United States.
During the 4 years that Federal control programs have been in operation, con-
trols which Members of Congress now want to extend, the cost of energy to
American consumers has soared, and our dependence on foreign oil has doubled.
Still Congress refuses to enact a national energy program.
If this veto is sustained, I would accept a 45-day extension of controls to pro-
vide time to work with the leaders of the Congress who have again assured me
they will seek an acceptable compromise during this period. If all efforts at
1353
