September 5
[531]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I believe, and believe very, very strongly, that all Americans can take pride
in his—and our Nation's-continued and now successful efforts to bring peace
to an area of the world that has known so little of it in the last quarter century.
But Dr. Kissinger's ability to come up with good answers comes as no sur-
prise to me. In July, when we were in Europe, I visited one of our military bases
in Germany. And during the tour of this military installation, I picked up a
copy of Stars and Stripes, the service newspaper that some of you may have read
while you were in the service or touring in any of our installations on a world-
wide basis.
Well, the next morning, I was looking through it as I was having breakfast
and saw a column about contestants in the Miss Universe contest. On a ques-
tionnaire, they were asked, these beautiful gals, to name the greatest person in
the world today, and 50 percent of the Miss Universe contestants who answered
said Henry Kissinger. [Laughter]
Then I looked very carefully through the rest of the story and couldn't see my
name mentioned at all. [Laughter]
So, I circled the story and asked a staff member to take it down the hall where
we were staying to Secretary Kissinger and to ask Henry-one of my most astute
advisers-why 50 percent of the most beautiful women in the world had voted
for him and I didn't get a slight mention.
Well, the aide walked down the hall, showed the story to Henry, who was
eating breakfast, and repeated my question. For a long while Henry didn't say
anything. He just sort of kept looking at the story and smiling somewhat self-
contented to himself. [Laughter]
So, my aide, who had been waiting for Dr. Kissinger's answer, cleared his
throat and said, "What should I tell the President?" Henry said, "Tell him to
just eat his heart out." [Laughter]
This morning, I have come to California to raise some questions that are
facing this Nation, and I hope you will find some of the answers I will give a
bit more responsive.
An organization such as your own that meets once a year has the tremendous
advantage of perspective. You tend to focus on the long-range sweep, the sweep
of events that are, I believe, fortunate—the long-range sweep rather than the
blur of the moment. Your crystal ball, therefore, is likely to be less clouded.
For example, I recently scanned an issue of the Sacramento Union, dated
September 6, 1974, and it was concerned with last year's Host Breakfast. The
mood was an uncertain one. Feelings about the economy ran all the way from
cautious optimism to alarmed pessimism.
1335
