[420]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
acceptable energy legislation has been sent to my desk. Six months have passed
since my comprehensive energy program was delivered to the Congress.
We cannot stand still or move backwards. We must make progress or the
threat to our economy and American jobs will continue to increase.
I will continue to work for a comprehensive energy program and urge the
Congress and the American people to work with me toward that end.
421
Remarks on Greeting Delegates to the Annual Boys Nation
Convention. July 23, 1975
GOOD MORNING to all of you, and let me thank the head of the American
Legion, who heads the organization that I am proud to have been a member of
since late 1945, even before I got out of military service in World War II, and let
me congratulate all of you who are here at Boys Nation, representing some 48
States and the District of Columbia.
It is nice to have all of you here, those from the Legion and those that are here
because of the Legion. I would be very, very remiss if I didn't speak up very
strongly on behalf of the American Legion.
The post that I belonged to in Grand Rapids, Michigan, I know firsthand has
done a tremendous amount of fine work in the community, helping the less
fortunate, helping in activities for the youth, helping in the community as a
whole. So, I am proud to stand here as a member of the American Legion and
compliment that organization for its long and fine record.
I'd also like to congratulate each of you, who have been selected from your
respective States. I have had the opportunity, on a number of occasions, to speak
to the gathering in my State of Michigan. What an enthusiastic group of young
people. That is the kind of energetic enthusiasm we need in politics. That is the
kind of enthusiasm that is required to make our country an even better place
in which to live.
You are down here and have been here to learn a great deal about our Gov-
ernment. You will learn something about the Congress, the White House, and
hopefully the judiciary. It is a great form of government, but it can only be great
and greater if we get people like yourselves as participants.
You can have an organization chart, you can have a structure, but if you
don't have people that have the right motives and the right kind of enthusiasm
and the right training, it won't work. And all of you, like the others who have
1012
