October 1
[600]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
squandered energy; we squander energy today. And we have to convince people
they should drive less, they should use less energy in their homes, not quite as
cool in the summer or hot in the winter.
We have urged the automotive industry to build automobiles that have a
higher degree of efficiency. And I am glad to report—you may have seen—the
new models, I think, increase the energy use or they will cut back on gasoline to
an average of 13 percent. This is a response which is good.
I couldn't agree with you more, but you know it takes a crisis sometimes to get
people to do what they should.
Q. But we are really in a crisis, are we not?
THE PRESIDENT. We certainly are.
Q. Then what I was trying to find out is, don't you really think a direct appeal
to the people—I think people would sacrifice; I really do.
The President. We have tried it. We have made some headway, obviously,
because the use of energy is down, whether it is gasoline, whether it is heating oil,
whether it is any of the other sources of energy.
But it is not enough, and I continue to urge it, and of course, the increase of
price by the OPEC nations ought to make people more conscious of our vulner-
ability and make Congress more responsive to passing a better—or any—
legislation.
CANDIDACY IN 1976
[15.] Q. Mr. President, in the wake of the recent attacks on your life—in
some cases maybe an alleged attack on your life—has it caused you to take second
thoughts or your family ask you to take second thoughts about running for
reelection, and are there any conditions under which you would not seek reelec-
tion next year?
THE PRESIDENT. I can foresee no circumstances that would preclude me from
seeking election in 1976. My family fully supports my candidacy. They are
enthusiastic about it. My wife thinks I ought to be a little more careful and
cautious as I travel around the country, and she isn't the only one, obviously.
But we are using, I think, greater discretion and prudence, and on the other
hand, for me to sit in Washington and just go through papers, making decisions
when I can do that, and at the same time come to Omaha or to Chicago or other
places, I think it is important.
The American people ought to have an opportunity to see firsthand or to
listen more directly with their President, and we aren't going to let unusual cir-
cumstances deter us from a responsible effort to travel in this country.
1561
