[573]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
a divisive impact on the party. So, competition being good for candidates and
the party, I think, under our system, I see no serious harm in that regard.
Q. More and more people are saying they think it is inevitable that Governor
Reagan will run. Do you share that view?
THE PRESIDENT. I really should not pass judgment on what he will or won't
do. So, since that is a judgment on his part, I think we ought to wait and see.
Q. Mr. President, you suggest the competition would be healthy. Indeed, are
we not seeing some of that competition right now with your concentrated sched-
ule in California?
THE PRESIDENT. I look upon my efforts here as part of the responsibility that
I have as President to talk to groups in the education field, in the labor field, in
other areas—and I also feel it is a part of my responsibility on this trip to help
the party per se, to help get the party strengthened in the responsibility it has for
organization as well as fundraising. There is nothing in this trip that relates to
my candidacy as such.
Q. Mr. President, is there any question in your mind that if you went head-
to-head in the primary in New Hampshire, Florida, other places, that you could
beat him?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't like to forecast what I will do in the political race. I
am confident the policies that we have for the country, the policies that we are
trying to implement domestically and foreign policywise put us in a pretty good
position against any competition within or without the party.
Q. In the event Governor Reagan should defeat you in New Hampshire and
Florida, how serious a blow would that be to your effort to get the nomination?
The President. I don't speculate about defeat. I look at it affirmatively, that
we will do well in any of the primaries, whether New Hampshire, Florida, or
otherwise, just as I feel the policies we are trying to implement for the country
will be favorable, and therefore, we don't analyze what will happen if we don't
do well.
SENATE ELECTION IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
[2.] Q. How do you see the result of the Senatorial race in New Hampshire?
A lot of people will say that it was a rebuke to your policies.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't feel it was, necessarily. The opposition was extremely
well-organized up there. They got out roughly 30,000 more votes for Durkin
than they got in 1974 in November. Strangely enough, Louis Wyman got about
3 or 4 thousand more votes than he got in November. So, it was really an orga-
1462
