[679]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
For 33 out of the last 38 years there have been deficits which have run up
the cost of living and run down the value of your dollars. Under the Democratic
spenders, Congress did achieve some historic firsts. For the first time in history,
the Federal budget topped $100 billion—that was 1962. It doubled to $200 billion
8 years later. It will more than double again to $423 billion this coming fiscal
year unless we put a stop to it.
Let me emphasize that the $28 billion reduction in taxes, which I proposed,
must be accompanied by equally substantial cuts in the growth of Federal
spending. This means the spending ceiling must be $395 billion. And this is
fully adequate to meet both our needs at home as well as abroad.
The big spenders in the Congress don't like my vetoes. But these vetoes have
already saved our taxpayers some $6½ billion. And I will continue to veto
unwise and unnecessary spending bills again and again and again and again—as
long as it saves your money and America's future. If the State of Georgia can
control its budget, there is no darn reason why the United States can't do the
same thing.
What concerns me most is the growth of government without consent, the
increasing encroachment of government into our lives and into our pockets.
And let me emphasize one special point: A government big enough to give us
everything we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we
have.
The time has come for a new rebel yell-a whole nation of rebels yelling—a
whole nation of rebels yelling no, no to big government. But it is not enough just
to be against big government. We must be for, we must favor good government.
And I am concerned about the rate of unemployment in Georgia. We need
new capital investment—that is, what the economists call capital investment.
But I would rather call it job creation. We need to restore confidence. We need
to stimulate business and industry. My Administration is devoted to the full
revival of America's great economic strength at home and in the markets of the
world.
While our economy is reviving, I want to bolster our efforts through coopera-
tion with other industrialized democracies. And I want to join with these
nations in working toward sustained international prosperity.
Tomorrow I will begin a 3-day meeting with the leaders of Britain, France,
Italy, Japan, and West Germany to seek those ends. These countries look to
America for leadership. The United States is reducing its rate of inflation and
moving vigorously out of the recession. But we must work with others to prevent
future problems.
1880
