[552]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
through the Soviet Union in this case or any other case, as far as dealing with
Arab nations.
THE UNITED NATIONS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, if Israel is expelled from the United Nations, would
the United States withdraw, and can you foresee any circumstances that might
prompt the U.S. to withdraw from the U.N.?
The President. I don't expect the United Nations to kick Israel out, and of
course, the United States would vigorously protest and vote against any such
effort on the part of any nation or nations. We believe that the prospects for that
happening have subsided considerably, particularly since the agreement between
Egypt on the one hand and Israel on the other.
If we can continue to have momentum in the Middle East-which I think will
continue—the prospects of Arab nations and other nonaligned nations trying to
kick Israel out becomes less and less.
In other words, the position of Israel in the United Nations becomes stronger
as we keep momentum going for a solution, a long-term solution, to the prob-
lems in the Middle East.
To answer your last question, I foresee no circumstances where the United
States would leave the United Nations. I think it would be a mistake. It is good
for us to be a part of that forum, to have an influence-
Q. You know we have had problems there in the past.
THE PRESIDENT. We have problems in other forums as well. I have always
found the best way to win a game is to play it, not to sit on the sidelines. And
the United States ought to be in the game in the United Nations to protect our
interests. It is a lot better inside than sitting out doing nothing.
Q. Would it be in the interests of the United States to try to arrive at a formula
sometime so that North and South Vietnam could enter the United Nations?
They were vetoed this time because of the connection with Korea. But isn't it
true that the United States continues to have a great interest in that part of the
world, and isn't there a danger that relations with North and South Vietnam
can get into a deep freeze the way China and Cuba did for so many years, to
nobody's advantage?
THE PRESIDENT. We believe in the universality of the United Nations. We
feel that it is in the interest of the world as a whole to have all nations that want
to become a part of the United Nations be members, but the effort of North
and South Vietnam to get in was predicated on their coming in alone.
We felt if North and South Vietnam were to be a part of the United Nations,
1380
