September 26
[588]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
reason for consulting the International Court of Jus-
tice to determine if third party rights exist.
Transitory modus vivendi is ended by defining
the claims of subscribing parts, not by having one
of these become a spokesman for the interests of
third parties which, not having been part of the
initial pact, are not affected by the new one.
We have noted with satisfaction that the need for
a consensus in international relations is now being
discussed. This is also our policy. This consensus
may seek to maintain the status quo or to help to
bring about a new order. We don't believe that under
the present circumstances the first of these alterna-
tives could be conceded. At present, countries which
only 5, 10, or 15 years ago were politically de-
pendent, now have their own seats at the bargaining
table. They come either on their own behalf or on
behalf of other countries afflicted by similar
problems.
Is there anything improper in the emergence of
this new bargaining power? Colombia does not have
atomic weapons, exportable fuel supplies, or large
stockpiles of grain to enter national negotiations.
Yet we are not surprised when nations that dispose
of such assets such as these, use them to increase
their bargaining position.
Certain historical similarities exist between the
postwar era in which we live and the period of
reconstruction of Europe after the Napoleonic wars.
The French Emperor had been at war with a
coalition of powers dissimilar in their ideologies,
populations, economic and military strength. Two
European statesmen brought forth different view-
points in their attempt to build a lasting peace.
Whereas Metternich endeavored to maintain the
status quo through the "Holy Alliance," Canning
moved in the direction of change by recognizing
the independence of the newly created Latin Ameri-
can republics and their right to self-determination.
Am I wrong in assuming that the great turn we
are seeing in American foreign policy leans towards
Canning's philosophy? His experience of liberaliza-
tion didn't turn out to be so unfortunate. Its after-
math coincided with the Victorian Era which
marked the epitome of the influence of the British
Empire.
On the other hand, the Austrian Empire, soon
after Metternich was gone, became the sick man of
Europe. And his policy of the spheres of influence
and balance of power began to crack down, giving
way to the coming crisis.
Mr. President, the whole world, and America in
particular, is eager to see whether the great powers
are willing to undertake or accept new initiatives
without freezing past injustices under the name of
peace.
Colombia, with its modest resources, is ready to
support the United States in sponsoring changes
and in acknowledging new realities. Let's preserve
what is worth being preserved, and let's recognize
that obsolescence of what has to be replaced. For
these we claim our rights, but at the same time, we
are ready to undertake our responsibilities and our
commitments.
A toast for the prosperity of the United States,
Mr. President and Mrs. Ford.
588
Statement on the Death of Bob Considine.
September 26, 1975
BOB CONSIDINE was a great reporter, whose beat was literally the world.
His perceptive reporting and the quality of his writing made him a great news-
man. His personal integrity and courage, his gentle good humor, and his out-
standing character made him a great person. He will be missed.
Mrs. Ford joins in this expression of sympathy to Bob's wife, Millie, and to
his family. In words Bob was fond of quoting: "May the angels lead thee into
paradise and may the martyrs receive thee at thy coming."
NOTE: Mr. Considine, a reporter with Hearst Newspapers, wrote the syndicated column "On the Line."
1529
