August 19
[493]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Chuck Slocum. I talked to Chuck, as he indicated, after he was selected, and
it is wonderful to meet him here today. He is a young man with energy, talent,
plenty of talent to spare, and no time to waste. I know he will do as fine a job
and good a job as Bob Brown did before him.
Now, if I could tick off what I think about these three gentlemen in the
back here [laughter]—I'm only going to tell you the good things I know
about them. [Laughter]
Of course, Al Quie has been one of my long-time and dearest friends in the
Congress, and he is a great Member of the House of Representatives. Bill
Frenzel, a fine, fine, upstanding, effective Member of the House of Representa-
tives, who has done—and I am sure will do—a great job. And of course, Tom,
a newcomer, but I have had some experience in seeing newcomers. Some come
and some go, but I can feel in Tom that he is the kind of a person that is going
to stay there a long time and do a good job.
I see among the group here today a number of your Republican State legis-
lators from around the State, and I had the privilege of meeting many of them
just before I came in here. They are the foundation of the Republican Party.
The only problem you have is you need more and we need more in the State
legislature after the next election. Let's be sure that happens.
Grassroots Republicans have traditionally been the real strength of the Re-
publican Party. I don't care whether it is in Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, or
elsewhere, we as candidates can't get elected without the help and assistance
of people like yourself at the grassroots level.
And I am convinced, as I see this group here, as I saw a great group in Iowa
last night, that the Republican Party is on the upbeat, the upswing, and I just
thank you for being among those who started when our fortunes were low and
our prospects were bleak. You had enough dedication to principle, enough dedi-
cation to what is good for the country to start when things looked bad and are
willing to work as hard as you have and be successful as evidenced by being
here.
People in Minnesota, from my experience, are known for your pioneering
spirit, your taste for a real challenge, and your ability to excel in a wide range
of endeavors.
After talking with a number of your Members of Congress over a period of
time, I know that you here in Minnesota are known as somewhat independent-
minded, and I am convinced that this year and next the Republican Party can
appeal to the independent-minded voter here in Minnesota and across the
country.
1179
