November 26
[695]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
budgets, and increased borrowing, threaten to bring about municipal bank-
ruptcy of an unprecedented magnitude.
As you know, I have been steadfastly opposed to any Federal help for New
York City which would permit them to avoid responsibility for managing their
own affairs. I will not allow the taxpayers of other States and cities to pay the
price of New York's past political errors. It is important to all of us that the
fiscal integrity of New York City be restored and that the personal security of
8 million Americans in New York City be fully assured.
It has always been my hope that the leaders of New York, when the chips
were down, face up to their responsibilities and take the tough decisions that
the facts of the situation require. That is still my hope, and I must say that it is
much, much closer to reality today than it was last spring.
I have, quite frankly, been surprised that they have come as far as they have.
I doubted that they would act unless ordered to do so by a Federal court. Only
in the last month, after I made it clear that New York would have to solve its
fundamental financial problems without the help of the Federal taxpayer, has
there been a concerted effort to put the finances of the city and the State on a
sound basis. They have today informed me of the specifics of New York's self-
help program.
This includes: Meaningful spending cuts have been approved to reduce the
cost of running the city. Two, more than $200 million in new taxes have been
voted. Three, payments to the city's noteholders will be postponed and interest
payments will be reduced through the passage of legislation by New York
State. Four, banks and other large institutions will have agreed to wait to collect
on their loans and to accept lower interest rates. Five, for the first time in years
members of municipal unions will be required to bear part of the cost of pension
contributions and other reforms will be made in union pension plans. Six, the
city pension system is to provide additional loans up to $2.5 billion to the city.
All of these steps, adding up to $4 billion, are part of an effort to provide
financing and to bring the city's budget into balance by the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 1977.
Only a few months ago we were told that all of these reforms were impossible
and could not be accomplished by New York alone. Today they are being done.
This is a realistic program. I want to commend all of those involved in New
York City and New York State for their constructive efforts to date. I have been
closely watching their progress in meeting their problem.
However, in the next few months New York will lack enough funds to
cover its day-to-day operating expenses. This problem is caused by the city
1903
