[718]
December 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
An important beginning has been made in the past sixty days toward the
elusive goal of a peaceful, equitable, and enduring Cyprus solution. In the days
ahead, I believe our efforts will bring results if we continue to have the support
and understanding of the Congress. I intend to review with you in subsequent
reports the progress that has been made in the common quest to restore peace
and stability to the island of Cyprus.
The White House,
December 8, 1975.
719
GERALD R. FORD
Letter to the Speaker of the House and Senate Committee
Chairmen Recommending Economic and Military
Assistance for Greece. December 8, 1975
PURSUANT to Section 2(b)(2) of P.L. 94–104, I am pleased to submit to the
Congress my recommendations for economic and military assistance to Greece
for fiscal year 1976.
The bonds between the United States and Greece have historically been close
and deep. Both countries were linked together as allies in World War II. They
later cooperated in defeating the communist guerrilla movement in Greece in
the late 1940's. Subsequently, Greece sent a military force to Korea to assist the
United Nations' effort against the communist aggression. In 1952, Greece joined
NATO. The bonds between our two nations are not only political, but ethical
and cultural as well. The peoples of Greece and the United States cherish a com-
mon heritage and a common belief in freedom and human dignity.
My Administration has worked with the new Greek Government in this
spirit of friendship and alliance to identify areas in which we might be of assist-
ance and, thereby, advance our common interests. Following consultations with
the Greek Government, we began consideration of a program aimed at assisting
Greece economically. We supported increased financial assistance for Greece at
the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. For fiscal year 1975, we also
raised the level of military credit assistance to Greece from $71 million to $86
million. In addition, to increase the amount of Export-Import Bank lending
to Greece, the Bank Chairman visited Athens last spring to discuss with Greek
businessmen and officials ways in which Greece could take better advantage of
1960
