September 12
[552]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT'S SCHEDULE
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you seem to be doing more than just meeting the
American people, though. You are actually campaigning at a breakneck speed,
with the election still 14 months away. You seem to be campaigning as if it is
going to happen next week. Why are you doing that? Are you afraid of Ronald
Reagan as a possible rival? I'd like to ask you, also, if you think this is a wise
use of your time when there are so many problems of government bearing on
you?
THE PRESIDENT. I will answer the last question first. I work a minimum of 12
hours a day, and usually it is 14, and the odd times that I take out to come to St.
Louis, to New Hampshire, do not in any way whatsoever interfere with the con-
ducting of White House business by me as President.
I have an excellent staff. They prepare the options for me to make decisions. I
have ample time to read and to study. So, when I come to St. Louis, or Kansas
City, where I am going, or New Hampshire yesterday, it in no way whatsoever
interferes with the responsibilities I have, which are the highest, of being Presi-
dent of the United States.
Now, I don't consider coming to St. Louis a campaign effort. I didn't go to
New Hampshire yesterday for myself. I went there for the purpose of trying to
elect a Republican candidate for the United States Senate.
Governor Reagan had been there the night before. That was not for me, but
for him or for our party's candidate. So, any personal campaigning has been
minimal. The aim and objective of coming here is to appear on this program,
to attend a White House Conference, to help the Republican Party in Missouri
and Kansas City. I don't consider it a personal campaign effort.
RONALD REAGAN
[3.] Q. Mr. Dudman also asked you another question, and that is regarding
Mr. Reagan and your possible fear of his candidacy.
THE PRESIDENT. Julius, I like competition in the political arena. Governor
Reagan has not announced as a candidate yet. He has indicated either personally
or through one of this representatives that he may sometime in November.
Governor Reagan was a fine Governor of the State of California. Until he
announces his candidacy, I am assuming that I am the only Republican candi-
date, and I will welcome any competition. I love it.
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
[4.] Q. Mr. President, with the seeming inability of government to solve
the Nation's critical problems-oil, energy, the economy, growing Federal
1375
