October 29
[645]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The ones who would be most affected by this course of action would be those
who are now fighting tooth and nail to protect their authority and to protect
their investments-New York City's officials and the city's creditors. The cred-
itors will not be wiped out; how much they will be hurt will depend upon the
future conduct of the city's leaders.
For the people of New York, this plan will mean that essential services will
continue. There may be some temporary inconveniences, but that will be true of
any solution that is adopted.
For the financial community, the default may bring some temporary difficul-
ties, but the repercussions should not be large or longstanding.
Finally, for the people of the United States, this means that they will not be
asked to assume a burden that is not of their own making and should not become
their responsibility. This is a fair and sensible way to proceed.
There is a profound lesson for all Americans in the financial experience of our
biggest and our richest city. Though we are the richest nation, the richest nation
in the world, there is a practical limit to our public bounty, just as there is to New
York City's.
Other cities, other States, as well as the Federal Government, are not immune
to the insidious disease from which New York City is suffering. This sickness is
brought on by years and years of higher spending, higher deficits, more infla-
tion, and more borrowing to pay for higher spending, higher deficits, and so on,
and so on, and so on. It is a progressive disease, and there is no painless cure.
Those who have been treating New York's financial sickness have been pre-
scribing larger and larger doses of the same political stimulant that has proved so
popular and so successful in Washington for so many years.
None of us can point a completely guiltless finger at New York City. None of
us should now derive comfort or pleasure from New York's anguish. But neither
can we let that contagion spread.
As we work with the wonderful people of New York to overcome their
difficulties—and they will-we must never forget what brought this great center
of human civilization to the brink.
If we go on spending more than we have, providing more benefits and more
services than we can pay for, then a day of reckoning will come to Washington
and the whole country just as it has to New York City.
And so, let me conclude with one question of my own: When that day of
reckoning comes, who will bail out the United States of America?
Thank you very much.
1735
