August 30
[509]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in the years ahead. I know that the working men and women of America will be
in the forefront. They have been in the past, they will in the future. We depend
upon them, and we honor them.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 a.m. at the
Augusta Civic Center. The field day program was
sponsored for the benefit of the Pineland Hospital
and Training Center for Retarded Children.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Ben Dorsky, Maine AFL-CIO president.
509
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Luncheon in
Portland, Maine. August 30, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Jack. Bill Cohen, Dave Emery, Mrs. Bickmore,
ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very, very great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity
of participating in this wonderful function today, not only because of the great
crowds you have but the enthusiasm that I detect.
There is a special dividend about traveling to various parts of the country that
I haven't been to too frequently or too recently, in that you see some old and
very dear friends, people that you worked with, people that you have known,
individuals with whom you have a very fine relationship, or did, over a period
of time.
And let me say at this point it's nice to see Bob Hale, who was a real stalwart
oldtimer when I came to the Congress in January of 1949, and who was very
kind and friendly, most helpful. Bob, it's good to see you.
And then, Stan Tupper, who was extremely helpful at a time when I decided
to make a challenge for the Republican leadership in the House of Representa-
tives against some considerable odds. And Stan was extremely helpful. Stan, I
thank you for embarking me on this present course. None of us suspected it,
but you were a very important part in it, and I thank you very much.
And then I have had the opportunity over a period of time and various
incidents and capacities to know two of your fine Governors-Governor Cross
and Governor Reed. And I thank them for the relationship that I had with
them, and I thank them for their contributions to Maine as well as to the
country.
Very few of you know that I came to Maine for some considerable period of
time before some of you were born and had a very wonderful experience here
1253
