December 20
[739]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: On January 27, 1976, the House of Rep-
resentatives voted to override the President's veto.
With the vote in the Senate to override the veto
on January 28, H.R. 8069 was enacted as Public
Law 94-206 (90 Stat. 3).
738
Remarks on Senate Action To Prohibit United States
Assistance to Angola. December 19, 1975
THE SENATE decision to cut off additional funds for Angola is a deep tragedy
for all countries whose security depends upon the United States. Ultimately, it
will profoundly affect the security of our country as well.
How can the United States, the greatest power in the world, take the position
that the Soviet Union can operate with impunity many thousands of miles away
with Cuban troops and massive amounts of military equipment, while we refuse
any assistance to the majority of the local people who ask only for military
equipment to defend themselves?
The issue in Angola is not, never has been, and never will be a question of
the use of U.S. forces. The sole issue is the provision of modest amounts of
assistance to oppose military intervention by two extracontinental powers,
namely the Soviet Union and Cuba.
This abdication of responsibility by a majority of the Senate will have the
gravest consequences for the long-term position of the United States and for
international order in general. A great nation cannot escape its responsibilities.
Responsibilities abandoned today will return as more acute crises tomorrow.
I therefore call upon the Senate to reverse its position before it adjourns.
Failure to do so will, in my judgment, seriously damage the national interest
of the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:58 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
739
The President's News Conference of
December 20, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this morning I spent about 3 hours in the next to last
budget review process with a number of appeals, and tomorrow I expect to spend
approximately 3 hours on the final decisions on the budget. We have a number
1981
