November 20
[689]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
My Administration will propose legislation to prohibit a business enterprise
from using economic means to coerce any person or entity to discriminate
against any U.S. person or entity on the basis of race, color, religion, national
origin, or sex. This would apply to any attempts, for instance, by a foreign
business enterprise, whether governmentally or privately owned, to condition
its contracts upon the exclusion of persons of a particular religion from the
contractor's management or upon the contractor's refusal to deal with American
companies owned or managed by persons of a particular religion.
I am exercising my discretionary authority under the Export Administration
Act to direct the Secretary of Commerce to issue amended regulations to:
(1) prohibit U.S. exporters and related service organizations from answering
or complying in any way with boycott requests that would cause discrimination
against U.S. citizens or firms on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national
origin; and
(2) require related service organizations that become involved in any boycott
request to report such involvement directly to the Department of Commerce.
Related service organizations are defined to include banks, insurers, freight
forwarders, and shipping companies that become involved in any way in a
boycott request related to an export transaction from the U.S.
Responding to an allegation of religious and ethnic discrimination in the
commercial banking community, the Comptroller of the Currency issued a
strong Banking Bulletin to its member National Banks on February 24, 1975.
The Bulletin was prompted by an allegation that a national bank might have
been offered large deposits and loans by an agent of a foreign investor, one of
the conditions for which was that no member of the Jewish faith sit on the
bank's board of directors or control any significant amount of the bank's out-
standing stock. The Bulletin makes it clear that the Comptroller will not tolerate
any practices or policies that are based upon considerations of the race or religious
belief of any customer, stockholder, officer, or director of the bank, and that
such practices or policies are "incompatible with the public service function
of a banking institution in this country."
any
I am informing the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board that the Comptroller's Banking Bulletin reflects the policy of my Admin-
istration, and I encourage them to issue similar policy statements to the financial
institutions within their jurisdictions, urging those institutions to recognize
that compliance with discriminatory conditions directed against any of their
1895
