[626]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
DIRECTOR LYNN. I think that is very hard to do, Mr. President, until we hear
from HEW as to the whole range of what they would propose to stay within
their ceiling.
THE PRESIDENT. We have had a tremendous growth in medical payments by
the Federal Government for the whole range of services, but the precise amount
I think will have to wait until HEW comes back.
DIRECTOR LYNN. Let me just add, if I might, on that, Mr. President, when we
look at the cost per unit of care, in the course of recent years, particularly in the
last
year or two, it bears absolutely no relationship to inflation or any other
indicator we can use. It looks like it is almost uncontrolled. So, just as a total
issue, even apart from this particular issue, when we get to the $395 billion, it is
an area that HEW has to look at very carefully and has been looking at for some
time. This effort, of course, will bring that to a head.
Q. It would require major changes in the law, though, would it not?
THE PRESIDENT. In many instances, yes, it would.
Q. Sir, Secretary Simon and others have mentioned from time to time that
inflation depends on the kind of spending that you do, that certain kinds of
spending cause inflation and some do not. Obviously, if you have a shortage of
something and you spend the increase for production, that does not cause
inflation, and if you spend for things that are in short supply, it does. Has there
been an analysis of that in your proposal so that you take this into account?
THE PRESIDENT. I would defer that to Alan.
CHAIRMAN GREENSPAN. First, let me say that the analyses that have been used
to try to get these different impacts, tend to show that the differences are much
less than a number of people had originally supposed. I think that the differences
between, say, certain types of capital projects and transfer payments are there
unquestionably. But I think it is more important to recognize that the differ-
ences are really quite small, relative to the issue of the size of amounts.
In other words, it is an issue of small moment relative to the total size of the
type of project in the program which the President has announced.
Q. Mr. President, why did you decide to make the additional tax cut effective
January 1 instead of delaying it and tying it to the tax reductions at the begin-
ning of fiscal 1977, October 1?
THE PRESIDENT. That was a decision that I felt was—well, in the first place,
the American people, based on what the various Congressional leaders had
indicated—they were going to get a tax reduction now, a kind of a tax reduction
that I didn't think was the right one. And since I have strong views on what is
a good and fair and equitable tax reduction, I felt it was the proper thing to join
1692
