[574]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Paris, Oxford, and Padua―dating back to the Middle Ages-have a rich heri-
tage as institutions of independent education. America proudly celebrates its
200th birthday next year, but we would have to reach back still another century
to mark the founding of Harvard College in Massachusetts Bay Colony, or
William and Mary in Virginia, or St. John's College in Maryland. Thirteen
other great American universities were founded before the American Revolu-
tion, and all share in the distinguished traditions of private higher education.
Independent schools in the United States exemplify the commitment of their
benefactors to the American free enterprise system and, in a sense, to freedom
itself.
You know and I know that it is the vitality and the competition of free
enterprise that made America great. It is the wealth of the free enterprise that
has done so much to help underdeveloped nations throughout the world. And
it is free enterprise that in the long run will do the most for the underdeveloped
nations of the world and the disadvantaged people throughout this great world.
It is the strength of the free enterprise that has given the greatest challenge to
communism and statism and every other dogma which would crush individual
freedom.
The independent colleges and universities have played a very major role in
America's history. They represent a sound investment in America's future.
Thanks to the vision and dedication and commitment of private citizens and
organizations, there are now more than 1,500 independent colleges and uni-
versities in America, with a combined enrollment of more than 2 million
fortunate students.
Today, as in the past, these institutions serve as a great reservoir of national
leadership in the arts, in the sciences, in law, medicine, religion, and in business,
as well as in the government.
Twenty-four Presidents of the United States were educated in private colleges
and universities in our country, as were 287 Members of the Congress-Senators,
Representatives-serving in the present Congress today.
More than 40 percent of the board chairmen and presidents of the Nation's
100 largest corporations today were educated at independent institutions. The
number of outstanding writers, musicians, judges, teachers, physicians, scien-
tists, ministers, and scholars produced by these institutions is almost beyond
counting.
My own background, as Dr. Banowsky indicated, included two experiences
in higher education: one at the University of Michigan and the other at Yale
University Law School; one public, the other private.
1472
