November 3
[655]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
sonville or Tampa or Miami or anyplace else bail out the bankers who made an
investment with their eyes wide open? I don't think so.
Q. Would there be any protection for the banks?
THE PRESIDENT. It is interesting on that point, because the city of Detroit went
in default in 1933 or 1934. The city of Detroit had lots of obligations out. They
renegotiated the payment period. They renegotiated, as I understand, the inter-
est payments, and the city of Detroit straightened out its fiscal problems,
primarily as a result of the Depression. And the net result was every investor in
Detroit bonds was paid off.
It took a little more time. They got a little less interest, but everybody was
paid off, and I think that is an example of what can be done. It was done in
Detroit in the 1930's, and in other communities, I might add. I am told some in
Florida went through the same problem of the 1920 boom and bust that
followed.
People buy securities on a gamble, on a risk, and there is no reason why the
taxpayers in other parts of the country should bail out those people who made
those investments on their own choice. Nobody forced them to buy anything.
CUBA
[9.] Q. Mr. President, there have been reports that efforts toward détente
with Cuba have been pushed aside until after the Florida primary. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. That is not accurate. The situation in Cuba vis-a-vis the
United States is one where we have repeatedly asserted that the Cuban people
and the American people have had a long history of good relations, and there
is no reason why there should be a permanent rupture of that relationship.
On the other hand, there is no sign yet that the Cuban Government has made
any significant gesture as far as the United States is concerned. As a matter of
fact, I was very upset with the Cuban action where they led the fight, so to
speak, in trying to indicate that Puerto Rico should be independent of the
United States.
I think that was harmful to any betterment of relations between the United
States and Cuba. But I repeat that there is no reason why in the long run there
shouldn't be a resumption of the good rapport between the Cuban people on
the one hand and the American people on the other. But the governmental
problems relate to more serious difficulties.
DRUG SMUGGLING
[10.] Q. Let me touch on one final thing that relates to Florida and its neigh-
bors. The smuggling of drugs into Florida is on the increase, which seems to say
1787
