[678]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE TRUCKING INDUSTRY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, Mike Christenson of the Atlanta Journal. How can
you possibly benefit politically from deregulation of the trucking industry, as
you proposed?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if the trucking industry has been overregulated as far
as the consumer is concerned and they have a competitive advantage over other
forms of transportation, I think some deregulation is called for.
The recommendations made to me, which I submitted to the Congress yester-
day, are carefully thought out. We have not only analyzed what has been done
under the ICC over a period of time, we have consulted with the trucking indus-
try, we have consulted with the labor organizations related to trucking.
We think that this is a bona fide, legitimate area for some deregulation, and I
think it will benefit the consumer. I think it will improve and strengthen the
trucking industry. Therefore, I strongly favor what we have submitted.
Q. Do you think this will help you politically?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it will, because there are elements in the trucking
industry, there are consumers who deal with the trucking industry who are very
supportive of this. So, I think on balance, first, it is right, and if something is
right, I think it is politically beneficial.
THE SUPREME COURT
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Nick Taylor with WXIA-TV in Atlanta. Returning
to the Supreme Court for a moment, what sort of philosophical makeup would
you like to see in the Supreme Court when you fill the seat vacated by Justice
Douglas?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is appropriate to start discussing such charac-
teristics as philosophical views or other criteria that might be used. I want the
best person to fill that vacancy that I can possibly get, and I think it is premature
and unwise to draw a prescription, because everybody then will take a person and
relate it to that prescription. I would rather have the names submitted. I will
analyze them, and I will submit one name. But I think it is unwise to draw up a
prescription at this time.
Q. Would you expect the Court, once your appointment is made, to continue
the moves away from the sort of libertarian attitudes espoused by the Warren
Court?
THE PRESIDENT. I have felt that the Court has moved somewhat in a direction
that I approve in the last several years, yes.
1870
