[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
EDUCATIONAL FUNDING
[11.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Father John Raynor, president of Mar-
quette University here in Milwaukee. Recent events have substantiated com-
ments that you made at the 1974 commencement at the Ohio University when
you said, “Our goal of quality education is on a collision course with the
escalating demands for the public dollar.”
Your recent veto of the education bill was accompanied by a statement that you
supported educational funding, but that national economic and budget condi-
tions precluded your acceptance of the size of the appropriations being rec-
ommended by Congress.
My question is: In light of your directives to Federal agencies to solve the
problem between educational needs and adequate funding-this question is
two-fold—has your Administration examined new funding policies, that would
it be possible? Secondly, is it likely that the Federal Government once again will
study broader entitlement programs such as voucher systems in an attempt to
expand equality of access to education at all levels?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, Father Raynor, that if I recall precisely the
budget that I submitted for education, primary as well as secondary, and higher
education for fiscal 1976, it was a higher figure overall, in each case above the
corresponding figure for the preceding year, is that correct? I am almost certain
that is correct.
Now, that may not be enough in the minds of the prospective beneficiaries,
but I think it does show a recognition that we know you have had higher costs,
at either the higher education level or the primary and secondary level.
Now, the Congress—and I know how they operate, I was there for a few
years-[laughter]-they have been under pressure to increase beyond what I
proposed. It seems to me that what they have appropriated is far more than can
be justified under our Federal budgetary restraints we have at the present
time.
I might add, in a postscript way, our experience on vetoes in the past, this
past few months, has been that the Congress sends down a piece of legislation
that in dollars is either too much or in other ways does not coincide with some
views we have. By vetoing it and getting those vetoes sustained, it means that
the Congress has another opportunity to look at whether they did the right
thing or the wrong thing when they sent the bill down in the first place.
The veto is a constitutional authority given to a President. It is not a nega-
tive, it is an affirmative authority. In every instance where there has been a veto
sustained, we have had further negotiation with the Congress, and the net result
1234
