September 4
[530]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
incident were very difficult. But there are many others. There are just a lot of
them. It's kind of hard to pick out the ones that are the toughest, but it is a
challenge and I think it is a great opportunity for me to have that opportunity
to face up to those problems.
Q. Mr. President, do you feel Congress will approve Secretary of State
Kissinger's Mideast peace program? And if they don't, what course of action
do you plan to insure peace in the Middle East?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very confident that the Congress will approve the role
and responsibility that I have recommended we—the United States-undertake
in relationship to that agreement between Israel and Egypt. I am confident the
Congress will do it, and I will be surprised if it is not an overwhelming support.
Because I believe the Congress will act affirmatively, I don't think it will be
necessary for me to, as President, to face up to what I will do if they reject it.
I only will add this, that if the Congress does not affirmatively approve our
responsibilities in relationship to this agreement, then the Congress has to face
up to the alternative, which is a very great, a far greater possibility of war in the
Middle East. So, I think the Congress will opt for helping to maintain peace
rather than risking the dangers of a war in the Middle East.
Q. Mr. President, how come you don't have telethons for people who have
sickle cell?
The President. Would you repeat that, please, I couldn't hear it.
Q. How come you don't have telethons for people who have sickle cell?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Tyler, as I understand the question, it is why don't we
have telethons for people who have sickle cell anemia, is that right?
Q. Yeah.
The President. Well, the telethons, Tyler, that are held are usually generated
by individuals or organizations. Now, I know a little bit about sickle cell anemia,
because in my hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan, there was a great deal
of research done in a hospital. A very outstanding scientist and doctor was one
of the leaders in working on the problem not only in Grand Rapids but in
Detroit. It is a serious disease and there is an increasing emphasis in the Federal
Government and also in various parts of the country in trying to find an
answer to it.
It is my opinion that as more cases are discovered and there is more publicity
to the tragedy of it, you will find a broadening organization, and once you get
such an organization you will have a telethon develop. And I hope there will
be one.
Q. Mr. Ford, were you ever a Cub Scout?
1333
