September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
because we had a strike last fall-but in a normal year we have been using
roughly 600 million tons of coal a year. Our energy program over the next 10
years aims at increasing coal utilization from 600 million tons a year to 1,200
million tons.
Now, in order to do that, we have to take some affirmative actions to get con-
version from oil-burning utilities to coal-burning utilities. The reason for that
is that we have about a 300-year, as I recollect, supply of coal in the United
States, and we are rapidly running out of domestic crude oil production in the
United States.
It is going down every year. So, we want to get conversion. We want to,
through research and development, develop new ways to use coal more effi-
ciently, more economically, more environmentally acceptable, and we are spend-
ing, as I recollect, about $100 million in research and development on better
utilization of coal.
I think it is in our national interest. It helps us become less vulnerable to
foreign oil sources. It is a domestic product that, if we mine it here, the money
stays here, but if we don't mine it here and buy more foreign oil, our money
and jobs-they go overseas. We have too much of that now with the kind of
prices we are paying for overseas oil and the dependence we are getting.
So, I can simply assure you through conversion, through research, through
a number of other efforts, we are going to become more and more dependent
on American coal and less dependent on foreign oil sources.
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Thompson, publisher of the Post-Intelligencer
here. This is sort of the second half of a question that was asked earlier. Public
opinion polls tell us that there is a disenchantment of citizens, if you will, about
public institutions and public officials. I would think as President of the United
States you would be disturbed by that. I guess the question is, philosophically,
how can we restore the confidence of the people in their government?
THE PRESIDENT. I have watched those polls. I am disturbed by what I see. It
is not only a lack of confidence in the Federal Government, but I think it is
broader than that. If that attitude prevails, I think it erodes the capability of
government to do its job, public officials to effectively achieve what they have
to do.
It is my opinion that, at the Federal level—and I would not want to comment
beyond that, because I have never served in local office-it seems to me that
whether you are in the White House or in Congress, the person holding office
1311
