[600]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
that way than to come out and say, yes, we are going to do it as a hardline bar-
gaining principle. We can use it effectively, and we have and will.
SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE BUTZ
[6.] Q. Mr. President, you voiced your support for Secretary Butz and
pointed to his support among the farm community. There has been some con-
cern among farm people in connection with that, that the Secretary has not been
sufficiently involved in these grain negotiations as compared to State Depart-
ment people. What input does Secretary Butz have?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a grain subcommittee of the Economic Policy
Board, and on at least three occasions where I have attended those meetings,
Secretary Butz has been present, and I have had several meetings with him
personally.
I can assure you that Secretary Butz is an affirmative spokesman for agricul-
ture in these areas. On the other hand, he does recognize that we have to look at
it in the long range, and I am sure that when the results of these negotiations
are published, Secretary Butz' part in it will be a big plus for agriculture as well
as for the department.
Q. As a follow-up on that, if I may, a large grain exporter in the upper
Midwest the other day contended that a mid-October lifting of the moratorium
on the grain shipments will come too late, that the Russians will have gone
elsewhere. Is this being taken into consideration in your planning?
THE PRESIDENT. It certainly is. We keep a daily check on world grain sup-
plies. And from our point of view, fortunately, we are about the only grain
supplier left in the world. And if anybody really wants to buy sizable amounts
of grain in the future in 1975, they will have to come to the United States.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am told that 100 years ago today President Grant
visited Omaha. I don't have a question related to that, but I thought you would
like to know that.
The President. That is interesting. And as you all know, I was born in
Omaha-not quite 100 years ago. [Laughter]
Q. My question is this: You have adopted Vice President Rockefeller's plan
for an energy independence authority, which involves about $100 billion over a
10-year period. Now, this is a mammoth Federal intervention in the capital
marketplace, which is the exact opposite, really, of what you have always said—
as a governmental policy, you wanted hands off. Now, does this mean you have
1556
