December 8
[720]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
In July of this year at our meeting in Helsinki, I discussed with Prime Minister
Demirel my continuing deep concern about the ravages of drug abuse and the
need to suppress diversion of opiates into illicit channels. Prime Minister Demirel
strongly concurred in my views and affirmed his personal commitment to the
prevention of illict diversion of opiates from his country.
On October 29, following enactment of Public Law 94–104, I sent a letter to
the Prime Minister of Turkey urging that already existing discussions between
our two governments on opium poppy controls be intensified in the period ahead.
On November 28, Prime Minister Demirel sent me a very positive response con-
firming his earlier assurance that he fully supports continuing effective poppy
controls and maintaining a dialogue between the two governments on this vital
subject.
Since the passage of Public Law 94-104, discussion and meetings on poppy
controls have been held with Turkish Government officials at many levels.
Ambassador Macomber has reviewed the issue with the Turkish Prime Minister.
Additionally, the Deputy Chief of Mission and the Embassy Narcotics Control
Coordinator have met with the Turkish Foreign Ministry's Director of Narcotics
Control Affairs. The U.S. AID poppy specialist in Ankara has held consultations
with Turkish Soils Product Office and Agriculture Ministry officials in Ankara,
Izmir, and in the poppy growing areas. In addition, the Regional Director of the
Drug Enforcement Administration in Ankara has been in continuing contact
with high Turkish law enforcement officials. Our Ambassador and his staff will
continue these meetings and discussions on poppy controls.
I believe the desire of the Congress that meaningful discussions be conducted
with the Government of Turkey on insuring continued effective poppy controls
have been met by the actions described above.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, the Honorable John L. McClellan,
GERALD R. FORD
chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropria-
tions, and the Honorable John Sparkman, chairman
of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
1963
