August 20
[497]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
497
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Representatives of Wheatgrowers Organizations in
Vail, Colorado. August 20, 1975
THE NATION'S AGRICULTURE
IT IS nice to see you all this morning, and I am delighted you are out here,
along with myself, enjoying some of the opportunities in Vail. I think you
all know how much I like the place, and I hope you do, too.
[1.] Let me just say a word or two about, I think, an extremely important
problem that we have that involves, of course, the farmer, involves the consumer,
and involves, as we all know, the action taken by the AFL-CIO.¹ It also involves
some very important implications as far as American foreign policy is con-
cerned.
My feeling, as far as agriculture was concerned, was expressed pretty fully in
my remarks to people in Iowa at the Iowa State Fair.² I believe that the policy
that we followed of full production for American agriculture is right.
This is a great asset that we have in America, the availability of tremendous
production in wheat, corn, and feed grains, and the American farmers have
responded magnificently in this regard.
We ended up, according to the August estimates, with an increase of about
19 percent of the wheat crop this year over last year, although the August
estimate indicated there was approximately a 2-percent drop from the earlier
forecast.
The corn crop for this year, based on the August estimate, is about 26 percent
above the production of last year. On the other hand, it is about 3 percent less
than what the estimate was of the previous month.
Now, when I was in Iowa, they had a good rain the night before, for which
I took credit. [Laughter] But the net result, according to the agricultural people
that I've talked with, it won't have much of an impact on the production in
Iowa as far as corn is concerned.
Fortunately, however, they indicated to me that the soybean crop would be
the beneficiary. I am no expert, but according to them, they felt that, because
1 The President was referring to an announcement by AFL-CIO President George Meany that the Inter-
national Longshoremen's Union would not load ships with grain sold to the Soviet Union without Adminis-
tration assurances that the sale would not increase food prices for consumers.
2 See Item 490.
1199
