December 20
[739]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
million dollars or more worth of military aid certainly doesn't help the continu-
ation of détente.
Now, I will add another comment. As I said earlier, there are between 4,000
and 6,000 Cuban combat military personnel in Angola. The action of the Cuban
Government in sending combat forces to Angola destroys any opportunity for
improvement in relations with the United States. They have made a choice. It,
in effect, and I mean very literally, has precluded any improvement in relations
with Cuba.
ANGOLA
[9.] Q. Mr. President, do you see any possibility that this matter could be
taken to the United Nations or worked on from the diplomatic standpoint now?
THE PRESIDENT. We certainly intended to try to get diplomatic efforts under-
way and to help in the diplomatic area, but I think our influence in trying to
get a diplomatic solution is severely undercut by the action of the United States
Senate.
Now, there is a meeting in early January of the Organization of African
Union [Unity]—the foreign ministers of that organization. They are meeting
the first week or so in Africa. We hope that they will take some action to let the
Angolans themselves decide this. In addition, there is a meeting later in January
of the heads of government of the OAU. That body, of course, is the one that
could do the most. And I know that there are a number of African States who
have apprehension about a foreign power dominating a country as rich and
potentially strong as Angola. And so I can assure you, to the extent that we
can have any impact in diplomatic areas, we are certainly going to maximize
our efforts. But I repeat that what the Senate did yesterday undercuts very, very
seriously any impact we can have in the diplomatic field.
PRESS SECRETARY NESSEN. Jim Lynn has a lot of tough questions waiting for
you, too.
THE PRESIDENT. Two more.
Q. Mr. President, a couple of months ago there were some efforts by the
Administration to try and warm relations with Cuba-Dr. Kissinger made some
statements, I believe. It is apparent now that at that very time the Cubans had to
be gearing up or knew that they were probably at least considering sending
troops to Angola. Did our intelligence pick up this fact, and was there any cause
and effect? Were we, in effect, trying to persuade them not to participate in
Angola, and were we offering friendship to them in return for their not
participating?
1987
