September 25
[586]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
So, even though it was a hard row for him to hoe, at least he was able to
manufacture and sell it and to collect the bills. Today the onerous burden
placed on comparable business organizations would preclude a person of that
size, a business of that magnitude carrying on. You would have to hire two
bookkeepers and a lawyer and I can't tell you how many other things.
So, what we have got to do is solve the energy problem, solve the problem of
our economy, and in this third century that we are all looking forward to,
the third century of our great country, is to free us as individuals from the
octopus kind of society that has tended to develop-mass government, mass
education, mass industry, mass labor.
We have got to make certain that 214 million people have a restoration of
their privacy and their independence. I think we can do it. With your help it
can be done a lot easier.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:15 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Lester W. Brann, Jr., chairman of
586
the board of directors, and Ronald R. Rumbaugh,
president, American Chamber of Commerce
Executives.
Remarks of Welcome to President Alfonso Lopez Michelsen of
Colombia. September 25, 1975
Mr. President, it is a great pleasure and privilege for me to welcome you to the
United States for this state visit. The President of Colombia, His Excellency Dr.
Alfonso Lopez Michelsen, and his wife, the distinguished First Lady of Colom-
bia, Doña Cecilia:
President Lopez is no stranger to the United States. As a young man he
studied here briefly. Also, I am told he and Mrs. Lopez spent part of their
honeymoon in Williamsburg, Virginia.
During his long and distinguished service in his country, he has frequently
visited the United States in various important official capacities. His election
as President was one of the largest votes in Colombia's history.
It is indeed a great personal pleasure for me to welcome him to the United
States once again. This time the United States honors him as a Chief of State of
Colombia, the first Latin American chief executive I have had the privilege of
welcoming to Washington for a state dinner.
President Lopez represents a nation with a long tradition of democratic gov-
1523
