August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in the next 12 to 14 months, I think it will become more and more evident,
which, of course, gives us an opportunity in the next election to lay that record
out so the public can judge it against any alternative programs submitted by the
opposition.
I don't think there will be any problem in identifying what we have done,
what we have tried to do, and it will be known as a Ford policy or a Ford pro-
gram, so to speak.
MR. AGRONSKY. Let us look back at that first year in the terms that you give,
Mr. President. What would you pick out as the things you have done in this
first year that make it indeed a Ford Presidency, both in domestic and foreign
policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Before getting into foreign and domestic policy, Martin, I
think it is entirely proper to say that I have tried to restore public confidence in
the Government and, particularly, in the Administration, in the executive
branch, in the White House. I don't mean to criticize anybody else, but all the
polls showed that roughly a year ago there had been a great loss of confidence
on the part of the American people in their Government. We, the new Adminis-
tration, with our appointments, with our openness, with our attempt to be frank
and honest with the American people, I think we have turned the corner, and
there is a restored confidence on behalf of the American people in their Gov-
ernment.
Now, let's turn to the policy areas. We inherited a very difficult economic
situation. The rate of inflation was somewhere between 12 and 14 percent, the
highest in a good many years. That was our immediate economic problem, and
we undertook some activities both fiscally and in a monetary sense to correct the
situation. I am glad to report that it is now somewhere between 5 and 6 percent
per annum. That is too high, and we had a little setback the last announcement
on the CPI, the Consumer Price Index.
MR. AGRONSKY. In fact, it indicates it is going to go up 14 percent if it con-
tinues at this rate.
The President. Well, I don't think-that is the new wholesale price figure
that came out this morning. But if you annualize the last 6 months of the
Wholesale Price Index, it shows it is almost zero, because we had 5 months of,
as I recall, negative increases in the Wholesale Price Index. So, I think you have
to look at it in the broad span. We have made significant progress in the field of
inflation, and we are going to continue to do so. It is important. Then, of course,
we were faced in January with a precipitous drop in employment and a tre-
1121
