September 2
[518]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Yesterday in a speech delivered on his behalf at the United Nations, Secretary
Kissinger set forth a wide range of initiatives directed to that purpose. Later
this morning, Secretary Simon will address several of these proposals in this
forum. These new programs, coupled with existing forms of aid with the restora-
tion of a forward momentum in the world economy and with the critically
important efforts of the developing nations to help themselves, should form
the building blocks for a better life for people all around the world.
You meet as representatives of 127 politically independent nations, but also
as representatives of 127 economically interdependent nations. Each nation must
be free to choose its own goals, establish its own priorities, and rely on its own
institutions and traditions. An international economic system which allows each
nation maximum freedom of choice and economic independence is imperative.
Each government must make its own difficult choices about its own problems.
No country can expect the actions of others to resolve its problems, and no
country should follow economic policies designed to solve its economic prob-
lems at the expense of others.
Actions by any of us affect the ability of others to fulfill individual objectives.
We must consult together. We must pull together.
The United States stands ready to work with all nations to strengthen inter-
national mechanisms and international practices which will enable each of us
to pursue domestic goals in harmony with the welfare of others.
In reaching agreement over the weekend on the technically complex and
politically sensitive questions of a major increase in quotas and on phasing gold
out of the monetary system, you have already scored a major breakthrough.
I am confident that in the coming months you will complete the comprehen-
sive agreement—including an accord on exchange rates—that you have started
so well.
As we face current world economic and social problems, there is a temptation
to focus attention on the changes in the division of the existing levels of world
resources and production. But we must all recognize that the problems of equity
and fairness, whether domestic or international, can best and perhaps only be
resolved in a world environment characterized by economic expansion. It is the
restoration of such a world that we must all seek together.
If all the nations act in recognition that their own lasting prosperity requires
the prosperity of others, we can restore international economic growth. You
are here this week to carry on deliberations directed to this end. I welcome you,
and I wish you great success.
Thank you very, very much.
1289
