September 20
[573]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
put back to work, by the end of 1977, with a very tiny increase in inflation. If
that is true, why don't you do it?
THE PRESIDENT. An extra $25 billion to a $61 billion deficit would have serious
ramifications.
Q. Is that study wrong, that Congressional Budget Office study, is that wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. I respectfully disagree. I think there is a better way of ap-
proaching the problem. Of course, their recommendations came out prior to the
announcement on Friday that we had made very significant progress in the
battle against inflation, and I think it is important to point out that in the last
8 months the cost of living has gone up 4.8 percent on an annual basis compared
to a figure for the previous comparable period of an inflation rate of 8.3 or 8.4.
So, the Congressional Budget recommendation for a $25 billion increase in the
deficit, taking it up to $85 or $86 billion, is the wrong approach, predicated on
the facts that were revealed by the Department of Labor on Friday.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
[6.] Q. The Governor of California, among others, thinks that the growing
cost of energy and raw materials, the demands of the poor nations for more of
what we have—all this means that our days of significant economic growth are
over. Do you agree?
THE PRESIDENT. I am an optimist, and I respectfully disagree with the Gov-
ernor that we should predicate our future on a less well-off society than we
have had in the past. We will have certain periods of time where we will pay
more for energy or there will be some energy scarcity, but it doesn't mean that
the United States should expect a period of dismal progress.
I think the United States, if we adopt the right policies, can expect continued
growth in a substantial and constructive way. If we approach it from the pessi-
mistic point of view, I think we are adopting the wrong attitude.
Q. You say "if" we adopt the right policies. Does that suggest that we have
not yet adopted it?
The President. Well, let's take the energy problem. If the Congress doesn't
act for a constructive approach to the energy problem, yes, we will have diffi-
culties. We have been prodding the Congress, pushing the Congress, cooperat-
ing with the Congress, and yet they have done literally nothing.
Fortunately, we may be coming out of it on the right side, even if the Con-
gress doesn't do something, but I would rather do it on a phased decontrol basis
rather than an abrupt end of controls.
1465
