November 7
[664]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
way street, with credible strength of our own and in concert with our allies.
Nor will we be hurried into a bad agreement. Any agreements we reach must
be verifiable.
An essential element to any real arms limitation, whether of strategic systems
or conventional forces, is our intelligence capability. Sweeping attacks and
exposés of intelligence activities jeopardize vital functions necessary to our
national security. I did not take the sacred oath of office to stand by passively
while the intelligence security of the United States is unilaterally dismantled.
I certainly do not condone improper activities or violations of constitutional
rights of Americans by any personnel or by any agency of the Federal Gov-
ernment. On the basis of comprehensive studies by the Rockefeller Commission
and by the Murphy Commission on the conduct of foreign policy and related
matters, I will take administrative action and recommend legislation to the
Congress for whatever must be done to prevent future abuses. But intelligence
in today's world is absolutely essential to our Nation's security-even our
survival.
It may be even more important in peace than in war. Reckless Congressional
action to cripple the effectiveness of our intelligence services in legitimate
operations could be catastrophic. Our potential adversaries and even some of
our friends operate in all intelligence fields with secrecy, skill, and very sub-
stantial resources. I know and you know that what we need is an American
intelligence capacity second to none.
Let me say one time more loud and clear: There is no struggle between the
concepts of defense and détente. We have been pursuing both. But to make
détente succeed, we must have a strong defense. We make the world safer by
both policies. And I will continue, as I know all of you will, to stand for
strength, security, and a safer world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:57 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Sheraton-Boston Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Edward J. King,
664
president, and Frank M. Stotz, chairman of the
board, New England Council.
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Reception of the
Century Club in Boston.
November 7, 1975
LET ME first thank John Sears, and I do want to speak up very affirmatively
about the wonderful efforts of Senator Ed Brooke. And of course, I would be
1815
