September 1
[516]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
SECRETARY KISSINGER. See you Wednesday night.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Thanks, Henry.
PRIME MINISTER RABIN. Hello?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Prime Minister, how are you, sir?
PRIME MINISTER RABIN. I am fine, Mr. President. How are you?
THE PRESIDENT. I am excellent, thank you. I just finished talking with Henry,
and I understand he is coming over to meet with you very shortly for the actual
initialing. Let me congratulate you for the superb efforts that you have made
under most trying circumstances.
I think your role has been one of great statesmanship under terribly difficult
circumstances, and I congratulate you and compliment you on the achievement
of, I think, an outstanding negotiation that has culminated in a document that
will lead to great progress in the Middle East for the benefit of the world as a
whole.
PRIME MINISTER RABIN. Mr. President, thank you very much for your kind
words. It was not an easy decision. They were complicated negotiations, but
we have decided this time to take risks—and I stress "to take risks"-for an
opening for peace.
I hope that what we have decided will set a new pattern in the area, and we
all hope here that the agreement will really lead to both tranquillity in the area
and to bring closer the positions of at least Egypt and Israel.
I would like to thank you very much for the role that you personally, the
United States, and your envoy, Dr. Kissinger, have served in the achievement of
this agreement.
THE PRESIDENT. I thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Let me assure
you that you can count on us to continue to stand with you. We have a close
relationship, and it will continue as we move forward under the basis of this
outstanding agreement.
You have laid a solid foundation with this agreement, in my judgment, on
which we can build for real peace efforts in the future.
PRIME MINISTER RABIN. We all hope for it here, and we really hope that it
will be the beginning of something which we have not yet experienced in this
area, and we hope that the other side, the Egyptian side, feels the same.
THE PRESIDENT. You can rest assured that we will work with you to make
certain that the agreement is carried out, not only in the spirit but in the letter,
1281
