October 1
[600]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
given up on the idea that the oil companies can come up with alternate sources
if you decontrol oil prices?
The President. Well, that authority is primarily for the purpose of under-
taking the financing of the synthetic fuel programs which are new, where there
could be some failure, where there is a certain degree of uncertainty as to
whether they will be productive, whether they will be financially responsible.
You have to have, in my opinion, this kind of authority to get those synthetic
fuel programs underway.
And there are some other areas in addition to synthetic fuels, but it is basically
an instrument like the RFC [Reconstruction Finance Corporation] back in
the '30s and '40s—for example, the synthetic rubber program which was financed
by RFC. This is not an attempt to take over the private financing of ordinary
and regular programs and projects, but it does aim at helping us exploit break-
throughs in the scientific world so that synthetic fuels can be more readily made
available to the public.
Q. I don't think anybody would disagree with that goal, but my question
was more to the point of, won't this really create another huge bureaucracy,
whereas your whole thrust has been to shrink the bureaucracy?
The President. This is an exception. But if you will recall my State of the
Union Message, I said I would advocate no new programs except those related
to energy. So this falls within that exception.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI AGREEMENT
[8.] Q. Mr. President, you have been urging the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee to report out on the Sinai agreements by Friday. What is the rush?
Is Sadat beginning to waver?
THE PRESIDENT. The problem there is that the two parties-Israel and Egypt-
had agreed by, I think, early next week to sign the necessary documents and
start the implementation of the withdrawal and the change of lines and so forth.
Israel has said that it won't start the implementation until the Congress approves
the utilization of up to 200 American technicians.
So, we want it through by the time of the signing so that Israel and Egypt
will both sign. Egypt has already signed, but Israel has this reservation. So,
time is of the essence, so we can get both of those parties to move toward the
actual implementation.
NUCLEAR POWER
[9.] Q. You have said that you would like to see the orderly development of
nuclear power, and this would certainly be a help in gaining our independence
1557
