[460]
August 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I would say the progress was encouraging—and that is also a
word that could be qualified, but it was encouraging.
SO
It is very difficult, these negotiations, where it requires mutual give-and-take,
if we want the end result, which is peace, a reduction of the arms burden, it
requires some understanding on the part of the Soviet Union and its people,
myself and our people. So, when I say "encouraging,” I think we are edging
toward that mutual objective.
Q. By the end of the year?
THE PRESIDENT. Hopefully.
Q. Sir, you say you are sending the technicians to Geneva to complete the
areas of agreement. What about the areas in which you have not yet reached
agreement? What do you do with them?
THE PRESIDENT. It is anticipated that Secretary Kissinger and Foreign Minister
Gromyko will have at least two meetings where the areas of disagreement can
be more clearly refined so that Mr. Brezhnev and myself, when we sit down at a
final meeting, in case there has to be a resolution of the hard and final decisions,
they will be clearcut and understandable.
Q. We have been told in the past of three basic areas of disagreement. One was
verification, one was cruise missiles, and one was the Backfire bomber. Can
you give us a rundown on where now you're making progress and where you
still don't have disagreement?
THE PRESIDENT. Those are very important areas, but I think it would be
unwise for me to try to identify the particular areas of dispute in those instances.
They are very precarious and are crucial points, and this is where Mr. Gromyko
and Dr. Kissinger will try to more fully identify the differing positions and give
us an opportunity, Mr. Brezhnev and myself, to achieve some kind of an honor-
able settlement.
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned the give-and-take of negotiations. At Hel-
sinki, did the Russians demonstrate a willingness to give as much as to take?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think they, by past performance and the discussions of
several days ago as well as today, indicated a forthcoming attitude. They, of
course, have the same problem I have. They have to convince their people, as I
have to convince the American people, that there is an area which is secure for
all of us. So, I would indicate that their attitude was forthcoming within their
limits and responsibilities.
TURKEY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, are you satisfied that if the bases in Turkey remain
closed down that you could still police the SALT I agreement? Are you talking
1082
