[656]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
insisted on the adoption of a program of action for a "new international economic
order" despite the serious reservations of the industrialized nations about its
acceptability and even its workability. Other divisive actions included the invita-
tion by the 29th General Assembly to the Palestine Liberation Organization to
participate as an observer in the work of the organization, the discriminatory
treatment accorded Israel by UNESCO and the improper suspension of South
Africa from participation in the General Assembly. However, by the end of
the year there were signs of a growing awareness of the dangers from confronta-
tion and of a willingness to explore the possibilities of conciliation and com-
promise.
In this 30th anniversary year of the United Nations, the underlying purposes
and principles of the Organization remain as valid as when they were first set
forth in Article 1 of the UN Charter:
-to maintain international peace and security;
-to develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the prin-
ciple of equal rights and self-determination of peoples;
—to achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character;
-to promote respect for human rights; and
-to harmonize the actions of nations.
Despite difficulties, I believe there has been progress toward achieving these
purposes. The United States is seeking to promote cooperation among UN mem-
bers and to discourage confrontation. In our increasingly interdependent world
there is no practical alternative to cooperation, and if the United Nations con-
tinues on a course of confrontation this can only result in the serious weakening
of that body. The United States, for its part, will stand firm in support of the
principles embodied in the United Nations Charter.
The White House,
November 3, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 478-page report is entitled "U.S. Participation in the UN, Report by the President to the Congress
for the Year 1974."
1790
