October 7
[617]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
have equity done to those people down in that middle-income group. And they
have taken it on the chin, and they deserve their fair share.
We have emphasized in recent years taking care of the less well-off. Under the
tax package I have recommended, they are held harmless, they are not taxed
one dime more. Over the years, some people allege that the people more well-off
have gotten the benefits. We don't give them any more.
The people that get the help are those people in the middle-income brackets,
and they are the strength, in my judgment, of our American society.
But I reemphasize for the benefit of some of my friends from the Congress
who are here on both sides of the aisle, if we are going to give this kind of a
meaningful tax reduction, we have to have a dollar-for-dollar reduction in the
growth of Federal expenditures. It is a package or it is nothing, and I ask for your
help to convince your Members of Congress that that is the right thing to do.
One other observation and comment. I am real pleased to be here with all of
you who have such intimate contact with your patients and your fellow citizens.
I am grateful for the help and assistance you gave me over a long period of time.
And I urge you to continue that high level of professionalism, which is so
important in our society.
Excellence is something that we should stimulate our successors to achieve.
You who are here represent that. And this is what we have to have in our
society, individually and collectively, and we have to have as a nation.
Whether it is meeting the problem of expenditures or taxes or energy or foreign
policy, we have to have that kind of vision, that kind of action if we are to justify
the faith that was given to us by our forefathers.
You and I have a mission to justify what they did for us, and we have a respon-
sibility for those that succeed us. Our goals should be high and our efforts should
be maximized—not for us, but to adequately represent what was done before
and to stimulate that what must be done in the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:29 p.m. in the International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
1641
