October 4
[612]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
known both as a House Member and, subsequently, while I was Vice President
and now President.
Cliff, I am most grateful for your help and assistance and understanding.
New Jersey is most fortunate to have you as United States Senator.
Of course, I am delighted to see Millicent Fenwick and Matt Rinaldo here,
who I learned to know in the days that I was a Member of the House. And I am
grateful to them, as all of you should be grateful to them, for their contributions
for good government in representing you in the House of Representatives.
I got a bit nostalgic as I saw Bill Widnall, Frank Osmer, Charlie Sandman,
Joe Maraziti, John Hunt, Bob Kean, former Members of the House that I
served with, who I know from past performance and their contributions to
good government, not only from the point of view of New Jersey but from the
point of view of the country as a whole. We miss each and every one of you,
and your contributions will never be forgotten. We thank you very, very much.
Of course, Web Todd represents the best in party leadership, and Web, New
Jersey should be indebted to you from our side of the aisle for what you have
done and especially in giving us the kind of people like Jack Ewing, Steve
Dudiak,¹ and all the others who have worked so hard to make this party a
success.
Let me say with great emphasis and the maximum of sincerity that Betty and
I are delighted to be here in New Jersey and especially in the city of Newark.
Thank you very, very much.
Speaking of Newark, Mayor Ken Gibson, it is delightful to see you with us this
evening. I have had the privilege over a period of time to learn of the problems
that Ken has had in the city of Newark and the monumental efforts that he
has made to handle those difficulties that are presented to a mayor of a city
such as Newark.
I applaud your efforts to revitalize the city, Ken. Your new container ports,
your commercial buildings, your educational institutions—I think these testify
to the commitment that a person is making to make this city, a great city in the
history of the United States, a better place in which to live. I thank you very
much.
Before discussing several national issues, which I would like to give you my
views and observations on tonight, I would like to take just a minute to tell of a
very important political issue that I think transcends—whether it is Republican
¹ Webster Todd, New Jersey State Republican chairman; John H. Ewing, State assemblyman; and
Steve Dudiak, chairman of the dinner.
1595
