August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. AGRONSKY. Mr. President, the feeling is that perhaps you yourself as
President, in terms of the record of the Presidency versus the CIA, may not
even be aware of many areas in which the CIA operates.
The President. I can assure you, Martin, of two things. One, as a Member
of the House and a member of a committee that had some jurisdiction over the
CIA, but more specifically as President, I have probably gotten into the opera-
tions of the CIA and other related intelligence agencies in greater depth than
any other President. And as a consequence, the proposals that I will submit and
the administrative actions that I will take will correct those alleged and actual
abuses. I think I know more about the CIA than any other President, certainly
since 1945 or 1946 when it was established, and either in the rules and regula-
tions or the law or the personnel, we are going to make certain that the CIA does
its job in the gathering of foreign intelligence and the analyzation of that in-
telligence for the benefit of the President, the Department of State, and the
Secretary of Defense, and at the same time will not abuse the proper constitu-
tional rights of 214 million Americans. We are going to do that.
MR. DUKE. Well, Mr. President, you served in Congress for a long time and
Congress is the people's instrument that was really supposed to be protecting us
against the excesses of the CIA. It is obvious now that Congress never did its job
adequately. Did you ever have any inkling when you say you have been familiar
with the CIA since 1946—did you ever have any inkling that these things were
going on?
THE PRESIDENT. I must admit, Paul, that I was not familiar with some of the
details that have been brought to light. I was among a very limited number
of Members of Congress, House and Senate, Democrats and Republicans, who
analyzed the CIA budget and their overall programs. But I must admit that that
kind of control by the Congress, in retrospect, was not adequate.
MR. DUKE. Do you feel that members of the CIA lied to you as a Member of
Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I do not think they lied to me. I won't pass judgment on
what they said to others. But I do believe that the control of the CIA by the
Congress over a period of years was not as sufficient as it should have been.
MR. DUKE. Do you feel this is now essential for the future, that Congress
must exercise greater control over the CIA?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there has to be some improvement in this area, but I
am not passing judgment on this program as to the specific recommendations
I will make. We are now analyzing various proposals, and what the Congress
does, of course, is their decision. But I can make recommendations as to how we
1129
