August 19
[492]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We have established the basis for progress toward détente and cooperation in
Europe as a result of the summit meeting of some 35 nations in Helsinki. But
the principles we adopted there now must be put into practice-principles, I
should say, will be put into practice. We cannot raise the hopes of our people
and shatter them by unkept promises.
We are now carefully watching some serious situations for indications of the
Soviet attitude toward détente and cooperation in European security. The situa-
tion in Portugal is one of them. We are deeply concerned about the future of
freedom in Portugal, as we have always been concerned about the future of
people throughout the world.
The reality of the Portuguese situation is apparent to all. The wishes of a
moderate majority have been subverted by forces more determined than rep-
resentative. We are hopeful that the sheer weight of numbers—the 80 percent
of the Portuguese people who support the democratic process-will prevail in
this conflict of ideologies. But they must find the solution in an atmosphere
that is free from the pressures of outside forces.
So far, my meetings with General Secretary Brezhnev in Vladivostok and
Helsinki have been constructive and helpful. Future success will, of course,
depend on concrete developments.
Peace is the primary objective of the foreign and defense policies of the
United States. It is easy to be a cold warrior in peacetime. But it would be
irresponsible for a President to engage in confrontation when consultation
would advance the cause of peace.
So, I say to you—as I said to Mr. Brezhnev and the leaders of other European
nations and Canada in Helsinki—peace is crucial, but freedom must come first.
Those who proclaimed American independence almost 200 years ago asserted
not merely that all Americans should enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness, but that all men everywhere are endowed by their Creator with
such inalienable rights.
I told the leaders of Europe that these principles, though still being per-
fected, remain the guiding lights of American policy, that the American people
are still dedicated to the universal advancement of individual rights and human
freedom implicit in the Helsinki declaration.
It gave me great pride, as the spokesman of the United States at Helsinki,
to say to both East and West: My country and its principles of freedom have
given hope to millions in Europe and on every continent, and still does.
On the other hand, I emphasized that we are tired of having our hopes raised
and then shattered by empty words and unkept promises.
1175
