December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. As I have said before, Helen, I have never, as a candidate,
attacked an opponent. And I don't intend to. I do feel that my thoughts, my pro-
grams for the future of this country would justify nomination as well as election.
I think we have a good economic program, and the results I have cited ini-
tially. I believe we have a good foreign policy. It is my judgment that I can give
the right moral and spiritual leadership to this country. With those concrete
things to talk about, I think I can say that experience will help to achieve those
results.
It is my opinion that the 25 years in the Congress, roughly a year as Vice
President, 2 years as President, gives to me in this office an opportunity to exe-
cute and implement those constructive programs that we have started that are
producing results. I would rather talk on the affirmative side and convince the
American people that that is what they want for a President in the future. Now,
what other people say out as they campaign around the country-it is very easy
on occasion, as I am sure all of you know, to say you can have a quick fix here
and a new program there, and that is why an individual ought to be President.
But we have a record. I think it is an improving record. It will be perceived in
the months ahead as a constructive record. And I am going to run on it, and
I am going to win on it.
Q. But in terms of Reagan's policies, do you see any major difference?
THE PRESIDENT. I think he will have to develop those. I am going to talk
about my policies.
PUBLIC OPINION POLLS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, if, as you say, things look as good right now both
economically and in terms of foreign policy, why is it that the polls don't look
better for you?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good question. We have made some very tough de-
cisions in the last 12 or 15 months. They haven't been necessarily popular. I
think they have been right. I have had to veto some bills that had good labels,
some had substance, but they were too expensive at the time. We had the tough
decision to make—as an example, New York City. It was popular in some areas,
not very popular in metropolitan New York City.
But when you make hard decisions, you inevitably antagonize individuals.
They don't perceive at that time the beneficial results that will accrue from a
right decision. But as you move along and the correctness of those judgments
becomes more evident, I think you will see a change in public sentiment. And
the real test comes not in late December of 1975, but in the months ahead.
2003
