July 27
[444]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Yet it is clear to us that no conference can guar-
antee our security. The Atlantic Alliance remains.
the foundation of our security.
Mr. President, you have already visited with
your compatriots in the Federal Republic. The
presence of the American soldiers in the Federal
Republic and in Berlin is the clearest and the most
important expression of the fact that the security
of the United States and of Europe do belong to-
gether inseparably.
For the West, there is only one security. The
Federal Republic contributes to the best of its abil-
ity to safeguard the common security. The Amer-
ican contribution, however, is irreplaceable and
will remain so. Even a comprehensive European.
union, which is the goal of the member states of
the European Community, cannot do without this
transatlantic link.
We owe thanks to the American Government for
having held fast to this policy unwaveringly. This
is why over 400,000 American citizens live among
us as soldiers, civilian employees, and families.
You can be sure, Mr. President, that we, citizens.
and authorities alike, do what we can to make your
compatriots feel at home with us. They are our
friends; they are our guests and the good comrades
of the German soldiers.
Nevertheless, they do live in a different country
with a different language and different customs, and
over the long run that is not easy.
Therefore, permit me, Mr. President, to say to
you, the highest representative of the American peo-
ple, and to all Americans who are here in Germany
for reasons of our common security, very simply
and very warmly, thank you.
Mr. President, as you can see, we have many
reasons to be glad about your visit. It makes us
happy.
Once again, a cordial welcome to the white boat.
444
Remarks at Linz During the Dinner Cruise on the
Rhine River. July 27, 1975
Mr. Mayor, distinguished citizens of Linz, my good friend, the President of the
Federal Republic, and Chancellor Schmidt, and distinguished guests:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of being
here with Mrs. Ford and receiving your warm and generous hospitality. This
pause in our boat trip up and down the Rhine is a most pleasant interlude in
a very busy day in your country.
The wine town of Linz, with its tradition of some 11 centuries, embodies
the characteristic features of the Rhineland-good wine, pleasant people, and a
beautiful setting.
I have been told that the local custom in the year 1700 was for each council-
man to drink his cup of wine to the bottom, but that the general accounting
office objected to the very, very high cost.
The mayor of Linz replied with this letter: "The counsellor's first task is to
drink wine. A lamp without fuel cannot shine.”
I am also told that the decisions of the council were always unanimous—
something politicians of today can certainly envy.
It has been a great pleasure for Mrs. Ford and myself to join you on this
wonderful occasion, if only for a few moments, and we extend to all of you the
1053
