August 30
[511]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
widely rumored in the oil industry that you have let it be known that an 8-
percent increase in foreign oil prices would be acceptable to you. Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with that statement. A lot of statements are
attributed to me. I have a pretty good memory, and I don't know where that
statement came from.
Q. What are you looking for from the oil-producing countries?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me put it this way, Sara. If the Congress had passed early
this year the comprehensive energy program that I recommended, we would be
in a lot better position to meet the challenge of any OPEC oil price increase.
Unfortunately, nothing has been done legislatively. So, we are now more vul-
nerable today than we would have been otherwise.
I have said that, as far as I am concerned, we will do everything we can to
defeat any OPEC oil price increase. Unfortunately, without an energy program
we don't have many tools to do that with.
SCHOOL BUSING
[6.] Q. Mr. President, school opens very soon around the country and in
New England. And in Boston and Springfield, Massachusetts, that means forced
busing for desegregation. Now, you have had a position on busing before. Can
you take a minute and clarify? What is your position on busing?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, before I say anything about what my own personal
views are, I want to say most emphatically that I, as President, and all that
serve with me in the Federal Government will enforce the law, no question
about that. We will, to the extent necessary, make sure that any court order is
enforced.
Now, I add one thing that I hope is understood. We don't want any conflict
developing in Boston or any of these other communities that have court orders
forcing busing on local school systems. So, I have sent up through the Attorney
General, the community relations experts—they have four or five people up
there that are working with the court, with the school boards, and with parents,
and with others. At the same time, the new Secretary of HEW, David Mathews,
has sent up his top man to work with the school system. And that individual,
Dr. Goldberg,¹ has authority to spend extra Federal funds to try and improve
the situation in Boston.
Now, having said the law is going to be enforced, that we are going to try
and moderate and work with the people in Boston, I will give you my views on
what we are trying to do.
¹ Herman R. Goldberg, Associate Commissioner for Education for Equal Educational Opportunity
Programs.
1265
