[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
countries. We have had some very wide fluctuations in the purchase of grain,
corn, wheat, and soybeans from the Soviet Union. One year, as I recall, it was
around 55 million bushels, the next year it went up to 599 million bushels, and
the next year it dropped down to 75 million bushels. The peaks and valleys have
caused serious disruption in our markets in the United States.
Now, what we have done, the Soviet Union has purchased 10.3 million metric
tons of grain so far. They have a serious shortage. There were rumors that they
were going to come into the market at a very substantial figure. At the same
time, we felt and still feel that a 5-year purchase agreement with the Soviet
Union ageeing to buy a minimum figure of a substantial amount every year with
an option to buy another sizable number of tons is a better program than
having these peaks and valleys and these wide fluctuations and variations.
Our negotiators are in Moscow now, they are seeking to achieve a permanent
or a 5-year program, as I have described it. If that is agreed to, there will be a
removal of the temporary suspension of sales, and I am certain that the Soviet
Union will come in and buy additional grain in this crop year which will be
very, very helpful and will coincide with the promise I made. And in the
meantime, we will have gotten an assured market from a sizable purchaser for
the next 5 years. It is a negotiation which is in the best interests of the farmer
and in the best interests of the American consumer, and when the announce-
ment is made—and I think it will come reasonably soon-I think farmers as
well as consumers will be pleased. And we might be able to combine it, if I
could add as a postscript, a deal that will give us some Soviet oil as a part of the
overall deal, which is good insurance against Mideast oil decisions.
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am David Switzer, president of the Tennessee chap-
ter of the American Public Works Association. In my question, I would like to
refer to a House bill, 5247, which was cited as a "Local Public Works Capital
Development and Investment Act of 1975," as sponsored, I believe, by Congress-
man Jones of Alabama.
This bill asks for an appropriation of $5 billion for funding 100-percent Federal
grants for State and local public works projects. This bill is designed to meet not
only the need for a huge backlog of badly needed public works facilities but also
to meet the national unemployment emergency and to stimulate activity in the
construction field where, I understand, at least one-fourth of the workers are
currently unemployed.
I understand that this bill has been drastically cut in the Senate, perhaps back
1624
