November 14
[679]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
In charting the course for future international economic progress, our leader-
ship is just as important as it is in building mutual, military security. This Nation,
fortunately, was instrumental in conceiving and developing alliances to safe-
guard peace. We will also lead the way toward a sound, common economic
future.
There are new challenges: recession, inflation, higher oil prices, under-utilized
human and material resources. Americans can meet these challenges most
effectively in close collaboration with our friends. The industrialized democ-
racies share problems, but we also share great opportunities. The cohesion and
the vitality of the industrial democracies can improve the well-being of our
peoples in the world economy.
Our goals for recovery include economic growth among all the major indus-
trialized countries with strong expansion accompanied by high levels of employ-
ment, a reduction in inflation, and the increase of trade throughout the world.
In trade, the assembled nations that I have mentioned along with many others
must provide needed impetus to multilateral negotiations now underway in
Geneva. We will also work energetically to improve the international monetary
system. An objective of great, great importance is improved energy conservation
and the development of alternative sources. This would enable us to reduce
dependence on other nations and lessen our vulnerability to arbitrarily set prices
or the disruption of our oil sources.
The societies of the industrialized democracies have an underlying strength
deeply rooted in our cultures and the character of our peoples. We must now
reinvigorate that unity to achieve a better future for all of our peoples.
The summit in Paris demonstrates America's determination to work with
other industrialized democracies. This meeting will permit participants to better
understand mutual problems and the policies used to deal with them. It will
enable us to agree on goals and objectives reflecting our common interests. Our
joint efforts will reinforce one another and benefit the United States. And it will
be a great opportunity for all of us to help all of our people. And I am looking
forward to the opportunity.
Just as world stability is based upon economic strength, it also depends upon
our military strength. And you in Georgia have a great stake in this.
During a quarter of a century in the Congress and in my service as Vice
President and President, I have fought to preserve America's defense as the
cornerstone of freedom. It has long been my conviction that politics should stop
at the water's edge in matters of foreign policy and national defense. America
1881
