[589]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
589
Joint Communique Following Discussions With President Lopez
of Colombia. September 26, 1975
THE STATE Visit of President and Mrs. Alfonso Lopez Michelsen to Wash-
ington at the invitation of President and Mrs. Gerald Ford provided an oppor-
tunity for serious discussion and exchange of views with respect to international,
regional and bilateral topics of interest.
Accompanying the President during the September 25-26 visit to Washington
were Colombian Ambassador and Mrs. Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala, Minister of
Finance Rodrigo Botero, Minister of Agriculture Rafael Pardo, Minister of
Economic Development Jorge Ramirez, Minister of Public Works Humberto
Salcedo, the Mayors of Bogotá and Cali, and the President's two sons, Felipe
and Alfonso Lopez. Several of these officials were accompanied by their wives.
The visit provided an opportunity to meet with their United States counter-
parts for discussion of problems of mutual interest.
President Lopez, in his conversations with President Ford, Vice President
Rockefeller, and Secretary of State Kissinger examined world economic and
political issues in detail. They discussed prospects for improved international
economic cooperation in light of the achievements of the Seventh Special Session
of the UN General Assembly. They discussed the special problems faced by
Colombia and other developing countries in the hemisphere, which, because
they are in a more advanced stage of development and are integrated into the
world economy, are also greatly affected by changes in the international eco-
nomic conditions. They agreed that representatives of their governments would
consult further as the initiatives stemming from the Seventh Special Session
unfold.
The Presidents also reviewed global problems of security and opportunities
for peace.
Western Hemisphere issues were examined in depth and with equal frank-
ness. President Lopez explained to President Ford the position of Colombia
on a number of points. He emphasized his interest and that of Latin America
in general in a favorable outcome to the present Panama Canal negotiations.
President Ford assured President Lopez of the desire of the United States to
pursue the negotiations now underway with Panama in good faith in an effort
to reach an agreement which would accommodate the interests of both countries
in the Canal. President Ford confirmed U.S. recognition of the validity of
1530
