October 30
[648]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
you did not want to make the State or the city a ward of the Federal Govern-
ment. Yet he says your proposal does in fact do that. It puts the Federal keeper
in and makes it a ward of the Federal Government.
THE PRESIDENT. There is a difference. Under the plan that I propose, the city of
New York, for a temporary period of time, would come under the jurisdiction of
a Federal court—not a politician, a judge. It can get out of that situation as
quickly as it gets its finances in order. I think it is a much more responsible place
for this problem to be resolved than to make the President of the United States
mayor, on a temporary basis, for the city of New York.
A Federal judge who is under no political pressures can handle properly the
readjustment of investments, the carrying on of essential services. That is some-
thing that can be done by a Federal judge in New York City, not by some
elected or nonelected official in the city of Washington, D.C.
MR. KLEIN. Gabe Pressman.
Q. Following up on Ken's first question, Mr. President, you noted yesterday
that in addition to the high salaries and the other burdens, there were fat pen-
sions that were negotiated during those years. Now, no pension in New
York-no pension improvement could be made without the approval of the
legislature and the Governor. And it is a historic fact that Lindsay started the
pension improvements, but that it was Governor Nelson Rockefeller and the
legislature that put those fat pensions through that, many civic leaders agree
with you, are part of the cause of the financial mess we are in. You say you
blame those who misled the people. Do you blame your own Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. I was not cognizant that the State legislature and the Gov-
ernor had to approve a particular pension program. If it is, it is unique in New
York State. Those are usually negotiated between the mayor and/or his
authorities and the representatives of the labor organizations. In no other State
that I am familiar with does the Governor and the State legislature have to have
anything to do with the details of pensions—————
Q. Well, I wouldn't presume to educate the President of the United States,
but it is a fact that all messages involving basic changes in law, including pen-
sion bills, have to be approved by the State legislature and the Governor, and as
a reporter over the last 15 years, I observed both Lindsay and Rockefeller
negotiating with the union leaders for these pension benefits that became
staggering.
The President. Well, those pension programs by any other standard, let's be
frank and honest, are far more generous than in any other community. As I
noted in my remarks yesterday, those pension programs are noncontributory. If
1751
