[649]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
forces. Disengagement was accomplished in 1974. This year, we dedicated our-
selves to the goal of withdrawal in the Sinai—and an agreement was negotiated
as a result of the efforts of Secretary of State Kissinger. We believe that the
step-by-step approach to negotiations offers the best prospects for establishing
an enduring peace in the region. We expect to proceed on an incremental basis
to the next stage of negotiation within the near future.
I believe the hope for a lasting solution to the Arab-Israeli dispute is stronger
today than at any time in the previous quarter century. A new era also is opening
in our relations with Arabs and Israelis. This security assistance program will
give substance to these new relationships and help preserve the momentum
toward peace.
My proposals have three basic purposes:
-First, to provide Israel with the assistance needed to maintain security and
to persevere in the negotiating process.
-Second, to give tangible expression to our new and fruitful relations with
the Arab nations most directly involved and to encourage those which are seri-
ously prepared to work for peace.
—Third, to encourage the peaceful development of the area, thereby reducing
the incentives to violence and conflict.
The Security Assistance Program I am transmitting to Congress is heavily
weighted with requirements to sustain the peace in the Middle East. Fully 70
percent of the program for fiscal year 1976 is to be concentrated in this region.
It proposes:
-For Israel, $740 million in security supporting assistance and $1,500 million
in military credits. Israel's ability to defend herself and to relieve some of the
burdens of her defense reduces the prospect of new conflict in the Middle East.
-For Egypt, $750 million in supporting assistance. Egypt has made the bold
decision to move from confrontation to negotiation as a means of resolving the
Arab-Israeli dispute. Its leaders also must cope with serious economic problems
whose resolution the United States is in a position to assist.
-For Jordan, $100 million in military assistance grants, $78 million in security
supporting assistance, and $75 million in military credit sales. This assistance
will strengthen Jordan's ability to hold to the course of moderation it has con-
sistently followed.
-For Syria, $90 million in security supporting assistance. This assistance will
enable our development cooperation with Syria to go forward, furthering our
efforts to re-establish more normal bilateral relations.
—In addition, I am recommending a Special Requirements Fund this fiscal
1758
