September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
necessity for greater flexibility in the use of our limited capital to achieve these
objectives.
For example, when there is only so much money available for improving
productivity, saving energy through conversion to alternate sources, of insti-
tuting major conservation programs, and improving our environmental con-
trol systems, you have recognized their needs to be flexible in the law and
administration of the law to permit the best and most productive use of these
limited capital resources.
In this connection, your Administration has indicated a need to provide some
flexibility and relief in the Clean Air Act. The goal of protecting human health
and improving our environment is a mutual goal of your Administration, in-
dustry, and the general public. But to move too fast is counterproductive in
attaining our environmental as well as our economic goals. As your Adminis-
tration has recognized, we must have some flexibility through amendments in
the Clean Air Act.
Yet, on August 8, the Muskie subcommittee of the Senate Public Works
Committee published a 98-page document of subcommittee recommendations
and staff proposals for the Clean Air Act amendments which moves 180 degrees
in the opposite direction. It inserts several new layers of regulation, it establishes
new deadlines, it allows for almost all-pervasive regulation by the EPA, it in-
creases penalties. The tone is punitive. It tightens and makes more rigid rather
than relaxes or makes more flexible.
Mr. President, if I may be excused a personal reference: Our company has
alone spent approximately $110 million since 1973 just to meet increasingly
stringent environmental control standards. During the first half of this year, we
have spent as much money on environmental and OSHA programs as we made
in profits in our aluminum business.
Mr. President, my question to you is this. [Laughter] What is your Adminis-
tration's position on the Clean Air Act amendments, and will you continue to
urge Congress to provide relaxation of schedules and standards to provide for
the flexibility needed to properly address this problem in context with all the
other economic and energy problems we face? And will you continue to explain
to the public the economic and financial constraints we face and the need for
accepting more realistic and attainable environmental goals and programs?
The President. In the energy bill that I submitted to the Congress in Jan-
uary, going along or coinciding with my State of the Union Message, I pro-
posed certain Clean Air Act amendments which would have accelerated con-
version and had other beneficial impacts.
1319
