[633]
October 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Tom is the first native of his home State to serve in the Cabinet of the United
States.
Tom dropped out of college to work in his father's grain elevator, became a
bank president at 21, the youngest mayor in the history of the city of Bismarck,
North Dakota, president of a manufacturing company in Bismarck, elected to
the Congress twice-and I was honored to serve with him for 4 years—a young
man who earned money at an early age as a rodeo rider. [Laughter]
He has always maintained a very active interest in sports. He is, according
to him, a top handball player and tennis player. [Laughter] He allegedly shoots
golf in the low eighties, and I am told the history books record that he even
made a hole-in-one on one occasion.
Tom, I know another golfer—and I won't mention any names-who swings
on occasion a mean 9-iron and who is looking for a partner with all of your
alleged prowess. [Laughter]
All I can say, Tom, is not only will I look forward to your advice and counsel
on environment and our natural resources but if you have any thoughts, any
constructive ones, on my backswing, I will be very grateful. [Laughter]
In Tom's 4½ years as Small Business Administrator, small businessmen re-
ceived nearly $8 billion in loans to start or to expand their businesses and to
help our economy. That figure represents more than one-half the loans in dollar
amount that SBA has approved in its 22-year history.
As a result of SBA initiative, about $65 billion in contracts from the Federal
Government went to small business during Tom's tenure as its Administrator.
Small business now gets approximately one-third of all Federal governmental
contracts.
you will
Tom, I know you will bring to the Department of Interior the same dedicated
professionalism that you brought to SBA. I have great confidence that
meet your new responsibilities in a way that will benefit the Nation and all
Americans.
One of your most important challenges will be to protect the environment of
our public lands, the tremendous beauty which is one of our greatest natural
heritages. At the same time, you must find a way to extract energy from those
lands, energy that is critical to our economy.
You must assure the best possible Federal-State relationship as we develop
the oil resources of our Outer Continental Shelf, the oil shale resources of the
Rockies, and the coal resources throughout our Nation.
You must reconcile the national need for energy which makes possible the
jobs which we must have if America is to continue progress with the demand
1714
