November 29
[704]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
reason why we can't agree in many instances. We don't have the same political
philosophy, but there is no reason we can't work together, not to confront, but
to consult. And it is in the best interest of us, as well as those in China, to
broaden, to strengthen, to deepen this relationship. And my purpose in going
on this trip is precisely for that reason. We have an interest in the Pacific, and
we have an interest in making our relationship better than it has been in the past.
Let me say that we have gone through some tough days in the last few months.
We had a setback or two in the Far East. We have had some economic problems
at home. But we have also had some successes. We have made great strides
towards peaceful solutions in the long run in the Middle East. We have
strengthened NATO. We are trying to build a better world.
And I am an optimist about the future of America. I happen to believe that
the cynics and the skeptics in America are not going to prevail. I believe very
strongly in our fellow Americans. I believe in the kind of government we have.
I feel that working together, with the character of our people and the drive and
the energy and the leadership, America can be all that we have had in the past
and much, much more.
It is a privilege to be in Alaska, to be in Fairbanks and in Anchorage, and to
have an opportunity of participating in Ted Stevens' 52d birthday. You know,
that isn't so old; he is a lot younger than I am. So, Ted, we all wish you well. I
have enjoyed the opportunity of being with you today, and we wish you many,
many more days, months, and years, not only of health and happiness but con-
tinued good service in the United States Senate.
Thank you very much.
They suggested, not knowing how badly I sing, that I get all of you to sing
"Happy Birthday."
[At this point, the President led the crowd in "Happy Birthday."]
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:07 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Anchorage Westward Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to William
Tobin, manager of the Anchorage Daily Times, and
Walter J. Hickel, Governor of Alaska 1966-68 and
Secretary of the Interior 1969-70.
1931
