September 21
[578]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
expenditure of that money is far better today under that kind of a system than
under the old categorical grant program, because each city is different, each city
has problems that are unique to it, and the people give the recommendations
to the locally elected officials—they spend the money. All we do is audit that
it's honest. And we ought to have enough genius in each local city or local
unit of government to come up with good programs. And I think we can, but
it has only been in operation a year.
Q. Mr. President, it is time to head outside.
THE PRESIDENT. Can I take one more here?
Q. We would like to make sure you have this before you go, sir. It is a petition
signed by over 200 students here.¹
THE PRESIDENT. Fine, I will read it. And let me take one more question.
SCHOOL BUSING
[9.] Q. You have expressed publicly your feeling that busing to achieve
equal education is not the preferred way to achieve that goal. What suggestions
do you have for attaining the goal of equal education for all children?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are a number of Federal educational programs
that are aimed at helping local communities in a very broad sense. But the one
that is aimed specifically at meeting the problem of those communities that are
under court order or under HEW administrative requirement for the current
fiscal year—if my recollection is accurate—it is about $250 million.
In the case of Boston precisely, in the last year, out of this fund, the Boston
school system has been given something over $4 million to be aimed directly
at trying to assist in upgrading the school system in Boston-meeting the chal-
lenge. And in addition, we have had the top person in the Federal Government—
HEW—Dr. Goldberg,² who has gone up to Boston to try and work with the
local officials in Boston to meet their unusual and difficult problems.
I really believe that this is the approach that ought to be taken. You just don't
throw the money up there. You try to take the money and utilize it in an
effective way as to student opportunities, student facilities, organization, et cetera.
I think a lot of things can be done, including the list of things that are set
forth in the Education Act of 1974, called the Esch amendment, that are a
better approach than the ones that have been used in a number of cases by the
courts themselves.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began at 4:40 p.m. in the Irvine Gallery at the university.
1
¹ The petition listed certain policies of the Ford Administration with which the students disagreed.
"Herman R. Goldberg, Associate Commissioner for Equal Educational Opportunity Programs.
1487
