[678]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
strength. Assuming you win your party's nomination, who would you rather
face in the South-Governor Wallace or Governor Carter? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is a very speculative, hypothetical question, as far
as the Democratic nominee is concerned. So, I really don't think at this time I am
qualified to give you an answer.
Q. Would you take a shot at it? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it is so speculative and so hypothetical that I
don't really think I should answer it.
THE SOUTH AND THE 1976 ELECTION
[20.] Q. Mr. President, I am Tim Dobbs with WMAZ Radio and Television
in Macon, Georgia. Continuing in the same vein of thought with my newspaper
colleague there, there seems to be a great deal more emphasis being placed on
the South in the early days of these campaign times, more Presidential candidates
than we have seen in some time, more often-yourself, for instance, have been
in Georgia three times this year. Do you feel that the South would possibly be a
trigger or could be the region of the country which could be a deciding factor
in the election?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I like Georgians and I like to come to Georgia. Further-
more, the South is a growing, burgeoning part of our country. It is, population-
wise, a bigger percentage today than it has been, say, 20 or 30 years ago. It is more
significant politically. Therefore, I think that is very understandable that more
Presidential candidates are coming to Georgia and to other Southern States.
Q. A follow-up question: One of the Presidential candidates who has not yet
said he is a Presidential candidate, Mr. Reagan, was asked about Southern
strategy, and he said there is no such thing in his view as Southern strategy per se
as far as the Presidential election is concerned. Do you agree with that?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no Southern strategy as such. I have been to, I think,
20-some, almost 30 States. I have traveled here as well as elsewhere in the South.
I think it is important to visit as many of the States of the Union as possible. But
as far as having a geographical thrust of my campaign, the answer is no. I want
to prevail in all 50 States.
MR. MERRINER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Merriner. It is nice to see you all.
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-second news conference began at 5:01 p.m. in the Ballroom North at the
Marriott Motor Hotel, Atlanta, Ga.
1876
