[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, that was about a 200-page document. I regret to say not one page of
that has been enacted by the Congress from January 14 to this date. But never-
theless, we submitted, I think, a good balance.
As a matter of fact, Russ Train and Frank Zarb, head of FEA—they have
somewhat conflicting responsibilities—both agreed on the approach that was
included in the package that I submitted.
If the Congress would approve that approach, then I think many of the fears
you would have, many of the apprehensions that environmentalists would have,
wouldn't exist.
The report that you refer to-I am told by Russ Train-is not a committee
action, but it is a staff report of a Senate subcommittee. So, it is only the promo-
tion of a staff—and I must admit from some experience that they promote a lot
of things-[laughter]—not all good, incidentally-but nevertheless they have
produced this subcommittee staff report, and if I were you or those associated in
business such as yourself, which would be scared to get, from the way you
describe their recommendations, I know how you ought to go out and fight to
oppose them and support the Ford Administration's recommendations in the
energy bill in January. [Laughter]
WILLIAM J. BAROODY, JR. [Assistant to the President for Public Liaison]. We
have time, unfortunately, for only one more.
THE PRESIDENT. We will have one wild card. [Laughter]
NATURAL GAS
[16] Mr. President, Kay Fanning, publisher of the Anchorage Daily News,
Anchorage, Alaska. The Alaska delegation here today are interested in your
feelings about a possible Alaska pipeline. Could you perhaps comment on
the fact that there is a projected natural gas shortage in the lower 48 States
this coming year? Do you see putting the weight of your office behind an
expedition of a choice between a Canadian and an Alaska pipeline, and the
second part, if it is to be a Canadian pipeline, do you believe a treaty can be
negotiated with Canada that would make it a completely safe proposition?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, there is a serious and growing more serious
natural gas shortage. And this winter, at least 10 States-assuming the usual
winter—will have serious economic repercussions-North Carolina, New Jersey
probably being the most vulnerable, but eight others and I understand the
State of Washington has some serious problems here also. Now, it just makes
me sick that if the Congress 3 years ago had deregulated natural gas in interstate
commerce, we wouldn't face the problem that we face now.
1320
