November 17
[680]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
America, in the wealth of our natural resources, in the goodness, the ingenuity,
and the honesty and the self-reliance of our people. In 1783, our first President,
George Washington, wrote to America's Governors saying, and I quote: “There
is an option still left to the United States of America, that it is in their choice
and depends upon their conduct, whether they will be respectable and prosperous
or contemptible and miserable as a Nation."
We made that choice nearly 200 years ago. We will make it again in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:38 p.m. in the Hall
of Nations Ballroom at the Marriott Motor Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Mack Mat-
tingly, Georgia State Republican chairman, and Nora
Allen and William Nolan Murrah, Jr., Republican
national committeemen.
680
Remarks at the Conclusion of the Economic Summit Meeting
at Rambouillet, France. November 17, 1975
Mr. President:
I wish to express my appreciation for the gracious hospitality of you and the
French Government and the French people. My appreciation also goes to my
colleagues for the spirit of good will, the spirit of friendship which they have
demonstrated during this meeting. It has been a highly successful meeting in
every respect.
Օ
In our sessions, we have covered the range of economic issues of concern to the
industrialized world and challenging our democratic societies. These meetings
have been rewarding in a number of important ways. They have deepened our
understanding and appreciation of our mutual economic interdependence. They
have enabled us to harmonize our views on key issues. And they have strength-
ened our determination to solve the problems that we confront. Finally, and
most importantly, they reaffirmed our mutual confidence in a sustained and full
recovery from the deepest recession since the 1930's.
Perhaps our most important accomplishment over the past several days has
been our recognition that the objective of sustained, stable economic growth
will be facilitated by our common efforts. As leaders of major democratic
nations, we reached substantial agreement on a number of issues concerning
monetary policy, trade, energy, and our relations with the developing world, as
outlined in our joint declaration.
Over the past 3 days in this beautiful setting, we have found a new spirit—
a spirit of cooperation and confidence stemming from a deeper understanding of
1883
