August 18
[491]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I visited every State in the Union in the last 10 years since I became first the
minority leader of the House and then Vice President and now President, so
I know State organizations, I know the kind of people that back State orga-
nizations. And I think here in Iowa you have a good State organization. And
I wish to congratulate those who have been giving you the leadership and
those who will now take over and continue that leadership. You are fortunate
in Iowa, and I congratulate you, John, and those who have worked with you,
Charlie.
Now, if we are to capitalize on the opportunities ahead of us, we must, in my
judgment, reach out to that great, great American majority that does the
Nation's work, pays the Nation's bills, provides for the Nation's defense, and
obeys the Nation's laws. That is the group that we believe ought to be in the
Republican Party.
You know, no matter the color of their skin, the religion they profess, the
politics they vote, these solid, solid Americans who make up this vast Midwest
heartland of the Republican Party's natural constituency—I could feel that
out there at the State fair today—they are the people to whom we must tell our
story over and over and over again, this year and next year.
Once again in our party's history, our principles and our goals match the
beliefs and, I happen to think, the aspirations of a majority of the American
people.
Republicans have always believed that too much government spending has
been the primary cause of inflation, and I have a feeling, as I travel around the
country, that on a daily basis more and more Americans agree with that
principle.
Aren't we fortunate that these people who are getting this new approach,
this new attitude, look to the Republican Party as their only hope. That is one
reason I have been vetoing some of the bills that compel excessive Federal
spending.
And quite frankly, I'll keep on doing it as long as the Congress keeps send-
ing down to the White House these "budget-busters" to me. But let me put it
this way: They stop, I stop. It is just as simple as that. [Laughter]
Our Republicans, as you know, have always believed in a strong, effective,
ready, national defense program. Today, most Americans are convinced that
a strong defense is the best guarantee of peace in the world, and I will do every-
thing in my personal power to see that Congress appropriates sufficient funds
to make sure that the United States, our country, always has a military capability
second to none.
1169
