July 28
[447]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
446
Letter to Congressional Committee Chairmen Recommending
Extension of Automobile Emission Standards. July 28, 1975
[Dated July 26, 1975. Released July 28, 1975]
Dear Mr. Chairman:
On June 27th, I transmitted to the Congress a special message which described
the conclusions from a detailed executive branch review of the air quality,
health, energy, and consumer cost implications of alternative automobile emis-
sion standards. I recommended that 1975-76 standards for automobile emissions
be extended by the Congress through model year 1981.
I believe it important that the Congress and the public have a full opportunity
to hear in detail the findings of our studies and the basis for my conclusions
that existing standards should be continued. I recognize that the hearings held
by your subcommittee on auto emissions ended before our studies were com-
pleted. I urge you to hold another hearing on this matter so Administration
witnesses can present the findings.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Jennings Randolph, chairman of
the Senate Public Works Committee, and the Hon-
GERALD R. FORD
orable Harley O. Staggers, chairman of the House
Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee.
447
Letter to the Speaker of the House Urging Reconsideration
of House Action Refusing Modification of the Embargo on
United States Military Assistance to Turkey. July 28, 1975
[Dated July 26, 1975. Released July 28, 1975]
Dear Mr. Speaker:
The consequences of the House action in failing to lift the arms embargo
on Turkey are now becoming apparent. As President of the United States my
responsibility for the national security and conduct of foreign affairs have led
me to urge in the strongest terms that the House lift the embargo. Despite
the House action and subsequent events, I do not believe that the situation is
irretrievable today.
It is difficult to overstate the importance of the major installations we will
1055
