[689]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
customers, stockholders, employees, officers, or directors is incompatible with
the public service function of American financial institutions.
I will support legislation to amend the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which
presently covers sex and marital status, to include prohibition against any
creditor discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin
against any credit applicant in any aspect of a credit transaction.
I commend the U.S. investment banking community for resisting the pressure
of certain foreign investment bankers to force the exclusion from financing
syndicates of some investment banking firms on a discriminatory basis.
I commend the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Associ-
ation of Securities Dealers, Inc., for initiating a program to monitor practices in
the securities industry within their jurisdiction to determine whether such dis-
criminatory practices have occurred or will occur. I urge the SEC and NASD
to take whatever action they deem necessary to ensure that discriminatory
exclusion is not tolerated and that nondiscriminatory participation is main-
tained.
In addition to the actions I am announcing with respect to possible discrim-
ination against Americans on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin,
or sex, I feel that it is necessary to address the question of possible antitrust viola-
tions involving certain actions of U.S. businesses in relation to foreign boycotts.
The Department of Justice advises me that the refusal of an American firm to
deal with another American firm in order to comply with a restrictive trade
practice by a foreign country raises serious questions under the U.S. antitrust
laws. The Department is engaged in a detailed investigation of possible
violations.
The community of nations often proclaims universal principles of human
justice and equality. These principles embody our own highest national aspira-
tions. The antidiscriminations measures I am announcing today are consistent
with our efforts to promote peace and friendly, mutually beneficial relations
with all nations, a goal to which we remain absolutely dedicated.
1896
