[496]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
the existence of private colleges, because it would be more difficult under the pro-
posed laws for people to give to these nonpublic institutions.
I can assure you that I don't approve of those proposed amendments. And to
the extent that we can keep the Congress from doing it, my Administration will
do so.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. And if I might add, I happen to think that the public school
systems, whether they are primary, secondary, or higher education, are made
better when they have got competition from nonpublic schools—whether it is
college, higher education, elementary, or secondary. We want a competitive
education system in this country. It is good for everybody.
REGULATORY REFORM
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am H. D. Altorfer, chairman of the Central Illinois
Industrial Association. In a speech in Washington last June 17, you stated that
it was your determined intention to review every single Government action in
light of what it will do to free competition and individual liberty. This review
is to apply across the board to corporations that seek special monopolistic ad-
vantages, as well as to radical social theories.
This intent is to be commended, but as a relatively small businessman, it
seemed to me the monopolistic advantages of the large national labor unions,
and in some instances the cooperatives should also be reviewed in light of what
they are doing to free competition and individual liberty. Will you include these
in your review also?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was referring in that speech primarily to the activities
of the Federal Government in regulation and control. I was not referring to
the private sector, so to speak.
On the other hand, under existing antitrust legislation—I emphasize “under
existing antitrust legislation"-the Department of Justice has a mandate, and has
had for a long period of time, to proceed against monopoly as so described in
those laws. And the Attorney General, who comes from this area of the country,
will carry out that responsibility.
Now, we have taken no action. I don't see the connection at this time between
the kind of monopoly we were attacking, the monopoly of the Federal Govern-
ment, and in the question that you raise.
There is a distinction and a difference between national labor organizations
and some governmental operations. I happen to think that labor organizations
can play a proper and do play a very important role. I don't condone, however,
1196
