[717]
December 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
plished by someone below you or by meetings closer to home. How do you
answer that criticism?
The President. Barbara, we worked a good many hours. I was in constant
contact with people in Washington-in fact, I called several people from
Peking-involving the legislative situation to determine, with the Republican
legislative leaders, what we ought to do in reference to the tax bill.
So, it was not only work on foreign policy, which was very significant, but
it also gave us a chance to keep in good contact with the people back in Wash-
ington on domestic matters.
Q. But did you, yourself, have to go? Were they the kinds of meetings that
demanded the President of the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Barbara, I think the discussions we had in Peking were
mandatory at my level, and the discussions also with President Suharto and
President Marcos were likewise discussions that could only be carried on by
the heads of government. So, if you look at it that way and the importance
of the discussions in all three countries, yes, it was extremely important and
essential that I participate.
Q. Mr. President, we are all exhausted. How do you do it? What are they
feeding you?
THE PRESIDENT. I enjoy the work, for one thing, and I really get stimulated
by the challenge in every place we go. So, it is one of those things that just keeps
you going because it is necessary and challenging.
Q. What time are you going to be in the office today?
THE PRESIDENT. I will probably be there reasonably early, but not as early as
normal.
Q. We hear that you may go to the Middle East next, Mr. President. Are
there any plans?
The President. There are no definite plans, Helen [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
Q. The word "definite"-that is what is throwing us off.
THE PRESIDENT. We probably will at some point. It, of course, is an area of
tremendous importance, not only to the United States but to many other coun-
tries, including those in the Middle East. But at the present time we have no
specific plans for any trip overseas at all.
Q. Things are looking better now with Brezhnev to come here, perhaps, or a
break in SALT?
THE PRESIDENT. We are going to hold some very important meetings with the
1956
