[614]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
elderly, the poor, and the men and women who have borne our Nation's arms.
Also, I will not permit reductions in our military budget that would jeopardize
our national security. We must maintain a strong economy and a strong
national defense.
Sometimes when fancy new spending programs reach this desk, promising
something for almost nothing and carrying appealing labels, I wonder who
the supporters think they're kidding. From my visits with the American people,
I find many of them believe that what the Government puts in your front
pocket, it slips out of your back pocket through taxes and inflation. They are
figuring out that they are not getting their money's worth from their taxes.
They believe that the politics of Federal spending has become too much of a
shell game. And I must say that I agree with them.
America's greatness was not built by taxing people to their limits, but by
letting our people exercise their freedom and their ingenuity to their limits.
Freedom and prosperity go hand in hand. The proof is there to see around the
world. Only by releasing the full energies of our people, only by getting the
Government off your back and out of your pocket will we achieve our goals of
stable prices and more jobs.
I deeply believe that our Nation must not continue down the road we have
been traveling. Down the road lies the wreckage of many great nations of the
past. Let us choose instead the other road, the road that we know to be tested,
the road that will work.
As your President, I cannot take this journey alone. I need the help of you,
the American people, to persuade your Congressmen and your Senators that
you want the growth in Government spending cut so that your taxes can be
cut now. I need the help of the farmer in Iowa, the housewife in California,
the retired couple in Florida, the small businessman in New Jersey, the student
in Texas-all of you. This must be a national effort. America should not belong
to the Government, but to the people. You can serve the Nation by helping us
make the right choice for the future.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8 p.m. from the Oval Office at the White House. The address was broadcast
live on radio and television.
1608
