[647]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
sound fiscal management and in favor of those communities which spend beyond
their means and look to Washington for a bailout.
The balance on crime has shifted so heavily on concern for the rights of the
criminals that the rights of their victims are almost forgotten. I say this with
emphasis. This must stop.
The balance on national defense has shifted against our Armed Forces to the
point where many Members of the Congress would rather spend your money
for controversial social experiments than for the essential insurance of a defense
second to none. You and I know that America's strength is the only solid basis
for peace in the world and that weakness is the surest way, the surest path to war.
The balance of world power must not be shifted against us and the free world,
because without freedom, nothing else is of value. Freedom must always come
first.
Fortunately, there is a way to correct all these imbalances. We have weights
with which to right every balance. We do not call them weights, we call them
ballots. For too long many Americans have been putting their weights, their
votes, under the wrong side of the scales. Balance can be restored to this country's
affairs, and I stand here to ask for your help in this critical and crucial moment.
With all our weights put together, yes, our ballots, we will do the job.
The job starts with the Congress. A Congress that refuses to cut taxes and
spending is drastically out of balance and drastically out of touch with you and
others who will go to the polls in November of 1976.
America's vitality and prosperity is being sapped by the irresponsibility of
the Congress, the irresponsibility of their spending; a Congress dominated 2 to 1
by Democrats; a Congress controlled by Democrats for 38 out of the last 42
years—and, I might add, for 33 of those 38 years there have been substantial
Federal deficits.
What have those deficits brought, or what have they brought to us? You are
painfully aware of how a massive bureaucracy is running more and more of
your individual daily life. You know how Democratic-controlled Congresses
have discouraged your enterprise and your initiative, encouraged and enforced
the unfair redistribution of your efforts and your incomes to others.
For the last 20 years, Congress after Congress, all controlled by Democrats,
has spent and spent and elected and elected. In 1962-let me illustrate if I might
very quickly-the Federal budget for the first time in American history exceeded
$100 billion. I can recall that vividly. It was a headline. It startled us; it shocked
us.
I had been in Congress roughly 13 years and I couldn't believe it. Democratic
1742
