[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think she has been doing very well, Helen.
Q. She has been doing well for you?
The President. I think so. I think she has done an extremely good job as
First Lady, and her popularity, of course, is reflected in the polls. And the selec-
tion of her by Time magazine as one of the 10 [12] outstanding women in
1975-I am very proud of it. And I think she will be helpful. I think she has
been over the years as well as in 1975.
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
[16.] Q. Mr. President, assuming that you get your party's nomination, which
Democrat would you rather run against and which one do you think you will
run against?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the last one first. I have said for a good
many months I thought the Democrats would end up nominating Hubert
Humphrey. And that prediction of better than a year ago looks better and
better in December of 1975. I don't really have any choice as to the Democratic
nominee. That is a little out of my prerogative, so I will let them make that
decision.
Q. I know it is out of your prerogative or choosing, but if you could, who
would you prefer to run against? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I really haven't given it any thought-[laughter]—because I
guess when you come right down to it, regardless of the nominee, I think I
can win.
TWO-PARTY SYSTEM
[17.] Q. Mr. President, you have said on several occasions, and you said again
this morning, that the preservation of the two-party system is so important and
that you have advised men like Senator Mathias and, by indirection, Governor
Wallace to work for their goals through their party conventions, rather than
setting up a third or fourth party candidacy. What can your party as well as the
other party do to get back some of these voters who have been discontent or
have been dissatisfied with the system and have gone the independent route?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I think they have to look at the record of nations
where they have had multiple parties. And those countries that have had that
experience or have it now don't have a political stability such as we have in
America. I think they ought to learn that a two-party system is the best. It has
worked well for us and the multiple-party system has worked badly for most
other countries.
2012
