[655]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
State of Israel in its attitude that there must be recognition before there can be
any contact or any participation by the Palestinians in any negotiations.
Q. If recognition were forthcoming, would there be a possibility that land
could be found to create a Palestinian state?
THE PRESIDENT. That, of course, would have to be decided in any overall
settlement, and it seems to me that it would be inadvisable for me to pass judg-
ment at this point on what terms of any overall settlement might be.
The parties who will actually do the negotiating are those parties within the
area in an overall settlement. And it would be certainly inappropriate for me,
under these circumstances, to make any comment. That is for them to negotiate.
Q. Mr. President, I am rather curious to know if you have given Mr. Sadat
anything besides a warm welcome-nuclear reactors, perhaps?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been negotiations going on between the United
States and Egypt for an American-made nuclear power facility, but I think
those negotiations have not, at this point, reached a final decision. There may
or may not be. I can assure you, if there is one, that there will be the most rigid
safeguards, which I think are absolutely important, as far as how Egypt could
use a nuclear reactor. But there hasn't been any final consummation. Negotia-
tions are still going on.
Q. Being just a layman, I can't quite conceive of how you might restrict
them from—once it is in their hands-using it for a military purpose, exploding
something.
THE PRESIDENT. There are safeguards which are agreed to by practically every
one of the reactor-producing nations—safeguards that are included certainly
by us in any sale or grant to another country for an American-made reactor.
I can assure you that this Administration, if and when we make any arrange-
ments with any country, including Egypt, the most rigid safeguards, which
are very technical, will be enforced.
I am told by technicians—I am not an expert myself in the technical way in
which it is accomplished—there are very manageable safeguards which can
preclude a nuclear reactor for civilian purposes being utilized for any military
purpose.
Q. It is not just a matter of keeping their word?
THE PRESIDENT. No, there are technical capabilities that make it impossible
to go from a civilian domestic utilization of a reactor to a military utilization.
And we would insist under any and all circumstances, as we have in the past,
for these very rigid safeguards.
1780
