August 4
[471]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
on many, many international problems has made the world a safer place in
which to live.
I therefore say to you, Mr. Mayor, and your associates in the Assembly, how
grateful I am for this beautiful golden plaque. And I thank you for the hos-
pitality extended to me, my wife, and our son Jack.
And on behalf of the American people, I invite you and all of your associates
to come to the United States to see and hear from our people on our Bicentennial
anniversary.
Thank you again. I am deeply grateful.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:40 p.m. in the Belgrade City Hall. Prior to his remarks, he received the
Golden Plaque of the city from Mayor Zivorad Kovacevic.
471
Joint Statement Following Talks With President Tito
of Yugoslavia. August 4, 1975
AT THE invitation of the President of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, Josip Broz Tito, the President of the United States of America,
Gerald R. Ford, and Mrs. Ford paid an official visit to Belgrade, Yugoslavia,
on August 3 and 4, 1975.
Continuing the established practice of regular contacts and consultations
between the presidents of the two countries, Presidents Tito and Ford held
cordial, open and constructive talks on a wide range of issues of mutual interest.
Taking part in the talks were, from the Yugoslav side, Dr. Vladimir Bakaric,
Vice President of the SFRY Presidency; Edvard Karelj, Member of the SFRY
Presidency; Dzemal Bijedic, President of the Federal Executive Council; Milos
Minic, Vice President of the Federal Executive Council and Federal Secretary
for Foreign Affairs; Dimce Belovski, member of the Council of the Federation;
Lazar Mojsov, Deputy Federal Secretary for Foreign Affairs; Toma Granfil,
Yugoslav Ambassador to the United States; Aleksandar Sokorac, Chief of
Cabinet of the President of the Republic; Nikola Milicevic, Assistant Federal
Secretary for Foreign Affairs; Andjelko Blazevic, Foreign Policy Adviser to the
President of the Republic; Svetozar Starcevic, Director for the North American
Department, Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs;
From the United States side, Henry A. Kissinger, Secretary of State and the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs; Laurence H. Silberman,
United States Ambassador to Yugoslavia; Robert T. Hartmann, Counselor to
1107
