[655]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
any expectations that I had. He has been a great team player, and every job I
have given him—and I have given him so many very important ones that I
think he deserves great commendation. But as far as the Vice-Presidential nom-
ination in 1976, I will make an announcement concerning that at the proper
time.
Q. Sir, what would the proper time be?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly it would be some time in 1976.
Q. Before the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. I would assume so, yes.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[5.] Q. Getting back to the Middle East, if harm were to come to any of the
U.S. personnel who serve as monitors on the Egypt-Israeli line, would you con-
sider that a national matter? Would you consider that we would have to retaliate
or are these people so-called volunteers and not carrying the flag, as it were?
THE PRESIDENT. The number of technicians who will be in the warning sta-
tions will be civilians. They are highly qualified experts in a very sophisticated
area. They will be fully protected. They will be in a United Nations zone. They
will be separated either from the Israelis on the one hand or the Egyptians on the
other. I am confident if any problem arose that we would have ample time to
make certain of their safety.
I think it is interesting to make this observation. We now have, in very
technical capacities, a very limited number of Americans who have been there
in the last several years.
Q. Been where?
THE PRESIDENT. In the U.N. buffer zone in a nonmilitary capacity, a very
limited number. The ones we are talking about for the Sinai will be performing
a totally different function. But I think you have to bear in mind that the U.N.
buffer zone has a very substantial number of military representatives from four
countries who have the obligation of maintaining the integrity of the buffer
zone. And our technicians, up to 200, will be in that buffer zone and under the
protection of the United Nations. And I can't imagine any action taken by either
Egypt or Israel that would jeopardize the Americans in that U.N. zone.
Q. How about our Americans in Beirut or elsewhere in Lebanon? Are you at
all concerned about their potential safety if they don't all get out? How far
would you go to protect them?
THE PRESIDENT. As you undoubtedly have read, we have advised Americans
in the Embassy to return-I mean the dependents of the Americans in the
1782
