November 3
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
657
The President's News Conference of
November 3, 1975
STATEMENT ANNOUNCING PERSONNEL CHANGES IN THE ADMINISTRATION
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Good evening. I have several announcements to make
tonight.
First, with respect to foreign policy and national security affairs: You will
recall that when I became President a year ago last August, I indicated that I
believed it was essential to guarantee stability and continuity in the conduct
of U.S. foreign policy. I made a conscious decision at that time not to change
personnel in the important national security area. I have, however, made a
number of significant changes in the Cabinet in the domestic area.
We have now successfully reassured our allies that the United States will
stand firm in the face of any threat to our national interest and convinced poten-
tial adversaries that America will aggressively seek out ways to reduce the
threat of war.
Therefore, I am tonight announcing several personnel changes which I believe
will strengthen the Administration in the important area of national security
affairs.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
I intend to nominate Donald Rumsfeld as my new Secretary of Defense. Don
has served with distinction as a Congressman from Illinois, Director of the
Office of Economic Opportunity, Director of the Cost of Living Council, and
as Ambassador to NATO. For the past year he has been my senior White
House Assistant and a member of my Cabinet. He has the experience and skill
needed to help our country maintain a defense capability second to none.
The Nation owes Secretary Schlesinger a deep debt of gratitude for his able
service to his country as Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, Director
of the CIA, and as Secretary of Defense.
ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS
Henry Kissinger has been serving with great distinction and success as Sec-
retary of State and as my Assistant for National Security Affairs. Secretary
Kissinger will relinquish his post as Assistant to the President to devote his full
time to his important responsibilities as Secretary of State.
1791
