[584]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
584
Message to a Special Meeting of the International Commission
for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries. September 23, 1975
[Dated September 18, 1975. Released September 23, 1975]
THIS SPECIAL meeting of the International Commission for the Northwest
Atlantic Fisheries takes up the most difficult problem in the Commission's
twenty-five year history. I send my warmest greetings and good wishes to the
participants.
It is imperative that the Commission succeed in establishing adequate con-
servation measures and enforcement procedures to rebuild the important fishery
stocks of the Northwest Atlantic. If agreement cannot be reached on reasonable
conservation and enforcement measures, the ability of the Commission to fulfill
its stated purposes will be called into question. For our part, I pledge the full
support of the United States to sound fisheries management and conservation
practices, based on scientific evidence and implemented within the framework
of internationally negotiated agreements.
I am strongly opposed to unilateral claims by nations to jurisdiction on the
high seas. However, pressures for unilateral measures do exist, and will con-
tinue to mount, if international arrangements do not prove to be effective.
It is my earnest hope that the Commission will vindicate the trust we place
in it and fully justify our mutual efforts to find cooperative approaches to
fisheries conservation and management for the benefit of all mankind. In this
spirit, I send you best wishes for a productive and rewarding session.
NOTE: The message was read at the opening of
the meeting in Montreal, Canada, on September 22
585
GERALD R. FORD
by Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance
Carlyle E. Maw.
Remarks to Members of the American Chamber of Commerce
Executives. September 24, 1975
Chairman Brann, President Rumbaugh, members of the Chamber around the
country:
First, let me welcome you to the White House. It is more comfortable inside
than outside with the kind of weather we are having. We only have it in Wash-
ington, but you never have it in your communities, I am sure. [Laughter]
1520
