September 22
[582]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
dent, will strongly, vigorously fight against any such action against any nation,
and we have said this particularly in reference to Israel.
I believe our firm stand, our efforts through Secretary Kissinger at the special
session has pretty well diluted the prospective action concerning Israel in 1975.
If there is any reaffirmation of what appeared to be inaction, we will vigorously
fight any action by the General Assembly, and we will take a strong stand, the
strongest possible stand in the Security Council.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:28 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the St. Francis Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Scudder Mersman,
Jr., events chairman, and Diane Feinstein, president
of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors.
582
Interview With Television Reporters in San Francisco.
September 22, 1975
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES STRIKES
REPORTER. [1.] Mr. President, just recently this city went through a trau-
matic and somewhat extraordinary set of circumstances when the fire depart-
ment and the police department all went out on strike at the same time. I am
sure you were aware of that. This is somewhat of an indication of what possibly
might happen in major cities across the country.
How do you, as the Chief Executive, feel about this, sir? Do you think that,
number one, policemen should be allowed to go out on strike, and number two,
if you feel they shouldn't, do you think there should be Federal laws pro-
hibiting strikes by all municipal workers?
The President. Of course, the problem that you raise is 100 percent a local
problem in that the Federal Government has no jurisdiction to enact legislation
or to take executive action to force a procedure or a method for resolving dis-
putes between local employees and the responsible city officials.
The situation in San Francisco ought to be settled by the people of this com-
munity. It ought to be settled perhaps as some States have, by enacting State
legislation. That is within the jurisdiction of the State, as well as the local
community.
The only area where the Federal Government has any authority is that
involving Federal employees, and when a few years ago, I think it was 1970,
the Congress established a postal service system in contrast to the old postal
1509
