October 13
[624]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
here a little over a year ago and enjoyed the crab feast. But as you travel around
the United States, you will find all Americans will respect the great achieve-
ments that were accomplished by the five of you, that they will welcome you
into their cities, into their homes. And I am sure when you return to the Soviet
Union, you will have a warm and friendly feeling toward 214 million
Americans.
COL. ALEKSEI LEONOV. Mr. President, we very often remember our wonder-
ful visit with you at the last occasion when we flew together to Alexandria and
have seen the extremely warm hospitality that you showed us. These were agree-
able moments in our preparation for the flight.
We remember with pleasure your conversations with each one of us during
the flight. These, at this time, were the pleasant minutes during the flight itself.
Your words joined us together as one group of people representing all of the
people on Earth. So, therefore, please allow me in the name of our crew to
thank you very much for all of the attention that you have shown us.
Valeri Kubasov and I have been entrusted with a great honor of transmitting
a letter from Secretary Brezhnev to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much.
COLONEL LEONOV. Mr. President, the last time that we were here, we gave
you a small, modest little pin of Apollo-Soyuz. Right now, the crews of Soyuz
and Apollo feel that they should give you a little bit better present as a symbol
of the flight.
[At this point, the President was presented with a silver medallion representing the crew
patch of the Soyuz cosmonauts.]
Thank you very much for your attention.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
Well, I still have the model of the Apollo and the Soyuz in the office. I took
that little memento that you gave me and had it put on the base of the model,
and we will somehow find a way that this is appropriately displayed as well.
Thank you, again, very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:49 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Colonel Leonov
2 See 1974 volume, Item 59.
spoke in Russian, and his remarks were translated by
an interpreter.
1683
