[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Department of Defense, and it is probably over the years going to have in-
creased financial as well as administrative responsibilities.
I am not yet convinced that we should split it up, but if the problems get
greater, if the responsibilities increase, I think we ought to take a look at it.
At this point, I am not convinced there ought to be a split-up, taking educa-
tion out from health and welfare, but as time goes on, I don't think we should
just hold on to something because it was good when it was started 20 years ago.
But for the moment, I wouldn't go any further than to say we will take a look
at it, and we will reserve the judgment until the survey comes in.
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
[4.] Q. Mr. President, William Brennan, the president of the Nebraska
AFL-CIO. I am glad you got to wheat before I did. I am afraid we might get
Mr. Butz back in the act again. Have you and Mr. Burns about given up on the
idea that tight money will slow down inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, sir, the Federal Reserve Board is an
autonomous, independent agency of the Federal Government. They do control
the supply of money, and they have an impact, a significant impact, on interest
rates by way of the decisions they make.
Our responsibility in the Federal Government and the executive branch in
conjunction with the Congress is to attack the problem of inflation by responsible
fiscal policy.
Now, I think both monetary policy, under Mr. Burns and his associates, and
fiscal policy, under the executive and Congressional branches, must go hand in
hand. If we are going to have an irresponsible fiscal policy, I think Mr. Burns,
or Dr. Burns, has to try to moderate it with decisions that the Federal Reserve
Board makes.
At the present time, they have a policy of monetary expansion of roughly
5 to 7½ percent. And I was talking to knowledgeable authorities the other day,
and in the last few days there has been some tapering off of short-term interest
rates, which has to indicate that the Federal Reserve Board is trying to judge the
circumstances on almost a day-to-day or week-by-week basis.
I do believe the Federal Reserve Board has to have a role. We want them to
expand money. We want them to be cognizant of the interest rate problem, but
we can't just push them aside and tell them not to do anything affirmatively
or negatively, because the history of economic conditions does show that they
can play a constructive role.
I honestly believe that they are in tune with the problems that we face in the
1570
