[484]
August 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
we are going to phase out the other three. And I hope we can complete the
total program late this fall.
Q. Mrs. Ford has toured the other refugee camp in California. Did she have
any feelings as comparing the two?
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Ford did go to the one at Camp Pendleton, California.
I really haven't had a chance to talk to her about her reaction out there com-
pared to my reaction here. Of course, Camp Pendleton was visited by Mrs. Ford
when the program was almost in its beginning, and we have now had, what,
4 months or thereabouts.
Things are running more smoothly now. Things are, I think, going to run
smoother in the future. So, I am confident it will work out very well.
Q. What have you heard about the reaction of the Fort and the area to the
camp being reactivated? What have you heard as far as the attitude and so
forth?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't heard any serious criticism. At least, it hasn't come
to my attention.
Q. Do you feel that the camp should be closed by the end of the year?
THE PRESIDENT. I would think so.
Q. Mr. Ford, what do you think is going to happen to the oil decontrol
program?
THE PRESIDENT. Sometime in the first part of September I have to make a
decision. The heavy odds are that I will veto the control program. I think that
is the way to stimulate additional production. I believe that there won't be any
serious inflationary reactions.
I can take and, if I do veto the extension of the control program, I will take
certain administrative actions that could mitigate any inflationary problems.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:22 p.m. at Fort Smith Municipal Airport.
485
Exchange With Reporters Following a United States Court
of Appeals Decision on Oil Import Fees. August 11, 1975
REPORTER. Any thoughts on the court ruling this morning on the constitution-
ality of your oil tariff?
The President. We are analyzing, of course, the decision by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and I will not know until later this afternoon what the De-
1146
