[650]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
is not good enough, but we are doing better than the experts predicted or fore-
cast. And I will stick my neck out and say we will continue to do better and
better and better. Every economic indicator suggests that we have already been
on the road to recovery for approximately 6 months.
But we must not allow a resurgence of the double-digit inflation which did so
much damage to our economy in recent years.
Two consecutive Federal deficits of $60 billion or more are bound to rekindle
inflation in this great country. That is why I have insisted that the Congress
reduce Federal spending by $28 billion while at the same time reducing taxes
by an equal amount-$28 billion. Now, if the Congress would cooperate by
combining a tax cut and a reduction in the growth of Federal spending, we could
sharply cut the Federal deficit for the fiscal year 1977 while providing equitable
and permanent tax reduction and relief in the right way.
I call upon the Congress to meet this challenge. It is fair, it is right, it is good
for America. When I hear the howls and screams and attitudes that we can't do
it, the rules of the House or the Senate won't permit it, or this excuse or that
excuse, that is not acceptable when we have a good program that is good for the
country.
I know that Don and Andy and our delegation in California understand, as
I do, that it is “do-able,” it can be accomplished. I just hope that you communicate
with those who say it can't be done. It can and must be done for the benefit of
the country.
Now, to keep the economy moving in the right direction, this tax cut is essen-
tial, especially for those in the broad, middle-income area, those who have
suffered the most with the inequitable tax policies we have had in this country
for too long a time.
To make sure that a tax cut will not add to inflationary pressures, we must
have this budget reduction. The combination is the key to it all.
Do you realize that if we don't change the law and if no other action is
taken, in a period of 12 months there will be a $50 billion increase in Federal
spending, period.
I think we checked the figures, and that is five times the total expenditures
for the great State of California on an annual basis. That is just the growth in
Federal spending.
So, what we are trying to do is to combine equity in a tax reduction and a
lid on the spending trends in the Federal Government.
Well fortunately, aside from that, we have begun to see more and more good
economic news. Coming from the State that I come from—but I understand
1764
