[645]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
unable to pay its debts as they mature and would be accompanied by a proposed
way to work out an adjustment of its debts with its creditors.
The Federal court would then be authorized to accept jurisdiction of the case.
There would be an automatic stay of suits by creditors so that the essential func-
tions of the city would not be disrupted.
This would enable an orderly plan to be developed so that the city could work
out arrangements with its creditors. While New York City works out a com-
promise with its creditors, the essential governmental functions of the city
would continue. In the event of default, the Federal Government will work with
the court to assure that police and fire and other essential services for the protec-
tion of life and property in New York are maintained.
The proposed legislation will include a provision that as a condition of New
York City petitioning the court, the city must not only file a good faith plan for
payment to its creditors but must also present a program for placing the fiscal
affairs of the city on a sound basis.
In order to meet the short-term needs of New York City, the court would be
empowered to authorize debt certificates covering new loans to the city, which
would be paid out of future revenues ahead of other creditors.
Thus, the legislation I am proposing will do three essential things:
First, it will prevent, in the event of default, all New York City funds from
being tied up in lawsuits.
Second, it will provide the conditions for an orderly plan to be developed for
payments to New York City's creditors over a long term.
Third, it will provide a way for new borrowing to be secured by pledging
future revenues.
I don't want anybody misled. This proposed legislation will not, by itself, put
the affairs of New York City in order. Some hard measures must be taken by the
officials of New York City and New York State. They must either increase reve-
nues or cut expenditures or devise some combination that will bring them to a
sound financial position.
Careful examination has convinced me that those measures are neither beyond
the realm of possibility nor beyond the demands of reason. If they are taken,
New York City will, with the assistance of the legislation I am proposing, be
able to restore itself as a fully solvent operation.
To summarize, the approach I am recommending is this: If New York fails
to act in its own behalf, orderly proceedings would then be supervised by a
Federal court.
1734
