July 29
[453]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
453
Remarks at Market Square in Kraków.
July 29, 1975
Mr. Mayor, Mr. First Secretary, and your distinguished colleagues in govern-
ment, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great experience and a wonderful opportunity for me to be in Kraków,
and I thank you very, very much for the warm, warm welcome.
May I express my appreciation also for some of my good countrymen who
are here, such as friends from home and elsewhere.
But after the wonderful warmth of the reception that you have given me,
I know why millions and millions of Americans of Polish extraction are so very
proud of their heritage from this great country.
This ancient square is surely one of the most beautiful in the world. It is filled
with some of the finest creations of Polish architects and artists, with the memory
of so many great moments in Polish history. Americans honor, of course, Gen-
eral Kosciuszko as a hero of America's war for independence and America's
war for liberty.
I am standing only a very few feet from the plaque marking where he stood
and took his famous oath to fight to regain the independence of Poland and
the freedom of all Poles. I am proud—very, very proud—to be with you here
at this place so rich in Polish history and so closely associated with a Polish hero
of our struggle for independence.
I have come to Kraków to see both the monuments of your great past and
your modern achievements. And I congratulate you for your creativity. I know
also that you have a great university in your wonderful city, and I am de-
lighted to see some of my friends from home here benefiting from the oppor-
tunities in this great university.
In this city, the ties of friendship are strong between our two countries. We
welcome the rapid increase in trade between our two nations and the growing
number of travelers in both directions. And I particularly welcome people from
your country to come to America, particularly during our Bicentennial, which
is our 200th anniversary in the United States.
In my first meetings in Washington with First Secretary Gierek and my
meetings with Secretary Gierek here on this occasion, my visit to Poland, we
have reviewed with great satisfaction and with great progress and great im-
provement the better relationships between the United States and Poland. And
1067
