[629]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
standard deduction to a single person, a $2,500 standard deduction to a couple.
We try to get some adjustments in rates; we try to give business a fair and
equitable break-one-quarter of the total of $28 billion tax reduction. This is a
sound program, but it has to be tied to a restraint on the growth in Federal
spending.
So, I plead with you to speak to your Members of the House and Senate. Let
me tell you what the alternative is. We have had this current growth in Federal
spending at the rate of 9 to 10 percent a year without any change in law just
because more people become eligible and because there are escalation clauses
in the various laws that do exist. And if we don't do something about spending,
you are going to have a $50 billion increase in spending in the next fiscal year
without any change in the law-a $50 billion automatic increase in spending.
What I am saying to you is, let's cut it in half and save that money for the
benefit of people in the tax brackets. We don't hurt anybody, and we give a
little more equity to the people in the middle-income brackets.
All of you understand the problem of how you are going to finance new
homes. And you know there has been a problem not only as to the availability
but as to interest rates.
And all of you are sophisticated enough to know that the first borrower is
Uncle Sam. He gets priority. And if Uncle Sam is going to borrow $70 billion
this year and $70 billion next year-that is, $140 billion to finance a deficit in a
2-year span there ain't going to be much left for the private enterprise portion
of our economy.
So, what my proposal does is to put a lid, as I said, of $60 billion on this fiscal
year. And if we have a tax reduction of $28 billion next year and a spending
limitation of $28 billion in the next fiscal year, we will have a $40 billion deficit,
and in 3 years we will have a balanced budget. And you will have plenty of
money next year and the following year to sell homes and to build homes. And
that is what we want.
If we don't have a program of this kind, we are faced with Uncle Sam crowd-
ing out people who want to buy a home and interfering with the livelihood of
those people who want to sell homes and build homes. What I am saying to
you is we have a good program. They have to go hand in hand, and I would
appreciate your help.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Sheraton-Hartford Hotel. In
his remarks, he referred to Herbert Pearce, president
of the association.
1698
