[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
administrations. Your Administration has continued some of these programs,
either through transferring them to other departments and then to the creation
of the Legal Services Corporation.
Mr. President, my question is, are there any other social programs that you
might have in the planning stage that might alleviate some of the many ills of
our community? If not, what can the poor and the disadvantaged expect from
your Administration, particularly in terms of full employment and hope for the
future?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best opportunity for those that are disadvantaged
is to have a healthy economy, and let me tell you the burden of not having one.
This past year we have spent between $18 billion and $20 billion in unemploy-
ment compensation by the Federal Government itself. In addition, we have had
a tax loss. So, the net result of not having a healthy economy has been very
substantial.
What we have to do is stimulate the economy so we have less unemployed
and a bigger tax base or a tax base with a greater depth. Now, if we can get the
economy going, we won't have to have as many of these so-called aid programs
as we have at the present time. We could cut back and should cut back in a
responsible way in the food stamp program, the welfare program, if people
are working.
Now, the Vice President is undertaking, beginning in about 10 days or 2
weeks, a series of meetings with the Domestic Council in 9 or 10 cities through-
out the United States, where there will be opportunities for individuals or
groups to testify in the area of welfare, food stamps, training programs, a whole
range in this area, and it will be a wide-open opportunity for groups and indi-
viduals to testify whether they want more of them or they want less of them.
It won't be a stacked house, I can assure you.
So, we will get some ideas from the people in this operation under the
Domestic Council headed by the Vice President. At the moment, it is my
honest opinion we have got enough programs; we just have to make them
work better. We have some that are top-heavy with administration. We have
some where the benefits are paid through error, and that is unforgiveable in
this kind of a society. We have some where the instances of illegality are far
too high.
It is a very strong belief on my part that we can make the programs we have
run better and then we won't have to worry about new programs, because we
have got them to the extent of about a thousand categorical grant programs
in the Federal Government. And if that isn't enough, then I am really mystified.
1396
