November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think, would not be the proper way for a President to handle these very
sensitive negotiations.
MR. SPIVAK. We have less than 3 minutes, gentlemen. Mr. Broder.
MR. BRODER. Just to follow on that, Mr. President, is SALT negotiations in a
state that you have had to give up your hope of having a summit meeting with
Mr. Brezhnev this year?
THE PRESIDENT. There is far less likelihood that we will have a summit meet-
ing this year. We are continuously negotiating here and with the group of
technicians. But the timetable doesn't look encouraging for 1975. I don't think
that is necessarily bad. Under no circumstances do I feel under pressure to get
an agreement at a date certain. I want a good agreement rather than to be
pressured into having an agreement by a precise date. And it seems to me that
we are making headway slowly-very complex, very complicated problems,
and Mr. Will brought up one of the most difficult ones.
We have to work at it because a SALT II agreement is in the best interest
of this country and the Soviet Union and the world at large. But we are not
going to be pressured to get a bad agreement by a date certain.
FEDERAL BUDGET
[26.] MR. SPIVAK. Mr. President, you said you want a $395 billion budget
ceiling for fiscal '77 in order to give the American people a $28 billion tax cut.
Is it certain now that you will send Congress a $395 billion budget for '77, or
is that figure still subject to change?
THE PRESIDENT. The decision I made on $395 billion for fiscal year 1977 is
firm. We are in the process right now of refining the details. But I must add,
Mr. Spivak, that a $395 billion spending ceiling is not a cutback. It is only a
reduction in the growth of Federal spending of $28 billion. If you don't put a
ceiling of $395 billion, you are going to have the Congress-spending at least
$28 billion more for a $50 billion growth in Federal spending in 12 months and
that is unconscionable.
MR. SPIVAK. I am sorry to interrupt but our time is up. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent, for being with us today on "Meet the Press."
THE PRESIDENT. Larry, may I conclude by congratulating you on your 28 years
of "Meet the Press" by television and your 30-year history of handling "Meet the
Press," going back to the days of radio.
It has been my privilege to be on this program, this the seventh time. It has
been a challenge. It has always been pleasant. It has been something that I have
enjoyed, as I am sure all other participants have. And we are all, those who have
1837
