August 3
[465]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
develop freely on the basis of strict respect for independence, national sover-
eignty, juridical equality, and non-interference in its internal affairs.
During the talks, the two Presidents held an exchange of views on the
complex economic problems which confront mankind. They noted that to
solve these problems, account must be taken of the need to establish fair eco-
nomic relations among all states and to create and consolidate an economic
equilibrium which can assure stability on a world scale, in the interest of peace,
international security and the general progress of all nations. Attention was
given to effective means of reducing the gap between developed and developing
countries.
The two Presidents reaffirmed the indissoluble link between security and
effective disarmament measures as well as the pressing need for continued
vigorous negotiations toward further progress in the limitation of armaments,
including nuclear armaments.
The two sides expressed their concern over the situation in the Middle East
and underlined the need to reach, as soon as possible, a just and lasting peace
in the region, in the spirit of Resolution 338 of the Security Council of the United
Nations, taking into account the legitimate interests of all the peoples of the
area, including the Palestinian people, and respect for the right to independence,
sovereignty and security for all states in the area.
The two sides expressed concern over the evolution of the situation in Cyprus
and favored a solution based on respect for the sovereignty, independence and
territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus. They noted that the talks be-
tween the two communities on the island can contribute fruitfully to a solution
of the situation.
The two Presidents agreed that good-neighborly relations of friendship among
Balkan countries would contribute toward cooperation, security and improve-
ment of the climate in Europe.
The two Presidents agreed to support the United Nations so that it may ful-
fill its mission of maintaining world peace and developing international co-
operation and understanding.
The two Presidents welcomed the Romanian-American exchange of visits in
many fields and at various levels which have taken place in recent years. In
order to continue the positive direction of Romanian-American relations, they
agreed to develop and intensify these periodic exchanges of views at all levels.
President Ford and Mrs. Ford expressed to President Nicolae Ceausescu and
Mrs. Elena Ceausescu their deep appreciation for the extremely cordial recep-
tion which was accorded them in Romania.
1099
