October 10
[623]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
FEDERAL SPENDING
[25.] Q. Mr. President, would you expand on your answer about where
you think Congress should make the $28 billion in cuts besides food stamps—
for example, in revenue sharing-and what cuts should be made in defense
spending?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said in my speech the other night, I think it was Monday
night, I said that there had to be a sharing of reduced spending, and I included
in my remarks the Defense Department. I think they can manage the Defense
Department better than they have been managing it. I think we can be harder
bargainers with weapons suppliers. I think we can cut out some of the frills in
the military—frills that I don't like, that have been there just because they are
there by tradition. I think we ought to cut them all out. I think the Defense
Department can run a tighter ship, and they will have to.
Thank you very much.
LEONARD R. BARNES [president, Detroit Press Club]. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's twentieth news conference began at 4:15 p.m. in Room 2001-B at Cobo Hall,
Detroit, Mich.
623
Remarks in Detroit at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner.
October 10, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Max Fisher. Bill Milliken, Bob Griffin, my former
colleagues in the House of Representatives-Al Cederberg, Eddie Hutchinson,
Guy Vander Jagt, Marv Esch, Garry Brown-and of course, Bill McLaughlin,
Bob Evans, and my old and very dear friend, George Romney, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me say at the outset that I share Bill Milliken's views entirely, in toto,
concerning Max Fisher, the wonderful job that Max has done, not only for this
occasion but for many others. It seems to me that it is most appropriate, under
the circumstances, that we give Max a round of applause on this occasion.
Of course, Max would be the very first to admit that as much as he has given
to making this dinner a success, it could not have been accomplished without the
tremendous help that he has gotten from so many. And I would hestitate to
start enumerating the individuals who have done the job under Max's leader-
ship, but if we can do it for all of them, I think it is very appropriate, and I think
we should.
1673
