[585]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
States must do to escape that kind of potential stranglehold that they have on our
economy and on 214 million Americans.
We have to conserve our energy. We have to produce more domestic sources
of energy. And we hope and trust that the Congress will move affirmatively
on a program that will conserve energy at home and produce more energy
from domestic sources.
The economy-I believe that the record is clear by now that we have moved
out of a recession and we are on the way to better economic times. The an-
nouncement last Friday of the lowest monthly increase in the cost of living,
two-tenths of 1 percent, is very encouraging. If you annualize that—and I don't
think you can in good conscience—that is an annual increase of 2.4 percent. But
on a more realistic basis, from December of last year through the reported month
that I just mentioned, the cost of living has gone up at the rate of about 5 per-
cent, slightly under it, and that, compared to a year ago, it is substantially less.
We are not satisfied with 4.8 percent on an annualized basis of an increase
in the cost of living, but comparatively speaking, it is far better than a year ago.
We are going to continue the total effort on our part to make even more head-
way and better progress. The help that you can give us as far as the economy
is concerned, energy is concerned, we appreciate and we know it will be
effective.
In the area of deregulation—and I use it in the broadest sense-it involves
regulatory agencies, which have an independent part in our Federal Govern-
ment-they must respond.
On the other hand, the executive branch per se has to do its share of trying to
lift the onerous burden that they have imposed on individuals, on communities,
on society as a whole.
I wish Jim Lynn was here, because he got a figure of 5,200 forms that are
filled out by people and organizations, businesses, imposed by the Federal Gov-
ernment. I have never seen them all piled up, but I am sure they would make
one darn big pile. [Laughter] Because I was going to remind Jim again—I have
done it several times—that a year from now we better have less than 5,200 such
forms.
Just one personal observation. Back in the late 1920's my father had the
temerity to begin a small paint and varnish manufacturing company. It never
grew to any sizable proportions, although it kept us alive as a family. He used to
go out and sell the paint and collect the bills. He never could have run that very
small company if he had had to fill out all the government forms that small
businesses have to fill out today.
1522
