[496]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
[1.] It is a great privilege for me to be with all of you distinguished guests
and representatives of the great area here in Illinois.
Because of the emphasis on questions and answers rather than speeches, I am
certain that this conference will long be remembered in the history of verbal
communication. It has been said that a dialog is when you exchange views with
a colleague, and a monolog is when a politician exchanges views with you.
[Laughter]
Today, I think we have taken a moderate-size step in the direction of elim-
inating that monolog. And so, I come to Peoria, not just to be heard, but to
look, listen, and learn.
As a starter, I would like to tell you about the goals and the plans of the
Administration. But I also want you-and I emphasize "you"-people of
Peoria and Illinois, to tell me some of your feelings and some of your deep
concerns about the vital issues facing us as a nation. One thing very certain—
we have plenty to discuss.
I have been President for only a year, but what a year it has been. Even
though most of us would not like to go through it again, I think we have had
more pluses than minuses.
There have been some difficulties, some reverses in this 12-month span. But
America has weathered the storm both in foreign and domestic affairs. Once
again—and this is the most important thing—the American system, the Gov-
ernment, the people have met the test.
Consider for a moment the economy. Since March of this year, total em-
ployment has risen by 1.2 million, industrial production by 1 percent, per-
sonal income by 4 percent, and retail sales by 8.8 percent.
Not only our economy but our political system has demonstrated anew the
strength and the resilience that has made us the freest as well as the strongest
and wealthiest nation in the world. Where it counts, America has not and will
not ever be satisfied with second place.
Don't misunderstand me. I am not saying that our troubles are over, that we
have reached the promised land. But we have a darned good vehicle to get us
through to that promised land, and it is called the free enterprise system.
The job of all Americans is to help put that vehicle into high gear. Although
most of the evidence that we see so far points to a healthy economic recovery,
we cannot afford to take that recovery for granted at this stage of the ball game.
There are plenty of problems left that require our prompt and concerned
attention.
Take for a minute inflation. The latest figures show an annual rate increase
1188
