November 14
[677]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
You know, they never think about tomorrow. They are always thinking
about today. And I think the day of concentration on short-term benefits and
long-range disaster has ended.
Let me remind my friends in the Congress that there is a tomorrow, a day of
reckoning when the bill or bills will come due. We can't afford a tax cut without
a spending cut. It is just as simple as that. If we do, you can look forward to more
double-digit inflation eating away at your paycheck, your grocery bill, your
savings, your pension, and everything else that involves your money.
As they spend and spend and spend, they don't seem to realize that a govern-
ment big enough to give you everything you want is a government big enough to
take from you everything you have.
Quite honestly, I think the Democrats in the Congress are misjudging and
underestimating the American people. If they won't do anything responsible
about your taxation, maybe it is time you did something about your representa-
tion. [Laughter]
The "can't do❞ Congressional chorus has called that tune long enough. If we
had a Republican Congress again to work with a Republican President in main-
taining that momentum and preserving the progress we have already made—
yes, I know the Republican Party of North Carolina is ready to help in this
tremendous effort, and I thank you for your help.
But now, as I close, since the pollsters are climbing all over the country,
combing America from one end to the other for validation of various judgments
and opinions, I would like to conduct my own poll right here this afternoon.
I would like your views on what you think your President should be doing.
As a starter, do you want your President to accept budget-busting appropria-
tion bills without a fight? Do you?²
Do you want your President to roll over and play dead while the Congress
passes more and more legislation to strangle the free enterprise of this great
country?
Do you want your President to go along with those who would sacrifice local
control over local affairs on that altar of big brother Federal Government?
Do you want your President to let a foreign oil cartel to keep a hammerlock
on America's energy future?
Do you want your President to let the Congress cut—and I mean really cut
and slash―the muscle from America's defense budget?
2 The audience responded "No" to this and each of the subsequent questions asked by the President.
1
1865
