September 10
[540]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
there is no immediate necessity to decide about further future sales at this time,
and I am extending the present moratorium on sales to the Soviet Union until
mid-October when additional information on world supplies and demands is
available. This extended period should provide the opportunity to negotiate for
a long-term agreement with the Soviet Union.
Under these circumstances, I am requesting the longshoremen to resume
voluntarily the shipping of American grain while these discussions go forward,
and the matter can be reassessed in the middle of October.
It will be necessary to complete the negotiations over shipping rates in order to
make it possible for American ships to carry wheat and to assure that at least one-
third of the tonnage is carried in American ships, as provided by the agreement
with the Soviet Union which expires on December 31, 1975, which is also under
renegotiation.
NOTE: On the same day, the President met at the
White House with AFL-CIO President George
Meany and a group of labor leaders to discuss grain
sales to the Soviet Union.
540
Remarks on Greeting Officials of the United States Jaycees.
September 10, 1975
DICK, it is a great privilege and pleasure to not only talk with you but have the
opportunity of saying a few words to your various State presidents and your
executive group. First, let me congratulate a Michigander who has done pretty
well this last year. We are proud of Dick.
Because of my long association with the Jaycees, going back to about 1941 or
'42 and continuing after the war when I returned and became again active in the
Grand Rapids organization, I am proud of the fact that I had that exposure. I
am very proud of the record of the Jaycees over a long period of time.
What are you, the 56th national president? I think that is a real fine track
record—that for 56 years the Jaycees have made a great contribution to local
communities, to the various States, and also to the national.
I know you have got some excellent projects this year—Project Mainstream,
which I think is one that will be very helpful in trying to do things at the local
level in a meaningful way. And the project of getting involved with the U.S.
I fully support and hope that it will not only get all of you involved but each
of the 7,000 chapters or thereabouts that you have throughout the United States.
I can see out in this group here that we have a number of future political
leaders. I hope you have excellent judgment on which political party you join.
1359
