August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Both of those countries have to understand that flexibility at this crucial time is
important for the peace of that area of the world and possibly peace in the world.
Israel has to be more flexible; I think Egypt has to respond. If there isn't move-
ment in the Middle East right now, the potential for war is increased significantly.
And a war in the Middle East today has broader potential ramification than any
time in the past, and we have had four wars in the Middle East since 1946 or
1947.
A fifth one not only means that Israel will be fighting the Arabs but the
potential of a confrontation between the United States and the Soviet Union is a
possibility.
MR. AGRONSKY. You must have raised that with Brezhnev. How did he react
to it?
THE PRESIDENT. We talked about the Middle East. We told them, or I told
him, what we were doing. Secretary Kissinger had had a previous meeting with
Foreign Minister Gromyko.
I repeat what I said a moment ago, Martin. The Soviet Union has acted in a
very responsible way. I think they understand the potential consequences of no
progress for continued peace and understanding in the Middle East.
MR. DUKE. What do you see, sir, as our future policy toward South Vietnam?
Do you think that we will recognize that Communist regime in the foreseeable
future?
THE PRESIDENT. Their current actions certainly do not convince me that we
should recognize South Vietnam or North Vietnam.
MR. DUKE. What about their application to get into the United Nations
General Assembly?
THE PRESIDENT. We have taken a very strong stand that we would not agree
to the admission of South or North Vietnam unless and until South Korea is
admitted. We believe in universality across the board. We don't believe in kicking
nations out—kicking Israel out, for example. We think that would be bad
policy.
MR. AGRONSKY. Did Mr. Brezhnev say he agreed with you on that—they were
supporting that movement?
THE PRESIDENT. We let it be known very, very strongly that we believe Israel
should be permitted to be a member of the United Nations. That is our position.
But on the other hand, we also believe that if you believe in universality, which
includes South and North Vietnam, you have to have South Korea.
1135
