August 30
[511]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
surance, through public service employment, summer youth employment, in
order to meet the unique circumstances of a particular State. But the basic way
to solve our unemployment, whether it is Rhode Island or 49 other States, is to
get a healthy private sector economy. And we can do that through some tax
proposals that I have recommended and some of the other legislation which we
will be submitting shortly.
INFLATION
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Andrew Brimmer, who used to be a Governor of the
Federal Reserve and who is a fiscal conservative, said—well, I think he dis-
agrees with you. He says that next year, thanks to the Project Independence,
your energy policy, thanks to grain sales, there will be 6- to 7-percent inflation,
but he says there is no chance really that excess demand will push the inflation
higher. And he says now you can do it, now you can lower interest rates, now
you can provide jobs by encouraging the economy without the danger of infla-
tion. Have you considered that and talked about that with Arthur Burns?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, I am sure you recognize I don't control in-
terest rates. Those are basically controlled by several factors-one, the Federal
Reserve Board.
I have talked to Mr. Arthur Burns, and we have what I think are appropriate
as well as private conversations. He is cognizant of the need of an adequate
supply of money, and he is very cognizant of the problem of higher interest
rates.
Now, at the same time, I think you have to recognize that if the Federal
deficit goes beyond my $60 billion deficit—and unfortunately, the Congress is
spending more money than I think they should-that will contribute sig-
nificantly to higher interest rates and a shorter supply of money available in
the private sector.
So, we have to control the Federal deficit. Sixty billion dollars is too darned
big a deficit, but the Congress is continuously pressing to make it bigger.
Now, we are going to hold the deficit as low as we can, and we are hopefully
expecting cooperation, and I think we will get it, from the Federal Reserve
Board.
Now, I respectfully disagree with Mr. Brimmer if he alleged that the grain
sales to the Soviet Union are a significant factor in inflation. I respectfully
disagree with him. Does he want us to put all that grain in storage and pay $1
million a day in storage charges as we did in the sixties? I don't think that is a
very satisfactory answer.
1263
