November 3
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[26.] Q. Mr. President, with Vice President Rockefeller out of the picture
for 1976, you have indicated that you don't want to give us a name tonight,
but maybe you will give us some kind of an idea as to what kind of qualities
you will be looking for in your Vice-Presidental running mate. Specifically,
are there any parameters with regard to age, political philosophy, what region
of the country he comes from? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. There will be plenty of time for me to think about and dis-
cuss with others the answer to the question that you have asked, and it is
certainly premature for me to make any comment at this time in that very
important area.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[27.] Q. Mr. President, in addition to the differences you mentioned be-
tween yourself and Vice President Rockefeller, did he talk to you at all about
the effect of your position against aid to New York and other cities on your
campaign for next year?
THE PRESIDENT. He has not.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[28.] Q. Mr. President, you gave no indication of exactly what you were
unhappy with in terms of the dual roles of Secretary Kissinger. He has stated
publicly that he considers those dual roles of great importance to the execution
of foreign policy.
THE PRESIDENT. I indicated that the team I put together will affirmatively
satisfy the way I want an organizational structure set up. That is the way I
wanted it, that is the way it is, and I think it will work effectively.
Q. Another question in that regard, Mr. President. There have been charges
that the Secretary is stretched too thin or that by having the dual roles he is
able to have an undue influence over the course of foreign policy. Were those
problems?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't like to answer speculative comments or rumors. I
have done what I did because I, as President, wanted the organization and the
people that I have selected. That is the answer to the question.
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[29.] Q. Mr. President, why has it taken you 15 months to form your team
and set up your structure in national security and foreign affairs?
1803
