[652]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
program, and despite everything I can do as President by vetoing further in-
creases, our Federal expenditures will increase next year by $50 billion. That is
just growth.
I was in California the other day, and the growth in the Federal budget in 12
months is five times the annual budget of the State of California. Something is
wrong.
The Democrats in Congress don't like my vetoes, but these vetoes have already
saved taxpayers some $6 billion. I will go on vetoing unwise, unnecessary
spending bills again and again and again and again. I will do it as long as it
saves you money, but more importantly, it saves our Nation's future, and that is
the crux of the battle we are facing at the present time.
What concerns me most is what I see as government without consent, the
increasing encroachment of government in our lives and in our future, the
irresponsible government action on the local as well as the national level.
Let's make sure we understand each other. It is neither responsible nor com-
passionate to spend a city or a nation into bankruptcy.
I am going to say this quietly—[laughter]—I can assure you this President
will never allow the doors of the United States Treasury to be flung open to
every city with a hole in its fiscal pocket.
I suspect some of you know I spoke to this problem yesterday. I said that if
the Federal Government goes on spending more than it has, providing more
benefits and services than it can pay for, then a day of reckoning will ultimately
come to Washington and to our entire country just as it has to New York City.
And tonight let me ask each of you and all of you collectively the same ominous
question I asked in Washington little over 24 hours ago. When that day of
reckoning comes, who will bail out the United States?
Believe me, it is neither responsible nor compassionate to erode the value of
people's hard-earned money through inflation by piling Government spending
on spending, program on program without the revenues to pay for them. This
is not compassion; this is pure and simple irresponsibility.
I know it, you know it, and 214 million Americans know it through the
length and the breadth of this great country. And by this time next year we
should make darn sure every responsible voter knows who did it and who didn't
do it.
The message of the Republican Party and what it stands for must be carried
to all of the American people. We must let people know that this is the party of
openness, the Republican Party, an open party that insists on open government.
And that is precisely what you are doing here in Wisconsin, and I congratulate
1774
