October 30
[652]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
your legislative leaders. For the young and old, rich and poor, black and white,
Independents, and discerning, and, yes, deserted Democrats—for all of these
Americans and more, we have something in this great party to offer them.
We are the party of principles, not pessimism; the party of answers and solu-
tions, not the disseminators of doubt and despair; the party of reason, respon-
sibility, and restraint, not the party that purveys promises which can't be kept or
programs which can't be achieved.
Responsibility—that is the key word, one we equate with Republicanism, and
we have a record on this point that Republicans can stand on with pride.
But we are not only a party of principles, we are a party of people. And this
magnificent demonstration here tonight proves it beyond any question. You can
be missionaries in every one of the 71 counties in the great State of Wisconsin.
You can say with conviction that principles can be converted into action only
when they are supported by a majority of the people.
We must bring people and principles together across our land in Wisconsin
and 49 other States. That is the answer to the pessimists, the doom pushers of
today. We believe in people, and we believe in principles.
The Republican Party's goal is to unite the American people in the principles
that made our Nation great over a period of almost 200 years.
In the first hundred years of our Nation's history, we developed a form of
government that provided more liberty, more opportunity for more people
than any nation in the history of mankind.
In the second hundred years of our Nation's history, we developed an in-
dustrial and agricultural capacity unmatched in the history of this great globe.
In our third century, we must dedicate ourselves to expanding the oppor-
tunity for freedom and liberty, individuality, yes, and the Republican Party
can be the mechanism for that.
In 1976, together we can celebrate a great victory with those principles and
those people, a joint victory—not merely for the party, believe me, but for the
people of the United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:22 p.m. in Uihlein
Hall at the Performing Arts Center. He was in-
troduced by William Messinger, State Republican
Party finance chairman.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
State Senator Clifford W. Krueger, State Representa-
tive John C. Shabaz, Dorothy MacDonald, president
of the Wisconsin Federation of Republican Women,
and Reed Coleman, vice chairman of the Wisconsin
President Ford Committee.
1775
