August 19
[494]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But it will take a lot of hard work like many of you have contributed in the
past.
And if we are to capitalize on the opportunities ahead of us—and they are
vast-I think we have to reach out to that great American majority that does the
Nation's work, pays the Nation's bills, provides for the national defense, and
observes the Nation's laws. That is our constituency.
No matter the color of their skin, the religion they practice, the politics they
vote, these solid Americans are the Republican Party's bulwark of strength. They
are the people to whom we must tell our story, over and over again, this year
as well as next.
And after 1 year as President, I am even more firmly convinced than ever that
Republican principles are really what most Americans believe in.
Specifically, as Republicans, we believe in the free enterprise system and in
lifting the very heavy hand of government from business so that the system can
work much more effectively.
We believe in fiscal responsibility and in keeping Federal spending those
levels down, which would not trigger further inflation.
As some of you may recall, a few months ago when I took some action, I said
I was going to take a firm stand against any increase in the Federal deficit. And
it was a fair warning to the Congress that they had to behave and not spend
more money than we could afford.
We have made a little progress, but if the Congress doesn't show some re-
straint and responsibility, there will be a lot more vetoes. I think they are in the
best interest of this country.
Obviously, I want to thank Al and Bill and Tom-I can't remember whether
they voted to sustain every veto. I'm going back and check up on it. [Laughter]
But I'm sure they have a pretty good batting average.
Well, as Republicans, we believe in this fiscal responsibility, and a $60 billion
deficit is a big enough deficit. But if we don't hold the lid, in all honesty and
sincerity, it will be $70 billion, $80 billion, or $90 billion, and that just leads to
further momentum and acceleration for as large a deficit in the next fiscal year.
I just feel that the American people want us to handle their money in a
responsible and effective way. So, with the help of good people-Republicans
primarily, but a good many Democrats too—I think we are approaching a pe-
riod of fiscal responsibility that's so important to our Nation's future.
Obviously, we as Republicans believe in a strong national defense as the best
way that I know of to ensure the peace and to deter war. An adequate military
1183
