[582]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
feel that there should be some limitations on the power of the CIA, and if so,
what limitations?
THE PRESIDENT. The basic limitations come from the law. The operation un-
der the charter comes from the people who have the responsibility. It is, I think,
very proper for Congress to conduct an oversight operation, as they are, and it
is very probable that there ought to be a greater control exercised through the
executive branch over the operations of the CIA.
We have an organization, have had for a good many years, an intelligence
advisory committee that has a relationship in a broad sense to the CIA and the
intelligence community. There have been suggestions that this advisory group
ought to be given more authority to actually supervise the operations of the
Central Intelligence Agency and the others. There has been no decision by me
as yet on whether that group or some other group-or in some other way we
might have a closer control over the operations on a day-to-day basis of the
the Central Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community. Those are
possibilities.
Within the very near future, I expect to make administrative recommenda-
tions, I expect to make legislative proposals as far as the intelligence agencies
are concerned.
I did not answer, Stan, one previous question you indicated concerning colum-
nist Jack Anderson.
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. As I read the newspapers-I haven't gotten any further
information on that—that was not connected with the Central Intelligence
Agency. That was an alleged arrangement or program between certain people
in the White House in the 1970-71 period. It did not involve the CIA. There-
fore, I don't think the CIA should be connected or condemned with that allega-
tion. They have enough troubles on their own.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[8.] Q. Mr. Ford, to get on the topic of energy for a second, it is obvious that
Russia needs our wheat and we need oil. You have been quoted as saying that it
is conceivable and quite possible that America would negotiate with the Soviets
for oil in exchange for wheat. Getting out of the possible, the conceivable realm,
is it going to become a reality?
THE PRESIDENT. We have made very substantial, encouraging, optimistic
progress in a negotiation with the Soviet Union, for the Soviet Union on a 5-
1514
