December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The President. I think we will try to improve the Federal part of health
care to the American people. But I don't think I will go beyond that at this time,
Aldo.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[20.] Q. Mr. President, do you have any ideas how you might fulfill this re-
solve to strengthen the moral and spiritual values of the country?
THE PRESIDENT. One way that I can do it personally is by my own conduct
and to participate with spiritual leaders throughout the country, which I think
is important, on a nondenominational basis. I think we are moving in that
direction, and any inspiration I can give or cooperation that I can contribute,
I certainly will do all I can.
ANGOLA
[21.] Q. Mr. President, you have hinted at some progress with the Russians
on Angola. Is that true? I mean, do you have some undercurrents?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only say that we have presented very forcefully our
view that what is being done there is contrary to détente. I think there is a better
solution. As I said yesterday and I will repeat today, we are maximizing our
effort diplomatically, broadly as well as bilaterally.
RONALD REAGAN
[22.] Q. Mr. President, could you say more about how decorous the struggle
with Ronald Reagan is going to be—
THE PRESIDENT. How decorous?
Q. Yes, how polite?
THE PRESIDENT. I never heard that term used in politics before. [Laughter]
Q. I used it deliberately, because Ronald Reagan has proposed a $90 billion
cut in Federal outlays that will retire $5 billion of the national debt and reduce
our taxes 22 percent. He said now there are those who argue that the effect of
that, say, would be an enormous increase in property and State and local taxes
or a substantial cut in, say, the caliber of schools and teachers' salaries—this sort
of thing. That seems to be a legitimate issue and perhaps a difference between
Ford and Reagan. Will you take on and detail the possible drawbacks that you
see in his proposal to cut Federal revenues by $90 billion? Does that violate the
rule that you will not attack your opponent?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best answer to that is the one I gave the other day.
I had met a day or so before with nine Governors-five Democrats and four
Republicans, as I recall—and in the course of this 2-hour-plus discussion of the
2015
