August 1
[459]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I have not come across the Atlantic to say what all of us already know—that
nations now have the capacity to destroy civilization and, therefore, all our
foreign policies must have as their one supreme objective the prevention of a
thermonuclear war. Nor have I come to dwell upon the hard realities of con-
tinuing ideological differences, political rivalries, and military competition that
persist among us.
I have come to Helsinki as a spokesman for a nation whose vision has always
been forward, whose people have always demanded that the future be brighter
than the past, and whose united will and purpose at this hour is to work dili-
gently to promote peace and progress not only for ourselves but for all mankind.
I am simply here to say to my colleagues: We owe it to our children, to the
children of all continents, not to miss any opportunity, not to malinger for one
minute, not to spare ourselves or allow others to shirk in the monumental task
of building a better and a safer world.
The American people, like the people of Europe, know well that mere as-
sertions of good will, passing changes in the political mood of governments,
laudable declarations of principles are not enough. But if we proceed with care,
with commitment to real progress, there is now an opportunity to turn our
peoples' hopes into realities.
In recent years, nations represented here have sought to ease potential con-
flicts. But much more remains to be done before we prematurely congratulate
ourselves.
Military competition must be controlled. Political competition must be re-
strained. Crises must not be manipulated or exploited for unilateral advantages
that could lead us again to the brink of war. The process of negotiation must be
sustained, not at a snail's pace, but with demonstrated enthusiasm and visible
progress.
Nowhere are the challenges and the opportunities greater and more evident
than in Europe. That is why this Conference brings us all together. Conflict
in Europe shakes the world. Twice in this century we have paid dearly for this
lesson; at other times, we have come perilously close to calamity. We dare not
forget the tragedy and the terror of those times.
Peace is not a piece of paper.
But lasting peace is at least possible today because we have learned from the
experiences of the last 30 years that peace is a process requiring mutual restraint
and practical arrangements.
This Conference is a part of that process—a challenge, not a conclusion. We
face unresolved problems of military security in Europe; we face them with
1075
