[678]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I am really not an authority on what might or might not
happen in the Democratic Party. I know, of course, that in 1972 he ran very
well in my State. I think he will probably run very well in my State again in
1976. He will be a factor—that is perfectly obvious. Whether he will be on the
ticket or not, I just don't think I am qualified to give you an answer.
Q. As a follow-up question, if he decided to go the third party route, do you
think that that would have a definite effect upon the election? Could it throw
it into the House of Representatives?
The President. It is very possible. It almost did in 1968 when, I think, three
or four States, if they had gone one way or another, differently, might have
thrown it into the United States House of Representatives.
I think the impact of Governor Wallace running as a third party candidate
depends somewhat upon the Democratic nominee, and we don't know that, of
course. So, I don't think I should speculate until we get more information, one,
as to whether Governor Wallace is going to be on the Democratic ticket; two,
whether he will be a third party candidate; and, who the Democratic nominee
will be. Those are uncertainties at the present time.
GASOLINE TAX
[16.] Q. I am Sally Lofton with Southeastern Newspapers. Governor
George Busbee is attempting to convince Congress that the Federal Government
should allow States to preempt a portion of Federal taxes on motor fuel. I just
wanted to know what your position is on this.
THE PRESIDENT. I recommended to the Congress several months ago a pro-
posed new highway act, and one of my recommendations was that the Con-
gress should take off one of the cents that is now charged by the Federal Gov-
ernment in the gas tax and turn it over to the States. I think that would help the
States to finance their share of highway construction. The Congress thus far
has not acted on my recommendation. It appears that Governor Busbee and
myself agree in this regard.
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY NOMINATION
[17.] Q. Mr. President, I am Alma Bowen from the Times in Gainesville,
Georgia. I wanted to ask you about the Tennessee Valley Authority. You have
appointed a man on the Board of Directors who is from Mississippi, and I under-
stand he is having problems, or there has been a delay in confirmation of this
appointment in the Senate. And my question is, if this man is not confirmed,
would you consider a man from Georgia, since some TVA lakes are located here
1874
