[573]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
SCHOOL BUSING
[10.] Q. Mr. President, you have said that State courts in their effort to inte-
grate the schools have ignored less drastic alternatives than busing. What
specifically do you mean by less drastic alternatives?
THE PRESIDENT. The Congress in 1974 approved what was labeled the Esch
amendment-laid out six or seven specific guidelines for the courts to follow.
The last of the recommendations to achieve what the courts should do was
busing-court-ordered forced busing to achieve racial integration. Those steps-
and I was in the Congress part of that time and I signed the bill that became
law—those steps include a magnet school, utilization of the neighborhood school
concept, the improvement of facilities, et cetera. I hope that in the future, as some
courts in the past, recent past, will utilize those guidelines rather than plunging
into court-ordered forced busing as the only option for the settlement of segre-
gation problems in the school.
Q. The whole issue of opposition to busing tends to get confused with racism,
and there are a lot of racial epithets and whatnot being thrown about on the
protest line. Do you have anything to say about that? You are opposed to busing,
but how do you make the distinction?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think opposition to busing really has any relationship
to racism on the part of most people. I think the best illustration, one of the ris-
ing young columnists in this country, Bill Raspberry, a black, has been most
forceful and most constructive, I think, in opposing the court approach in
many cases.
I have been opposed to busing as a means of achieving quality education from
its inception. My record in the Congress in voting for civil rights legislation is a
good one. So, I believe that the real issue is quality education. It can be achieved
better for disadvantaged people, minorities, by other means.
I have sought, through the support of the Esch amendment, through adequate
funding, to help Boston and other communities where this problem exists to
upgrade their school system rather than to have this very controversial approach
of forced busing.
Q. Do you think it will be an issue in next year's campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope it won't.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[11.] Q. Mr. President, during your visit here, have you made any plans to
telephone or visit former President Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't made any specific plans, no.
1468
