November 3
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Don Rumsfeld and Brent Scowcroft. I put it on the affirmative side that they
are my choices and that we can work together effectively to carry out an effective
foreign policy.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[5.] Q. Mr. President, you have said many times that Vice President Rocke-
feller along with you made a team that was one you liked and that you said
there was no reason to break up that team. What I want to know is, did you urge
him not to withdraw from the race for the Vice-Presidential nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. The Vice President came to me and indicated that what he
said in the letter was his decision, and I accepted it.
Q. One other question on the Vice-Presidential race. Does the nomination of
Donald Rumsfeld as Defense Secretary and the nomination of Mr. Bush as CIA
Director, does that eliminate them as Vice-Presidential running mate possibil-
ities?
THE PRESIDENT. They are first-class public officials. They have important
responsibilities. I don't think they are eliminated from consideration by any-
body-the delegates to the convention or myself.
FOREIGN POLICY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, would you be more specific and tell us exactly how the
appointment of Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Bush to their new posts will strengthen
your team in the area of foreign affairs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have indicated that Ambassador Bush had been an
Ambassador at the United Nations for 2 years. He has been in China for better
than a year. He is a man of experience in public life as a Member of Congress.
And Don Rumsfeld has had excellent service in the Congress. He has been
in the White House for 14 months. He was in NATO. Don Rumsfeld has
experience and the kind of working relationship with me that I think will be very
helpful.
Q. Mr. President, if I could follow up, does this have any specific implication
for policy?
THE PRESIDENT. I have indicated that in my judgment we have been very
successful in the execution of foreign policy on behalf of the United States. We
have achieved great success in the Middle East. We strengthened NATO. We
have continued our relations on a good basis with the People's Republic of China.
We are working with the Soviet Union in certain areas to relieve tension. The
foreign policy of this country is in good hands. But I wanted a team that was
my team, and this team of Kissinger and Rumsfeld, Bush and Scowcroft, gives to
1795
