[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
ciates. During today's meetings you have covered a lot of issues in the good
spirit of give-and-take and you have heard from a number of members of my
Administration.
It is now my privilege to listen to you and seek to respond to your inquiries.
And I understand the first question is to be asked by Mr. Kenefick.
QUESTIONS
REGULATORY REFORM
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I am John Kenefick, representing the Omaha Cham-
ber of Commerce. On a number of occasions you have indicated a desire to
reduce the degree of government involvement in the affairs of business, par-
ticularly small business. In light of the tendency of government bureaucracy
to perpetuate and enlarge itself, what concrete steps can be taken to accomplish
this regimen?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kenefick, a number of things can be done. Every de-
partment and agency of the Federal Government can survey its requirements
that are imposed on business, on individuals, and seek to eliminate the multi-
tude of forms that require everybody in one form or another to fill out, and this
goes to the people who have to fill out forms when they apply for welfare, to
somebody who has to fill out a form for a direct Government loan.
The head of the Office of Management and Budget estimated there are roughly
5,200 such applications or forms now required by various agencies. I told Jim
Lynn that he has got to cut that down, and 12 months from now I want a re-
port showing at least 3 to 400 less of those.
Now, there are some other requirements. Various independent agencies-
the FCC, the CAB, the ICC, the Federal Trade Commission-they also are on
the backs of individuals and businesses. We have sought to work with them in
conjunction with the Congress to get them to eliminate some of their outmoded,
outdated regulatory requirements. I must admit, it is harder to achieve than
what it appears to be.
But let me give you an illustration of how ridiculous Government regula-
tions can become. I understand there is an individual who owns one of these
large retail marketing places. He was told by one Federal agency that he had to
smooth out the surface that people walked on. The next agency came along—
in this case, an occupational safety and health organization—and said he had
to make the surfaces rougher so people wouldn't slip.
1568
