[579]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
A working American is a buying American, an investing American, a saving
American.
Unemployment checks are designed simply to maintain life. Paychecks are
to enrich life, to provide not only its necessities but some of its luxuries. No
American can successfully engage in the pursuit of happiness until the basic
needs—food, clothing, shelter, education, and employment—are first met.
By the year 1980-not too far away-to meet the employment requirements
of an expanding population, we must create over 11 million new jobs-11 million
new jobs to build the houses, produce the products, harvest the fields, and earn
the salaries that pay for it all, 11 million new jobs to show the rest of the world
that the American dream functions best when we are wide awake.
This Administration has already proposed to the Congress reforms which
will establish taxing policies necessary to the development of new capital in
the creation of new jobs. These reforms will give the United States business and
industry some of the necessary incentives our economic expansion requires. More
importantly, they will give jobseekers a paycheck instead of a raincheck.
The time to act is right now. Because of the recession slowdown, our plants
and factories are underutilized. But the signs are clear for all to see that
America's economy is picking up speed. Today there are 1,500,000 more people
working than there were in March of 1975. The unemployment rate has
dropped-not far enough—but the trend is downward.
Industrial production in the last 2 months has increased at an 11.3-percent
annual rate; retail sales from March through August rose at a 20-percent annual
rate; real disposable income rose in the second quarter at a 21-percent annual
rate.
Just 2 days ago I think we got some of the best information and news, and
this is very significant: The Department of Labor reported that the cost-of-
living rate in August rose only by two-fifths of 1 percent, the smallest rate in-
crease in 3 years. More importantly, this figure represents an annual inflation
rate of only 2 percent instead of the 12 to 14 percent we were confronted with
about a year ago.
That is good news. But we must not allow the good news to obscure the fact
that there is still a lot to do if we are to maintain a strong and healthy economy
unfettered by runaway inflation. To make sure inflation doesn't get out of
hand, we must hold the line on a number of new Federal spending programs,
programs which could well push up the deficit next year and reignite the fires
of inflation.
Frankly, that is why I have been using the Presidential veto. Some have mis-
1490
