[458]
July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
place to work. Morale is high and productivity
excellent.
It is very unfortunate that some tough issues
we have had to handle resulted in negative pub-
licity which has beclouded the significant accom-
plishments of the last six years. Despite this you
will find that our reputation for performance and
integrity is excellent. Members of Congress from
both sides of the aisle, businessmen, labor leaders,
professionals (architects, engineers, etc.), other Fed-
eral agencies and GSA employees at all levels will
attest to that fact.
Every assignment I have had in public service
has been a tough one requiring difficult decisions.
I accepted all assignments and made the tough de-
cisions. I have no regrets in this regard because I
always knew what I was getting into and tough
decisons were necessary to get things done.
My career in public service has been exciting,
challenging and rewarding. There have been some
rough times and some frustrating moments. But I
realize that you cannot really have one without the
other.
I feel very fortunate to have been associated with
you as Minority Leader, Vice President, and now as
President. I think you are on the "right track" for
America and that you will stay there.
Lastly, I want you to know that after 12 years.
in public service, I have great confidence in our
democratic system of government. There were mo-
ments when I had my doubts, but overall, we have
the best system known to man.
Respectfully,
ARTHUR F. SAMPSON
Administrator
459
Address in Helsinki Before the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe. August 1, 1975
Mr. Chairman, my distinguished colleagues:
May I begin by expressing to the Governments of Finland and Switzerland,
which have been superb hosts for the several phases of this Conference, my
gratitude and that of my associates for their efficiency and hospitality.
Particularly to you, President Kekkonen, I must convey to the people of the
Republic of Finland, on behalf of the 214 million people of the United States
of America, a reaffirmation of the longstanding affection and admiration which
all my countrymen hold for your brave and beautiful land.
We are bound together by the most powerful of all ties, our fervent love for
freedom and independence, which knows no homeland but the human heart.
It is a sentiment as enduring as the granite rock on which this city stands
and as moving as the music of Sibelius.
Our visit here, though short, has brought us a deeper appreciation of the pride,
industry, and friendliness which Americans always associate with the Finnish
nation.
The nations assembled here have kept the general peace in Europe for 30
years. Yet there have been too many narrow escapes from major conflict. There
remains, to this day, the urgent issue of how to construct a just and lasting peace
for all peoples.
1074
