[626]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
this area, and they will include the total spectrum of those who want to take
the present law and modify it to try and tighten it up to those who want to junk
the present system and substitute another. We are going to have a broad spec-
trum of witnesses, and when the Vice President comes back with a consensus,
we will make a decision. There has been none made yet.
Q. Would you like to move in January on some kind of welfare program?
THE PRESIDENT. It will depend on what the hearings produce, Charlie [Charles
L. Bartlett, Chicago Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, you spoke of frills at the DOD. Do you apply that also to
the other departments and HEW?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, sure. None will be immune, Holmes.
Q. Mr. President, speaking of the Vice President, could I ask a fiscally related
question? [Laughter] Are you and Mr. Rockefeller now taking different posi-
tions on the possible need for some Federal assistance to New York City?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say it is minimal. I couldn't help but be disappointed
in what I read this morning, that the mayor's group—or whatever they call that
group-has come up with only a $50 million reduction of the recommendations
that they have to make to the Governor's group, and the total that the Governor's
group requires is $200 million, and this is only 50 out of the 200.
I have no way of knowing what the reaction will be of the Governor and his
group, but I can't help but raise the question that if the municipal people can't
satisfy the Governor's group, it certainly is an indication that they would have a
hard time satisfying the Congressional requirements for fiscal responsibility.
And of course, fiscal readjustment or fiscal restructuring or fiscal responsibility
at the city level would be a prerequisite, I would think, for any Congressional
action.
MR. NESSEN. Mr. President, do you want to leave Bill and Alan to finish?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Thank you all very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. in the
Roosevelt Room at the White House. The briefing
was conducted by William E. Simon, Secretary of
the Treasury, Alan Greenspan, Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, and James T. Lynn,
Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The White House press release contained the con-
cluding portion of the briefing.
1694
