October 14
[626]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
income group. And unless we do something to modify that, they are going to
be hurt the most in the years ahead.
Q. Mr. President, coming back to the point of economic impact, it makes
quite a difference what part of the budget, what kind of spending you cut. Can
you give us in general terms any thoughts you might have on what kinds of
spending need to be cut at this point? It makes a difference in impact, as I
understand it, whether you go after social security or military deployment or
building a dam somewhere.
THE PRESIDENT. It is true that certain programs call for an immediate cash
outlay and others have a delayed impact. On a long-term military contract, the
big payout comes usually the last 50 percent of the 5-year program to build an
aircraft carrier, just as an example, whereas some of these income supplement
programs come out of the Treasury immediately.
I wouldn't want, at this point, to identify them until Jim's process gets con-
cluded, but I have indicated-and did in Detroit last Friday-because we are
in the process of now drafting the legislation and the preparation of the message
in the area of food stamps. Now, that is an immediate impact if the Congress
acts.
I also said in Detroit that we had to get some better management out of the
Defense Department and that some of the frills, as I use the word, have to be
eliminated over there in the Pentagon. And I repeat that.
I am not going to permit, to the extent that I can, any serious—any erosion of
our weapon capability, but I think there are areas in the Defense Department
where better management can produce better results.
Yes, Mark [Marquis W. Childs, St. Louis Post-Dispatch].
Q. Mr. President, if the Congress reacts with the same kind of stalemate they
have reacted on oil, do you see this as an important issue that will carry into the
1976 campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the American people could and would make an
issue. If my premise is correct, that the American people want a reduction in the
growth of expenditures at the Federal level, and if the Congress doesn't act
affirmatively, I think the American people will make it an issue, which means in
1976 it will be in the political arena.
Q. Mr. President, you used a billion dollar figure in your Detroit press con-
ference, I think, on food stamps?
THE PRESIDENT. Right.
Q. You also spoke of medical payments. Do you have a rough ballpark figure
on medical payment cuts?
1691
