September 4
[530]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
on the myriad problems facing it, moving confidently toward the future, and so
do we.
There is one thing that my 25 years of public service have taught me, and it is
this: A successful blend of personal initiative, private enterprise, and public
service will come closer to solving our problems and realizing our country's great
potential than will reliance on the massive, musclebound bureaucracy of govern-
ment by itself.
For far, far too long, too many Americans have relied too much on the Federal
Government in our great Capital to meet their needs, grant their wishes, and
solve their problems. We have already lost too much of the enterprise and the
initiative and self-reliance which made America the hardiest of people in this the
greatest of nations. As Abraham Lincoln so well put it, "The role of the national
Government is to help people who cannot help themselves."
I think it is time we began to look elsewhere for the solution to too many of
our problems—to our State capitals and our county seats and our town coun-
cils, to our offices, our shops, our factories, and our farms, to our homes, to our
schools, and to our churches of America, and then—I put with emphasis—to
ourselves.
That is where the real power and the real potential of America resides. That
is where to find the creative genius, the knack for problemsolving, the pioneering
spirit, the Yankee ingenuity for which this country is so well known.
I firmly believe that if each of us shoulder more of life's responsibilities, taking
a very personal interest to match the personal stake we have in the life and the
success of this Nation, we can truly make it a fresh start on America's problems
and develop some new solutions even as we celebrate our 200th birthday.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:47 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Sheraton-Portland Motor Inn. In
his remarks, he referred to Dave Green, Oregon State
Republican chairman, Don A. Ellis, chairman of the
Oregon Museum of Science and Industry board of
trustees, and Jack Faust, master of ceremonies for
the dinner.
530
Remarks at the Portland Youth Bicentennial Rally in Portland.
September 4, 1975
WOW, what an experience! I know we have an energy shortage, but I sure don't
see any sign of it tonight. Thank you.
I just finished telling a banquet audience that I came to Oregon just to visit, not
1327
