[449]
July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
both an historic necessity and an invaluable chance
have emerged to establish lasting peace and make
an active contribution of the whole of Europe to
constructing universal peace.
That task lies in the vital and supreme interest of
all European nations. Each of them can and should
make its own contribution to the cause of peace and
cooperation.
A particular role in this regard is played by our
ally, the Soviet Union. Whereas 30 years ago it
carried the heaviest burden of struggle against
Nazism, today it spares no effort to promote devel-
opment of the process of détente and consolidate
international security.
Likewise, the contribution of the United States is
of great importance. Your country, Mr. President,
lent its assistance to the peoples of Europe in their
struggle against forces of aggression and barbarity.
Today it can do much for the establishment of last-
ing peace on our continent.
We are fully appreciative of the engagement of
the American Government in securing the success of
the European Conference. We are aware of the great
weight of cooperation of the Soviet Union and the
United States to save mankind from a new world
war, to successfully shape the international situation.
We rejoice at the constructive dialog between you,
Mr. President, and the General Secretary of the Cen-
tral Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet
Union, Mr. Leonid Brezhnev.
A turn for détente represents an outstanding
beneficial change for all nations in their international
relations. It is with the later process, with its perma-
nent continuation, that we link our great hopes and
growing optimism for the future of Europe and the
world at large.
We also link it, Mr. President, with our plans for
the further dynamic development of Poland, the
implementation of which requires peace and broader
cooperation-notably in the economic field-with
other countries.
Mr. President, the people of Poland have had a
long and very difficult history. Over the last two
centuries, its chapters have been covered with heroic
struggle for the right to independent existence.
In World War II, in which you too served, sir,
showing your patriotism and battlefield gallantry, we
lost over 6 million citizens and over 40 percent of
our national property. It has been through the self-
sacrificial toil of our own people and with the assist-
ance of our unfailing friends, above all, of the Soviet
Union, that we raised this country from ruins and
have created for Poland a chance for lasting security
development and social progress.
Within her just and inviolable frontiers, linked as
she is by the unbreakable alliance with her Socialist
friends, Poland is looking forward to the future with
confidence and optimism.
We would sincerely wish that our nation, so often
harassed by wars and so many a time having to start
life anew, could enjoy the blessings of a period of
lasting peace. That is precisely what the Polish Peo-
ple's Republic views as her supreme objective of her
activities in the international forum.
My country has made its important contribution
to creating genuine conditions of security in Europe
and to strengthening Europe's peaceful order. It con-
tributed and continues to contribute its share to the
process of international détente. Therefore, it is with
particular satisfaction that we shall welcome the
Helsinki charter of European peace and shall actively
pursue the implementation of its principles.
Mr. President, our common desire is the further
expansion of Polish-American relations. We assess
favorably their present state and dynamic growth.
The decisions and agreements which we arrived
at in Washington last year have laid down good
grounds for expansion of cooperation between our
two countries, especially in the economic field. We
regard it as a valuable element of the development
of our own country, and we trust it is likewise bene-
ficial to the United States. Thus, there exists favor-
able circumstances to go still further in its program-
ing in the future.
Mr. President, in 1976 the United States will ob-
serve its Bicentennial. A significant contribution to
the making and growth of the United States has
been made by Poles. The memory of our two peoples
is well aligned with dignified figures of Kosciuszko
and Pulaski, who fought for the independence of
both Poland and the United States.
In later times, hundreds of thousands of Poles who
emigrated in search for their work and bread par-
ticipated in laying the foundations of the American
economic potential. Numerous Polish names have
permanently entered the history of American sciences
and culture.
Today, millions of Americans of Polish extraction,
as good citizens of the United States, work for its
development and also maintain their emotional ties
with the country of their forefathers.
We take great satisfaction that ever more fre-
quently they visit Poland and take pride in her
accomplishments. They are surely glad with the pres-
ent development of Polish-American relations, which
you, Mr. President, promote with all your heart and
determination.
I wish to raise this toast to your good health, Mr.
President, to the good health of Mrs. Ford, to the
good health of the Secretary of State, to the good
health of all persons accompanying you, for the fur-
ther successful development of Polish-American rela-
tions, to the success of the Helsinki Conference, to
the successes in consolidating détente and peace.
1060
