[492]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I reminded all there in Helsinki that détente must be a two-way street, because
tensions cannot be eased with safety and security by one side alone.
Through détente, I hope that we are on a two-way street with the Soviet
Union. But until I am certain of real progress, I must reserve final judgments
about the defense budget and particularly our plans for strategic nuclear forces.
We will, therefore, continue to seek meaningful arms agreements. But this
will be possible only with sufficient and credible strength of our own and in
concert with our allies. Moreover, any agreements we reach must be verifiable for
our security. To put it very practically, that is, we must possess the means of mak-
ing sure that they are being honored. The time has not yet come when we can
entrust our hopes for peace to a piece of paper.
Thus, another essential element of any real arms limitation, whether of
strategic systems or conventional forces, is our own intelligence capability.
Sweeping attacks, overgeneralization against our intelligence activities jeopardize
vital functions necessary to our national security. Today's sensations must not
be the prelude to tomorrow's Pearl Harbor.
I certainly do not condone improper activities or violations of the constitutional
rights of Americans by any personnel or any agency of the Federal Govern-
ment. On the basis of the comprehensive studies of our intelligence agencies by
the Rockefeller Commission and by the Murphy Commission on the conduct
of foreign policy,¹ I will take administrative action and recommend legislation to
the Congress for whatever must be done to prevent future abuses.
Intelligence in today's world is absolutely essential to our national security—
even our survival. It may be even more important in peace than in war. Any
reckless Congressional action to cripple the effectiveness of our intelligence
services in legitimate operations would be catastrophic. Our potential adversaries
and even some of our best friends operate in all intelligence fields with secrecy,
with skill, and with substantial resources. I know and I know you know that
what we need is an American intelligence capacity second to none.
Finally—and this relates both to our vital intelligence installations and to the
imperative need to strengthen key alliances such as NATO-let us now consider
our relations with our friend and ally of many years, Turkey. How do you
explain to a friend and an ally why arms previously ordered and paid for are not
being delivered? How do you explain to your other allies the potential damage
that this may cause to our NATO alliance? How do you justify to the American
¹ The Commission on the Organization of the Government for the Conduct of Foreign Policy, chaired
by former Ambassador Robert Murphy.
1176
