[464]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
on the discussions we had together as an expression
of our mutual wish to extend our cooperation in all
fields and to work together more closely in order to
promote the policy of peace and international cooper-
ation.
At the same time, we signed the documents
whereby the two countries take note of the fact that
their trade agreement has come into effect and have
exchanged ratification instruments to that effect.
As a result, a better legal framework is being
created for further expanding economic cooperation
between our two countries.
I should like to express my satisfaction, the satis-
faction of my Government, and of the Romanian
people, with the fact that the relations between
Romania and the United States have now been estab-
lished on a mutually beneficial basis, that our two
countries are now desirous to apply in the economic
field the principles of mutual advantage through the
mutual granting of the most-favored-nations treat-
ment.
During these 2 days, we had talks on many prob-
lems which pertained to the relations between the
two countries and also to a number of international
matters which are today of general concern to man-
kind and which are of interest today to our two
countries as well.
I am glad to note that in these conversations of
ours that the occupation and the common desire have
emerged to find political solutions for the complex
problems now confronting mankind and to insure
the continued course towards détente, cooperation,
and peace in the world.
That is why I should like to emphasize with great
satisfaction that your visit to Romania, sir, although
a short one, is now being concluded with the most
favorable results, both with regard to the relations
between Romania and the United States and the
future prospects of these relations, as well as with
respect to the need to take further action together
in the service of peace and cooperation, in the service
of building a world with more justice, a better world
on our planet.
This setting in the mountains, I think, has also
helped create a favorable climate, and I hope this
will be reflected in the continued cooperation be-
tween our two countries and between the two of us,
sir.
I wish an ever better and better and fruitful co-
operation between Romania and the United States. I
wish that we can work together and to the good of
our two peoples and of the cause of peace.
465
Joint Communique Following Talks With President
Ceausescu of Romania.
August 3, 1975
AT THE invitation of the President of the Socialist Republic of Romania,
Nicolae Ceausescu, and Mrs. Elena Ceausescu, the President of the United
States, Gerald R. Ford, and Mrs. Elizabeth Ford, paid an official visit to
Romania on August 2-3, 1975.
The distinguished guests visited places of cultural and social interest at
Bucharest and Sinaia. They were given a warm welcome everywhere as an
expression of the esteem and high regard in which the Romanian people hold
their friends, the American people.
During the visit, President Ford and President Ceausescu held talks regarding
the present stage of relations between Romania and the United States, as well as
an exchange of views on a wide range of international problems of mutual inter-
est. The talks took place in a cordial and friendly atmosphere reflecting mutual
esteem and respect as well as the favorable course of Romanian-American rela-
tions in recent years.
1096
