[620]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
any legislation you might get from Congress that would aim in that general
direction?
The President. I don't think any legislation that I have heard people com-
ment about or any legislation that I have read about would justify approval by
myself. The legislation that I have heard about is a long way from getting
through the Congress.
Every place I go, I check with Members of the Congress-Democratic or
Republican—and I check, as some of you may know, with people in various
communities. And I find no substantial sentiment for any legislation of one kind
or another in the Congress to bail out New York City. So, I think it is very
premature to make any comment other than nothing I have seen so far seems
to fit the bill.
Yes, Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News].
FEDERAL TAXES AND SPENDING
[3.] Q. Mr. President, you have said that, or have indicated, or some of your
people have, that you would veto a tax bill if it is not tied to this budget ceiling.
My question is, would you really shoot Santa Claus in an election year?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lisagor, I have said with great emphasis that the Amer-
ican people want a $28 billion tax cut and a $28 billion reduction in the growth
of Federal expenditures. They know that that is the right way to meet the prob-
lem of getting our long-term reform in tax legislation and to achieve a respon-
sible program in spending limitations.
I absolutely, without any equivocation, say that if the Congress plays politics
by sending a tax reduction bill to my desk without any responsible restraint on
Federal spending, the answer is, as I said the other night, I would not hesitate
to veto it.
Q. Mr. President, could I follow that and ask you, have you taken any polls
to find out whether the American people really support this program, because
you and others have said that the American people want this? How do you know
they want this?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been watching some of the polls taken nationally for
the last several months, and there is a general consensus that Federal spending
ought to be controlled. And I believe there is a strong feeling that the Federal
Government should take less out of the taxpayer's pocket so the taxpayer can
spend it himself.
Q. Mr. President, to stay with the tax and spending program, critics of the
1646
