October 10
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tell you who actually has the specific jurisdiction, but it is a partnership where
the Federal Government not only has the legal title under foreclosure of the
homes but the Federal Government is putting up $3 million this year and $2
million next year for the rehabilitation of a thousand homes. And I understand
they are in the process of actually implementing the program for about 250 right
at the present time.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I am wondering why you removed the embargo on
the Poles and not the Russians? You said the crop report, after all, was excellent,
but
you said you have got to go ahead now with the Russian grain deal, you have
got to have negotiations on that. The farmers would like to go ahead and get
this money now and worry about a long-term, 5-year grain deal later. Why don't
you just go ahead and remove the embargo now?
THE PRESIDENT. It is very important to negotiate, and you can negotiate from
strength, I think, if we make certain, make positive, that we get a long-term
agreement which is in our best interest in return for additional sales to the
Soviet Union on the crops that they want to buy in 1975.
It is a very simple explanation. We have the grain, we want a 5-year or longer
term, and we want good arrangements. I think we are coming very close, we
are working very hard at it. And I think we are probably going to have some
results.
But it is just a matter of good old Yankee trader actions-and the Yankee
traders did pretty well for a long time in this country. I just think we ought to
handle it that way rather than to be too soft or not a tough negotiator.
Q. Well, in all this tough trading, are you going to make your mid-October
deadline, and also, are you horsetrading for oil? Are you holding out for that?
THE PRESIDENT. We are discussing a potential oil deal that will have some
favorable aspects, if it is negotiated. As far as we are concerned, that is a little
more difficult. In that case, they have the commodity and we want it. So, they
have somewhat better bargaining position in that case than we.
So, as I said a moment ago, we are trying to be good, hard-nosed Yankee
traders. And when we end up with an arrangement or a negotiated agreement,
I can assure you that the United States will do as well in the areas where we
want help, and I think we have to expect that they will do well in those areas
where they have an interest.
Q. And that October 15 deadline?
THE PRESIDENT. The October 15 deadline-it is within the realm of possibility.
1663
