[607]
October 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
funds provided by the continuing resolution for fiscal year 1976. Eight of the
deferrals are for programs of the Department of Agriculture and two deferrals
are for programs in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. The
supplementary reports reflect an addition of $76.4 million in budget authority
deferred when compared with their original reports.
Generally, the Congress considers the funds appropriate to each program only
in the regular appropriations bill. The continuing resolution establishes certain
categories and sets standard temporary appropriation levels that apply uni-
formly to the many programs within each of these categories. I am proposing—
for the programs included in this message—levels that differ from the general
levels allowed in the continuing resolution. The Congress is now in the process
of considering, through the regular 1976 appropriations bills, my specific pro-
posals for each of these programs. The deferrals I am reporting preserve the pos-
sibility of conducting these programs in 1976 at the levels I have recommended.
The details of each deferral are contained in the attached reports.
The White House,
October 3, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of October 8, 1975
(40 FR 47439).
608
Statement on Passage of a Bill To Improve United States Relations
With Turkey, Greece, and Cyprus. October 3, 1975
I WELCOME the passage by the Congress of S. 2230, which provides for a par-
tial lifting of the embargo on U.S. arms for Turkey. This action is an essential
first step in the process of rebuilding a relationship of trust and friendship with
valued friends and allies in the Eastern Mediterranean.
The Congressional vote reflects a cooperative effort with the Senate and House
of Representatives on the difficult question of Cyprus and the vital task of restor-
ing stability and security along NATO's strategically important southern flank.
With the partial lifting of the embargo, I intend to take action in four broad
areas in the weeks ahead.
First, we will seek to rebuild our security relationship with Turkey to under-
score that Turkey's membership in the Western Alliance and partnership with
the United States serve the very important interest of both nations.
1588
