November 13
[675]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
May I propose first that it would be the greatest
honor for my country if the President of the great-
est country of NATO could come one day, one hour,
to visit the tiny, the baby partner of NATO.
675
It would be a great honor for my country, and,
Mr. President, may I drink the toast to your health,
to the prosperity of the American people, and to
our good, friendly, and everlasting cooperation.
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Reform of Motor
Carrier Regulation. November 13, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Throughout our history, an effective transportation system has played a vital
role in promoting the economic growth and development of this Nation. Yet,
over the years in response to a variety of economic and political pressures, the
Federal Government has become increasingly involved in the management of
our transportation industries. We have built up a patchwork of economic reg-
ulation which shapes and controls competition in industries which are naturally
competitive. As a consequence, these industries have come to rely on regulation
to protect them from meaningful competition. It is now clear that this patch-
work regulatory structure has not kept pace with changes in the industry and
the economy. We have permitted regulation designed in theory to protect the
public interest to become in practice the protector of special industry interests.
I have observed a growing public and congressional concern over the need
to eliminate outdated regulation and to restore our regulatory system to its
original purpose of serving consumers. In response to this concern, I have sent
two previous transportation proposals to the Congress. Today I am sending to
the Congress the Motor Carrier Reform Act which will modernize the regula-
tion of another major transportation industry.
Like the Railroad Revitalization Act and the Aviation Act of 1975 which are
already before the Congress, the basic thrust of this proposed motor carrier
legislation is to improve performance of our transportation industry by replac-
ing Government regulation with competition. Together, these three bills will
produce a regulatory system that responds to the needs of the consuming public
instead of to the interests of the regulated industries.
Under the current regulatory system, carriers, shippers and passengers alike
are confronted with a web of Government restrictions and regulations which
discourage innovation, promote inefficient transportation service and artifically
distort rates and fares. The prices of many consumer products are higher than
necessary because Government regulations and restrictions permit price fixing
and produce inefficiencies such as empty backhauls and circuitous routing. Too
1857
