November 11
[670]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ments in political life. And I have been quite proud of that young fellow who
came to Washington quite a few years ago, made an enviable record, and has
been, without a question of doubt, one of the greatest Governors in the history
of West Virginia.
I want to thank Arch for several things that he has done for me when I first
ran for the minority leadership, when there was the question of endorsements
for the Vice Presidency. Arch, I am deeply grateful for your never-ending
support. It is just wonderful to see an old friend.
Let me pay tribute to the members of the board, the State legislative mem-
bers, and all of you who are here to participate in this great rally, this fine
dinner. I think all of us owe a debt of gratitude to Tom Potter for the first-class
job he has done.
It is nice to see one of your great statesmen, Senator Chapman Revercomb.
It is nice to see you, Senator.
One of the nice things that traveling around the country gives you an oppor-
tunity to enjoy is to see old friends that you knew many a year ago who, for
one reason or another, you haven't seen over a period of time. One of my old
high school classmates—in fact, he and I graduated from high school together—
Mike Burdell of Charleston, West Virginia.
It is a great treat, and one that I have enjoyed thoroughly, to be back in West
Virginia again and to share this marvelous evening with all of you good, loyal,
enthusiastic West Virginia Republicans, and a few Independents, and I hope a
lot of discerning Democrats.
You know, I keep hearing how the Republican Party will go into the 1976
elections as the underdog, and somehow that has a vaguely familiar ring to it.
Isn't that what they said about the [University of West Virginia] Mountaineers
against Pitt [University of Pittsburgh] last Saturday? [Laughter]
When it comes to football, I think I can speak with some authority, and
tonight I am predicting that what the Mountaineers did at Morgantown last
Saturday, your great Republican ticket is going to do at the polls in 1976.
This is really a great evening, and before we go any further, I want to con-
gratulate your finance committee for its sheer raw courage in the way it has
handled this dinner this evening. I say "sheer raw courage" because it isn't easy
to charge $100 a plate for a dinner in a State whose motto is "Mountaineers are
Always Free."
I am especially pleased to be with you tonight, pleased at this tremendous
turnout, as I indicated, pleased to be back in a State that is known by its natives
1845
