September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am Randy Parent, president of Vocational Industrial
Clubs of America. Just how much monetary support is being given to the voca-
tional education in the future, and what is being done to promote the growth
of the vocational education?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my best recollection that in the traditional vocational
education program there has been a gradual increase. If my memory is accurate,
it is about $300 million a year. Is that roughly right? Well, I can tell you that
it has been on an increasing scale, and I think that figure is roughly right.
Now, in addition to the traditional vocational education programs, we have
what is called CETA—Comprehensive Educational Training Act, CETA—and
it has been funded this year at a figure of $3,200 million. Included in that pro-
gram was $450 million for the summer job training program for young people,
which was very helpful. It had some aspects of vocational education.
The remainder of the CETA program is aimed at vocational training pri-
marily for those people who are out of work of one occupation and seeking
employment in another occupation. So, roughly $22 billion is available in that
aspect of the program plus the traditional high school and vocational education
program.
Now, that is a lot of money-I think it has generally done a good job. But
what has bothered me about some of the vocational educational programs and
some of the CETA training programs is that we have a training program that
doesn't necessarily relate to an occupational area where there are job oppor-
tunities.
I know from my old experience in the Congress that we used to establish—
not we, but the department—job training programs, and then all of a sudden
when the program ended there were no job opportunities in that particular
employment field. I think there has to be a better coordination in finding out
where the job opportunities are, the shortages exist, and then train people for
those shortages rather than just train them for an occupation where there are
no job opportunities. I think we can do a better job spending that much money
in this aspect of vocational education.
PROGRAMS FOR THE POOR
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I am Geraldine Berry, board member for the St.
Louis OIC [Opportunities Industrialization Center]. My question was just
asked, but I have another. Many of the social and training programs which have
aided the poor, the minorities, and the disadvantaged were begun under other
1395
