September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
A thousand categorical grant programs ought to be sufficient to handle the
problems we have at the present time. We just ought to make them work better,
and I think we can.
LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am Bill Vorbeck, president of the St. Louis Police
Officers Association. It is our opinion, the St. Louis Police Officers Association,
that one of the most productive ways for federally funded agencies and com-
missions to operate at the local level, such agencies as LEAA, is to have input
from the grassroots.
Therefore, my question is: Does the Government have any plans that would
permit local police associations to nominate one or two of their members to
federally funded local boards so that the police officer on the street can have
some input into the agency's programs?
THE PRESIDENT. Under the LEAA, Law Enforcement Assistance Act, that
was passed about 1967 or 1968, the money goes to the State and then is filtered
down to the local communities. The basic law provides that there shall be a
commission at the State level, and I think each State has a different title, but
it is a board or a commission that operates at the State level for the distribution
or the recommendation for the distribution of the money that goes to the State
for funneling to the local units of government.
I think it would be helpful in each State to have that kind of representation.
On the other hand, not knowing how each State sets up its board-some States
may have 20, some may have 5 on that board—I am just not familiar with that
detail-but there ought to be some representation, let me put it in that context.
How much, I am not qualified to say. There should be a point of view on that
board from people who are on the firing line, so to speak.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I hope I didn't get the Governor in trouble-[laughter]—or
I didn't get in trouble with the Governor, let me put it that way. [Laughter]
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES STRIKES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I am Joe Snyder of Gallatin, Missouri, the Missouri
Press Association which represents the small city and small town newspapers of
our State. Many people are becoming quite concerned about the strikes that
are directly affecting various levels of government. We have seen law enforce-
ment officers, firemen, teachers, garbage collectors, and postal workers—and I
didn't mean to tie those two together—[laughter]—strike or threaten strikes
1397
