[659]
November
Public Papers of the Presidents
To facilitate legitimate investigation of allegations related to assassination, I
have endeavored to make available all the materials in the Executive Branch
on this subject to the Select Committees of the Senate and the House and the
Department of Justice. This was done under procedures designed to serve the
national interest. The materials were turned over in classified form. You will
recall that I said on June 9, 1975:
"I know that the Members of the Congress involved will exercise utmost
prudence in the handling of such information."
It is not a question of withholding information required by the Select Com-
mittee to carry out its inquiry into these allegations which relate entirely to past
Administrations of both parties. On the contrary, I have endeavored to make
all of the information available to your Committee so that legislation can be
proposed, if necessary, and to the Justice Department to facilitate any investiga-
tion indicated. However, we must distinguish between disclosure to the Select
Committee of sensitive information and publication of that information which
is harmful to the national interest and may endanger the physical safety of
individuals.
There is no question about access to these materials by appropriate officials.
The only issue concerns publication which obviously cannot be limited to Mem-
bers of Congress and other American citizens.
Public release of these official materials and information will do grievous dam-
age to our country. It would likely be exploited by foreign nations and groups
hostile to the United States in a manner designed to do maximum damage to
the reputation and foreign policy of the United States. It would seriously impair
our ability to exercise a positive leading role in world affairs.
I am convinced that publication at this time will endanger individuals named
in the report or who can be identified when foreign agents carefully study it.
I am sure none of us want such an unfortunate result. I urge that we avoid any
action that would bring it about.
I have sought to balance the competing interests involved in this matter. I
made relevant intelligence information and documents available to the appro-
priate Committees of Congress and the Department of Justice. However, to
protect our national defense and ability to conduct foreign affairs as well as the
traditional American right of individual privacy, I have provided most of this
information in classified form.
There can be legislation, if deemed necessary, and prosecutions, if warranted.
But let us do this without the damage to the United States, which will occur
1806
