November 11
[668]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
d. The extent to which they have assured the United States that they will
provide the United States with equitable and reasonable access to their
markets;
e. The legislative history of the Trade Act of 1974, including the Reports
thereon by the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Represent-
atives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
The exclusionary provisions of the Trade Act would apply to some of the
countries that are to be designated but for the factors described below:
CYPRUS
The tariff preferences that Cyprus extends to the products of member coun-
tries of the European Economic Community ("E.E.C.") and the Common-
wealth countries do not have, and are not likely to have, significant adverse
effects upon United States commerce. Accordingly, the exclusionary provisions
of section 502(b)(3) of the Trade Act do not apply to Cyprus.
ISRAEL
I have received satisfactory assurances that Israel will take action prior to Jan-
uary 1, 1976 to assure that, although Israel affords preferential treatment to
products of other developed countries (those of the E.E.C.), there will be no
significant adverse effect on United States commerce resulting from such pref-
erential treatment.
In particular, the Government of Israel has provided satisfactory assurances
that, for specified U.S. exports to Israel worth some $92 million (1974 data),
Israel will reduce the applicable most-favored-nation (MFN) duty rates so as
to eliminate, or in some cases virtually eliminate, the margin between such
MFN rates and the preferential tariff rates being applied to the same products
from E.E.C. countries. In addition, Israel will eliminate, at least during the life
of the U.S. GSP, margins between the E.E.C. preferential tariff rates and the
MFN rates whenever specified conditions are met for certain products. These
products have been identified by the United States as important exports for
which the U.S. and the E.E.C. countries are serious commercial competitors and
for which tariff preferences, if applied, would be likely to affect adversely U.S.
commercial interests. Israel will eliminate preferential tariff margins on these
products whenever specific statistical criteria are met. Israel also will consult
with the United States, at our request, concerning any other U.S. exports which
1841
