October 7
[615]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
viction with a jail sentence-we would have a big impact on the people who
illegally use guns.
Now, I have also recommended to the Congress some legislation that would
provide mandatory prison sentences for people who use guns in the carrying
out of violent crime. I wish the Congress would pass that legislation. I wish State
legislatures would do the same in those cases where they don't have such legisla-
tion. We have to prosecute, convict, and put in jail those people who illegally use
guns. And if we do, I think we can have a substantial impact on the bad use of
firearms.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[14.] Q. Mr. President, before you came in the room, one of the gentlemen
here made a statement that your ties are looking really great lately, and I will
say that the one that you have on today is keeping the tradition up.
What is that, a buffalo on there?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a buffalo.
Q. Buffalo.
Have you been in contact with former President Nixon recently?
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in California 2 weeks ago over the weekend I
called him, yes, sir.
Q. How is he?.
THE PRESIDENT. He sounded very fine, good firm voice. He was up on some
of the pertinent political and international matters. He sounded in fine shape.
Q. Do you expect to be meeting with him or seeing him anytime in the near
future?
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't discuss that, but we talked for roughly 10 minutes
on the telephone.
Q. I see. Thank you.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[15.] Q. President Ford, it has been reported that one of Abraham Lincoln's
Cabinet members asked him why he continually joked about grave situations,
to which he replied something to the effect of: “If I didn't joke, surely the pres-
sures of the office would crush me." Do you come in contact with these pressures,
and how do you cope with them?
THE PRESIDENT. To some extent, I take pretty much the attitude that Presi-
dent Lincoln did, as you expressed them. I don't believe that you should be a
worrier or a fretter. I think you have to take the problems as they come. You
have to give your best effort mentally and physically. You have to make a
1617
