[567]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
under no circumstances, as far as I am concerned, are we going to be number
two, and I simply conclude with this observation and comment.
It is organizations and people like yourselves that make my job much
easier. I know in the past Presidents have called upon all of you or your predeces-
sors to do the same. They have thanked you, and I am grateful for your help and
assistance.
We have got some tough days ahead, but as I look down the road and look
over the horizon, it is my judgment that America, both at home and abroad,
has a great opportunity to have better and better and better days, and all of us
will benefit, and your help will be significantly beneficial in achieving that
result.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:31 p.m. in the Cotillion Room at the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
568
Remarks at the Presentation of the National Medal of Science
Awards for 1974. September 18, 1975
Dr. Stever, distinguished award recipients, Members of Congress, ladies and
gentlemen:
The world was very late in recognizing that men and women of science and
technology are the true movers and shakers of human events. Our Founding
Fathers drew up a Constitution that gave the Congress the powers to promote
the progress of science and the useful arts.
Although a great deal of Federal support flowed from that mandate in the
Constitution, it was not until 1959 that the National Medal of Science was
created to honor those who have distinguished themselves in this important
field.
Since 1962, 89 distinguished scientists and engineers have been awarded this
medal. It is our proud and honored privilege today to honor 13 more outstand-
ing men of science and engineering with this distinguished award.
These awards, the Nation's highest honor to its men and women of science
and engineering, are of particular significance as we approach this Bicentennial
year. As we look back over 200 years of the Nation's history, we see the profound
influence science and technology have had on our Nation's development. We
owe a great debt to science and to all the men and women who have carried on
the scientific enterprise of this country.
1448
