[433]
July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
acceptable, I do believe major reductions must be made in this bill. The Con-
gress could make a substantial move in that direction by simply accepting my
recommendations for impact aid and higher education. In these two areas
alone, Congress has added $913 million to my proposals.
No single program is more bankrupt than the Impact Aid program. Starting
with President Eisenhower, every Chief Executive has recommended reform
or abolition of impact aid. Yet, the Congress would allocate three quarters of a
billion dollars of the taxpayers' money to this program over the next 15 months.
This program is a luxury we can no longer afford. If we are to do what must
be done, we must stop doing what need not be done.
We must also avoid increasing the funding of other programs unless we have
the money to pay for them. In that regard, I urge the Congress to reconsider
the $434 million added to my $2 billion recommendation for higher education.
The other increases the Congress has added to this bill are a part of the trend
over the past several years—a little more for every program. In this case, “a
little more" adds up to nearly $629 million.
Taken as a whole, this appropriation bill is too much to ask the taxpayers—
and our economy-to bear.
I urge the Congress to sustain my veto of this bill and then we can work
together—as we have before—to achieve a responsible compromise.
The White House,
July 25, 1975.
NOTE: On September 9, 1975, the House of Repre-
sentatives voted to override the President's veto.
With the vote in the Senate to override the veto on
GERALD R. FORD
September 10, H.R. 5901 was enacted as Public Law
94-94 (89 Stat. 468).
434
Statement on Suspension of United States Military Operations
in Turkey. July 25, 1975
I DEEPLY regret the announcement of the Government of Turkey to suspend
all American activities at joint U.S.-Turkish defense installations and to take
over control and supervision of these important installations.
I repeatedly warned the House of Representatives of extremely serious con-
sequences such as this, if the United States failed to restore military sales and
credits to our Turkish allies. I again want to praise those House Members of
both parties who voted in the national interest. Now, as a result of yesterday's
1036
