July 23
[421]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
been here on the previous experiences—I think this is the 30th get-together of
Boys Nation—I am positive that some who have gone through the training or
the experiences you have gone through are now down here working with and
being a part of this Government. And you will be better prepared because of
your experiences this week.
What are some of the problems that we face-and when I say "we," I mean
the Congress and myself. We face an energy problem—and I spent about 2 hours
last night on the Sequoia talking to the Democratic and Republican leaders of
the House and Senate trying to find a key to the impasse that we are faced with
at the present time.
The United States right now is extremely vulnerable to foreign oil sources,
and those sources in 1973 turned off the spigot and we had an embargo. We had
waiting lines at gas stations, we had to conserve, and we had some unemploy-
ment that resulted from the lack of foreign oil.
Fortunately the problems in the Middle East were solved; the oil embargo was
raised. But those problems in the Middle East are still very volatile, and the
differences are still very serious.
And although we are working literally night and day to find an answer with
the Arab nations and the Israelis, it might not work. And if it doesn't and a war
flares up there, as it has four times in the last 20-some years, we could have
another oil embargo, and we would be worse off now than we were in 1973.
All of the problems we had then would be multiplied, not eased. So, some-
how the Congress and the President have to find an answer to do two things:
one, to stimulate additional domestic production of oil. The charts show that in
the last 2 years, our domestic production of oil has gone down, which means that
we are buying more and more foreign oil, and that makes us inevitably more
vulnerable to a cutoff if it should occur.
Secondly, we have to conserve. That means that all of you might have to
drive a little bit less. Others will have to conserve in one way or another—in the
winter, not turning the temperature up as high or, in the summer, not turning
it down as low. But we have to conserve this year enough so that we are buying
less, not more foreign oil.
And we have to find a total answer to our energy problem in the next 10
years. And that involves a tremendous amount of research and development in
the exotic fuel areas—solar heat, additional nuclear power, and a wide range of
other things that don't seem feasible today.
But our scientists and technicians tell us it is worth the effort in research and
1013
