September 5
[531]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and moving ahead in a pattern of sustained growth. A working American is a
buying American, an investing American, a saving American. Unemployment
checks are to maintain life. Paychecks are to enrich life. No American can suc-
cessfully engage in the pursuit of happiness until the needs of adequate food,
clothing, shelter, education, and employment are met.
If we are to meet the employment requirements of our expanding population,
by the year 1980 we must create over 11 million new jobs-11 million new jobs
to build the houses, harvest the fields, manufacture the products, and earn the
salaries that pay for it all; 11 million new jobs to show the rest of the world
that the American dream functions best when we are wide awake. How can we
do it? Well, first let me tell you how it can't be done.
In recent years a disproportionate percentage of new jobs has come from the
public sector rather than the private. The result has been the creation of a
bureaucracy that contributes very little to America's prosperity and produc-
tivity. It simply shares it.
Therefore, if the United States is to grow in a substantial, meaningful way,
the impetus has to come from the private sector. Jobs are the symbol of a healthy
free enterprise system. Jobs, particularly in the private sector, are the fuel that
makes our economy run.
Obviously, to achieve the full economic potential of America and Americans,
we must make it possible for our industry to maintain its competitive edge in
world as well as domestic trade.
We emerged from World War II with an industrial capacity and produc-
tivity that was without challenge. Today that lead has narrowed very sig-
nificantly. Friend and forme. foe alike have used the last three decades to re-
build their war-ravaged economies. Their industrial plants embodying the
newest and most sophisticated techniques and technologies now compete with
American products often produced by older, less efficient methods. We are still
number one, but throughout the world we have a lot of number twos who are
trying much, much harder.
We have no choice but to compete and, I say with emphasis, to excel. Per-
sonally, I have no doubt that we can do it if the private sector is given the
opportunity to modernize, expand, and to secure the tools and the technologies
that a first-class economic machine requires. It won't be easy. Some estimates
have placed America's total investment requirement in the coming years at the
astonishing figure of $4 trillion. Even the figure is imposing. It is four-followed
by 12 zeroes!
I consider this a $4 trillion vote of confidence in the future of the United
States industry, business, and agriculture. Economists call it "capital formation,"
but I prefer a much more basic term. To me this means “job creation.” It is the
1337
