August 15
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and does your Administration plan to assign to the preservation of our wildlife
heritage?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there has to be a reasonable, rational balance. I think
what we have tried to do-I submitted either late last fall or early this year some
new proposals for wilderness areas, et cetera, that would have expanded and, I
think, improved the preservation of some of these areas that you are talking
about.
I cannot, however—and I don't want to mislead you—say that the balance is
going to be high on one side and low on the other, because our country also needs
a healthy economy. And as we move down the road, I think we can have a
responsible balance. And I think we have made great progress in that area.
But for me to say we are going to have all energy on the one hand or all envi-
ronment on the other, that isn't calling it as it is. It has got to be a balance, and
it will be as long as I am President of the United States.
ISOLATIONISM
[13.] Q. Mr. President, you have already indicated that your Administration
is developing policy which will relate our abundant food energy to our scarce
petroleum energy. I would like to follow up on that. How can we keep Project
Independence from giving us an isolationist stance in the world rather than
developing good and cooperative relations in the world trade community?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer, I think, can be put this way: The major con-
suming nations of the world-the United States, Japan, western Europe-have
been working for the last 9 months through the IEA [International Energy
Agency], which we sponsored, and that organization has now put together a
group of consuming nations working with producing nations, not only on oil.
And in that area, we are working on “safety net” financial arrangements. We
are working on the permission of us to give to those countries, and they to us,
the benefits of research in energy, and we are working together on conservation
methods.
What I am saying is that the development of our Project Independence permits
us, as a country, to work in closer cooperation with the consuming nations, the
underdeveloped nations and, in effect, gives us the capability of projecting a
greater international responsibility and capability rather than a lesser one.
Therefore, I think our Project Independence helps us to tie our country closer
with other consuming nations and the other underdeveloped nations.
One more.
1161
