October 3
[607]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
friendship between the American and Japanese people, which this historic visit
symbolizes.
Your Majesties.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:21 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Emperor Hirohito spoke in Japanese. His response
was translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
I wish to offer my sincere appreciation for your
most thoughtful words. I am deeply moved by your
warm expression of good will toward Japan and the
people of Japan.
Your visit to Japan last fall, Mr. President, brought
a bright and happy page in the 120-year-long history
of Japanese-American relations. Ever since your visit,
the Empress and I have been looking forward to this
moment when we might be with you again, Mr.
President, and with Mrs. Ford for the first time.
We also thank you cordially for your gracious
hospitality this evening at the White House. We are
mindful that in this house great leaders of your
country have presided since the early years of the
Nation, making their indelible marks on national
and world history.
Our first night in the United States we spent at
Williamsburg, resting from our long journey and
savoring, in the calm atmosphere of that picturesque
town, historic reminders of the birth of this Nation.
Those associations are deepened for us tonight, in
your company and in this historic house.
I recall the wise counsel which your first President,
George Washington, gave the American people upon
leaving the Office of the Presidency in 1796: "Observe
good faith and justice towards all nations. Cultivate
peace and harmony with all."
This precept is still valid in today's world. It is an
idea shared by the Japanese people in their continu-
ing efforts to cultivate peace and harmony within the
international community.
It has been my wish for many years to visit the
United States. There is one thing in particular which
I have hoped to convey to the American people,
should my visit be materialized; that is, to extend in
my own words my gratitude to the people of the
United States for the friendly hand of good will and
assistance their great country afforded us for our
postwar reconstruction immediately following that
most unfortunate war, which I deeply deplore.
Today, a new generation with no personal
memory of those years is about to be in the
majority in both our countries. Yet I am confi-
dent that the story of the generosity and good will
of the American people will be retold from gen-
eration to generation of Japanese for the rest of
time.
The United States has made extraordinary con-
tributions to the well-being and progress among
mankind during the past two centuries. Today,
on the eve of your Bicentennial and amidst the
shifting tides of history, the United States con-
tinues to stand for the high ideals which gave
this Nation birth.
The American people are still contributing to
further development of this most vigorous and
creative society and to the building of peace and
prosperity in the world.
Mankind is now engaged in a common en-
deavor the creation of a just and peaceful inter-
national community. For this lofty objective, it is
my hope that Japan and the United States, as two
powerful and stable nations, will cooperate ac-
tively on the basis of even better understanding
of each other through further dialog, drawing
strengths from the richness of our past histories
and traditions.
Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a toast to the
health of the President of the United States of
America and Mrs. Ford, and to the American
people on the threshold of your third glorious
century as a nation.
607
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on Budget Deferrals.
October 3, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith trans-
mit ten supplementary reports which extend previously reported deferrals of
1587
