[443]
July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Americans do look forward to continued cooperation, not only with the Fed-
eral Republic but with the peoples of Europe as a whole.
Mr. President, little more than a month has passed since we enjoyed you
and Mrs. Scheel being in Washington and visiting us at the White House. The
spirit prevailing among us today strongly reaffirms the genuine and continuing
friendly relationship, the close relationship between our countries, our peoples,
and our Governments.
If you will raise your glass with me, I would like to propose a particularly
cordial prosit to President Scheel and to the Federal Republic and to its people.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 9:30
p.m. in response to a toast by President Scheel. The
dinner was held on board the M.S. Drachenfels.
President Scheel spoke in German. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
A few weeks ago at the splendid reception before
the White House in Washington, I expressed the
I wish to soon be able to greet you here in Germany.
To my delight, the international Conference calen-
dar has helped to make this wish come true so soon.
Today you are here. I bid you, Mrs. Ford, and
your associates a warm welcome. You do know
that you are highly appreciated and highly welcome
guests in our country.
We know, ladies and gentlemen, that wherever
the President of the United States goes in the world,
his office follows him-the White House. My house.
has the color in common with yours. It is white, un-
doubtedly. However, it is too small to accommodate
a festive party in your honor. This is why I invited
you to this white boat.
Outside, the banks are gliding by-things are in
motion like the river. We may have been cruising
against the current. We have just turned around. At
any rate, the further we go together on this truly
European stream, the brighter the views.
This corresponds to a political hope and to a po-
litical goal. It is our hope, it is our goal to create a
solidly founded, strong Europe which, together with
the United States of America, will secure a future of
peace and freedom.
The closer we come to Europe, the brighter the
prospects. Much has been achieved. The British peo-
ple have clearly and for good decided in favor of
Europe. European political cooperation has pointed
up new possibilities to develop Europe institu-
tionally. Yet much remains to be done.
All Western countries are struggling with eco-
nomic problems at the present. But more and more,
the view is gaining ground that individual coun-
tries by themselves cannot master these difficulties.
The talks which the Federal Government has
conducted in the course of these past days make it
clear that the willingness to make common efforts
is on the rise.
Europe is moving in the direction of coordinating
its different economic policies. This is another im-
portant step towards progress. Out of these very dif-
ficulties we gain insights and strengths to overcome
these difficulties.
Europe by itself will not be able to master the
economic problems of today. We can only be suc-
cessful if we coordinate our efforts with those of
the United States of America, and this cannot but
strengthen the awareness of the benefits and the
purpose of the Atlantic partnership on both sides of
the Atlantic.
From the beginning, Atlantic cooperation was a
requirement, as we all realize, for our security pol-
icy. Today, it is just as well, and in particular, a
requirement for our economic policy.
Mr. President, you have come to our country at
a very significant time. In a few days in Helsinki,
the final phase of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe will open. The negotiations
in Geneva have set an example of the opportunities
for constructive Western cooperation.
The negotiations have also shown-and your
presence in Helsinki, Mr. President, will impres-
sively demonstrate to the entire world-that Amer-
ica and Europe are inseparably linked, that one
cannot talk about security and cooperation in Europe.
without including the United States. The Atlantic
Alliance is part and parcel of Western Europe.
The Helsinki Conference should constitute an-
other step towards détente. The documents to be
signed provide a frame which needs to be filled in
the future by agreements and concrete behavior.
Each signatory state will then be able to demonsarate
what it understands by détente.
This is the yardstick by which it will be meas-
ured. Nobody could wish more fervently than the
Germans that the hopes tied to the Conference may
be fulfilled.
1052
