July 23
[421]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Nation are raising funds to insure the permanent enshrinement of the Freedom
Bell in an appropriate location here in the Nation's Capital.
At the conclusion of the Freedom Train journey, the American Legion will
present this Freedom Bell to the Nation as a gift on behalf of America's chil-
dren, who represent, as these young people do, our future. It is our fervent wish
that the Freedom Bell will become a permanent and prominent symbol of the
celebration of the Nation's 200th birthday and will provide an inspiration for
future generations of Americans.
On behalf of American Legionnaires and their Auxiliary members every-
where, Mr. President, it is my great pleasure to present you with this replica
of our Freedom Bell.
The President. Thank you very much, Mr. Commander, and I am deeply
appreciative and most grateful for the Legion Freedom Bell. And I can assure
you it will be prominently displayed in the Oval Office and in my private office.
Thank you very, very much.
COMMANDER WAGONSELLER. Mr. President, I have a few introductions I would
like to make to you, sir, and since you brought up the subject of football, I might
tell these young people here this morning that the President and I find ourselves
in violent disagreement every November on the outcome of the Ohio State-
Michigan football game.
Mr. President, there are two young people here from your home State that I
would like to introduce. First of all, Mr. Jonathan E. Brand of Huntington
Woods, Michigan, and Jonathan Davis Mays of Charlevoix, Michigan.
Mr. President, as you well know, in every election there are winners and
losers. And this morning I would like to present to you two young gentlemen
that ran for president and vice president of Boys Nation and were defeated
very narrowly. First is James H. Sugarman of Marblehead, Massachusetts, and
Daniel T. Henley of Bolair, Wisconsin.
The gentleman that won the election-and they would like to make a pres-
entation to you, Mr. President—the president of Boys Nation, Joe Davis, whom
you met, and Vice President John E. Frank.
MR. DAVIS. On behalf of myself, President of Boys Nation Joe Davis, and
Vice President John Frank of Idaho and the staff of Boys Nation and Boys
Nation itself, Mr. President, we present you with an official Boys Nation
T-shirt.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
MR. DAVIS. My vice president, Mr. John Frank of Idaho, will come and pre-
1015
