[600]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
CRIME
[16.] Q. Many Presidents lately have made declarations concerning crime
and the problems of crime and that something has to be done about it. Cer-
tainly, this is an area you must have given a lot of thought to lately. If you
could point out the biggest need you think needs to change today to help stop
the pattern that crime has taken in the Nation, what would it be?
THE PRESIDENT. I set that forth in a crime message to the Congress where I
said, “Our concern today ought to be for the victims of crime." The crime mes-
sage that I sent to the Congress calls for mandatory sentences for those that
participate in a crime of violence using a gun, and we have urged the courts
to increase their confinement of convicted criminals.
Too many criminals today, after they have been convicted, are put off on
probation. There ought to be a penalty for the committing of a crime, and that
means confinement. Whether it is 6 months or some other term, I believe man-
datory sentences are required in certain crimes.
I believe the courts have to be firmer, and I think they—you know, it is un-
believable, but a very, very high percentage of crime today is done by a very
limited number of people, professional criminals, and they ought to be behind
the bars.
THE PRESIDENT'S CABINET
[17.] Q. Mr. President, there has been-from time to time there have been
reports of controversy between Dr. Schlesinger and Dr. Kissinger, the latest
being the question of the Pershing missile for Israel. Is there indeed disharmony
in your Cabinet in that regard, and if so, what are you doing about it?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there is any disharmony. On some occasions two
very able people have some disagreements, but there is nothing that has seriously
jeopardized the execution of our foreign policy or the carrying out of our na-
tional security program.
In the case of the Pershing missile, the shopping list that was given to us by
Israel was known to the Pentagon. There is no question about that. Whether
Secretary Schlesinger saw it or not I can't guarantee it, but the Pentagon had
that shopping list, no question about it.
But that was only a minor incident, really. I have two fine Secretaries, and if
there are any differences, I make the choice. And sometimes it is healthy to have
a different viewpoint as long as somebody can make a decision.
Q. On that note, we say thank you very much, Mr. President.
1562
