December 7
[716]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
students went to Asian countries. I applaud your contribution to partnership
in education. Your efforts represent America's vision of an open world of
understanding, freedom, and peace.
In Hawaii, the crossroads of the Pacific, our past and our future join.
I was deeply moved when I visited Japan last year and when I recently had
the honor of welcoming the Emperor and the Empress of Japan to America.
The gracious welcome that I received and the warmth of the welcome the
American people bestowed upon the Emperor and the Empress testify to a
growing friendship and partnership between our two great countries. This is a
tribute to what is best in man-his capacity to grow from fear to trust and
from a tragedy of the past to a hopeful future. It is a superb example of what
can be achieved in human progress. It inspires our new efforts in Asia to
improve relations.
America, a nation of the Pacific Basin, has a very vital stake in Asia and a
responsibility to take a leading part in lessening tensions, preventing hostilities,
and preserving peace. World stability and our own security depend upon our
Asian commitments.
In 1941, 34 years ago today, we were militarily unprepared. Our trade in
the Pacific was very limited. We exercised jurisdiction over the Philippines. We
were preoccupied with Western Europe. Our instincts were isolationist.
We have transcended that age. We are now the world's strongest nation. Our
great commercial involvement in Asia is expanding. We led the way in con-
ferring independence upon the Philippines. Now we are working out new
associations and arrangements with the trust territories of the Pacific.
The center of political power in the United States has shifted westward. Our
Pacific interests and concerns have increased. We have exchanged the freedom
of action of an isolationist state for the responsibilities of a great global power.
As I return from this trip to three major Asian countries, I am even more
aware of our interests in this part of the world.
The security concerns of great world powers intersect in Asia. The United
States, the Soviet Union, China, and Japan are all Pacific powers. Western
Europe has historic and economic ties with Asia. Equilibrium in the Pacific
is absolutely essential to the United States and to the other countries in the
Pacific.
The first premise of a new Pacific Doctrine is that American strength is basic
to any stable balance of power in the Pacific. We must reach beyond our con-
cern for security. But without security, there can be neither peace nor progress.
1951
