October 14
[629]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
homebuilding and the real estate business were both having a very serious time.
I didn't come out and promise you any quick fix or phony panacea. I don't
think that is the way for me to talk to people who know what the facts of life
are. And you know that we have had a serious dip in the home ownership effort,
whether it is in new homes being built or in the real estate market. But despite
the fact that we took a real tough slide, this country is coming out of the most
serious economic recession since the end of World War II on the basis of sound
policies. And those policies are going to continue, because they are in the best
interest of everybody in this country.
As I look at the statistics on a national basis, I see encouragement as far as
the economy overall is concerned. And I think you will be very pleased with
some of the material that will be released within the next few days that indicates
that the staunchness of the American people in meeting a challenge and the
right policies we are following will give us the encouragement that is needed
to keep us going in the right direction in making a better America for every-
body.
The improvement in your business is not as spectacular as we would like,
but you should be encouraged. The improvement we find in the surveys that
are made around the country-consumer confidence for good reason is im-
proving.
But we are faced with a very serious crisis. The facts of life are that our Fed-
eral Government, yours as well as mine, has been following a policy in the
spending of your tax dollars that if we continue that policy, what we believe in
will be seriously undermined. And furthermore, if we continue to put the heavy
hand of additional taxation or even the present rates of taxation on people
today, we could have a diversion of what we think is right in America, a policy
that is not healthy for America.
So, what I tried to do in a speech to the American people a few days ago was
to lay out that if we could put a restraining hand on the growth of Federal
spending, and if we, as a result of putting a limitation on the growth of Federal
spending of $28 billion in the next fiscal year, we could honestly say to the
American people that they ought to have a $28 billion tax reduction. But they
have to go hand-in-hand. And I hope and trust that every one of you will talk
to your Congressmen-Democratic, Republican—and say this program is good
for America. It is right.
The tax program seeks to give for the first time in a good many years equity
to the middle-income people in our society. We seek to achieve this by increasing
the personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000, to give a flat $1,800
1697
