[652]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
proud past. I look to a nation that was not only able to conquer the challenges
but provide its citizens with unmatched personal fulfillment by the year 2000.
Only a short 25 years from now, I see America, whose citizens reside in a
community of peace with other nations; share the still highest standard of living
in the world; live longer because killer diseases have been conquered and the
quality of life enhanced; and enjoy opportunities and housing and education
and jobs limited only by their personal initiatives and long-range objectives;
experience individual liberties and freedoms which have not only been secured
but expanded; whose citizens share a national will and spirit which is still
climbing as this Nation moves well into its third century.
To make this vision come true, we must return government to sound, re-
sponsible Republican principles. And we will. We must elect to your State and
local offices and to the Congress responsive and responsible Republican candi-
dates who believe as we do and who share our collective objectives.
The battlelines for 1976 are being drawn between these opposing forces:
Between those who believe in fiscal responsibility and those who believe every
problem will go away if we just threw enough tax money at it.
Between those who believe in a strong national defense is the best insurance
of peace and those who would spend your tax money instead for controversial
social experiments.
Between those who believe in local control over local problems and those who
believe Uncle Sam should help solve all problems individually and collectively.
Between those who believe that American business should be unshackled from
Government overregulation so it can expand the economy and create jobs and
those who believe Federal papershufflers know what is best for America and for
its business community.
Between those who believe in the expansion of individual freedom and liberty
and those who believe in big government and that it should direct people's lives.
That is a fundamental issue.
Let me emphasize 1976 is more than an election year. It is also a year of deci-
sion for all Republicans. It is the Republican Party's golden opportunity to prove
to all that it has the strength to survive setbacks, the resolution to rouse the
Nation's greatness, and the will to win elections. We can do it, and we will do it.
But to make this proof secure, we Republicans must make some practical
changes in our political ways; not in principles, but in approaches.
We must discard the attitude of exclusiveness that has kept the Republican
Party's door closed while we make speeches about keeping it open. We must
invite into our ranks all who care about the great country in which we live and all
1772
