October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in committee, and I would like to ask, sir, what-if you would care to comment
on the Administration's attitude toward this kind of measure for stimulating the
economy and, at the same time, providing local public facilities which are
needed for health and safety of the public?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I never make any categorical comment on whether
I will veto or approve a piece of legislation until it gets down on my desk, but I
am generally familiar with the proposal.
But as a preface to that, I should say that under the $395 billion spending ceil-
ing that I mentioned last night—and I reaffirm today—it makes it almost
impossible, if not virtually impossible, to add any new programs, even one
such as you have described. So, it does have a hard and difficult road if we are
going to cut the growth in Federal spending because this is a new program.
Number two, we have found over the years that public works per se, where
you start literally from scratch, they are not the best way to get people immedi-
ately employed who are unemployed because of a slowdown in the economy.
It takes time to get these projects moving. In contrast, there is, I think, a little
different situation in roadbuilding, because these are projects and programs
that have been underway, planned, et cetera. But I think that many of those
projects can be funded out of general revenue sharing, which amounts to about
$6,300 million in this current fiscal year, going one-third to the States and two-
thirds to local communities. That is money where there are no limitations, no
restrictions, and the States and the local communities can use that money for the
kind of projects and programs that you mention under this other bill.
So, I would say that is a better way, a more certain way, and the other is a
program that will have to come under the 395 ceiling if we are going to show
the kind of restraint that would justify the personal tax reduction that I men-
tioned of $28 billion.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[7.] Q. Mr. President, LeRoy Brandenberg, NAACP. Mr. President, with the
unemployment rate of black Americans being twice that of white Americans, do
you feel that the discrepancy in unemployment needs some special attention and,
if so, what?
THE PRESIDENT. I recognize that the statistics show precisely what you have
indicated, and I think we have to approach the problem in two ways.
Number one, we have to get our economy out of the recession—and we are on
our way out of the recession-so that there will be more job opportunities for all
Americans, including minorities. I am glad to report that since March of this
year to the last report several days ago, we have increased the number of people
1625
