September 5
[531]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
sumer's best insurance that what he or she buys will work, will last, and will
be at the best competitive price-with the possible exception of when big gov-
ernment tries to help.
The Federal Government has only been in the regulatory business about 90
years, but it has more than made up for this relatively late start. [Laughter]
Starting from point zero about a century ago, the Federal Government now
employs over 100,000 people whose sole responsibility is writing, reviewing, and
enforcing some type of regulation—100,000 people whose principal job is telling
you how to do your job. It's a bureaucrat's dream of heaven, but it's a nightmare
for those who have to bear the heavy burden.
Just to list all of the rules and regulations established last year required 45,000
pages of very small type in the Federal Register. I mourn for the trees that were
felled in America's forests to make this exercise in governmental nagging
possible.
Federal regulation began with the loftiest motives, but the nature of regula-
tory bodies is to regulate even when prudence and changing circumstances
would indicate that their job is over.
In many industries-transportation, energy, communication-Federal regula-
tory commissions have virtually ruled out competition. What was begun as a
protection for consumers now guarantees that in many, many cases they will
pay higher prices than a free market would call for.
Even worse, the Mulligan stew of Government rules and regulations—often
one conflicting with another—has created a nightmare of redtape, paper shuf-
fling, and new heights of counterproductivity. I am determined that our Na-
tion's consumers and businessmen be relieved of this gratuitous burden.
But remember, these regulations and the regulatory bodies are the creation of
the Congress over a long period of time. They are mandated by law. As Presi-
dent, I can propose, I can urge, I can even needle a bit, but it is only the Congress
in the final analysis that can act.
The regulatory reform legislation I propose will seek to eliminate the obso-
lete, the unnecessary, the impractical, and yes, the impossible. Let's retain what
is truly helpful and required in Federal regulations—it is a minimum amount.
Let's get rid of the rest, and the sooner the better.
If I had to capsulize my views on government, it would simply be this: Bigger
is not necessarily better. Indeed, bigger is often the reason it isn't better.
In my 26 years in Washington, I have seen firsthand the astonishing growth
of the Federal Government's involvement in our lives in America. I have seen
experimental programs started for a few million dollars that are now institu-
1339
