[579]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
nomic performance. That takes wisdom, restraint, and considerable discipline.
It takes an understanding of what will work and what will not work for the
long pull. Most of all, it takes an appreciation of the fact that government has
a limited capacity to help our economy, but an almost unlimited capacity to
harm it.
I have great, tremendous faith in the ability of the American people to
perceive what is in their long-range best interest and to act on that perception.
That is the gamble and promise of democracy. It places faith on the increasing
understanding of people. And if I might insert something I have said a number
of times—but I think it is appropriate to this group-never forget that a govern-
ment big enough to give you everything you want is a government big enough
to take from you everything you have.
Democracy does not ask that people agree; it does ask that they think. It is
here, not on Capitol Hill, not in the White House, that the essential process
of democracy takes place. The real source of power under our system of gov-
ernment is you. As President, I am but the instrument of that power.
When we meet like this, a chemistry takes place. I give to you my sense of
where we stand and where we must go. You give me the power of your reason
and the strength of your understanding. Ours is a government by consent, not
command. We would have it no other way. That is why I need you, your wis-
dom, your strength, your support. Without that, I can do nothing. Together
we can move mountains.
President Theodore Roosevelt made this observation with eloquence and with
brevity. He said, "The Government is us. We are the Government, you and I.”
I'm ready, are you?
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:01 p.m. at the association's John Newton Russell Memorial Award Dinner
at the Disneyland Hotel Convention Center.
580
Remarks in San Francisco at the Annual Convention of the
AFL-CIO Building and Construction Trades Department.
September 22, 1975
President Georgine, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Bob, let me thank you for your very generous invitation to be a part of this
very great convention. It is always a pleasure to see so many old friends and
1492
