August 6
[476]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
12. The Prime Minister and the President expressed appreciation for the
achievements recorded during the past decade by existing bilateral cooperative
programs in the fields of medicine, science, and technology, and for the work
underway in the panel for the review of Japan/U.S. Scientific and Technological
Cooperation. They declared their satisfaction at the signing on August 5 by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State of a new agreement
between the two countries for cooperation in environmental protection. They
recognized further that the promotion of mutual understanding through cul-
tural and educational exchange is of basic importance to the strengthening of
friendly relations between the Japanese and American peoples. In this regard,
the Prime Minister expressed his intention of continuing to expand such ex-
change in addition to the promotion of Japanese studies in the United States
and other projects thus far carried out by Japan, notably through the Japan
Foundation. Welcoming the Prime Minister's statement, the President expressed
his intention to continue his efforts to make expanded resources available for
further promoting cultural and educational exchange with Japan.
13. The Prime Minister conveyed on behalf of the people of Japan sincere
congratulations to the people of the United States as they celebrate the 200th
anniversary of their independence in the coming year. The President thanked
the Prime Minister for these sentiments and expressed the deepest appreciation
of the American people.
476
Joint Statement Following Discussions With Prime Minister
Miki of Japan. August 6, 1975
THE PRIME MINISTER of Japan and the President of the United States,
recognizing that the Japanese and American peoples share fundamental demo-
cratic values and are joined together by ties of mutual trust and cooperation,
affirm that their two nations will continue to work together to build a more
open and free international community, and state as follows:
—A more stable and peaceful world order requires the acceptance by all
nations of certain principles of international conduct, and the establishment of
a creative international dialogue—transcending differences of ideology, tradi-
tion or stages of development.
-Those principles must include respect for the sovereignty of all nations,
recognition of the legitimate interests of others, attitudes of mutual respect in
1117
