[529]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions between Israel and Egypt. This negotiation, which has literally gone on
for months but culminated in the last several weeks, was successful because of
the patience, the direction, and the leadership of the Secretary of State of the
United States, Henry Kissinger.
I know some questions have been raised-and questions should be raised in a
situation like this-but when you analyze what the alternative was to a settle-
ment, the alternative was almost inevitable war in 6 to 8 months.
By taking some risks that I think are manageable, we have gambled for peace
in the most volatile, most difficult, complex, controversial area in the globe. I
believe that the Congress of the United States, after they have looked at the
alternatives which, in my judgment, were an invitation to conflict and see what
has been done with our leadership, the Congress will support a gamble for peace.
It is in our best interests in every way that I can see it. I believe that most
Americans-Republicans, Independents, or Democrats-will support our leader-
ship, our forthright efforts to bring two nations together that have literally been
apart, fighting, disagreeing. And this is the kind of leadership that I think is
important, not only in this case but in others, to lead us down a firm, constructive
road of peace, not only in that area of the world but elsewhere.
Now, the independent voter wants relief from higher and higher taxes, from
more and more Federal programs, and from bigger and bigger budget deficits.
This has been the record of the Republican Party for all of my lifetime, and I
think it will be our program and policies in the months ahead.
Every time I think of more and more Federal programs, bigger and bigger
Federal budgets with the inevitable deficits that they place, I am reminded of
several incidents on the floor of the House of Representatives where there were
those in the House of Representatives who thought every time we had a problem
the answer was another program with more Federal spending. That was the
inevitable conclusion that many people came to.
One day I was sitting there talking to one of my associates or colleagues in the
House of Representatives. And after we had gone through this sort of inevitable
schedule that seems to come up all the time when there is a problem and we have
to have solutions, I thought to myself—and the person who was debating and
speaking and proposing this program was a fine person; I am not disagreeing
with his motives-but I thought to myself, don't those he represents understand
that a government big enough to give us everything we want is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have?
Even more importantly, the independent voter wants America to get moving
1326
