[695]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
On the other hand, we are going to pursue as much as we can and maintain
our own position of strength, because I think it is in the national interest to put
a cap on the strategic arms race. But I can't forecast at this time if and when
any such meetings will be held.
Q. Well, do you think it would be helpful to have a Ford-Brezhnev meeting
to perhaps break the SALT deadlock, or are we still insisting on an agreement
in SALT as a prerequisite for any Ford-Brezhnev meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that Mr. Brezhnev and I should not meet until we
make additional progress.
AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION
[17.] Q. Mr. President, in the past the American Bar Association has had
great input on the selection of judicial appointees, and I was wondering how you
feel about this, whether the ABA's judicial committee should have a veto on
your judicial appointments?
THE PRESIDENT. The ABA-the American Bar Association-has done a fine,
fine job under very tough circumstances in analyzing the legal qualifications of
some 15 or more names that have been submitted to them, and I thank the
American Bar Association for their very, very great cooperation. But I don't
think in the final analysis they should have a veto over the person that I select.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[18.] Q. Mr. President, has Secretary Kissinger talked to you recently or to
any top officials in your Administration about the possibility of resigning? Has
he complained to you or others in the White House that he felt he was not
receiving sufficient support from the White House, particularly on the House
contempt citation move. And if he has, are you in a position to say whether
you—to repeat your earlier promise, or your earlier statement, that you wanted
him to stay on through the completion of this term?
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Kissinger has not spoken to me about resigning. I
continue to give him full and complete support because I think he is one of the
finest Secretaries of State this country has ever had. I know of no criticism
within the White House staff of his performance of duty, and I strongly—and I
want to emphasize and reemphasize that I think he has done a superb job under
most difficult circumstances. I certainly want him to stay as long as Secretary
Kissinger will stay.
THE WARREN COMMISSION
[19.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the Congressional report on the CIA and
the recent testimony about FBI activities and continuing doubt in the country,
1912
