[647]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Your President will not play dead while the foreign oil cartel drains off $25
billion-plus a year from our economy.
And your President will never stand idly by while the Congress downgrades
America's defenses and dismantles America's intelligence-gathering capability.
I believe America wants a President who is a fighter, not a patsy. And as
President, I will join with you in the fight for the enduring principles of the
Republican Party, those principles for which we have always stood: fiscal
responsibility in government, local control over local affairs, the freeing of the
free enterprise system, a national defense second to none, and the realization of
individual freedom for each and every one of us and 214 million other
Americans.
With your talent, with your enthusiasm, with your help, and yes, apprecia-
tively, with your dollars, we can make 1976 a year for all Republicans and
Independents, a year that they will remember fondly, constructively, and
wholesomely, and a year the Democrats may never forget.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:55 p.m. in the Los
Angeles Ballroom at the Century Plaza Hotel. In
his remarks, he referred to Charles C. Reed, cochair-
man of the dinner; Representatives Andrew J.
Hinshaw and Don H. Clausen; Evelle J. Younger,
648
State attorney general; Paul Haerle, State Republican
chairman; and Margaret M. Brock and William Ban-
owsky, Republican national committeemen
California.
Interview in Los Angeles With Metromedia Reporters.
October 30, 1975
Herbert G. Klein [vice president, Metromedia, Inc.]. Good evening, ladies and
gentlemen.
Mr. President, it is a pleasure to welcome you to this unique Metromedia
news team presentation of an interview based on the problems of the cities and
many other current issues facing the country at this time. It is a pleasure.
Welcome, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Herb. I am delighted to have an
opportunity of seeing some old friends and making some new acquaintances,
and I look forward to a very active discussion of some of the problems that I
know are on the minds of these gentlemen as well as others.
MR. KLEIN. Thank you. Our first question will be from a man you know
from New York, Mr. Gabe Pressman, from WNEW, Channel 5, New York
City.
1746
