[623]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
higher inflation, or in the alternative, whether we will move in a far more
responsible way.
Earlier this week, I advocated a forward-looking two-pronged program to put
our Federal fiscal house in order. The two must be taken together, not separately,
or they won't work.
First, I proposed a permanent tax reduction of $28 billion at the Federal level.
And secondly, I proposed that we halt the alarming growth of Government by
holding spending in the coming fiscal year to $395 billion. And to relate it,
this means a cut of $28 billion below projected spending for fiscal year 1977.
Let me quickly outline what it means in the way of a tax reduction. What
we want is permanency and equity. I believe that it is right to increase the
personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000. I believe it is right that
we should increase the standard deduction for single persons to a maximum of
$1,800, and for a family, of $2,500, and that we should make some responsible,
equitable revisions in the tax rates.
Three-quarters of the $28 billion in tax reduction goes to individuals, with
a break, for the first time in a long, long time, for those hard-working, indus-
trious people in the middle-income brackets who have been unfairly treated for
too far a period of time.
Yes, the other 25 percent of the $28 billion goes to business-not just for
business, but primarily to provide the kind of incentive that is needed if we are
going to give to business the opportunity of job creation.
Yes, we need investment for investment's purpose. But the main purpose for
the Government, for the country, for people, is to give more job opportunities
for those who want to work.
Yes, we are going to extend the investment tax credit on a permanent basis
so we can keep competitive with other societies in other parts of the world.
Let me say, repeat, if I might, a $28 billion tax reduction, a $28 billion
ceiling or cutback in projected spending growth, they go hand in hand, dollar
for dollar, and I will not hesitate to veto any new bills which violate this
combination.
But the most important thing in the long run is the fact that if we adopt
this kind of a plan, a new tax proposal with equity and permanence, to stimulate
our economy and to give a break to the people who have long been suffering,
and if we put a ceiling on the growth of Federal expenditures, this is the first
crucial step toward balancing the Federal budget, despite the difficulties and
problems we have had for the last 18 months. We will do it, if the Congress will
become a “Can Do Congress," in 3 years.
1676
