September 12
[557]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
an oil embargo imposed by the OPEC nations. It triggered substantial increases
in oil prices.
We were first strained to get any oil, and then after the settlement in the
Middle East the prices zoomed. Whereas in 1972 we were spending for foreign
oil about $3 billion a year, after the price increase following the embargo, today
we are spending $25 billion a year, paying it to OPEC, which means, if you
translate it into the figures of an individual family, it means that every individual
family is paying today about $350 more a year for fuel, and it is all going overseas
to OPEC.
Wouldn't it be better to have those extra prices paid to American oil producers
rather than paying them overseas?
Now, how are we going to solve our energy problem?
First we have to recognize that we are extremely vulnerable to foreign oil
cartels. If they wanted to turn the spigot tomorrow, our whole economic prog-
ress in the last 6 or 8 months would go down the drain, and they could because
today we buy roughly 40 percent of our oil overseas. So, what we in America
have to do is become invulnerable to foreign oil dictates.
Now, how do you do that? You conserve on the one hand—and it must be
admitted that the United States, because energy was very cheap for many, many
years, we have wasted it, we have squandered it, we haven't been careful how
we used it, so we have to conserve. And there are many things each of us indi-
vidually and businesses can do and governments can do, but in addition to
that, we have to produce more at home.
You can't produce more if you aren't going to let people get a return on their
investment. Oh, I know it is very easy for the demagogs to get up and make
the speeches which Gene Taylor has heard in the House of Representatives
and I have heard innumerable times, but it is pure demagoguery. You don't
increase production by controlling prices. All you do is spread a scarcity, that
is what you really do.
So, we have to find an answer on the short haul to increase production
domestically. In January of this year, I submitted to the Congress a 200-page
bill that was a comprehensive energy program that would have conserved,
produced more, and it would have given us the wherewithal to increase our
research and development in some of the exotic areas-geothermal, solar, and
the rest.
Isn't it hard to believe that since January of this year, there hasn't been one
meaningful energy bill passed by the Congress? Not one. Isn't that right, Gene?
Not one. It is unforgiveable. And if the Congress doesn't do something, they
1413
