October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
economy in America, and I think you will see a policy that will provide for an
adequate expansion of the supply of money and a responsibility as to interest
rates themselves.
GRAIN, SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[5.] May I, if I can now, gratuitously answer a question that you alluded to.
At the time that we were initiating negotiations with the Soviet Union for the
substantial sale this year and the substantial sales of grain for the next 5 years,
it was important to get the delivery of the 10.3 million tons of grain already
sold transported and shipped, and my negotiations with Mr. Meany and others
resulted in an understanding that those shipments would be made.
As you know and others know, Teddy Gleason's group is loading the ships,
the grain is going out, and this assurance is helpful in the sales that will be made
this year because there will be a dependability of delivery. That is important, as
well as price, as well as the sales overall.
1976 VICE-PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
[6.] Q. I am Ricky Salisbury, Nebraska Women's Political Caucus. First
of all, I would like to ask that you relay a message to your wife when you return
to Washington. This message comes not only from the National Women's
Political Caucus but the American Association of University Women, the League
of Women Voters, and the Governor's Commission on the Status of Women.
Please express our appreciation to her for her efforts in behalf of the equal rights
amendment.
THE PRESIDENT. She must be doing something right. There was a poll taken
in Pennsylvania a few weeks ago, and it showed her with a 77-percent job
performance approval—and mine was about 51 percent. [Laughter]
Q. My question is this: During the deliberation and selection process for
your Vice-Presidential choice, it was reported by the media that several women
were considered for this high office. Is this true, and would you identify these
women?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I can tell you that among those that were considered for
the Vice-Presidential nomination by me there were several women, but I don't
think that I should identify them.
I would like to add, however, we have a very able, as well as attractive, mem-
ber of the Cabinet, Mrs. Carla Hills. She is really doing a fine job in the De-
partment of HUD, but I really would take executive privilege if I could—
[laughter]-in not naming the women that were on the list and were con-
sidered.
1571
