[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
areas, where competition can be improved, but I don't want to prejudge it until
I have had those consultations.
DAY CARE CENTERS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am Lois Quinn representing the Wisconsin
Women's Political Caucus. We are extremely concerned about the availability
of child care for mothers-for the children of mothers who work, often because
they are the single head of the household or because two family incomes are
required to meet daily expenses.
There are presently about 900,000 spaces in licensed day care centers for chil-
dren to serve more than 6 million preschool children whose mothers are in the
work force. The Mondale-Brademas bill presently in Congress would provide
services for these children. Will you sign this bill when passed by the Congress,
and if not, what alternatives do you propose for families needing child care for
their children?
THE PRESIDENT. I presume the bill that you refer to is similar to the one that
was very ardently proposed by an old friend of mine, Ogden Reid. And if that
is the same bill, in all honesty, the cost is so unbelievable it just cannot be
included in a budget in the atmosphere in which we are living.
Now, as you have indicated, under legislation passed about 6 or 7 years ago,
we do provide for day care centers up to around 800,000 working mothers. This
a program tailored specifically to the working mother who goes out, gets a
job, provides for the income, and her children are taken care of in these day
is
care centers.
What I am fearful of in the Reid-Brademas-Mondale bill, if they are the same,
and I suspect they are, you will find that in many, many cases—at least under
the Ogden Reid bill-it was not just for working mothers. It provided day care
help and assistance for a good many people who could afford to pay for day
care center care for their own. And I do not think Uncle Sam ought to pay or
subsidize that kind of a situation.
FOREIGN POLICY
[14.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Robert Brown, and I am here as presi-
dent of the Inland Daily Press Association, which represents 500 daily news-
papers located in the Midwestern part of the country. First of all, I want to
congratulate you and Mr. Baroody on this splendid conference. Anything which
improves communications between your Administration and the people is bound
to have beneficial results.
However, to give you one example, as recently as this month, we have noted
1236
