[748]
December 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
concern about the continuing flow of drugs across the Southwest border from
Mexico and their continuing concern about a possible resurgence of heroin traffic
from Turkey.
Aware of the worsening situation, last spring I directed a high-priority review
of the entire Federal effort in drug law enforcement, treatment and prevention,
and international control. The resulting White Paper on Drug Abuse contained
a frank assessment of where we are in these efforts, as well as a number of com-
prehensive recommendations to improve our response to this critical problem. I
endorse the white paper, and the budget I will submit in January will request
sufficient funds to implement all of its major recommendations.
This Administration already has begun to take strong action to deal with
the mounting threat, however. I have spoken with Presidents Echeverría of
Mexico and Lopez Michelsen of Colombia and with Prime Minister Demirel of
Turkey in an effort to strengthen cooperation of other nations involved in the
fight against illicit drug traffic. Because of my particular concern about the
problem of Mexican heroin, I am directing Secretary of State Kissinger to ex-
press to the Mexican Government my personal concern that we explore oppor-
tunities for improved control. I have also directed the Domestic Council Drug
Abuse Task Force to present me with specific recommendations for improving
our ability to control drug trafficking along the Southwest border.
I call upon the Congress to enact my proposal for mandatory minimum sen-
tences for drug traffickers, so those who are spreading this evil throughout our
communities will be put behind bars where they belong. And I urge the Con-
gress to ratify the Convention of Psychotropic Substances, so we can fulfill our
obligations to the other nations of the world to see that strong international
controls exist for all drugs. In the weeks ahead I will send to the Congress a
comprehensive message on drug abuse establishing a framework for a broad
government response to the problem.
NOTE: The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
749
Statement on the Bombing Incident at La Guardia Airport,
New York City. December 29, 1975
I AM deeply grieved by the loss of life and injuries which occurred tonight at
La Guardia Airport in New York. It appears this senseless act involved the use
of a bomb.
2000
