August 6
[478]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The right to vote is at the very foundation of our American system, and
nothing must interfere with this very precious right. Today is the 10th anni-
versary of the signing by President Johnson of the Voting Rights Act of 1965,
which I supported as a Member of the House of Representatives.
In the past decade, the voting rights of millions and millions of Americans
have been protected and our system of government has been strengthened
immeasurably. The bill that I will sign today extends the temporary provisions
of the act for 7 more years and broadens the provisions to bar discrimination
against Spanish-speaking Americans, American Indians, Alaskan natives, and
Asian Americans.
Further, this bill will permit private citizens, as well as the Attorney General,
to initiate suits to protect the voting rights of citizens in any State where dis-
crimination occurs. There must be no question whatsoever about the right of
each eligible American, each eligible citizen to participate in our elective process.
The extension of this act will help to ensure that right.
I thank the Members of the Congress, I thank their staffs, and I thank all the
others who have been helpful in making this signing possible.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:09 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 6219 is Public Law 94-73 (89
Stat. 400).
478
Statement on Signing the Veterans Disability Compensation
and Survivor Benefits Act of 1975. August 6, 1975
I HAVE approved H.R. 7767, a bill to raise compensation payments for service-
disabled veterans and their survivors.
Early this year, I called for a temporary 5-percent limit on cost-of-living in-
creases in certain domestic benefit programs to slow the growth in Federal
spending for these programs. I proposed that this limit be applied to veterans
and survivor compensation as well as to other Federal programs. The limit I
recommended would not have reduced or eliminated any benefit payments, but
would have slowed the excessive growth of the budget and given us some con-
trol over spending in coming years. I still believe this is sound policy in our
present economic climate.
The Congress refused to go along, however, and other groups have received
Federal benefit increases exceeding my proposed limit. Therefore, it would not
be equitable to apply this limit only to veterans disabled in the service of their
1119
