[565]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. If I might follow up, Mr. President, this very thing of the Congress not
getting your message or not agreeing with it is the thing that the Nation's
bankers are concerned about and are talking about at the IMF [International
Monetary Fund]. And a great many of them are saying it is all very well for
the President to go around saying he will never put on wage and price controls
and calling for fiscal responsibility, but the facts are, the reality is that there
isn't going to be any fiscal responsibility, there isn't going to be any holddown
sufficient to curb inflation, and that sooner or later you are going to have to put
in wage and price controls or at least some approximation of an incomes policy.
Now, what is your response to the bankers when they say the rhetoric is all very
well, but what are we going to do?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't had any pleas from bankers to impose wage and
price controls-
Q. An incomes policy?
THE PRESIDENT. and I haven't had any recommendations from any or-
ganization, such as bankers, for an incomes policy. We do have a wage-price
council that has on some occasions investigated price increases and, on several
occasions, have been helpful in trying to get a moderation of a price increase.
But I do not believe on the basis of past history of wage and price controls
during peacetime that they worked.
I think it is a quick fix that has long-range detrimental repercussions. And
therefore, under the current circumstances, I think it would be unwise to even
intimate that I would favor wage and price controls. I am still opposed to them,
and I think there are better remedies.
TURKEY
[18.] Q. Mr. President, does the potential agreement between Israel and
Egypt with the United States' participation make your job easier on the Turkish
aid matter in Congress? Is there a parallel that you can draw, that your legisla-
tive people can draw for the Congressmen ?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe there is any neat analogy between the two,
but the fact that we have made headway in the Middle East and achieved it
through negotiation ought to be helpful in convincing the Congress that nego-
tiations in the Turkish aid embargo is the way to solve the problem. But there
is no direct connection between the two problems as such.
FRANK CORMIER (Associated Press). Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. One more, and then we will end.
1444
