November 14
[678]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I do not, however, think that the United States should withdraw from the
United Nations just because of the unwise action on this resolution. You can
always do better trying to correct something from within than from without.
We have no particular plans for any recriminatory action against any of those
32 nations. We just think they were very wrong.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. There was some 70 nations-excuse me—that voted that way.
ENERGY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Ron Wilson, Georgia Network in Atlanta. What
direction are you leaning in now on the energy compromise bill, and are you
in favor of extending oil price controls?
THE PRESIDENT. The energy conference report was orally agreed to by the
conferees, night before last. I had a 2-hour meeting with a number of the con-
ferees last evening. A number of the conferees are uncertain as to some of the
specifics.
I am reserving judgment on that legislation until the conferees put the
agreements in writing in legislative form. And I am told they won't have that
done for about a week.
I would hope we could have an energy bill that I could sign, but it would be
very unwise for me to make a decision without having looked at and read and
analyzed the specifics once the committee puts it in writing. But we hope to do
that sometime next week.
OIL PRICE CONTROLS
[14.] Q. On oil price controls, are you in favor of extending those passed this
Saturday?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the 30-day extension to give all of us more time-
which the Senate has passed and which the House of Representatives probably
will pass today—I think that is desirable just to give us 30 more days to analyze
the Congressional action once they put it in writing. I will sign a 30-day
extension.
GOVERNOR GEORGE WALLACE
[15.] Q. Mr. President, Walt Smith, United Press International. How does
the entry of Governor George Wallace into the Democratic race, his formal
entry this week-how do you think that affects the Democratic race, and
specifically, do you think that Governor Wallace will get a spot on the Demo-
cratic ticket?
1873
