September 21
[578]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
as a nation? I prefer to look at our Bicentennial celebration through a telescope,
not a rearview mirror. The great challenge of our next 100 years is the advance-
ment of individual independence—of specific safeguards, that can be made
available as to the identity of each and every American, from the pressures of
conformity.
These pressures close in upon us from many, many quarters—massive gov-
ernment, massive management, massive labor, massive education, massive com-
munication, and massive acquisition of information.
To meet this challenge, we still need a positive and passionate commitment
to law, to learning, and to liberty. Without law, there is no liberty. Without
liberty, there is no learning. Without learning, there is no law.
Here at Stanford you have all three-law, learning, and liberty. Make the
most of them. Make them part of your lives. Make them your richest legacy as
well as your most precious inheritance.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:12 p.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Richard Lyman,
president of Stanford University, and Thomas Ehr-
lich, dean of the School of Law.
578
Question-and-Answer Session With Students at the Stanford
University School of Law. September 21, 1975
THE SUPREME COURT
QUESTION. [1.] Quite likely you will have an opportunity to select some-
one under the Constitution for the Supreme Court. Of course, we have little
guidance to go under on what type person you would select. We know and
assume it would be someone highly competent. The only guidance we have is
that in 1970 you suggested that Justice Douglas was advocating rebellion in the
United States, as James Reston reported today.
My question is to describe the type criteria you would employ in selecting
someone for the Supreme Court, but hopefully be more specific than just saying
someone that was a strict constructionist.
Also, a follow-up question is, all of the things being equal, would you perhaps
lean toward selecting a woman, considering that we haven't had a woman
Justice on the Court?
The President. I think, of course, it is premature to make any decision or
imply that I was actively seeking one, because all nine members of the Court,
1481
