November 12
[673]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But the significance of the Library of Congress goes far beyond its assistance
to the Congress itself. This Library is a leading symbol of intellectual life in
America. Its diversified collections provide an intellectual reservoir that is with-
out equal.
As the Librarian of Congress, Dr. Boorstin, you will extend in a new direction
your lifelong commitment to the understanding and to the appreciation of
America's past.
Dr. Boorstin becomes the 12th person, as Congressman Nedzi said, to head
this great institution whose 175-year history actually parallels the development
of this Nation's intellectual tradition. The Library's contributions to America
have been invaluable. The Library's contributions will continue to play a vital
role in American life in future years.
I came here today because of my personal admiration for Dr. Boorstin and
to salute his predecessor, Quincy Mumford, for his outstanding service over a
long period of time. But I also came to emphasize the importance of this Library
as a basic intellectual resource of this Nation.
I am very, very pleased that my old friend, my very close friend, the Speaker
of the House, Carl Albert, will swear in Dr. Boorstin as Librarian of Congress.
Mr. Speaker.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:34 p.m. in the Great
Hall at the Library of Congress.
Dr. Boorstin's response to the President's remarks
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 1273).
673
Letter to Associate Justice William O. Douglas of the Supreme
Court on His Retirement. November 12, 1975
Dear Mr. Justice Douglas,
I have read your letter of this date with profound personal sympathy for the
sad circumstances under which you deem it inadvisable to attempt to continue
participating in the work of the Supreme Court of the United States. I want
you to know first of all of my warm admiration for your valiant effort to carry
on the duties of your high office, despite your recent illness, with the same
courage and independent will that have characterized your long service to your
country.
In response to your decision to retire at the close of this day from regular
active service as an Associate Justice, may I express on behalf of all our country-
1853
