August 25
[503]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
why military hardware can't be shipped from Great Lakes ports to wherever
the destination is.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. And we will see what we can do about it.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom at the Pfister Hotel.
503
Exchange With Reporters on Departure From Milwaukee.
August 25, 1975
WELL, it has been a really great day with a wide variety of activities that I
think have been very constructive. I leave Milwaukee with great memories, and
I think a good dialog between the White House people, the Cabinet, and myself
with the people of Milwaukee, and the opportunity to have this dialog, I am
most appreciative of.
REPORTER. What happened at your meeting with Republican leaders in Wis-
consin, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. We talked about how we hope to increase the Republican
contribution in the political arena in the State of Wisconsin. I think we can.
We've got good leadership, we've got good people, and I think the Republican
Party can be a stronger factor in the two-party system in the State of Wisconsin.
Q. Mr. President, how influential is this type of conference in making your
decisions?
THE PRESIDENT. They are very helpful. We had 19 organizations representing
a wide variety of political and sociological views. It is helpful not only to my
Cabinet and my top administrative people but it is important to me to get the
kind of questions they ask, the suggestions they make. Too often I think admin-
istrations in the past have listened only to the lobbyists in Washington. What
we are trying to do with these various White House Conferences around the
country is to get the American people from all walks of life to make construc-
tive suggestions and recommendations. I can assure you we listen to them.
Q. Of all the suggestions today, what one particularly impressed you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I ought to discriminate against those of one
kind or praise others. They were all good, and we will make an honest effort
to evaluate their recommendations and hopefully come up with some answers
1243
