August 19
[496]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
42 years, wrote this of Ev, and I quote: "My husband loved life. It seemed to
love him also. He was awed by the beauty of the flower and the spoken word.
He could cultivate them as no other man could. His flowers continue to grow.
His words still echo."
I was looking through some of my old files for some of Ev Dirksen's words
from the "Ev and Jerry Show" that perhaps I might include in my remarks
here this afternoon. I thought maybe I could find one of his hilarious stories
about his adventures as an Army balloonist in World War I or some other
particularly funny observation.
Instead, I found a comment which Ev said he had pounded out on his trusty
portable because he was in a special philosophical mood. It was in 1968, a few
days after the assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy. There were riots and
violence all across the land.
Senator Dirksen wrote this, and I think it is appropriate at this time:
"The time has come to rethink our history. It should have emphasis in every
school, church, and forum in the land. The legacy which is ours came from
those who were here before us. Into this land they built their skills and talents,
their hopes, their dreams, their tears, and their sacrifices. Today, we are the
trustees of America. Upon us is a two-fold duty. The one is to those who came
before us and gave us this land for our inheritance. The other is to those who
shall come after us. Perhaps❞—as Ev Dirksen said it "three words can state
the whole case-dedication, discipline, and duty.”
I know that those words, spoken only as Ev Dirksen could, are somewhere
in this edifice, reminding Americans of their continuing need for dedication,
discipline, and duty.
Yes, Louella, his words still echo.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:26 p.m. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Senator Howard H.
Baker, Jr., of Tennessee, and former Representatives
496
Charles A. Halleck of Indiana and Leslie C. Arends
of Illinois.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the White
House Conference on Domestic and Economic Affairs in
Peoria, Illinois. August 19, 1975
ECONOMIC AND ENERGY PROGRAMS
Thank you very much, Bill. Senator Chuck Percy, Mayor Carver, members of
my official Administration, Cabinet and otherwise:
1187
