October 2
[606]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I will always be grateful for the trust and con-
fidence you placed in me when you asked me to
continue in my position when you became our Presi-
dent. I shall remember fondly our personal relation-
ship when you were Vice President.
We are fortunate to have you as our President.
We badly need your ongoing leadership to restore
confidence in government. I believe, as you do, that
there is much to be done to make the American
dream a reality for all Americans. Equally important,
I agree with your remarks stated to me more than
a year ago when you said: "We can make the
American dream a reality if we all pull together as
a people for the common good."
Serving my country has always been of the highest
importance to me, and the opportunity to participate
at the highest level of government will always be
among the most meaningful and rewarding experi-
ences of my life.
Mr. President, my decision to seek new challenges
was not an easy one. My years here, while hectic
and always active, have also been personally very
rewarding.
I consider it an honor and a privilege to have
been able to work with you. Let me assure you that
I shall do my best to represent my Country ably
and well in whatever task lies ahead.
Warm best wishes to you and The First Lady,
Sincerely,
STANLEY S. SCOTT
Special Assistant to the President
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C. 20500]
605
Message on the Observance of Ramadan.
October 2, 1975
AS OUR fellow Americans of the Islamic faith look forward to the celebration
of the special feast days at the end of Ramadan, Mrs. Ford and I express our
greetings and best wishes to each of you.
For you it is a time of renewal and remembrance. It is an opportunity to
rededicate yourselves to your religious heritage and to its timeless principles.
For all your fellow Americans it is a chance to reflect with pride and admira-
tion on the way in which the Islamic heritage enriches all of us.
Mrs. Ford and I hope that this year's holidays will be especially satisfying
and happy ones for each of you.
606
Toasts of the President and Emperor Hirohito of Japan.
October 2, 1975
Your Majesties, our distinguished guests from Japan, ladies and gentlemen:
This first state visit to the United States by an Emperor and an Empress is
an occasion of great, great importance to all of us. It symbolizes the very unique
and the very close ties of friendship between our countries as well as our people.
My Nation, Your Majesties, has looked forward to this happy occasion for
a long, long time. Four years ago, it was a great honor for Americans, for you,
1585
