[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Bill Willoughby, Royal Oak Tribune. How does the
proposed energy research corporation fit into the $395 billion spending ceiling
you proposed?
The President. Well, first, you have to understand that the energy inde-
pendence authority is a 10-year project, and it requires a utilization of the Fed-
eral Treasury at a very, very slow pace. In fact, in fiscal year 1977, which is the
fiscal year where I think they ought to set a $395 billion ceiling, the amount of
money that would be withdrawn from the Federal Treasury is minimal.
So, it really has a very insignificant impact on fiscal year 1977, which is where
I recommend that the Congress establish a $395 billion spending limit.
Now, in the years after that, there will be a drawdown on the Federal Treas-
ury, but I hasten to point out that we expect the EIA to end up being a money-
making proposition from the point of view of the Federal Treasury.
It is a drawdown in 1 year, and over the 10-year period, we expect Uncle
Sam to get all, or virtually all of his money back. And in addition, the EIA will
help us significantly in the development of what we call synthetic fuels or
exotic fuels, where at the present time private enterprise isn't willing to take the
gamble or make the risk. But nevertheless, I am convinced in some of these
areas-solar energy, synthetic fuels, and other areas-this is the only way we
can do it.
And therefore, I think it is a good program, and I repeat, it will have a
minimal, insignificant effect in fiscal 1977 when the $395 billion ceiling is
established.
Q. Why is private enterprise not willing to take the risk?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you can use one or two other comparisons. Back
in World War II, when we were cut off from our rubber supplies, the natural
rubber supplies, the Federal Government had to go in and develop a synthetic
rubber-producing capability.
At that time, private enterprise thought the research had not gone far enough,
and the need was so great that private capital was not in a position to undertake
such a mammoth operation. So, the Federal Government did. And after the
war, as you may recall, after the process had been developed and was a going
concern, the Federal Government sold those synthetic rubber plants to private
enterprise and made a profit out of them. This is the same concept we are
talking about with EIA.
1664
