[677]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Obviously, I am terribly delighted to look out and see so many great, dedicated,
and enthusiastic Republicans standing here today. Yes, today we are standing,
but I can assure you that after next year's election a lot more Republicans are
going to be sitting in Raleigh and in Washington—[laughter]—let me finish—
in seats that are now held by Democrats. [Laughter]
You know, it is long overdue, particularly here in the great State of North
Carolina. Frankly, I don't understand it. I don't understand how North Carolina
can have three of the greatest basketball teams in the country—UNC, State, and
Duke-teams that move like greased lightning, and also have a Democratic-
controlled legislature that can't even get out of its own way. [Laughter] And
if any of the Democrats in the Congress are listening, that problem isn't limited
to Raleigh. [Laughter]
Quite frankly, I am here to say that our Republican Party has a philosophy and
a force whose time has come. We are reasonable, reliable, and a ready home for
all concerned Americans, a home for responsible Republicans, the home of
involved Independents, and yes, even the home of just plain disgusted Demo-
crats. We welcome them all.
I am extremely happy to be here as you prepare for your State Republican
convention. I know from firsthand experience the Republican Party of North
Carolina helped lead the way toward a two-party political setup in the South.
And the people of this great State have seen at first hand that Republican govern-
ment is good government. I can say that with tremendous enthusiasm and strong
feeling because you have such an opportunity of great pride in your Republican
officeholders, your outstanding Governor, Jim Holshouser.
You know he has done a tremendous job in being your Governor. But I have
traveled all over this State with Jim at various political gatherings for the benefit
of the party in your State and our country, and I am just darned glad to have him
as a very, very good friend.
But I am equally proud of my friendship with and the record of your hard-
working Members of the Congress, your fine Senator, Jesse Helms, and of course,
my good friends and former colleagues in the House of Representatives, Jim
Broyhill and Jim Martin.
May I express my strong support for your State legislators and other public
officials, who I think contribute significantly to the building of a party and the
record of a party. I think all of these people deserve one more great big hand, and
I will join them.
I would be very negligent if I didn't express my appreciation for the contribu-
tions that two dear, old friends of mine, Earl Ruth and Vinegar Bend Mizell—
1862
