[648]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
are not in a position to tell them precisely where or when. We are going to keep
the pressure on.
Q. We do have that November 30 Golan Heights date.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is a decision under UNDOF [United Nations Dis-
engagement Observer Force] for Syria to make its decision. We hope, of course,
that Syria will be responsive to an extension of it. We certainly will do our best
to give assurances that there will be the right kind of movement in the diplomatic
field to convince them that they ought to do it.
MR. KLEIN. We have less than a minute.
FBI DIRECTOR KELLEY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, crime is a problem in our cities, of course, and the
news media reports in St. Louis are saying the top White House people do not
like the job that Clarence Kelley is doing as head of the FBI. What is your assess-
ment of Clarence Kelley as Director of the FBI?
THE PRESIDENT. I think he is a first-class Director of the FBI. And I read
some of these rumor stories, and I sought to hit them hard and to reassure him
that he has done and is doing a first-class job. Well, I am perfectly satisfied with
the he is running the FBI, and I have so told him.
way
MR. KLEIN. Time has gone rapidly, Mr. President. There are other topics we
would like to have covered. We would like on behalf of Metromedia and our
news audience to thank you very much for joining us tonight.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Herb. Thank all of you.
NOTE: The interview began at 7:44 a.m. in the Santa Monica Room at the Century Plaza Hotel. It was taped
for broadcast the evening of the same day.
649
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Legislation to Fund
Security Assistance Programs. October 30, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I sent to the Congress on May 15 draft legislation to authorize foreign assist-
ance programs for fiscal years 1976 and 1977, and for the transition period July 1,
1976, through September 30, 1976. At that time, because of uncertainties caused
by changing events, particularly in the Middle East and Indochina, I was unable
to propose specific amounts for security assistance programs. I said I would
1756
