[493]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am convinced I am very strongly convinced that the independent voter
is ready for a fresh start. And that is exactly what we are prepared to offer them.
The independent voter wants a sound and prosperous national economy without
recession, without inflation, and so do we as Republicans.
The independent voter wants jobs for those who can work and sensible help
for those who can't. The independent voter wants his country to achieve energy
independence, and so do we.
This wonderful independent voter wants a good education, good housing,
good health care, and good food for his family at prices he can afford, and so do
we as Republicans.
The independent voter wants the scales of justice to balance the right of the
criminal defendant with the rights of a law-abiding society, and so do we.
Our crime program is aimed at domestic tranquillity, with deep concern for
the victim of crime. And the independent voter wants that as well.
This independent voter-and more and more of them are appearing in every
State of the Union—wants an America at peace with itself and throughout the
world. But the independent voter knows that peace is too easily broken, and he
knows that the surest guarantee of peace is a strong and ready national defense,
and so do we.
The independent voter wants relief from higher and higher taxes, from more
and more Government programs intruding into his business and into his private
life, from bigger and bigger Federal budget deficits, and so do we.
And this above all, if I might, the independent voter wants America on the
move again, moving in new directions with a vision of what can be, and so do we.
As we look toward the future, none of us can be certain and positive what is in
store for us. But if we approach the future with faith in ourselves, in each other,
and in our country, we need not fear the future's mysteries nor miss its
opportunities.
We, as Republicans, and millions, millions of more throughout the country
as independents, can help create a future bright with promise by our decision on
election day, November 1976.
I have come here to this great meeting—and it is a great meeting—to ask your
help in getting the message of commonsense government and hope for the future
to the people of Minnesota. In one way or another, all of you have distinguished
yourselves as enthusiastic supporters of the Republican Party. Otherwise, you
wouldn't be here today. But now I am asking each and every one of you, all good
Republicans, to go that extra mile for the party—indeed, if it is necessary, that
1180
