August 2
[460]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
If the Soviet Union and the United States can reach agreement so that our
astronauts can fit together the most intricate scientific equipment, work to-
gether, and shake hands 137 miles out in space, we as statesmen have an obli-
gation to do as well on Earth.
History will judge this Conference not by what we say here today, but by
what we do tomorrow-not by the promises we make, but by the promises we
keep.
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 a.m. in Finlan-
dia Hall. He was introduced by Walter Kieber, For-
eign Minister of Liechtenstein and chairman of the
plenary session of the Conference.
The Final Act of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe was signed by the represent-
atives of 35 nations participating in the Conference
in a ceremony in Finlandia Hall at 5 p.m. on Au-
gust 1, 1975. The text of the document is printed
in the Bulletin of the Department of State (vol.
LXXIII, p. 323).
Earlier in the day, the President met with Prime
Minister Aldo Moro of Italy at the U.S. Embassy.
Following his address before the Conference, the
President held a luncheon meeting with President
Valéry Giscard d'Estaing of France. He then at-
tended the afternoon session of the Conference and
later met with Carlos Arias Navarro, President of
the Government of Spain.
In the evening, the President attended a dinner
with President Kekkonen on board the Finnish
icebreaker Urho.
460
Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters on Board
Air Force One en Route to Bucharest, Romania.
August 2, 1975
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
REPORTER. [1.] Mr. President, can you tell us where you made progress on
SALT, and do you think that we will have a SALT agreement by the end of the
year?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I should get into the details of where we made
progress, but the two sessions with Mr. Brezhnev and myself ¹ resulted in prog-
ress. We have referred to the technicians in Geneva our areas of agreement, and
they are going to work out the details.
I am encouraged-it was constructive and friendly—and our plans are no
different today for any subsequent meetings than they were before.
Q. Mr. President, progress is a bit of a vague term. Can you characterize it as
significant progress, minor progress, and specifically, do you still hope for an
agreement to be signed by the end of this year?
¹In addition to their meeting on July 30, 1975, the President and General Secretary L. I. Brezhnev met
at the Soviet Embassy in Helsinki on August 2, prior to the President's departure for Romania.
1081
