December 8
[719]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the Bank's programs. This visit was followed by a further Export-Import Bank
mission in November.
The Greek Government itself has moved vigorously to confront its most seri-
ous problems. It has dramatically reduced the level of inflation. It has reversed
the decline in its Gross National Product. In addition, it has moved to restore
public confidence in the military establishment as a non-political force capable
of defending Greece's security interests.
At the same time, the government in Athens has made clear to this Adminis-
tration its need for increased levels of assistance for the current fiscal year. Based
on that request and in keeping with the spirit of Congressional debate preceding
passage of P.L. 94–104, I sent an expert team to Athens from the Department
of State and the Agency for International Development in October to consult
with senior Greek officials on that Nation's most urgent needs for economic
and military assistance.
The team of experts concluded that Greece, faced with continued domestic
economic difficulties and a need to modernize its military establishment, merited
increased U.S. support for fiscal year 1976. Based on Greek requests and the
findings of our own experts, I submitted to the Congress on October 30, 1975,
a request for fiscal year 1976 for $50 million in grant military aid, $90 million
in FMS credit and $65 million as a supporting assistance loan. This latter loan
is designed specifically to ease Greece's temporary balance of payment difficulties.
This package of assistance is justified on three grounds. First, it will help
strengthen the foundation of representative democracy in Greece. Second, it
will demonstrate our interest in modernizing and improving the Greek armed
forces, and will be consistent with our stated desire that Greece return at an
early date to a full participation within the NATO Alliance. Finally, it will
assist the Greek Government and the Greek people in a moment of critical
economic need.
Based on my review of Greece's need as well as our overall budgetary situa-
tion, I have concluded that my proposals of October 30 are appropriate for this
fiscal year. I strongly urge the Congress to give them early and favorable con-
sideration.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed to
the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, the Honorable John L. McClellan,
GERALD R. FORD
chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropria-
tions, and the Honorable John Sparkman, chairman
of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
1961
