[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
DONALD RUMSFELD AND GEORGE BUSH
[5.] MR. WILL. Mr. President, you have nominated two very political men,
Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Bush, to replace two apolitical men, Mr. Schlesinger
and Mr. Colby, in sensitive national security positions. And this has caused
Senator Jackson to wonder if you are surrounding yourself with yes-men and
lackeys, and others are worried that national security advice to you will be
politically colored by men who are perhaps interested in becoming your Vice-
Presidential running mate in 1976. Might it help, both for the anxiety of the
country and any possible Senate fight over these nominations, for you to say
now that neither of those men will be your running mate in '76?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I think it is very appropriate for me to say that anyone
who knows George Bush and anyone who knows Don Rumsfeld knows that
either one or both of them are honest individuals who can perform fine govern-
mental functions without any political ramifications. George Bush did it at
the U.N., and George Bush is performing that function in China today. Donald
Rumsfeld did it as the head of the price council, and he did it when he was our
NATO Ambassador for 2 years in Western Europe. Those individuals will, in
their new responsibilities, do an exceptionally good job. I don't think people
with talent, individuals with capabilites and a record ought to be excluded from
any further public service.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
[6.] MR. WILL. The firing of Mr. Schlesinger has caused some anxieties
in some parts of the country about the commitment of this Administration to
a strong national defense. And in affirming your commitment 2 days ago in
Boston you complained very vigorously about the $7 billion in cuts that seem
to be coming from the House and the Senate in the defense bill. Do you feel
so strongly about that as you do about the school lunch bill and these things
where you have used your veto? Will you, if there are $7 billion in defense
cuts, veto that bill and take the issue to the country?
THE PRESIDENT. I will make that judgment on the defense bill when the
legislation is finally approved. I am deeply disappointed in the reductions that
were made in the House and the relatively small increases voted by the Senate
committee. I hope the Senate as a whole will restore more of the reductions
that were made.
It is premature for me to indicate at this stage of the legislative process that
I will veto or not veto. I will continue to work with Members of the House
and the Senate to get as much military appropriation restored as possible, because
1824
