[618]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
618
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Reform of
Airline Industry Regulation. October 8, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
As part of my program to strengthen the Nation's economy through greater
reliance on competition in the marketplace, I announced earlier this year my
intention to send to the Congress a comprehensive program for the reform of
transportation regulation. In May, I sent to Congress the Railroad Revitalization
Act aimed at rebuilding a healthy, progressive rail system for the Nation. Today
I am pleased to submit the Aviation Act of 1975 which will provide similar
improvements in the regulatory environment of our airlines. To complete the
package, I will soon be forwarding similar legislation for the reform of regula-
tion governing the motor carrier industry.
The result of the regulatory reform measures proposed in this legislation will
have a direct and beneficial impact on the American consumer. Countless Amer-
icans use air travel on a regular basis in connection with their jobs and leisure
activities. But for many Americans, air travel has become a luxury too expensive
to afford. In part, today's high costs of air transportation are attributable to
inflation and the rising cost of fuel and labor. But they are also the result of long
years of excessive economic regulation.
In 1938, when the Congress authorized the creation of the Civil Aeronautics
Board, there was a belief that some form of government intervention was needed
to protect the infant airline industry. Accordingly, the Board was instructed to
regulate this industry in order to promote its growth and development. Entry
into the industry was strictly controlled. Even those airlines who were allowed
entry into the industry were rigorously controlled with respect to what markets
they could serve and fares were regulated. Real competition was intentionally
dampened.
In the almost four decades since economic regulation of airlines was estab-
lished, this industry has grown tremendously. It can no longer be called an in-
fant. Consequently, protective government regulation established to serve the
particular needs of a new industry has outlived its original purpose. The rigidly
controlled regulatory structure now serves to stifle competition, increase cost to
travelers, makes the industry less efficient than it could be and denies large
segments of the American public access to lower cost air transportation. A num-
1642
