November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MOOD OF THE COUNTRY
[3.] JAMES B. RESTON [New York Times]. This is an easy one, Mr. Presi-
dent. There seems to be a great deal of anxiety in the country at the present
time, and I wonder if you would define for us what you think the spirit of the
country, the mood of the country is. And second, tell us what are the qualities
you think we should be looking for in a President in the next 5 years?
THE PRESIDENT. The country has gone through, in the last year or year and
a half, some very difficult times. We went through the problems of Watergate.
We have been suffering from a very serious economic recession, although we
are coming out of it very steadily. We have had a traumatic experience in
Southeast Asia. All of these and perhaps some other problems raised some
doubts in the American people as to whether their government, their form of
government, was capable of meeting these kind of challenges.
This doubt, I think, has been considerably reversed, and I think that is ex-
tremely encouraging. They know that honesty and candor has been restored
in government. They know that we are making headway in resolving our
economic problems. They know that we withdrew from Southeast Asia and
Vietnam as best we could and still have not lost our traditional friends in the
rest of the Pacific area. This doubt that was very serious a few months ago, I
think, is being resolved.
And I am encouraged by what I see and what I hear. There is a new vitality
growing among our people, and this is vitally important as we meet those chal-
lenges. It is wholesome, it is getting more vigorous, and I think it will have a
beneficial impact on our country as a whole.
THE PRESIDENT'S CANDOR
[4.] MR. RESTON. You mentioned a question of candor. But I think you left
the impression during your recent switches that there were no policy differences
between Kissinger and Secretary Schlesinger and, indeed, the impression that
you were not as candid in that entire switch as you had been in the early months
or year of your Administration. Is that a fair
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Reston, oftentimes the simple truth is not understood.
And the answers I gave at that press conference on last Monday was the simple
truth. There were no hidden motives. There were no devious actions taken.
The simple truth is the best answer and that was the answer. And I think that
reflects my personal candor.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Will [George F. Will, National Review].
1823
