July 26
[437]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of aggregate supply shortages to the problem of geographic maldistribution,
which is reflected in very substantial intra- and inter-State differentials in nurse-
to-population ratios.
S. 66 continues to treat nurse training separately from the other health pro-
fessions. The Congress is now considering various measures for Federal support
for education in other health professions. Nurse training should be considered
as part of that debate to interrelate health manpower education programs rather
than to perpetuate a fragmented Federal health professions policy.
Finally, S. 66 provides for a one-year extension of the National Health Service
Corps. I support this fine program, and the Administration has submitted legis-
lation to the Congress for its extension. I believe, however, that the authorization
level proposed in S. 66 of $30 million for fiscal year 1976 is excessive.
Good health care and the availability of health personnel to administer that
care are obviously of great importance. I share with the Congress the desire
to improve the Nation's health care. I am convinced that legislation can be
devised to accomplish our common objectives which does not adversely affect
our efforts to restrain the budget or inappropriately structure our health care
system. I urge the Congress to pass such legislation, using the bills I have
endorsed as the starting point in such deliberations.
The White House,
July 26, 1975.
NOTE: On July 26, 1975, the Senate voted to over-
ride the President's veto. With the vote in the House
of Representatives to override the veto on July 29,
GERALD R. FORD
S. 66 was enacted as Public Law 94-63 (89 Stat.
304).
437
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on Budget
Rescissions and Deferrals. July 26, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith pro-
pose five rescissions and report 23 new deferrals of budget authority available
for obligation in fiscal year 1976. The rescission proposals total $90.2 million
and the new deferrals total $541.8 million. In addition, I am reporting an
increase of $1.0 million in deferrals previously transmitted.
Rescissions of budget authority are proposed for programs in the Community
Services Administration and the Departments of Agriculture, Interior, and
1041
