October 30
[648]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. KLEIN. Mr. President, our next question will be from Larry Moore,
KMBC, Kansas City.
Q. Mr. President, what can you tell the taxpayer in Kansas City or elsewhere
in the country who is concerned about the situation in New York because he
hears that if his public school district or if his city wants to build a new building,
in order to get bonds, the district or the city would have to pay a higher interest
rate, then he would have to pay higher taxes to finance the bond issue. What
can you tell him with the New York crisis?
THE PRESIDENT. Larry, there is a very good answer to that. As Alan knows,
the last week or so in the metropolitan area of the city of Washington, or the
District of Columbia, two or three well-run local units of government sold
bonds at a better price than they had ever gotten in recent years.
Those communities, those local units of government that are well-managed—
people want to buy them. Investors want to invest because they are good secu-
rities. So, the message is really to local officials: “You run your city, your school
board, or any other local unit of government well and you will have plenty of
investors and you will not have to pay a high interest rate.”
Q. If that situation would change, if there would become extreme fear even
with well-managed units of government because of the situation in New York,
if New York defaults, would you consider altering in any way your position of
yesterday that you would veto any measure Congress would pass to bail out
New York City?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you are approaching it in the question from the wrong
end. We have to assume that locally elected officials will do a good job, and 99.9
percent of them do a good job. So, there is no need to worry.
I don't think we should be scared. And I don't think the American people
should be frightened by the very small percentage of local officials who don't
measure up and handle their affairs in a proper way.
The history of this country is that we have had good local government, and
we shouldn't be terrified by the mistakes of a limited few. I think Kansas City,
Minneapolis, many other cities throughout the country are well managed. And
we should make sure that they have an open market where they can sell their
securities at a fair price. And if they are well managed, those markets will be
available.
MR. KLEIN. Our next question will be from our Metromedia newsman from
WTCN, Channel 11, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Gil Amundson.
Q. Mr. President, critics of your stand on New York have said it is insensitive
1749
