October 2
[603]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
States have had a special and unique relationship since the days when Commo-
dore Perry sailed to Japan more than 120 years ago.
Our early relations were marked by many memorable events. The United
States was the first country to establish a treaty relationship with Japan, the
first to station a consul in Japan, and the first to receive a diplomatic mission
from Japan. That mission was received by President Buchanan in 1860 here in
the White House.
During the illustrious reign of your illustrious grandfather, Emperor Meiji,
Japan chose the United States as the first stop for the Iwakura mission. Japan's
special envoys were received by President Grant.
After President Grant left the Presidency, he visited Japan and met the
Emperor. This was in 1879, almost a century ago. Emperor Meiji said, “America
and Japan, being near neighbors, separated only by an ocean, will become
more and more closely connected with each other as time goes on.
These prophetic words symbolized our mutual desire to establish a sound and
lasting friendship. What was a century ago a visionary goal has now become a
reality for millions of Americans and Japanese.
Our peoples are bound together by a multitude of institutional and personal
ties. The constant flow of knowledge, ideas, and cultural influences between our
two countries enriches the depth and meaning of our ties each year. It is this
broad public involvement which fulfills the hopes of our early leaders.
The greetings of friendship which we exchange today represent the deep
sentiments of both nations.
At a time when the benefits of cooperative relations between our two countries
are mutually acclaimed, Your Majesty's visit symbolizes and strengthens the ties
of friendship between our two peoples.
The warm memories of my trip to Japan last fall remains vivid. Mrs. Ford and
I have happily anticipated Your Majesty's visit. We earnestly hope that your
stay in Washington and your journey to other parts of the United States will be
as pleasant to Your Majesties personally as they are important to the history of
our two great nations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:55 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where Emperor
Hirohito was given a formal welcome with full
military honors.
Emperor Hirohito spoke in Japanese. His response
was translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you most sincerely, Mr. President, for
your gracious words of welcome. It has long been
my wish to come to the United States, and the
Empress and I deeply appreciate your kind invita-
tion to pay this official visit.
We are indeed delighted to be here at this his-
toric moment on the very eve of the Bicentennial
of American Independence when the American
people reflect on the past and look to the future.
For me, also, this visit is a valuable opportunity to
reflect on the past relationships between Japan and
the United States and look to its future. Our peoples
withstood the challenges of one tragic interlude
1583
