[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[9.] MR. DUKE. Mr. President, when you first took office, you obviously
relied a great deal upon Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Do you now make
more of the decisions on your own? Do you rely less upon Mr. Kissinger?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to get into that discussion. Henry Kissinger
and I have the closest possible rapport, personally and professionally. I see him
every day for roughly an hour. We talk about the Middle East. We talk about
SALT. We talk about our total foreign policy. It's a good relationship. It has
been from the very first day. It is now, and I expect it to continue in the future.
And I don't want to get into whether I do more or do less. We are a good team,
and I think we have made some good decisions.
TURKEY
[10.] MR. DUKE. Are you aware, Mr. President, of the criticism at the
Capitol-
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, sure.
MR. DUKE. -from Republicans and not just Democrats, that in the
Turkish aid fight, for example, that Mr. Kissinger was responsible for your
losing that battle to lift the ban against military aid.
THE PRESIDENT. I have heard those arguments but I don't think they are valid.
I think the Congress, or the House of Representatives in this case, made the most
serious wrong
decision since I have been in Washington, which is 27 years. The
Congress was totally wrong—or the House of Representatives. Why do I say
that? First, they haven't solved the Cyprus problem. Number two, they have
weakened NATO. Number three, because of the Turkish aid embargo, they have
lessened our own national security capability by preventing us from using intel-
lence-gathering installations in Turkey.
MR. DUKE. Are you saying Congress is harming our foreign policy?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no question about it. The decision of the House of
Representatives to continue the Turkish arms embargo has seriously jeopardized
our foreign policy and undercuts in a significant way our own national security,
including that of NATO, and it hasn't solved-it has not solved the Cyprus
problem.
MR. AGRONSKY. Mr. President, doesn't there have to be a concern for law?
There was a law that said that aid that was given to Turkey could not be used
as it was used against Cyprus.
1136
