December 5
[709]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
1
reliance, as well as international leadership and responsibility. We respect your
nonalignment and your goal of national resiliency. We admire your contribu-
tion to regional peace. We value very deeply your friendship.
Indonesia is one of the proud nations of Southeast Asia that are preserving
independence. This is being done by meeting the aspirations of the people,
seeking to reconcile differences, and building regional cooperation.
Just a few months ago, as you mentioned, Mr. President, we had a productive
series of talks at Camp David.ยน Tonight, I am delighted to be in your country.
The United States, as you know, regards itself as a Pacific nation. No area of the
world is more important to us than Asia.
We remain firmly committed to peace and security in Southeast Asia and
throughout Asia. We see our own prosperity and progress linked with vast
populations, the dynamic economies, the abundant resources, and the rich
cultures of this great region of the world.
I have come here, Mr. President, because of America's continuing interest in
your country's security and well-being. I am delighted our two nations have
developed a genuine and growing friendship based upon mutual respect and
cooperation on many, many international issues.
Our relationship involves a common concern for the right of every nation to
pursue its destiny on its own independent and sovereign course. And our ties
go beyond security, embracing the challenges of economic and social develop-
ment, the energy problem, and a whole new spectrum of interests and issues
which require a continuing dialog between developed and developing nations.
The spirit of partnership and friendship achieved by our two countries is ex-
ample to others. The importance of our relationship increases with every passing
year. This is our view, Mr. President. I know from our previous conversations
that it is also yours.
On behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself and all of our delegation, I raise my glass
and propose a toast: to you and your gracious wife, to the people of Indonesia, to
our friendship, and to our common goals.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 p.m. at the Presidential Palace in response to a toast by President Suharto.
1 See Item 381.
1939
