[741]
December 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
objectives. It opens the way to an orderly phasing out of controls on domestic oil,
thereby stimulating our own oil production.
As I requested earlier this year, it will enable us to set up a strategic oil storage
system, convert more utility and industrial plants to coal, and take other steps to
increase production and promote energy conservation. It makes possible the
removal of the oil import fee of $2 per barrel. And finally it provides a founda-
tion upon which we can build a more comprehensive program for the future.
I now ask the Congress to work with me to put into place additional programs
essential to achieve energy independence, including immediate Congressional
action to deregulate natural gas, to stimulate far greater production.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:09 p.m. to reporters
assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (S. 622) is Public Law 94-163
(89 Stat. 871).
742
Statement on the Energy Policy and Conservation Act.
December 22, 1975
FOR nearly a year the American people and many of our friends abroad have
been waiting to see whether the executive and legislative branches of our Gov-
ernment could reach agreement on the basic framework of a national energy
policy. It has long been apparent that further delays and indecision would only
prolong our Nation's vulnerability to foreign energy producers. Since the oil
embargo of 1973, we have in fact become more dependent upon foreign oil, and
our total payments to foreign producers have continued to increase at an intol-
erable rate.
The single most important energy objective for the United States today is to
resolve our internal differences and put ourselves on the road toward energy
independence. It is in that spirit that I have decided to sign the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act.
This legislation is by no means perfect. It does not provide all the essential
measures that the Nation needs to achieve energy independence as quickly as I
would like. However, after balancing the inadequacies and the merits, I have
concluded that this bill is in the national interest and should be enacted into law.
There are three factors that I have found persuasive in reaching this decision.
First, this bill will enable the United States to meet a substantial portion of the
midterm goals for energy independence that I set forth in my first State of the
Union Address. Among the measures I requested in January which are provided
1992
