[467]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
slavia. Americans have particularly admired Yugoslavia's independent spirit.
Whenever independence is threatened, people everywhere look to the example
of the struggle of Yugoslavian people throughout their history. They take
strength and they take inspiration from that example.
Mr. President, this spirit and your courageous leadership brought the Yugoslav
people successfully through the harsh trials of World War II and its aftermath,
into an era of peace, stability, and economic growth. Yugoslavia is confident of
its place in the world and its prospects for the future, and I believe your confi-
dence is fully justified.
American interest in Yugoslavia's continued independence, integrity, and
well-being, expressed often in the past, remains undiminished. Tonight, I have
the pleasure to reassert my nation's positive interest in the future of your nation.
Yugoslavs and Americans have both benefited from many joint efforts to
speed the economic development of Yugoslavia. Our bilateral trade continues
to grow. It has more than doubled in 5 years. Yugoslav-American economic
councils have been established in Belgrade and New York City. Many American
firms are working closely with Yugoslav enterprises, such as the construction
of your country's first nuclear power facility. Our Export-Import Bank plays
a very positive role in supplying loans and guarantees. Yugoslav-American
scientific, technological, cultural cooperation and exchanges are an increas-
ingly important part of our bilateral relations.
But our mutual accomplishments in dealing with economic problems must
be viewed from the perspective of the interdependence of all nations.
We have been distressed by the intransigence and irresponsibility reflected in
some of the discussions of vital issues in United Nations forums. The growing
alienation between developing nations can only harm the best interests of both
and jeopardize the solution of universal problems.
I assure you, Mr. President, that the United States will play its full role and its
full part in efforts to resolve these issues in the best interests of all people.
Yugoslavia has taken a very prominent role in international affairs under
your guidance, Mr. President. The United States recognizes that your country's
policy of nonalignment makes an active contribution to greater understanding
among peoples.
Yugoslavia and the United States have consistently worked for cooperation
based on the equality of all members of the international community under the
United Nations Charter in settling of outstanding international problems.
Our two countries, as in the case of all friends, have had differences, but we
are able to discuss them openly, as friends do, and to resolve them. The main
1102
