July 24
[424]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
we are working together—and where we disagree, as Sam Rayburn used to say,
"We disagree without being disagreeable,” and that is a pretty good criteria
for all of us as we try to, in the best way we can, seek some answers to these
nagging problems that we have, whether they are at home or abroad.
Good luck, God bless you, and don't forget this: that we are trying to build
a better America, so when you come down here and run this Government,
whether in the Congress or in the Supreme Court or in the White House, you
will do a better job than we have done, and I think you will.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:50 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House to approximately 800
college students who were participating in the pro-
gram sponsored by the Senate and House leadership.
424
Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual Report
of the Federal Council on the Aging. July 24, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith the Annual Report of the Federal Council on
Aging, together with my comments and recommendations.
The Federal Council on the Aging was established by the 1973 amendments
to the Older Americans Act of 1965 to advise and assist the President on matters
relating to the special needs of older Americans, and for other purposes speci-
fied in the enabling legislation. Members of the Federal Council on the Aging
were confirmed by the Senate on June 5, 1974.
As the annual report indicates, the Federal Council on the Aging has under-
taken a number of advocacy activities pursuant to its legislated mandate. The
report, as submitted to me by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
for transmittal, does not include supporting data or analysis which would
provide the basis for a detailed review of policy positions and recommendations.
Since the Council was only recently formed, the Administration, on behalf
of the Federal Council on the Aging, has requested that the Congress authorize
an extension until January 1, 1976, of the date for submission to the Congress
of the two legislatively mandated studies.
One study calls for a review of the interrelationships of all benefit programs—
Federal, State, local-serving the elderly. Such information could be useful
to the Executive Branch and the Congress to identify duplicative and overlap-
1021
