November 3
[656]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
cies and its special programs. It shows the many ways in which the United
States utilized the United Nations to promote world peace, economic progress
and social justice. It also shows that at times a majority, unfortunately, took
decisions on important political and economic issues without taking into con-
sideration the views of some of the nations most importantly involved.
During 1974, the Third Law of the Sea Conference in Caracas, the World
Population Conference in Bucharest, and the World Food Conference in Rome
all focused attention on worldwide problems that can be solved only by interna-
tional cooperation. The United States made constructive contributions to all
these conferences.
The report gives special attention to UN efforts designed with U.S. support:
-to keep the peace on Cyprus, in the Middle East and elsewhere;
-to strengthen international arms control and disarmament programs;
---to find a solution to the problem of world food shortages and maldistribu-
tion;
-to control population growth;
-to relieve the victims of natural and other disasters;
—to promote international economic and social development;
—to develop more effective procedures to protect human rights; and
-to improve the functioning of the United Nations itself.
Not all the work of the United Nations is cited in this report. Many UN activ-
ities of great importance to the United States do not make headlines. This is
particularly true of the regular economic, social and service types of activities
which account for the employment of more than 90 percent of total UN per-
sonnel and the expenditure of more than 90 percent of the funds made available
by governments to the United Nations. For example, the World Weather Watch
of the World Meteorological Organization, the worldwide smallpox eradication
program of the World Health Organization, the work of the International Civil
Aviation Organization and the work of the International Atomic Energy
Agency-particularly its application of safeguards to nuclear fuel and the by-
products of nuclear plants-all contribute to the safety, health and well-being of
American citizens and those of other nations throughout the world.
Nevertheless, some of the actions taken by the United Nations in 1974 threaten
to distort this positive thrust and make cooperation within the organization more
difficult. There was, for example, a clash of interests between the industrialized
nations and developing nations. This was particularly evident in the sixth special
session of the General Assembly when the majority of developing countries
1789
