[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am Fred Rose, representing the Nebraska Press
Association. I think as members of the Press Association, we would be remiss if
we did not commend you and your staff for these conferences, which certainly
indicates an openness in government. Our Governor, Jim Exon, Nebraska's
number one sage—and second nationally only to the Secretary of Agriculture—
[laughter]-this morning asked Mr. Butz when the embargo on new grain
sale exports would be lifted. Do you have a timetable on this subject, which
you discussed earlier?
THE PRESIDENT. I have our top negotiator and a staff in Moscow now. They
went back on Monday. We have made considerable progress. I am optimistic,
but I have learned a long time ago, until we get something in hand, it is always
premature to make any specific announcement.
We are pushing hard. It looks very favorable for something that is good for,
as I said, farmer as well as consumer, but I would hestitate to tell you a precise
date.
I have learned also that in negotiating with the Soviet Union it is better to
remain flexible than to pick a deadline. You have a better chance of getting a
better deal if you just negotiate from strength rather than binding yourself to a
date certain. So, I can't give you a date. I hope it is very soon.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I wish I could announce it today, but I, unfortunately-we
can't.
BUSINESS INVESTMENT
[8.] Q. Mr. President, John Nelson, president of the Council Bluffs
Chamber of Commerce. In light of the need for high productivity among our
industrial workers and the fact that relative to many foreign basic industries that
we compete with, the productivity per worker is considerably below, making it
difficult for us to compete, what specific policies can be brought to bear in order
to encourage investment versus consumption and governmental spending in the
private sector to modernize our industry?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been encouraged in the last 2 months. I think the De-
partment of Commerce, or the Department of Labor-I don't recall which—in-
dicated that we are now beginning to show clear signs of increased productivity
of the American worker, and that is very encouraging.
That is one of the best ways to beat inflation. But in addition, I firmly believe
that the investment tax credit, which was approved or expanded—not approved,
1572
