September 21
[577]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
lawyer, I believe we need to examine much more closely how our Nation's laws
are made in order to prevent perfectly laudable legislative intentions from hav-
ing perfectly horrible consequences.
Literally hundreds of examples can be cited. Let me take one area that affects
almost everybody, with which you as lawyers will surely have to deal. That is
the area of the individual's right of privacy-the right to keep one's individual
identity inviolate, or in plain talk, the right to do your own thing.
I can speak with some authority on this, because as Vice President one of
my chores was Chairman of the Domestic Council Committee on the Right of
Privacy. I took that duty very seriously. Among the very first things we learned
was that one of the worst offenders is the Federal Government itself. I don't
mean improper or illegal invasions of people's privacy or constitutional rights
by Federal agencies or individual officials, which nobody condones and which
I will not tolerate as long as I am President of the United States.
Rather, I mean threats to privacy which have resulted from laws duly enacted
by past Congresses for very laudable purposes having wide public support and
appeal. Many of these laws, with today's technology, cumulatively threaten to
strip the individual of his privacy or her privacy and reduce him to a faceless
set of digits in a monstrous network of computers. He has not only no control
over this process but often has absolutely no knowledge of its existence.
For example, in a simpler and earlier era, the government's principal interest
in watching its citizens was to see that they obeyed the law, paid their relatively
uncomplicated taxes, and from time to time, came to their country's aid in an
emergency.
But when the government expanded enormously and undertook vast social
programs that established a direct link between the citizen and the bureaucracy,
government logically became interested not only in monitoring criminal be-
havior but also a lot of other things about its citizens' lives, its citizens' habits.
To determine the eligibility of millions of individuals for receiving govern-
ment's benefits, for welfare or unemployment or social security or social service
pensions or other special assistance, government has to gather, record, and con-
stantly update information.
Government acquired a legitimate reason to inquire also into the private lives
of students seeking scholarships, professors seeking research grants, businessmen
wanting government loans or requiring government licenses, professional per-
sons doing business with the government or participating in subsidy programs.
The list is literally endless.
Over the years, therefore, agencies of the government-State and local as well
1479
