[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
had a good program. We will continue a responsible program. But I don't
think it is fair to you or to any other medical school or dental school to say
that we are going to substantially increase the ratio of Federal support. We will
continue, but I think States have to be active participants, as they have in many
cases. But we have got a serious financial crisis in the Federal Government with
a deficit this fiscal year of better than $60 billion, and the probability, if Congress
has its way, of it being over $70 billion.
So, the likelihood of any expansion of any Federal programs is not encourag-
ing. We will do our best, as I think the Federal Government has in the past, but
I can't stand up here and promise there will be an expansion when I see the
overall fiscal problems facing the Federal Government.
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SALES
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am Morris Miller, representing Ak-Sar-Ben, the
Midwest's largest civic organization. We specialize in support of all types of agri-
business activity.
My question is this: Do you contemplate negotiations with nations other than
the U.S.S.R. for long-term contracts covering our sale to them of agricultural
products?
THE PRESIDENT. As I indicated, we are also in the process of negotiating with
Poland. The Secretary of Agriculture had their comparable agricultural leader in
the government here last week, or this week, and we are making very substantial
headway with them.
Of course, they have not been as large a buyer and don't potentially have as
large a purchase program as the Soviet Union, but we believe that the more
agreements we make with countries such as Japan, the Soviet Union, Poland,
and others, the better it is for agriculture over the long haul. It is easier to do it
with states such as Poland and the Soviet Union, because they buy as a govern-
ment, and if you make such an agreement, I think it is a good investment. And we
will do it with any government that will give us a long-term purchasing agree-
ment so that they take our agricultural products at fair market prices in the
marketplace, and we have some great prospects in the relatively near future.
FEDERAL SPENDING
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I am Carl Spelts, president of the Nebraska Associa-
tion of Commerce and Industry. There is no doubt that the big concern of the
business and industrial community in Nebraska is inflation, excessive inflation,
and it is the consensus of opinion that the cause of this inflation is excessive
1576
