August 24
[499]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It will enhance the best we and our environment have to offer. It offers the
message loud and clear: We are the defenders, not the despoilers, of this great
land.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:58 p.m. In his opening remarks, he referred to Donald S. Macdonald,
Canadian Minister of Energy, Mines, and Resources.
499
Remarks in Chicago at a Dinner for Participants in the Annual
World Championship of the International Star Class Yacht
Racing Association. August 24, 1975
Mayor Daley:
Let me express my very deep gratitude and appreciation for the invitation to
join you and your many friends in Chicago on this occasion when you and all
of us are paying tribute to the Star Class group, not only from the United States
but internationally.
I am most appreciative of the opportunity to meet this group of outstanding
sailors and all that goes with being a good sailor, and I thank you very, very
much for the opportunity.
Before I begin, I would like to ask an important question. I would most re-
spectfully like to know if there is any correlation between the fact that sailing is
one sport that needs a great deal of wind and your invitation for me to speak
here tonight. [Laughter]
As an old Navy man, it's a great pleasure to be rubbing shoulders with so
many fine skippers and their fine crews, and I am deeply grateful to you, Mr.
Mayor, and the city of Chicago for making this evening possible.
While Mayor Daley and I don't always see eye-to-eye on politics—he tends
to favor the port tack and I tend to favor the starboard tack—I am delighted
that we have always been able to join together for wonderful evenings like this
tonight.
Let me extend very forcefully my best wishes to all of the participants and the
officials of the 1975 world's championship of the International Star Class Yacht
Racing Association. In particular, I would welcome the skippers and the crews
who have come from Switzerland, Sweden, Germany, the Bahamas, Canada,
and Brazil that are competing in the races this week.
I hope-and I say this most sincerely-that you will enjoy your visit to the
1207
