[547]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
with Louis-that I will be proud to have him down there working for you,
representing you, and working with us for a better America.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:09 a.m. in the
town square. Keene was the first stop during the
President's motorcade through southern New
Hampshire, which included stops in the following
towns: Marlborough, Dublin, Peterborough, Mil-
ford, Amherst, Nashua, Hudson, Salem, Hampstead,
Kingston, Exeter, and Portsmouth.
548
Radio Interview in Peterborough, New Hampshire.
September 11, 1975
Dave Goblaskas. Mr. President, with the veto of the oil price control bill and
reports that that sustained veto could really increase the financial burdens on
America, do you have any encouraging news on the oil situation for the people
of New Hampshire and the Northeast?
The President. Dave, let me say most emphatically that I proposed to the
Congress a phased decontrol program that would, over a period of 39 months,
alleviate any sharp increase. And as a matter of fact, in the first 12 months in my
39-month phased decontrol program, oil prices would be less, not more.
We are trying to work with the Democratic leadership in the House as well
as the Senate to actually enact or approve the 39-month decontrol program that
I have proposed. If it is enacted into law, actually, fuel prices will go down the
first year, and we will be able to absorb in the months ahead the increases that
will come over the succeeding 2 years and 3 months.
MR. GOBLASKAS. Mr. President, there have been several proposals that America
should trade its surplus wheat to certain other countries in return for their oil.
How do you comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, the Congress as well as the President urged
the farmers of America last year to go to all-out production, and they did. The
net result is we are going to have a record corn crop, a record wheat crop, a record
soybean crop.
We can sell that wheat abroad to Japan, to the Soviet Union, and others in
place of storing it as we did for a good many years at a cost of $1 million a day
in storage fees. So, I think it is better to sell it rather than to store it.
I know my good friend, Norris Cotton, used to fight against the storage fees
of $1 million a day. Can you imagine that?
We want to sell it, and we can trade it. And we have a group of negotiators
1368
