August 19
[492]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:14 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Hotel Fort Des Moines. In
his opening remarks, he referred to John McDonald,
chairman, Tom Stoner, chairman-elect, and Margaret
McDonald, cochairman, Iowa Republican State Cen-
tral Committee; and Bill Goodrich, chairman, Iowa
Republican State Finance Committee.
492
Address in Minneapolis Before the Annual Convention
of the American Legion. August 19, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Commander Jim Wagonseller. Governor Ander-
son, Senator Humphrey, Congressman Quie, Congressman Hagedorn, Mrs.
Kubby, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
As a fellow Legionnaire of 30 years and as a member of the Furniture City
Post Number 258, I am proud to be here with all of you as a fellow Legion-
naire. I am proud of the organization, locally, nationally, and otherwise.
I strongly commend the American Legion for its constant patriotism in
peace as well as in war. This great organization has given life and meaning to
our motto, "For God and Country." As President, I salute you and say for all
Americans: Hang in there!
I am very, very happy to have this opportunity to talk with my fellow
Legionnaires about two things which the American Legion has always held
dear: freedom and peace, for our country and for the world.
Freedom always comes first. Let there be no doubt about that. Patrick Henry
answered that question for all of us some 200 years ago. The Marines, the sea-
men, and the airmen who rescued the Mayaguez gave the same clear answer
which was heard 'round the world. All Americans are terribly proud of their
success.
But in today's world of technological terror, with weapons of awesome
sophistication and destructiveness, it is difficult to see how freedom as we
know it could survive another all-out war. It is even questionable whether a
free society such as ours could survive an all-out, unrestricted arms race.
We are, therefore, confronted with this dilemma that has faced the American
people and their Government since the postwar administrations of Presidents
Truman and Eisenhower. The question is this: How do we preserve, protect, and
defend our freedom and that of our allies? How do we advance the cause of
freedom worldwide? And how do we, at the same time, preserve the general
peace and create conditions that reduce the chances of war? How do we control
1171
