[695]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Chile. Do you still support those activities, and if so, what kind of philosophy
should the constitutional democracy of America take into the situation?
The President. I repeat, under this Administration no agency of the Federal
Government will plan or participate in any assassination plot of a foreign
leader. The United States, however, in many cases for its own protection, its ow
national security, must undertake foreign covert operations, but I am not going
to discuss the details of them.
own
Q. Will you allow the country to involve itself in situations which could
potentially be dangerous to other leaders?
THE PRESIDENT. The people in the intelligence agencies know what my
instructions are. If they violate them, proper action will be taken.
ANGOLA
[22.] Q. Mr. President, in Angola the Soviets are reported to be heavily
involved. Do you find this to be consistent with your understanding of détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I agree with the content of the speech made by Secretary
Kissinger in Detroit last night, where he said that the Soviet actions in Angola
were not helpful in the continuation of détente. I agree with that, and I hope
and trust that there will be proper note taken of it.
Q. Do you intend to do anything about it other than making this statement?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't want to get into the method or procedure. I said that
I agree with the statement made by the Secretary, and I believe that the Soviet
Union is not helping the cause of détente by what they are doing. And I hope
the message comes across.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[23.] Q. Mr. President, there is considerable pessimism these days as to
whether peace progress can be maintained in the Golan Heights in the Middle
East. The issues seem to be primarily those of land and participation by the
Palestine Liberation Organization in negotiations. On the issue of land, it has
been reported that the U.S. has assured Israel that it need make only cosmetic
changes in its present lines in the Golan Heights. Is that the fact?
THE PRESIDENT. That is pure speculation, and we do hope that the process of
negotiation will continue in the Middle East. And I hope and trust that we can
get the parties together for a just and permanent peace.
Q. On the issue of Palestine Liberation Organization participation, State De-
partment officials suggested that the Palestinian issue was the core of the
problem in the Middle East. Do you agree with that?
1914
