[600]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
as far as energy is concerned. But right now, going toward nuclear power looks
anything but orderly. What do you see in the future for getting it straightened
out so that we can look at it as a hopeful sign?
THE PRESIDENT. We have had too many plant cancellations of nuclear power
in the last 12 months-very few if any for safety reasons, most of them for
financing reasons. We expect there will be a resurgence of these projects in the
months ahead. In the meantime, of course, we are spending vast amounts of
money in the Federal Government to make even more certain the safety of
nuclear powerplants.
It is interesting to point out, however, of all of the nuclear powerplants in
operation today in the United States, there has never been one fatality—not one.
But that doesn't mean we shouldn't continue to find safer and better ways for
the development of nuclear power. And I am optimistic as we try to make our-
selves less vulnerable to foreign oil cartels, that nuclear powerplants will come
on the line in greater numbers.
Q. Kind of scary in that situation. But they are starting to question what the
amount of uranium is at this point, while we are talking about millions and
millions going into these plants, and then question the shortage already.
THE PRESIDENT. I have recommended to the Congress what we call a uranium
enrichment program which will take care of that contingency. That problem
will not arise for 4 or 5 years. But we have to get underway with this supple-
mentary program—through either the diffusion process or the centrifuge proc-
ess—so that we can take care of that difficulty when it arises in 5 years or there-
abouts.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, your airplane landed today just a short distance
from the headquarters of the Strategic Air Command. Fifteen years ago, this
country's strategic superiority stood unchallenged in the world. Today, instead
of superiority we talk of equivalency. There has been a slide on our side at the
same time the U.S.S.R. has become more and more powerful and is continuing
to do so. Do you expect to see the trend stopped and perhaps reversed?
THE PRESIDENT. Either through the Vladivostok agreement, where we set the
2,400 limit on launchers and 1,320 limit on MIRVing, either through that
process, setting a cap which will provide equivalency, or through us maintaining
our program to meet the challenge of the Soviet Union, we will maintain, I can
assure you, as far as I am concerned, an adequate equivalency in strategic
capability.
1558
