[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
problems of State government, it was very obvious to me that none of them,
Democratic or Republican, were very sympathetic to the approach that you men-
tioned. And after all, they are Governors today, and they realize the problems if
all of a sudden $90 billion worth of extra cost was thrown upon their shoulders.
And I respect their judgment. And I think their judgment of 9 is a reflection of
the judgment of 50 Governors. And I think the American people will follow
that line rather than-
Q. But you will leave it to Governors to make this argument, or will you
say that that's a crackpot scheme? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. As I said at the very outset, I am going to campaign affirma-
tively, and if the Governors that were there and the other Governors raise ob-
jection, and I had some evidence that they did, I think that is a valid criticism
for them to make of the program.
THE DOMINO THEORY
[23.] Q. Mr. President, you mentioned Vietnam at the beginning. I wonder
whether we could have one more look back at that war. I am sure history is
going to be asking this question. I think it will. Whatever happened to the
domino theory, which I think you once espoused? Looking back, did it really
ever have any validity or does it continue to have a validity?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it can have validity and the situation that developed
in Laos, as you well know, the coalition government there has dissolved, been
overcome. I know that there are countries in Southeast Asia that were fearful
that it might be a reality. We were able to reaffirm our presence at the present
time as well as in the future in the Pacific or Southeast Asia. And thus far we
have been able to preclude what I honestly felt might have taken place.
Outside of some weakening in some countries, the domino theory has not
taken place, and we are fortunate. I am glad that that theory has been disproven,
but it took some strong action and, I think, some leadership by this country
to handle the matter.
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
[24.] Q. Mr. President, do you think that all candidates should make public
their health records, financial records, and every other record concerning their
personal lives?
THE PRESIDENT. Helen, if you go back to the hearings that I had on the Vice-
Presidential nomination, I think you will find that I had my academic records,
my military records, my health records, every record that I could imagine was put
2016
