[670]
November 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
they have responded to adversity. I am proud of them and you should be, too.
This past year has not seen the decline of America predicted by so many of
the doomsayers last January. It has witnessed a resurrection of the traditional
values of hard work and the toughness of spirit that have always characterized
the American people in times of adversity. Believe me, no one on Earth will
bury us unless we bury ourselves.
The economic difficulties of 1975, contrary to the forecasts of fear, were a
simple and straightforward challenge to achievement. Tonight, I remind you
we not only accepted that challenge as Americans but, more importantly, we
did something about it.
But I must, frankly, admit to disappointment in getting the Congress to move
on the principal comments I would like to make here tonight—energy. Last
February, the leaders of the Congress met with me—and I say this with sad-
ness—at the White House, solemnly assured me that they would have an energy
program on my desk in the Oval Office by April. When they failed to meet
that deadline, they asked me for more time, promising again to have an energy
program on my desk within an additional 45 days.
Well, as we meet here tonight, the wind and the snow of a new winter are
beginning to whip across the Great Plains and other areas of our country. But
like the flowers of the spring, the energy promises of the Congress are faded
and gone.
So far this year, proposed energy legislation has been incorporated in nearly
2,500 separate legislative proposals, tied up in 29 different committees. Tonight
I call on the Congress once again to act responsibly, to provide this Nation with
a program which will put us on the road to energy independence. We must
move on that program now—not after next year's election but now.
The American people must have a responsible and reasonable and realistic
legislation that will accomplish our national needs and our national goals. As
part of this program, we must develop our most abundant and most known
energy sources and, as all of you here in West Virginia know-what is the
word? Coal.
Coal. Our coal resources total more than 3 trillion tons—a supply that guar-
antees the United States literally hundreds of years of energy. The fact is, we
are not so much squandering our fuel resources as we are ignoring them. We
are like a man in a desert who is dying for water while an oasis lies just beyond
the horizon. Unless we in this land of ours develop the energy sources that sur-
round us,
take the difficult steps required to make them usable, our thirst for
fuel will create severe hardships for ourselves and for generations to come.
1848
