September 29
[593]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and American jobs to foreign energy producers. I hope that today's OPEC
action will finally get the message through to the Members of Congress that
we cannot afford to remain vulnerable and without an energy policy.
NOTE: The 10-percent oil price increase was announced in Vienna, Austria, where the Organization was
meeting.
593
Remarks Upon Making a Contribution to the 1976 Combined
Federal Campaign. September 29, 1975
FRANK, I appreciate your undertaking this responsibility, with your other
minor chores, as far as the executive branch is concerned. And I am deeply
grateful to Mike and John Anderson. I guess John couldn't get here. We even
have Alan over here to handle all the financial affairs.
But from my own point of view, I got interested in what we call the United
Fund out home when I was right out of law school and worked on our pro-
gram, Lew, through many years. I happen to feel very strongly that in each
community throughout the country, there has to be a total effort by manage-
ment, labor, professions, all segments of our society, to make a campaign truly
representative of what needs to be done for those less well-off than ourselves.
When you look at the wide range of community organizations for youth, for
the aged, for those who are ill, those that need recreation, the United Fund or
the organization, the combined Federal effort is essential if we are going to
make it go here in Washington.
It is a different kind of a campaign here than it is in many other communities.
And so, the Federal Government participation—the many, many people who
work for Uncle Sam have a special responsibility. We don't have the big indus-
tries in some communities that can make a maximum contribution. We don't
have some of the other sources that are easily available in many communities.
So, what we do in the executive branch and what is done in the Congress will
make or break this campaign.
And as I look around the room and see those who have assumed the responsi-
bility, I know we can make it go. And I always like to pay my bills promptly.
So, Frank, I will give you—I guess it is sealed and you hadn't better open it—
[laughter]—my own personal contribution to get it kicked off in the right way.
MR. ZARB. Thank you, Mr. President. I think we ought to give you a CFC
button to wear.
1537
