[483]
August 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the House as well as in the Senate to provide the legislation that made it pos-
sible for loan guarantees rather than outright Federal grants for this facility.
People doubted that we could do it with loan guarantees, but here is the evidence
right here.
Obviously, all of you deserve to be commended about the health needs of some
65,000 people who live in this area, not only in the city but the rural residents
as well, and how much better all of you will be treated with this new and modern
facility.
I understand that it was examined at the time that the project was initiated
how you could maintain the highest class medical service without a tremendous
increase in the cost. You wanted top quality medical care at reduced cost, and it is
my understanding that with what has been incorporated, you will hold the line
and hopefully do even better.
The innovative design of St. Edward with automation and centralization and
privacy will help keep the cost down and the quality of patient care higher and
higher. And I think it is unique also that you plan to combine the Fort Smith
center with the smaller rural hospitals, and this is a giant step forward. And I
understand that you are already working with these smaller hospitals in the
surrounding area in the purchasing program so you can achieve better service at a
lesser cost.
St. Edward, I am told, showed its willingness to break new ground in medical
care with the emergency medical service program. Right in St. Edward you
initiated at the outset an emergency medical service. And as a consequence,
literally hundreds and thousands have been served on a 24-hour-a-day basis.
And again, if I could put a little personal postscript in, Betty and I have four
children, and they had in Alexandria, Virginia, one of the very first emergency
medical care facilities. I tried to count on the fingers of both hands how many
times either Betty or I have taken Mike, Jack, Steve, or Susan down to that emer-
gency medical care facility.
And you in Fort Smith are fortunate that the Sisters of Mercy at St. Edward
were among the originators of this first-class program.
And I think it is unique, also, that through this service, St. Edward has, for
example, given some 30 National Guardsmen-who were injured at Fort
Chaffee when the high winds struck—the kind of immediate medical care that
was essential.
We all know that medical progress is achieved when the newest techniques,
the newest bits of knowledge are available to all our citizens. And your use of
improved patient care will serve as an example to other medical facilities. Your
1144
