[574]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
nongovernmental sources. If these institutions should suddenly close, shifting
the burden from private donors to public taxpayers, the tax load would be
heavy indeed. American taxpayers and America as a whole would suffer the
consequences. We must not allow this to happen.
In recent years the Congress has considered a number of proposals which
would discourage private charitable contributions to these institutions. Fortu-
nately, most have been rejected thus far. But there is a certain persistence in these
proposals which must be constantly monitored and rebuffed. Today, let me
repeat what I have said to many educators who have visited me in Washington:
I approve, support, and encourage the principle of voluntary giving to help
finance higher education. And I will oppose any legislative proposals which dis-
courage such support, including those which would limit charitable tax deduc-
tions, disallow the full value of appreciated assets, or exclude the State tax
deductions.
The Firestone Fieldhouse and literally thousands of other facilities which
grace independent college campuses across America testify vividly and in con-
crete ways to the wisdom of those existing tax policies. These facilities will be
built either with private capital or with taxpayers' money, but they must and
they will be built, and I will do all that I can on a personal basis to encourage
the use of private funds for the public good.
Today, we have all been a part of a proud and fulfilling moment in Pepper-
dine's history. Students, faculty, friends, and community have all joined together
in this celebration of this achievement. It is a good feeling and one that should
be experienced as often as possible.
Bill, is that a good suggestion? [Laughter]
In some circles it is considered very smart and very in to be cynical and some-
what disdainful of the basic motivations that have inspired and sustained man-
kind throughout the centuries. A love of family, a love of country, a love of
labor, a love of learning, a love of God-these values are not outdated. And
from the spirit that I feel is here today, I am sure that all of you agree most
wholeheartedly.
I know from my many conversations with Bill Banowsky and others that
this is the spirit of Pepperdine University, its founder, its faculty, and its stu-
dents. It is a wonderful, worthy spirit—a spirit to which Daniel Webster gave
expression when he wrote: "If we work upon marble, it will perish. If we
work upon brass, time will efface it. If we rear temples, they will crumble into
dust. But if we work upon men's immortal minds, if we imbue them with high
principles, with the just fear of God and love of their fellow-men, we engrave
1474
