November 25
[693]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:04 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Chief Jus-
tice Burger responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, Mr. Attorney General,
Mr. Solicitor General, my brothers of the judiciary
and my sisters of the judiciary, ladies and gentle-
men:
Mr. President, you and Mrs. Ford have done more
than restore an ancient tradition, and a very pleasant
and happy tradition that goes back literally, as you
suggest, 186 years. And I was reminded of it as I
had the pleasure of visiting with Mrs. Ford and
Mrs. House, the wife of the chief justice of Con-
necticut, of a gift that was recently made to the
newly formed Supreme Court historical society of
which my brother, Tom Clark, is chairman. The
gift is a small card, not much bigger than one of
the placecards, perhaps half as big as the menu, and
it reads something like this: "Mrs. Washington and
I request the honor of the presence of Judge Cush-
ing"-they were called Judges not Justices then-
"for dinner at our house on Thursday"-naming
the date "at 8:00 p.m.," signed personally by
George Washington, not by some staff member.
[Laughter]
That is now a treasured item in the Supreme
Court of the United States in the custody technically
of its historical society.
And, Mr. President, you and Mrs. Ford perhaps do
not sense it as much as we do, your guests tonight,
that you have not only revived a splendid and
ancient custom by inviting the Federal judges to
your house, the people's house-Mrs. Ford re-
minded me that this is her name for the White
House-you have honored our colleagues of the State
courts by inviting distinguished leaders of the highest
courts of the States who, in the time of George
Washington and for many years thereafter, were
regarded not as equals, but much superior to Jus-
tices of the Supreme Court of the United States.
I don't think we would want to give that up,
with all deference to our brothers and sisters of
the State courts, but we would like to maintain
parity, and you have, of course, in inviting us
tonight, the Federal judges and the State judges,
you have invited us as representatives of our col-
leagues. And I will presume to speak with leave,
sir, for both the Federal and the State judges and
say that we are all very grateful to you for your
hospitality and for the honor you do us by inviting
us to your house.
And with your leave, I will ask that the guests,
your guests, President and Mrs. Ford, rise while I
have the honor to propose a toast to the President
of the United States.
693
Letter to President Johan Henri Eliza Ferrier on United States
Recognition of Surinam. November 25, 1975
Dear Mr. President:
I am pleased to send to the Government and people of Surinam my con-
gratulations and the best wishes of the American people upon the attainment
of your nation's independence. At the same time I extend to you the recognition
of the United States Government and express my hope that, with your agree-
ment, diplomatic relations can be established promptly between our two coun-
tries at the Ambassadorial level.
We are fortunate in having a tradition of friendly relations between our
peoples upon which we can build a cooperative relationship.
The United States shares the aspirations of your Government for the progress
and welfare of the people of Surinam. We look forward to engaging in close
and friendly relations aimed at prosperity in the Hemisphere and peace in
the world.
GERALD R. FORD
1901
