[739]
December 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. The sending of military personnel by Cuba to Angola is a
rather recent development in any magnitude. The statements made by the
Secretary indicating that if there was a softening, a change on the part of Cuba, it
would be reciprocated by us, was made before there was any significant military
involvement by Cuba in Angola. I wanted to be on the record and as forceful as I
can say. The action of the Cuban Government in the effort that they made to
get Puerto Rico free and clear from the United States and the action of the
Cuban Government to involve itself in a massive military way in Angola with
combat troops ends, as far as I am concerned, any efforts at all to have friendlier
relations with the Government of Cuba.
Q. Sir, I don't think you answered my question. Can you tell me if the efforts
were connected in any way with the Cuban efforts?
THE PRESIDENT. I thought I answered it.
Q. I am sorry.
THE PRESIDENT. To be very specific and short, no.
TAX REDUCTION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, can we go back to the tax cut a moment. As you
probably know, there are a lot of people in Washington, including a lot of
Democrats, who are saying you caved in, that you could have gotten the same
deal a week ago on this nonbinding resolution and that with an election year
coming up you couldn't very well give people the Christmas present of higher
taxes. Was your decision to accept this bill motivated in any part by election year
politics, and do you think you caved in?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the compromise which was achieved was a good tax
bill for 6 months, but I under no circumstances believe that I backed off a very
fundamental principle which was, if you are going to have a tax reduction, you
have to have a corresponding limitation on the growth of Federal spending. I
won on that issue 100 percent. And if you tied that principle which the Congress
has agreed to with the budget ceiling that I am going to submit of $395 billion,
it does mean that the Congress will have to respect their good faith commit-
ment and operate within the $395 billion figure.
Q. Sir, did you have the same deal offered to you though a week or so ago?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. You didn't have the option of taking the deal as some people say?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. Well, the evidence of that is that the Republicans
in the House of Representatives roughly a week ago offered as a motion to re-
commit a $395 billion ceiling for fiscal 1977, and virtually every Republican
1988
