December 4
[708]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
improved because we both believe that a strengthening of our ties benefits our
two peoples. I am confident that through our mutual efforts we can continue to
build a relationship which advances the national interests of the United States
and the People's Republic of China. In our talks, I reaffirmed that the United
States is committed to complete the normalization of relations with the People's
Republic of China on the basis of the Shanghai communique.
Our bilateral ties are very important. But both of us attach even greater
significance to the international aspects of our relationship. It was certain com-
mon perceptions and common interests which brought our countries together 4
years ago.
Among these is our agreement not to seek hegemony over others and our
fundamental opposition to the efforts of others to impose hegemony in any
part
of the world. This reflects the realism which is a hallmark of our relation-
ship. And realism is a firmer basis than sentiment for sound and durable ties.
It is only natural that the People's Republic of China and the United States
will follow their own policies and tactics, governed by their perceptions of their
own national interests.
The United States is firmly dedicated to an international order of peace,
justice, and prosperity for all. The task which confronts us-which confronts all
peoples of the world—is not easy. It requires both firmness of principle and
tactics adapted to particular circumstances.
It requires national strength and the will to use it, as well as prudence to
avoid unnecessary conflict. It requires acceptance of peaceful change to accom-
modate human aspirations for progress. All must help to build a durable and
equitable international system, though inevitably contributions will often be
diverse.
I believe that our discussions this week have significantly promoted those
objectives we share concerning both bilateral relations and the international
scene. They will benefit our two peoples, as well as the peoples of the world.
In closing, I wish to express the sincere appreciation of Mrs. Ford and myself,
and all of those traveling with us, for the very warm hospitality that we have
received.
Mr. Vice Premier, I hope that you will convey my personal thanks to all who
have helped to make our visit so pleasurable.
I ask all of you to join me in a toast to the health of Chairman Mao, to the
health of Premier Chou En-lai, to the health of Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping,
to the health of all Chinese friends here tonight, and to the friendship between
the American and the Chinese people.
1937
