[678]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Thank you, and to identify myself, I am Gloria Lane with WSB
Television.
THE PRESIDENT. Nice to see you.
NEW YORK CITY
[3.] Q. Craig Lesser, WBHF, Cartersville. Sir, considering Governor
Carey's latest proposals as well as the serious possibility of a defeat in the New
York primary, to what extent do you support Secretary Simon's latest proposal
of aid to New York?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me clear up one thing. I don't believe there is a primary
as such in New York City. I expect to get very substantial support in New York
State when they make the decision at the convention.
The situation in reference to New York is precisely this: Based on the factual
situation, I have not changed my decision and have not agreed for any bailout
of New York City. For the first time we have in writing things that the State of
New York, the City of New York, the investors, and labor organizations have
agreed to do. But as of this moment, nothing factually has been done.
One of the matters that they must do, of course, is to reenact a piece of legisla-
tion that permits cities and municipalities to extend maturity dates and to reduce
interest rates on certain obligations.
That legislation, I am told, has not yet been enacted. It is, in effect, a procedure
under State law that is somewhat comparable to a Federal bankruptcy procedure.
But on the basis of the facts now, there is no change in my position.
We are analyzing the documents received from Governor Carey. We will con-
sult with others, I am encouraged. But until we have analyzed, until they have
acted, there is absolutely no change in my position.
Q. Consider if the legislation is passed that Governor Carey did suggest
yesterday.
THE PRESIDENT. There are a number of other things that have to be done.
They have to agree to raise their taxes-city and State. They have to agree to
reduce expenditures quite substantially. Investors have to agree to extend maturi-
ties and to reduce interest rates. Labor organizations have to renegotiate the
pension plans that have been in effect.
This is a series of steps that must be taken. If and when they are done, of
course, we will take another look at it. It is perfectly conceivable, with all of
those constructive steps, they might be able to handle their seasonal financing
without any Federal intervention.
1868
