December 22
[743]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and reduce unnecessary strikes, layoffs, and labor-management strife and discord
in the construction field.
Therefore, since early this year Secretary of Labor John Dunlop, at my direc-
tion, has been working with Members of Congress and leaders of organized
labor and management to try to obtain comprehensive legislation in this field
that was acceptable and fair to all sides and in the public interest generally. With-
out such a general consensus I felt that changing the rules at this time would
merely be another Federal intervention that might delay building and construc-
tion recovery but not effectively compose the deep differences between contrac-
tors and union and between organized and nonorganized American workers.
From the outset, I specified a set of conditions which, if met, would lead to my
approval of this legislation. Virtually all of these conditions have been met, thanks
to the good faith efforts of Secretary Dunlop and others in the building trades
unions and the Congress. During the course of the legislative debate, I did give
private assurances to Secretary Dunlop and others that I would support the legis-
lation if the conditions specified were met.
Nonetheless, after detailed study of the bill and after extensive consultations
with others, I have most reluctantly concluded that I must veto the bill. My
reasons for vetoing the bill focus primarily on the vigorous controversy surround-
ing the measure and the possibility that this bill could lead to greater, not lesser,
conflict in the construction industry. Unfortuantely, my earlier optimism that
this bill provided a resolution which would have the support of all parties was
unfounded. As a result, I cannot in good conscience sign this measure, given the
lack of agreement among the various parties to the historical dispute over the
impact of this bill on the construction industry.
There are intense differences between union and nonunion contractors and
labor over the extent to which this bill constitutes a fair and equitable solution to
a longstanding issue.
Some believe the bill will not have adverse effects on construction and indeed
rectifies an inequity in treatment of construction labor. But with equal sincerity
and emotion there are many who maintain that this bill, if enacted into law,
would result in severe disruption and chaos in the building industry. I have
concluded that neither the building industry nor the Nation can take the risk that
those who claim the bill, which proposes a permanent change in the law, will
lead to loss of jobs and work hours for the construction trades, higher costs for the
public, and further slowdown in a basic industry are right.
It has become the subject of such heated controversy that its enactment under
present economic conditions could lead to more idleness for workers, higher costs
1995
