[549]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
have probably the greatest opportunity to make a decisive decision next Tuesday.
I am proud to be here on behalf of a friend of mine, Louis Wyman, but I am
equally proud to be in the great State of New Hampshire because I am here
representing, along with others, a unified party, a party that is working together
on behalf of Louis Wyman's election. Governor Thomson, last night Governor
Reagan, earlier today—and he may be here now-Senator Norris Cotton, Con-
gressman Jim Cleveland was with us—all I am trying to say is we have presented
a unified front because we think it is a crucial election.
I am delighted to see [State Representative] Ruth Griffin here who so ably
represents your area, and she, like all of us, is standing steadfast on behalf of
Louis Wyman.
Let me ask you or tell you, if I might, why we stand together. Why are we
interested in the election of Louis Wyman? Louis Wyman believes in a strong
national defense with the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines first
and not second best, and that is important to the maintenance of peace through-
out the world.
Secondly, related to that, you have got a great naval installation here in
Portsmouth-one that is very significant from the national security point of
view, one that is a very vital part of the economy of this part of New Hampshire.
Let me speak very strongly that Louis Wyman in 1964 and again in 1972 almost
singlehandedly kept the Portsmouth Navy Yard open so we could have that
facility here defending or helping to defend the peace throughout the world.
Let me add, you elect Louis and he will have an opportunity to continue that
strong support for this great navy installation which is such an integral part
of our national security forces.
I don't have to tell all of you in New Hampshire that Louis, by actions, by
words, is working hard to keep control of government at the local level. He
knows and I know that we cannot run the city of Portsmouth nearly as well
from Washington as your elected officials can do it right here in Portsmouth.
So, if you want local control with locally elected officials and the backup
given to Lou that is necessary, then you ought to elect Louis Wyman on next
Tuesday.
I would like to conclude a wonderful day, and it started early and it is ending
late, but it has been an inspiration to me to meet so many old friends, to make
so many new acquaintances.
Fortunately, a long time ago I used to come to New Hampshire then to
vacation and ski, and I met some wonderful people who have been my friends
over the years, and the characteristics of those people I have found in my
1370
