[419]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, I urge you to absorb everything you can, and I urge you to take back with
you this great experience of being in Washington, representing some 500,000
other Future Farmers of America, so that you can tell them about the National
Capital, the Government, and the opportunities to make it better.
I have a lot of faith in all of you. And I have a great belief that the United
States can continue to be a leader in the world, not only for ourselves but for
all mankind.
Thank you and good luck.
Alpha Trivette [national president, Future Farmers of America]. Mr. Presi-
dent, I am sure we all remember and hold very fond memories of the meeting
we had with you in Kansas City. And it's hard for us to conceive the real impact
of your being with us and visiting with us on that night had for all vocational
education, more specifically, the FFA and the industry of agriculture.
And on that night, you also received the Honorary American Farmer De-
gree, and we want to welcome you now, officially, as a member of probably the
largest group of squares in all the world.
Now, in Mark Twain's time, "square" was completely a different term than
it is today. If you fed someone well, you gave him a square meal. If
you treated
him right, you gave him a square deal. You stood foursquare if your debts were
paid, and you stood square against everything that was wrong. And, Mr. Presi-
dent, we feel that this term "square" fits you aptly because you stand square for
everything that is right in America.
We would like to present to you then this flag set that bears all the flags that
have flown over our country and also in the center the American flag which
stands next to the Future Farmers of America flag, for we feel that the ideals
represented in both of these flags are very similar, and the ideals that you stand
for as President of our country bear out these ideals more perfectly than anyone
else could.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me express my very deep appreciation and gratitude for
your kind words, and I will do my utmost to justify the compliments and to
live up to the ideals that you have expressed. I think they are sound. I think they
are good, and you represent them. And I will do my best to follow in those
footsteps.
I thank you for this gift of the flags that have flown over the United States.
And I especially thank you for the meaning and significance that comes with
this gift, and I am deeply grateful. Thank you very, very much.
1010
