August 25
[500]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
will send to the Congress will eliminate most of these anticompetitive prac-
tices. The remainder of these practices, now immunized from antitrust laws,
are undergoing intensive review in the executive branch of the Government.
In short, this Administration will look at the whole range of Government-
sanctioned monopoly—from the small franchises protected by Federal regula-
tions which rule out competition, all the way to Government-endorsed cartels
involving entire industries.
We must recognize this: Over the years, Government has done as much to
create and perpetuate monopoly as it has done to control or eliminate it. As a
result, this Nation has become accustomed to certain forms of monoply. Some
are regarded as beneficial, some not.
If an industry combines to raise prices, it violates our antitrust laws. But no
laws are violated if an industry can get the Federal Government to build trade
barriers, to increase support prices for the goods or services that it produces, or
to police against potential competitors or price cutters. It is sad but true: Too
often, the Government walks with the industry along the road to monopoly.
The end result of such special treatment provides special benefits for a few
but powerful groups in the economy at the expense of the taxpayer and the
consumer.
Let me emphasize: This is not and never will be an Administration of
special interests. This is an Administration of public interest and always will
be just that. Therefore, we will not permit the continuation of monopoly
privilege which is not in the public interest. It is my job and your job to open
the American marketplace to all comers.
Ultimately, the vital reforms will be viewed—as they should be—as a pocket-
book issue. Government regulation and restrictions now cost consumers billions
and billions of dollars each year. We must be concerned about the cost of
monopoly however it is imposed and for what reasons.
We must be sure that regulatory reform and antitrust actions go hand-in-
hand with incentives to spark capital investment to create new jobs and new
competition. This is what I firmly believe is needed to revive the American
economic dream.
Before I close, let me share one thought with you. It concerns a subject that
affects the lives and the pocketbooks of every American—the runaway growth
of the Federal Government itself.
One of the goals I have set for myself as President is to cut big government
down to size-and we can do it this way-to make it more manageable, more
1213
