[612]
October 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the arguments, and I listened to them when I was a Member of the House of
Representatives, but you know what is happening? Not only do they have the
capability of turning off the spigot so you won't get the gas, but in my State,
because the natural gas-which is a great source of energy for industry, for
jobs in their States-they are taking plants from Michigan and taking them to
Texas and to Oklahoma and to Louisiana.
Does that make sense? It sure doesn't.
So, I say to you, it is important, in my judgment, that we deregulate natural
gas on the short haul as well as the long term so that you will have a source of
supply.
You may have to pay a little more, but isn't it better to have it and to have
jobs and to have income and to have industry than to end up with your plants
closed and the door with a big sign on it saying, "I am sorry, we don't have the
energy.” That is what it could be. We don't want that. We want jobs and
industry because we have the sources of
energy.
Now let me speak for a moment, if I might, about another matter. If we are
going to keep our economy going, we have to have energy. If we are going to
keep peace in the world, if the United States is going to be a power for peace,
it has to be strong militarily.
The United States, ever since the end of World War II, has done a mag-
nificent job of trying to work through the United Nations, through bilateral
negotiations, through extra third-party efforts to not only achieve peace but to
maintain it, and we have been extremely helpful. We have had some disappoint-
ments; we have not entirely been successful. But basically, if you travel around
the world today you find that the United States is respected, they know we have
no ulterior motives, they know we have no designs on people or territory, they
know that the good American people are anxious to solve problems and to
make it a better world for everybody.
We have the right motives, but we also, over the years, have had sufficient
military power so that we are respected as a nation that can maintain the peace
if we are challenged by those that would seek to seize some country or some
nation by affirmative, aggressive action.
In January of this year, I submitted a military budget, which, on the basis of
the total expenditures by the Federal Government, was the lowest percentage
for the last 30 years. Out of the total expenditures of your Federal Government,
the budget that I submitted for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines
was 27 percent out of all the money we spend. And the expenditures for domes-
tic programs for people, for cities, was about 44 percent.
1600
