August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. We have lived up to the law. We have stopped, because Con-
gress told us to, the shipment of military hardware that the Turks bought and
paid for. And incidentally, they bought and paid for the hardware, and be-
cause of Congressional action, the Turks are now being charged warehouse
storage fees for equipment that they own that Congress said they couldn't get.
But anyhow, aside from that, which is, I think, a ridiculous development, we
have lived up to the law. We are not sending them any military hardware, and
unfortunately, the net result is what I told you.
But, Martin, I think you have to recollect a little bit. Who started the problem
in Cyprus? It was the Greek Government, it was the previous Greek Govern-
ment that tried to throw Makarios out and assassinate him, and the previous
Greek Government wanted to move in with Greek troops and take over Cyprus.
And as a result of Greek violations, the Turks moved in and have, unfortu-
nately, dominated the situation. But the whole program or the whole problem
arose by the unwise action of the previous Greek Government.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[11.] MR. DUKE. Mr. President, our time is almost out, and I must bring up
a subject with which you are obviously quite familiar, namely, the rumors in this
town that Nelson Rockefeller may not be your running mate in 1976.
MR. AGRONSKY. That he is going to be dumped.
MR. DUKE. Is he going to be dumped? Is he going to be back on the ticket?
The President. I have read the various reports, and frankly, I think it is a
tempest in a teapot.
MR. AGRONSKY. That is what he said.
The President. I happen to agree with him. Nelson Rockefeller was selected
by me because I think he would make and has made a first-class Vice President.
The realities of the political situation are I am going to go out with my cam-
paign people to get my delegates. He, of course, will seek his delegates in the
interim. I think the team of Ford and Rockefeller has done a good job, and at
this time, I don't see any reason to change it.
MR. AGRONSKY. Is the position you take one that might finesse Mr. Reagan
out of the picture, too?
THE PRESIDENT. I only talk about the affirmative things, Martin. I don't want
to get into who did this or who did that or what is going to happen. The realities
are Nelson Rockefeller has done an excellent job as Vice President. He works
hard. He is cooperative. He has taken every job I have given him and done really
1137
