September 13
[559]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
it. I have always come to Dallas and had a very warm reception, and it never
entered my mind.
Q. Do you think that the Warren Commission should reopen in view of the
things that have been revealed in Dallas in the last few weeks?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't seen any new evidence that would justify a reopen-
ing. The Warren Commission did an excellent job. We assembled all the evi-
dence that was available, and based on that evidence, I think the right decision
was made. It seems to me that it would be unwise—unless there is some new
and very important evidence brought to light-that it would be unwise to re-
open the hearing.
Q. What about the destruction of the letter? ¹
THE PRESIDENT. I think if you go back into all of the evidence that was accu-
mulated by the Warren Commission, that every bit of significant evidence was
pulled together by the investigators, analyzed by the staff and by the Commis-
sion. As I said a moment ago, I don't think there has been any additional signifi-
cant evidence that has been turned up that would change the basic decisions
made by the Warren Commission.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:37 a.m. at Love Field.
559
Remarks in Dallas at the Biennial Convention of the National
Federation of Republican Women.
September 13, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Connie. Mary Louise, Senator John Tower, dis-
tinguished Members of the Congress-Bill Archer, Alan Steelman, Jim Collins,
Frank Gaston, Jack Kemp-Governor Bond:
Thanks very much, Kit, for the wonderful day that we had in the State of
Missouri yesterday. It was just a terrific day, and I thank you and your wife,
Carolyn, for your kindness and hospitality.
Anne Armstrong, it is wonderful to see you. We thank you for the super job
that you did for so long. It is nice to be in your State.
1 According to testimony by a Federal Bureau of Investigation official given before a subcommittee of the
House Judiciary Committee on October 21, 1975, Lee Harvey Oswald visited the FBI's Dallas Office several
days prior to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, and left a note warn-
ing an FBI agent to desist from further interviews with Oswald's wife. Shortly thereafter, the note was
destroyed in the Dallas Office and thus was not available for examination during the deliberations of the
Warren Commission.
1417
