November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
issues. And those are the issues that we fundamentally focus in on, not on that
particular one.
MR. WILL. But is this memo evidence of the fact that you did worry about
offending the Soviet Union when you decided not to see Mr. Solzhenitsyn?
The President. It was not a worry as to an undercutting of détente. As you
know, subsequently I did indicate after further consideration that I would
welcome Mr. Solzhenitsyn at the Oval Office. Unfortunately, that didn't take
place. The initial reaction was not related to détente as an undercutting of it.
It was a decision made at that time for various reasons, and I did reconsider it
and we did offer to see him.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Broder.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[20.] MR. BRODER. Mr. President, there have been a number of indications
yesterday—I mean in recent days-that your predecessor would like to return
to a role in public life. You have a special responsibility for his status since your
pardon spared him, as we now know, from the likelihood of an indictment.
Do you think that it is appropriate or useful for Mr. Nixon to take up a role in
public life in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I have no indication that he is going to take such a role.
I think under the circumstances an active role would not be either in his best
interests or on a broader basis. But that is his decision, certainly not mine.
MR. BRODER. Would you consider giving him any role, substantive or cere-
monial, in a Ford Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no possibility of that.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[21.] MR. SPIVAK. Mr. President, at your press conference the other day you
said you were happy—I think that was your word—and optimistic about your
nomination and election to the Presidency in 1976. Can you tell us on what you
base your optimism in view of the state of our economy and, to a certain extent,
the state of our foreign affairs?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Spivak, as I said earlier, I honestly believe that there has
been a restoration of credibility and confidence in the White House. That is
something that I don't believe any other candidate can take away from me.
The real problems we face relate to performance. I inherited a deteriorating
economic condition in this country. We have turned it around and we are com-
ing out of the recession. I believe that we will have a long-range downtrend in
1833
