[436]
July 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
proposals, would consolidate various separate programs into the flexible project
grant authority of the Public Health Service Act to allow funding of a wide
variety of health services projects based on State and local needs. Moreover,
such programs would be for demonstration purposes. Once a new service model
has been adequately tested, its adoption into the delivery of services can—and
should-be the primary responsibility of the private sector and State and local
governments.
The Federal role in overcoming barriers to needed health care should em-
phasize health care financing programs-such as Medicare and Medicaid for
which spending is estimated at $22 billion this year. These programs establish
specified eligibility and benefits standards and provide assistance generally
available to those most in need, such as the poor and the aged. S. 66, on the
other hand, would have the Federal Government select individual communities
and groups for special funding assistance. In my view, this is clearly an inequit-
able approach to health problems and an unwise attempt to substitute judg-
ments made in Washington for those of responsible persons in State and local
governments and the private sector.
In extending the registered nurse training authorities, S. 66 inappropriately
proposes continuation of large amounts of capitation and construction support.
These support mechanisms have outlived their usefulness. They were intro-
duced to stimulate nursing schools to educate more general-duty nurses be-
cause of an overall shortage. The schools responded, with enrollments in
baccalaureate and associate degree programs rising by more than 90 percent
during the period 1970-74. As a result, with no further Federal stimulation,
we can expect the supply of active registered nurses to increase by more than
50 percent during this decade.
With these increases, the employment market for general duty nurses already
is tightening in some areas. As early as January, 1973, the American Nurses'
Association stated that “. . . it appears that the shortage of staff nurses is dis-
appearing." Our failure to limit growth now could result in our training an
excess number of nurses, creating the same kind of oversupply that has left
thousands of elementary and secondary school teachers disillusioned with the
lack of teaching opportunities.
The general nursing student assistance provisions contained in this bill are
largely duplicative of existing undergraduate student aid programs offered by
the Office of Education, and represent just one more unnecessary categorical
program.
The bill also fails to shift emphasis in any meaningful way from problems
1040
