July 26
[439]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tains a discussion of wages and prices during the first quarter of 1975 and the
outlook for the rest of the year. Also included is a special chapter prepared by
the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare on the cost of medical care.
Although it requires continuing attention, progress has been made in reducing
the rate of inflation. With price increases now decelerating, moderation in wage
settlements becomes very important. Wage increases that substantially raise unit
labor costs could create new inflationary pressures. Moreover, the recovery of
the economy should not be used as an occasion for business to raise prices in
anticipation of stronger demand. The Council on Wage and Price Stability also
will continue to monitor closely actions taken by the Government and will call
to public attention unjustified activities that could have an adverse impact on
price levels.
The White House,
July 26, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 71-page report, covering the period February 1 through April 30, 1975, is entitled "Quarterly
Report-Council on Wage and Price Stability."
439
Remarks on Departure for Europe.
July 26, 1975
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State:
We leave today on a mission of peace and progress on behalf of all Americans.
Tomorrow, I will meet with our valued friends and allies in the Federal Re-
public of Germany. Later, I will visit Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia to
assure the peoples there of America's continuing affection and to seek additional
improvements in our relations. And I will pursue increased cooperation and
stability between the East as well as the West.
During my first trip to Europe as President, the Atlantic Alliance-I vigor-
ously reaffirmed our solidarity with them and our purposes with them.
On this journey, I will meet in Helsinki with the leaders of 34 other nations.
We will sign the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe. This conference represents useful progress in our continuing efforts
to achieve a more stable and productive East-West relationship.
The provisions of the Helsinki Declaration represent political as well as
moral—not legal—commitments. United States policy supports—as I have sup-
1043
