[580]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
pendence that will not be financed even by America's great private capital
resources.
We will need over $600 billion of energy investments over the next decade to
finance American energy independence. As always, most of that investment
will come from private sources. But I am convinced that we cannot wait for
our emerging technologies to become conventional technologies. We must act
now to speed their development. We must also ensure that conventional projects
with very large capital needs will have adequate access to investment resources.
The central defect of America's present energy system is that it relies most on
our least plentiful domestic energy resources-oil and natural gas—and relies
least on our most abundant energy resources-coal and nuclear power.
My vision is of a crash development—in harmony with environmental pro-
tection—of these abundant resources we have throughout our land. America's
oil shale resources are more vast than all the oil reserves of the Middle East.
America's coal resources are 10 times greater than our oil shale resources.
America's ability to harness the atom is legendary, with the known potential
of producing unlimited amounts of clean and safe energy.
Without this energy independence authority, these vast treasures of America
might never be developed or developed too late to keep America's leadership
in the world. With an energy independence authority, we will have the financial
means to tap all of this energy during the crucial next 10 years.
The energy independence authority will be an important new element, but
only one element in our total national energy independence effort.
We need dramatic action to produce synthetic fuels, at least a million barrels
a day, floating nuclear powerplants mounted on barges, new pipelines for oil
and gas, and vast energy parks throughout America.
My vision of America is one of going back to work as a chain reaction of
economic activity spreads throughout all 50 States. To build energy is to create
energy and jobs in all sectors of our life in this country.
It has been estimated that for each job created directly in industry, the ripple
effect throughout the economy creates at least another unrelated job. The total
number of jobs generated will more than double the energy-related jobs.
Let me cite an example, if I may. Four hundred thousand man-years of labor
are required to construct plants and manufacture equipment for 50 nuclear
plants. This represents 650,000 man-years of labor in the time frame required.
I want to see millions of new jobs in the next 10 years with healthy, widening
ripples of growth throughout the economy. And we can do it. I am directing
1496
