October 7
[617]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Michigan Dental School. And I must say, I have not had one failure from that
fine experimental work, for which I thank them all.
But in 1932 and 1933, when I was the beneficiary of that expert professional
training and instruction—whatever the price was, it was cheap—but it was a
darn good bit of service, and for them I thank them. But it got me straightened
out on the right path because I have benefited from the good advice they gave.
And I am real proud of what all of you in your society and your associates have
done. And I compliment you for the high professionalism of your organization
and the people that are a part of it.
if
The original schedule was that I was to be here last night. [Laughter] But I
had another message to give on a far broader scale. [Laughter] And so, I thought
you could stand it, I would come here tonight after I got back from a long
day in Tennessee to give you a personal, firsthand approach to some of the
things I said last night. And if you don't mind my repeating and perhaps
expanding some of those views, I would like to do so.
I think we are faced with two very serious decisions that I had to make and
that I have made, and now the Congress must face up to, and it will have to
decide. The two problems are very simple. I believe the Federal Government
should tax less, and it is my strong conviction that the Federal Government
should put a substantial restraint on the growth of Federal spending.
I feel very strongly that you can't do one without the other, and I am going
to say to the Congress very specifically, very categorically, if you want a tax
reduction, if you want a meaningful, substantial, constructive tax reduction,
you have to put a restraint on Federal spending, period.
Let me talk very specifically, if I can, about what the trend of Federal spend-
ing is. On June 30 of this year, Federal spending for a 12-month period will be
$370 billion. In 12 months, your Government will spend in this current fiscal
year $370 billion. If we don't add one new program, if we don't change one
dollar in escalation, if we let things just go along as they are, the growth in
Federal spending in the next 12 months from July 1 of this year or next year
to July 1 of 1977-you will add $50 billion to Federal spending in 12 months.
That is the add-on and will take you up to $420 or $430 billion. That is the
growth factor without any new program, without improving, changing, or—
that is just what happens mechanically. Because more people become eligible,
the escalation clauses are in effect. It just happens.
Now, some people say that is uncontrollable. I don't think it is. It is uncon-
trollable if Congress does not do anything to stop it. That is what the law says.
1639
