August 19
[495]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
As one of the many, many Americans who knew and loved Everett Dirksen,
obviously I am pleased to be in his hometown for the dedication of this great
building in his honor.
I wanted to be here in a very special capacity, not as President of the United
States, not as a former President of the United States Senate, but as the spokes-
man for a very exclusive fraternity-minority leaders of the House of Repre-
sentatives and the United States Senate.
How delighted Ev would be that the dedication coincided with your third
annual Marigold Festival. This city really looks beautiful today with so many
thousands of Ev's favorite flowers in bloom.
And as I said a moment ago, I did want to be here representing minority
leaders. Unfortunately, as Charlie Halleck and I both know, our fraternity has
been overwhelmingly Republican in recent years, though we keep trying to
recruit more Democrats every day. [Laughter]
We take some comfort, however, in the obvious fact that leading the minority
in the House or the Senate is a much more demanding job than leading the
majority. And if ever a minority leader could be said to dominate either body,
the House or the Senate, that man was Everett Dirksen.
He was a power to be reckoned with, and he did it not by the numbers of his
minority, but by the sheer power of his unique personality, his persuasiveness,
his profound gift for friendship, and his consummate legislative skill.
When I was elected minority leader in January of 1965 for the House of
Representatives, Ev Dirksen was already the sage and the seasoned minority
leader of the United States Senate. I was the new boy, but he never put me down.
Instead, he took me in.
I met almost every day and sometimes oftener with the master, and he taught
me the trade. He knew as much about the House as I did, and of course, he
knew everything about the United States Senate. He knew every wheel and
every cog that makes the Congress tick. And he knew a thing or two about
some Presidents.
In our relationship, I was the spear carrier, and I must say, we used to aim
some sharp ones in the direction of the then occupant of the White House.
But Ev's were always softened with a chuckle. And I suspect he was much more
effective.
Every couple of weeks, as has been noted by Louella, we would hold a two-
headed press conference that became known as the "Ev and Jerry Show." It
really should have been known as "Dirksen and Company"-[laughter]—the
1185
