November 11
[669]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
consulting with the United States before changing its customs tariffs in a
manner prejudicial to its status as a beneficiary country.
HONG KONG, CHRISTMAS ISLAND (AUSTRALIA), COCOS (KEELING) ISLANDS
None of the exclusionary provisions of section 502(b) are applicable to these
areas.
In addition to the intended designations described above, Cape Verde, Mozam-
bique, Papua New Guinea, São Tomé and Principe, and Surinam are to be
moved from the list of dependent beneficiaries to the list of independent benefi-
ciary countries, because they have become independent since Executive Order
11844 was issued last March 24. Anguilla will be deleted from Executive Order
11844 as a separate listing, but will continue to be a designated GSP beneficiary
as part of "Saint Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla". These changes will not affect the
status of the areas involved as GSP beneficiaries.
Sincerely,
NOTE: The letters were addressed to the Honorable
Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, and the Honorable Nelson A. Rockefeller,
President of the Senate.
GERALD R. FORD
On November 24, 1975, the President signed
Executive Order 11888, implementing the addi-
tional designations.
669
Exchange With Reporters in Charleston, West Virginia,
Following Passage of the United Nations General Assembly
Resolution on Zionism. November 11, 1975
GOOD evening. It is nice to see you all. I am delighted and pleased to be in
West Virginia again and have an opportunity to answer a question or two,
if you have any.
REPORTER. What is your reaction, sir, to the U.N. action on the Zionism
resolution?
THE PRESIDENT. I have spoken out very strongly against it, and Secretary
Kissinger has done likewise. And of course, Ambassador Moynihan made a very
strong speech last night during the debate. It is something that this Govern-
ment strongly opposes.
Q. Mr. President, do you favor any sort of punitive action toward either the
United Nations or the countries who supported the resolution?
1843
