July 23
[422]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
would have effectively guaranteed voting rights to eligible citizens throughout
the whole country.
After it became clear at that time that the McCulloch-Ford bill would not
pass, I voted for the most practical alternative, the Voting Rights Act of 1965. In
1970, I supported extending the Act.
Last January, when this issue first came before me as President, I proposed
that Congress again extend for five years the temporary provisions of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965.
The House of Representatives, in H.R. 6219, has broadened this important
law in this way: (1) The House bill would extend the temporary provisions of
the Act for ten years, instead of five; and (2) the House bill would extend the
temporary provisions of the Act so as to include discrimination against language
minorities, thereby extending application of the Act from the present seven
States to eight additional States, in whole or in part.
In light of the House extension of the Voting Rights Act for ten years and to
eight more States, I believe this is the appropriate time and opportunity to ex-
tend the Voting Rights Act nationwide.
This is one nation, and this is a case where what is right for fifteen States is
right for fifty States.
Numerous civil rights leaders have pointed out that substantial numbers of
Black citizens have been denied the right to vote in many of our large cities in
areas other than the seven Southern states where the present temporary provi-
sions apply. Discrimination in voting in any part of this nation is equally un-
desirable.
As I said in 1965, when I introduced legislation on this subject, a responsible,
comprehensive voting rights bill should "correct voting discrimination wherever
it occurs throughout the length and breadth of this great land."
I urge the Senate to move promptly—first, to assure that the temporary provi-
sions of the Voting Rights Act do not lapse. As amendments are taken up, I urge
you to make the Voting Rights Act applicable nationwide. Should the Senate
extend the Act to American voters in all 50 states, I am confident the House of
Representatives would concur.
I shall be grateful if you will convey to the members of the Senate my views
on this important matter.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable Hugh Scott, United States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
GERALD R. FORD
1017
