[439]
July 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
ported through my entire public life—the aspirations for freedom and national
independence of peoples everywhere. The results of this European Security Con-
ference will be a step in that direction. The outcome of this Helsinki Conference
remains to be tested, but whether it is a long stride or a short step, it is at least a
forward step for freedom.
This Conference aims at expanding East-West contact—more normal and
healthier relations. This is in the best interest of the United States and of world
peace.
If honored by all signatories, the Helsinki Declaration holds great promise. It
can promote wider cooperation and greater security across the entire continent
of Europe. This is of great importance to the United States and to all peoples. It
is in this spirit and with these objectives that we take off.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:18 a.m. at Andrews Air Force Base, Md.
440
Remarks in Bonn to Reporters Following Discussions With
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic of
Germany. July 27, 1975
THE CHANCELLOR. Ladies and gentlemen:
I would like to repeat here how extremely thankful the German Federal
Government is—and I believe that one can say the same for all our citizens—
that the American President and the American Secretary of State are visiting
us here on their way to Helsinki and to other European capitals. The visit is
not yet over, and for that reason I can only report at the moment on our talks up
to this point.
The two chiefs of government and the two foreign ministers spoke this
morning about political problems of a general nature, which will also be dis-
cussed in Helsinki. Then in a somewhat larger group, in which, on the German
side, the Federal Minister for Economics took part, we turned to problems of
the world economy. We are convinced of the necessity of cooperation in the
areas of economic policy, credit policy, and currency policy, since we are aware
that the entire Western World's economy has come into severe difficulties as a
result of the current recession.
The American President is somewhat more optimistic regarding the develop-
ment of the American political economy than he was when we last had the
1044
