[576]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
enable the Smithsonian to undertake the development of facilities for the most
effective care and conservation of the collections it holds in trust for the Nation.
These collections, which include nearly 75 million items, among them the
Kitty Hawk Flyer, George Catlin's remarkable paintings of North American
Indians, and three million botanical specimens, record our historic, scientific,
material, and cultural development as a people and as a nation.
The proposed facilities will permit increased public access to the rich and
diverse heritage represented in the collections. They will also allow the Institu-
tion's Mall museums to be used to the fullest extent possible for the education
and enjoyment of the millions of citizens who visit them each year.
On the eve of America's Bicentennial, I believe it is appropriate to make this
commitment to this heritage of our past to better guide us on the path of our
third century.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 907, approved September 19,
1975, is Public Law 94-98 (89 Stat. 480).
The statement was released at San Francisco,
Calif.
577
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies at the Stanford University
School of Law. September 21, 1975
President Lyman, Dean Ehrlich, Waller Taylor, distinguished members of
the board of trustees, and faculty, students, alumni, and friends of Stanford
University:
I am indeed honored to be here and to thank my good friend, Waller Taylor,
for his excellent arrangements as chairman of the Law School's board of visi-
tors. Now, I know that I am not the first visitor to this beautiful campus who
happened to be President or past President or a future President
Former President Benjamin Harrison was one of your first professors of law.
Future President Herbert Hoover, to whom this university owes so very much,
was one of your very first students.
One of my first acts as President this year was to sign into law a bill author-
izing Federal matching funds for the expansion of the Hoover Institution in
honor of the 100th anniversary of the birth of this great American and great
humanitarian.¹
I understand that former President William Howard Taft and future Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy also enjoyed brief associations with "The Farm.”
1 See Item 6.
1476
