November 11
[671]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
so vital, that so many want: freedom from mass government, freedom from
mass labor, freedom from mass industry, freedom from mass education.
The American people in our third century have this tremendous opportunity,
with the kind of leadership that we can give, to have that which we all seek—
our individual freedom.
But let's make sure as we move into this century that we do our part for an
America at peace, for a Nation renewed, for a people with pride, for a future
that summons us to new achievement and glory and greatness.
With your help, we can do it.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:45 p.m. at the
Charleston Civic Center. In his remarks, he referred
to State Delegate Thomas E. Potter, West Virginia
State Republican chairman.
671
Remarks at Cub Scout Induction Ceremonies in Charleston.
November 11, 1975
Mr. Wells, Governor Moore, all of you wonderful Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts,
Scouters, et cetera:
It is just great to be here. This is the kind of gathering I love to come and
say just a word or two.
For a good share of my life, beginning a good many years ago, I spent a
tremendous amount of time, starting as a Tenderfoot and going on through
there, on through to a troop commissioner and a counsel-whatever they call
them—and I was darned proud of my association with scouting from the be-
ginning to the end. And I am proud of all scouting today and you should be, too.
I don't think there was a prouder moment in my life than when I was privi-
leged to become an Eagle Scout. And I still have the merit badge sash, and I
still have that Eagle badge. It means a great deal to me today, as it did then.
There is something about scouting that leaves an impression on you, an
impression that is wholesome and is good, and it is a stimulant for greater
effort—all the scout oaths and the scout laws-and I could almost repeat them
without a mistake.
But I can say to you, you will enjoy yourself, you will do better, you will be
happier, you will just make a greater contribution to your country, to your
State, to your city, to your family, to yourself, if you live by the scout oath and
1851
