[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
dicated we have a temporary suspension, but only for the purpose of getting
an assured market of a substantial amount over a 5-year period.
I think it is fair to point out that since the suspension, which is in effect now
for about 5 weeks, the price of wheat on the market has gone up from around
$3.75 a bushel to $4.05 a bushel. So, even with the suspension of sales to the Soviet.
Union, there has not been any drop in the wheat market, and I believe that is
likewise true in the corn market. Because everybody knows that the Soviet Union
is going to come back into the market this year, and in addition we will get a
5-year agreement with an assured market of a substantial amount.
Q. Now, what are the features of the new farm bill that we will have next year
that are being proposed by the Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I believe that the Administration feels that the existing
law, which is market-oriented and permits the farmer to sell his product in the
market rather than to sell it to the Government and have the Government store
it is the best approach.
So, it is my feeling that this legislation is basically sound, it has resulted in
full production, and we have gotten rid of the storage problem. With corn
at about $3.15 a bushel, as I recall, and wheat at about $4.05 a bushel-I have
forgotten what soybeans are; they are about $5.00-plus a bushel, whatever it is—
that we are in the right area, and we have got a fairly sound program.
Q. Then you feel optimistic about the future, and we can go home and tell
the farmers to go ahead and plant?
The President. You sure can, and the more you plant, the more you will sell.
And we will be in a strategic position to use our bountiful harvest for humane
purposes and other purposes around the world. And the farmers are going to
get, in my judgment, a fair price in an open market.
AMERICAN PRODUCTIVITY
[18.] Q. Mr. President, Bill Bowden of the Southern Growth Policies Board.
Governor James Holshouser of North Carolina is chairman of our board this
year. There is a broad agreement that there is a decline in the rate of produc-
tivity growth in the United States—and I should add this is particularly true in
the Southern United States in the past several years—which has contributed to
inflation and to recession, to unemployment, it has placed the Nation in a
vulnerable position in trying to compete with other nations for world markets.
Senator Percy of Illinois and Senator Nunn of Georgia have been bipartisan
sponsors of a bill called the national productivity act. It has been approved by
the Senate. It appears to be headed for approval by the House. The productivity
1634
