August 30
[508]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in America's future. These are very tragic losses. They are losses that the United
States of America cannot and will not endure.
Today, I reaffirm to you and to millions all over this great country my pledge
to do everything in my power to generate new jobs. But to achieve the stability
that we want, I will continue to oppose stopgap programs that we cannot afford,
programs conceived in panic and, to some extent perhaps, in partisanship
that will lead to nothing but new rounds of inflation and even worse unem-
ployment.
Our system in America now provides 85 million jobs. This represents some
26 million more jobs than existed in America 25 years ago. It represents about
1,200,000 more jobs than last March, indicating a trend in the right direction.
I agree with George Meany that jobs are what Labor Day is all about. And
I join with all working people on this occasion when America honors its
workers, organized and unorganized, in a determined resolve to put America
back to work.
The door of the White House is open, as it has been since I became President,
to those who champion the cause of America's working people. And as long as
I remain in this office, that door will always be open. And obviously, neither I
nor the Members of the Congress on both sides of the aisle will close our hearts
to the plight of millions who are unable to find work.
There have been some favorable indicators of an easing of the recession. The
rate of inflation this year is much less than it was a year ago. But the creation
of new jobs is going to be a tough job for all of us. Making sure that jobs that
exist in our economy must be jobs that provide a good future—real jobs and
not makework jobs—this is going to be very difficult. And I don't want to kid
you.
We have been making some progress, as I said a moment ago. Since March,
over a million more people are gainfully employed, even though the unem-
ployment statistics are far too high. But to get back to where we were just a
year ago, we must produce 3,200,000 more jobs. And each year from now until
1980, some 5 years, as our labor force expands, our economy must provide work
for another 1.6 million people. By 1980, we must have created 11 million more
jobs as our population grows and our economy expands.
This is a big order. It cannot be filled by government alone or by industry
alone or by unions or politicians acting on their own. But the problem can and
will be solved if we all work together, just as you in this hall today united to
help those less fortunate than ourselves. It can be solved with the spirit of joint
1249
