[657]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Brent Scowcroft, who has been serving ably for 3 years as Deputy Assistant
at the White House, will move up to Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs.
DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
For the past year George Bush has been U.S. Representative to the People's
Republic of China. He has served with great skill as a Congressman and as
Ambassador to the United Nations. It is my intention to nominate Ambassador
Bush to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
The CIA is one of our Nation's most important institutions. In recent months
it has been the focus of some controversy. During this difficult period, Bill
Colby, as Director of the CIA, has done an outstanding job of working with
the Congress to look into and to correct any abuses that may have occurred
in the past, while maintaining an effective foreign intelligence capability.
ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT
Mr. Richard Cheney, who has been serving effectively as Deputy Assistant,
will replace Don Rumsfeld as Assistant to the President and will take over his
responsibilities for coordinating the White House staff.
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE
In a separate area, I have one additional personnel announcement to make.
Some weeks ago, Secretary of Commerce Rogers Morton indicated to me
that after the first of the year he would like to reduce the pace of his activities
and resign his current position to return to the private sector.
Rog Morton has served with great distinction in the Congress, and in two
Cabinet posts for the last 5 years. He has earned the respect of Americans every-
where. He has been a long and close personal friend. I am deeply grateful for
his valuable service, and I will be calling on his assistance in the future.
Elliot Richardson will be nominated to become Secretary of Commerce. An
able former Secretary of Defense, Secretary of HEW, and Attorney General,
Mr. Richardson is presently serving as our Ambassador to Great Britain. I
know he will do an important job in his new assignment.
I hope that the Senate will move rapidly to confirm my nominees for those
positions which require confirmation.
Now, to the questions. Mr. Growald [Richard H. Growald, United Press
International].
1792
