August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. Okay. Question number two is-[laughter]—in case it is necessary for us
to supply help to the State of Israel, in case of open Soviet support of an attack
by the Arab States, can we count on the assistance of the armed forces of our
European allies or do we have to go it alone?
THE PRESIDENT. Number one-[laughter]—one of the reasons why the United
States, through Secretary Kissinger and myself, is working so hard to try and get
Israel and Egypt to negotiate a further settlement of their differences in the
Middle East is to avoid a confrontation between the Arab States and Israel.
I concede if we had a resumption of the 1973 Middle East war, it is hard to fore-
cast or predict what might take place. As you know, in 1973, the Yom Kippur
war, no European state became involved. As a matter of fact, if my memory is
accurate, most of the Western European countries sided with the Arab nations
and against Israel.
You will also recall at the height of that war there was a considerable amount
of information to the effect that the Soviet Union was beginning an alert which
could conceivably have involved the sending of Soviet troops into the Middle
East. We, of course, at that time, took some action on our part to alert our forces
and warned all nations that we would not tolerate outside assistance.
I get back to my original comment. One of the reasons we are working so hard
to work with Egypt and Israel is to avoid a repetition of the Yom Kippur war
of 1973. I think we are going to be successful. I am optimistic, although there are
the hardest points yet for resolution between them.
But it is in our interest, it is in Western Europe's interest, it is in the interest of
the Soviet Union not to have that volatile area again erupt into what would be
the sixth war in the last 25 or 30 years.
That is why we are making every possible effort, reasonably, responsibly, to
avoid it.
ENERGY
[17.] Q. Mr. President, I am glad that you overruled Bill Baroody, other-
wise I would have gotten cut out. My name is Glenn Anderson, and I represent
the Wisconsin Federation of Cooperatives, which is a voluntary organization
of some 325 cooperative corporations which has 350,000 members living in every
county of the State of Wisconsin. The members of this statewide organization
are very concerned about the availability of energy and its costs. Cooperatives
provide some 50 percent of the fuel and fertilizer for our State's farmers.
My question is divided really into three parts. One, if a comprehensive energy
bill is not passed, what will be the cost and availability of fuel to farmers? Also,
1239
