[525]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
great Governor—and I will add parenthetically I find a similar enthusiasm
and an equal participation all over the country.
The American people are eager and anxious for what we have to develop:
a party with a program, with candidates, with enthusiasm. And I thank you for
being here on this occasion.
Now you know, I had heard before arrival that you had had some rather
disagreeable weather for the last 3 weeks. [Laughter] Of course, it is not typical
of Seattle, so I had a story I was going to tell that took somewhat advantage of
this unique break in the weather that you have had for the past month or so.
But we brought from Washington some good weather, so I am just going to
let the story go and say how nice it is to be here on a sunny day in Seattle.
Governor Evans indicated to you how long our friendship has existed, going
back to the dark and dismal days in 1965 when we took a shellacking—or a good
many did—and our party certainly did on a national basis.
Through the efforts of people like Dan Evans and many others, we started
a slow rebuilding process. It was the contribution of a young Governor from the
great State of Washington that was a significant input into the deliberations
of what we call the Republican Coordinating Committee. It had Members of
Congress, it had former candidates, or Republican Presidents, it had a number
of Governors, it had State legislators.
But I could tell then, as his record has proven, that you had a man in your
highest State office who could do the job, could make your State grow and
prosper, and I thank Dan Evans for that friendship and I thank all of you for
keeping him in that office-11 years now, I understand.
I think it is wonderful, and I thank Dan for his help and assistance during
this past year, which has been a very trying one. You are lucky. Keep him. You
have got a real fine person in your Governor. I don't want anything to be mis-
interpreted—we have had our eye on Dan, also. [Laughter]
Let me just add another comment about your only Republican Member of the
Congress of the United States.
Joel Pritchard came, and I had the privilege of knowing him for 1 year before
I became Vice President. But in the span of some 25 years, while I was a Mem-
ber of the House of Representatives, I saw a great many Members come and
go. The ones that stayed you could almost detect had a competence and a
quality that would permit them to serve for an extended period of time. Others,
you had the reaction almost instantaneously that he or she wouldn't make it.
In Joel Pritchard, you have the kind of a Congressman who immediately
caught the eye of the people who have some capability of judging, people who
1296
