September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The recovery from those very serious recessionary problems is a slow process.
In the meantime, we are trying to, in a humane way, help those that are
unemployed and to prevent the sad losses of inflation of those who are working
as well as unemployed.
FEDERAL ELECTION LAW
[4.] Q. Mr. President, my name is John Henry, I am president of the Munic-
ipal League. You are aware, I am sure, of the public opinion polls which show
a steadily ebbing degree of confidence in government and public officials. It is
partly because of this that the Municipal League in this State took a major part
in enacting one of the most comprehensive public disclosure laws of any State
in the United States. Bearing this in mind, we are concerned about the Federal
election law passed in 1974, which is presently being challenged in the courts,
and would appreciate hearing your comments on that act as to whether it
should be strengthened. Should it be more encompassing than it is at the
present?
THE PRESIDENT. I signed the Congressional action putting on the statute
books the campaign election law of 1974. I had some reservations about it. We
are in the process now of trying to get the Federal Election Commission to give
some interpretations under the law. The Federal Election Commission is finding
some imprecise language, some ambiguities. Their decisions, I am sure, in some
instances will be challenged. I am not predicting which ones, because they are
just getting started.
I don't think we should undertake any significant changes in it until we find
out how it works in the '76 election that it will apply both to the Presidency and
Congressional races. I suspect after we have gone through one national election
and after we find out how it works, there will be some recommendations from
a wide variety of sources, because any piece of legislation as complicated as that,
as innovative and new as that, is bound to have some imperfections. But to
prejudge it before it has actually been used, I think, is unwise. I would wait
until after November of '76 when we have had practical experience and then
take a look and see what ought to be done.
COASTAL FISHING LIMIT
[5.] Q. Virginia Foust, president of the Washington State Federation of
Business and Professional Women's Clubs. As part of our legislative platform
passed in our 1975 national convention, we gave full support to the extension
of the United States coastal limit to 200 miles wherever geographically feasible.
We were taunted by the press that this was not a concern for a woman's group.
1309
