[695]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
having to pay its bills on a daily basis throughout the year while the bulk of
its revenues are received during the spring. Most cities are able to borrow
short-term funds to cover these needs, traditionally repaying them within their
fiscal year.
Because the private credit markets may remain closed to them, representatives
of New York have informed me and my Administration that they have acted in
good faith, but they still need to borrow money on a short-term basis for a period
of time each of the next 2 years in order to provide essential services to the 8
million Americans who live in the Nation's largest city.
Therefore, I have decided to ask the Congress when it returns from recess for
authority to provide a temporary line of credit to the State of New York to
enable it to supply seasonal financing of essential services for the people of
New York City.
There will be stringent conditions. Funds would be loaned to the State on a
seasonal basis, normally from July through March, to be repaid with interest
in April, May, and June, when the bulk of the city's revenues comes in. All
Federal loans will be repaid in full at the end of each year.
There will be no cost to the rest of the taxpayers of the United States.
This is only the beginning of New York's recovery process, and not the end.
New York officials must continue to accept primary responsibility. There must
be no misunderstanding of my position. If local parties fail to carry out their
plan, I am prepared to stop even the seasonal Federal assistance.
I again ask the Congress promptly to amend the Federal bankruptcy laws so
that if the New York plan fails, there will be an orderly procedure available. A
fundamental issue is involved here-sound fiscal management is an imperative
of self-government. I trust we have all learned the hard lesson that no individual,
no family, no business, no city, no State, and no nation can go on indefinitely
spending more money than it takes in.
As we count our Thanksgiving blessings, we recall that Americans have al-
ways believed in helping those who help themselves. New York has finally
taken the tough decisions it had to take to help itself. In making the required
sacrifices, the people of New York have earned the encouragement of the rest
of the country.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press].
1904
