[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
against the government, and I am told that the Armed Forces are themselves
not immune to overtures from those who would like to organize them.
Now my question is, how far can these movements go without jeopardizing
the historic role of public service jobs, and when does this type of pressure and
coercion by those working for government and paid from tax money begin
to approach the degree of rebellion or insurrection?
THE PRESIDENT. At the Federal level, there is no authority for Federal
employees to strike. In fact, if I am correct, I think it is prohibited. It is par-
ticularly so in the Postal Service. There is in the Postal Service legislation that
was enacted in 1969 or 1970 a procedure by which if the new management of
the Postal Service and the labor unions can't agree, there is an arbitration
procedure set up whereby any irreconcilable differences can be mediated and
decided by this arbitration board, and it is binding.
That is the only instance that I am familiar with in the Federal Government
where this procedure is used. It has never gone that far. There have been nego-
tiations on two or three occasions that were difficult, but there was never any
need to utilize that procedure.
I feel that in the area of non-Federal Government employees—and I am now
getting into an area where I have no authority and jurisdiction, so I am only
expressing opinion-that in the area of health and safety and security, there
ought to be in that area-like we have in the Postal Service, which involves for
the Federal Government a great responsibility—there ought to be some arbi-
tration that ends in a decision if the two parties can't negotiate.
It seems to me that the population as a whole, our citizens as a whole, need
some protection, as we have in the Federal Government, for the Postal Service
in State and local units of government, and in some States that has been the case.
There is a procedure that I think has merit that has been tried in some areas
of labor-management differences where you have an arbitration board, and if
they can't agree, then each party—labor on the one hand, management on the
other-submits its best offer for settlement and then the arbitration board has
to pick one or the other. They can't divide them in two.
What does this do? It gets both management on the one hand and labor on
the other hand to make the best possible offer in hopes that their view will be
accepted, and it does not give to the arbitrator the right to cut it down the
middle, which I don't think in most cases is very good. And in this case where
it has been used, it has been very successful, and I would urge that as an alterna-
tive to the usual arbitration procedure.
1398
