[706]
December 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
The United States will strive both to reduce the dangers and to explore new
opportunities for peace without illusion.
The current situation requires strength, vigilance, and firmness. But we will
also continue our efforts to achieve a more peaceful world, even as we remain
determined to resist any actions that threaten the independence and well-being
of others.
I look forward to our frank and beneficial discussions. We will explore areas of
agreement and seek to foster understanding where our perspectives differ.
In that spirit, we remain firmly committed to the process of building a normal
relationship between our two countries on the basis of the Shanghai communique
and to enlarging the areas of cooperation on international issues of mutual
concern.
So, as I begin my visit, I would like to propose a toast to the health of Chair-
man Mao, to the health of Premier Chou En-lai, to the health of Vice Premier
Teng Hsiao-ping, to the health of other officials and friends here tonight, to the
success of our discussions here this week, and to the further development of
friendship and understanding between the peoples of China and the United
States.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 9 p.m.
in the Great Hall of the People in response to a
toast proposed by Vice Premier Teng. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Foreign Minister Chiao
Kuan-hua of the People's Republic of China.
Vice Premier Teng spoke in Chinese. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen,
comrades and friends:
We are very glad today that President and Mrs.
Ford, traveling thousands of miles across the ocean,
have arrived in China for an official visit. As the
Republican leader of the House of Representatives,
Mr. Ford visited China before in June 1972 with
Mrs. Ford. So, they are already known to the Chi-
nese people.
At this banquet, which I am entrusted by Pre-
mier Chou En-lai to host, I wish to express welcome
on behalf of the Chinese Government to President
and Mrs. Ford and the other American guests ac-
companying them on the visit.
The Chinese and American peoples are both great
peoples. Our two peoples have always been friendly
to each other. I would like to take this opportunity
to convey the cordial greetings of the Chinese peo-
ple to the great American people.
More than 3 years ago, President Nixon visited
China, and the Chinese and American sides issued
the famous Shanghai communique. This is a unique
international document. It explicitly sets forth the
fundamental differences between the policies of
China and the United States, which are determined
by their different social systems, and at the same
time points out that in today's world our two coun-
tries have many points in common.
An outstanding common point is that neither
should seek hegemony and that each is opposed to
efforts by any other country or group of coun-
tries to establish hegemony.
The communique provides the basis for the de-
velopment of Sino-U.S. relations and indicates its
direction and goal. Its issuance accords not only
with the common desire of our two peoples but
also with the interests of the people of the world.
And it has made a deep impact internationally.
Since the Shanghai communique, there have been,
on the whole, an increase in the contacts and friend-
ship between our two peoples and an improvement
in the relations between our two countries.
Since he took office, President Ford has stated more
than once that he will adhere to the principles of
the Shanghai communique and work to promote
Sino-U.S. relations, a statement which we welcome.
To realize the normalization of relations between
our two countries conforms to the common desire
of the Chinese and American peoples.
We believe that, so long as the principles of the
Shanghai communique are earnestly observed, this
desire will eventually be realized through the joint
efforts of our two sides.
1934
