October 17
[633]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
issues that confront people and nations in the globe as a whole. I commend
the serious work that you are undertaking. I hope and trust that your enormous
contributions to the international lawmaking process will be significantly ad-
vanced by your endeavors here in our Capital.
I congratulate this international law body whose vision, whose imagination
has not only made this conference possible but has demonstrated the ability of
peoples of all nations to work together harmoniously, I trust, for the common
good. I wish you success in this wonderful undertaking, and I welcome you
again to the Rose Garden, to the White House, to the Nation's Capital, and to
our country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:20 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Charles S. Rhyne, president of the
World Peace Through Law Center, which sponsored
the conference.
633
Remarks at the Swearing In of Thomas S. Kleppe as Secretary
of the Interior. October 17, 1975
Secretary-designate Kleppe, the Vice President, Mrs. Kleppe, Justice Stewart,
distinguished Members of the Congress and the Administration, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
In the great State of North Dakota there is a town with the wonderfully
self-confident name, and I quote-Cando. [Laughter]
Today it gives me great pleasure to honor a man from North Dakota who
doesn't come from Cando, but he sure lives up to that name or that title in
spirit. In government service he has proven beyond any doubt that he can do
and actually has done and, I am certain, will continue to do an outstanding
job in the new post as Secretary of Interior.
Of course, I speak with great emphasis on Tom Kleppe. Into his trust will be
placed many of the vast, vast resources that have made this Nation great. Tom,
I know you will faithfully serve the 214 million Americans whose natural
resources are now pledged by you to protect. I am sure that your rural roots and
your love of our country will be the basis of sound, constructive policy. I look at
your background and see how much an individual American with initiative and
good common sense can accomplish.
Tom was born in the small North Dakota farming community of Kintyre.
1713
