[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
at any time in my life. I don't think you should rule a person out just because
they are my particular age. On the other hand, I don't think you should rule
out a younger person who by experience or intelligence or overall capability is
a potential candidate. I don't think you should categorize people just by age
bracket. I believe you ought to look at the person, how strong he is mentally
and physically and what his experience and what his background is in. That
is the criteria that I would use.
MR. RESTON. I agree with that, of course, but my question was whether some-
thing had happened, that there seems to be—the draft choices of the young
guys are not very good these days.
THE PRESIDENT. We have some younger people, Mr. Reston, who are running
in the Democratic race for the Presidency and we have got some excellent
potential younger people who are interested either in the Vice Presidency or
even potentially in the Presidency, if they so indicate. I think we have got people
that are interested, some Governors, some other officials within and without the
Federal Government.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Will.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
[25.] MR. WILL. Mr. President, the Vladivostok agreement limits the U.S.
and the Soviet Union each to 2,400 strategic vehicles. That includes missiles
and bombers. Studies done within our Government indicate that the Soviet
Union's Backfire bombers are capable of taking off from Soviet bases and bomb-
ing U.S. cities. Is it your firm position that each Soviet Backfire bomber should
be counted against that Soviet total of 2,400?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe I should discuss one of the most controversial
issues in the negotiations with the Soviet Union. The Backfire is a weapons
system that has a potential, although there is a difference of opinion as to
whether or not its primary mission is one of intercontinental bombing. It is a
very difficult decision among several others. And I don't believe that with the
importance of those negotiations that I should make a categorical statement on
this program as to how we might handle the problem of the Backfire.
MR. WILL. Is it a fair inference, from the fact that you won't take a firm
position on that, that that is a position we are willing to negotiate away?
The President. There are a number of other issues of equal importance
where there might be some tradeoff-I am not saying there will be—but there
are some very complicated problems and the Backfire is one of them. But for
me to make a decision here and to make an announcement on this program,
1836
