[582]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
recommended in the budget for the current fiscal year more money than any
administration in the history of the United States for social programs.
ADVICE TO YOUNG PEOPLE
[12.] Q. Mr. Ford, I am sorry to cut off, because I understand you probably
want to go forth. We only have about 30 seconds left, and I wondered if you
could in that time possibly sum up how you would talk to some of the young
people of this country about their mounting fear of losing control of their
country, what with the murder of a President, the murder of a candidate run-
ning for President, paralyzing of another, et cetera. It goes on and on, still even
happening today with a threat against your life. What do you tell the young
people of this country?
THE PRESIDENT. I tell them that, number one, we have a great country, they
have got a great stake in it. They can decide what course of action, what aims,
what visions we should have in this country, and I find a great and good
response from the young people across the board.
I am optimistic about what they will do with America. I think they will make
it a better place for them and those that follow.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The interview began at 2:56 p.m. in the
MacArthur Suite at the St. Francis Hotel. It was
taped for broadcast at 9:30 p.m.
Participants in the interview were Sid Davis of
the Westinghouse Broadcasting Company, and Stan
Borman, Belva Davis, Jenny Crimm, and Lynn
Joiner of KPIX-TV.
583
Remarks to Reporters on Returning From California.
September 22, 1975
REPORTER. Mr. Ford, could you speak to us for just a moment please and tell us
how you feel?
THE PRESIDENT. Can I have just a minute to look at all of you?
Q. Mr. President, what-
THE PRESIDENT. May I take just a minute. Obviously, Betty and I are de-
lighted to be back here very safely, and we are most grateful that Mr. Vice
President and Mrs. Rockefeller have met us. We have talked to our four chil-
dren, and I guess they are kind of happy that we are back here all right.
But let me say most emphatically, I thank the Secret Service for doing a super
1518
