September 20
[573]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
nizational effort rather than the ideology of the Administration being re-
pudiated.
Q. Both you and Governor Reagan campaigned there, though. That is about
as heavy an artillery as your party could have brought in.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, and I got a very favorable response from the people of
New Hampshire, for which I am very grateful. I don't think that response or
the result really entered into that election as such, and the technical adviser to
the Democratic Party, Dick Scammon, discounted any impact on a national
level from that particular election.
RONALD REAGAN
[3.] Q. Mr. President, one more Reagan question. Your friend, indeed your
host for part of this weekend, the U.S. Ambassador to Belgium, Leonard Fire-
stone, has said he doesn't think Ronald Reagan is qualified to be President.
What do you think? Is he qualified?
The President. I don't think I ought to pass judgment on that. He was a
very good Governor for the State of California, and I don't think I should enter
into those discussions.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[4.] Q. Mr. President, you expressed confidence that your policies would
get you past any primary competition, indeed in a general election, too, and you
particularly noted foreign policy. I would like to ask you a couple of questions
about foreign policy, particularly about recent Middle East agreements. First
of all, is there an agreement to supply Pershing missiles to Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. The documents carefully spell out that we will study with
Israel their request for Pershing missiles. It is carefully phrased, and it goes
only to the commitment to study the need and necessity for Pershing missiles
for Israel.
Q. Senator Howard Baker said here yesterday that he believes—and he em-
phasized it is only his belief-that Israel has nuclear weapons now. Could you
comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not know categorically whether they do or do not. There-
fore, I don't think I should speculate.
Q. Another missile question. The Hawk missile for Jordan-did you insist
that we be assured that those could only be used defensively?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly, the intent is that those Hawk missiles should be
used for defensive purposes. It is important for Jordan to have that defensive
64-630 - 77 34 (Vol. 2)
1463
