September 13
[559]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
deficit to $70 billion, $80 billion, or even possibly $100 billion. Are you going
to let that happen?
The only weapon available to outnumbered Congressional Republicans is
the veto. I have used it, and if necessary, I will use it again and again and again.
These vetoes are positive. The framers of our Constitution intended that they
should be. The experts tell me that my vetoes in this year alone will save tax-
payers some $6 billion by 1977. I think that is positive action by any standard.
In addition, these vetoes have resulted often in far better legislation. When I
vetoed irresponsible bills and enough Congressmen agreed to sustain the veto,
the Congress was forced to come up with better bills, more or less along the
original lines that I proposed.
Senator Tower knows that in the housing bill. Others on the Committee on
Appropriations know that when Congress-on a bill that I felt had to provide
for summer youth employment—a reasonable, necessary budget request for
$1,900 million—the Congress loaded it up and larded it up with another $2
billion in unnecessary porkbarrel spending. I had a veto, and the Congress sus-
tained it, and we came back with a reasonable figure.
What I am trying to say is that a veto can be used for affirmative action as the
drafters of the Constitution provided in that document.
Now, I have heard that some of the wild-spending, more liberal Democrats
in the Congress want to switch billions, billions of dollars from national de-
fense-money for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines-into more social
programs. That would be dead wrong. If they don't already know it, I am
going to fight them every step of the way.
As we approach the campaign year of 1976, the air will soon be filled with
the voices of candidates, the rumbles of bandwagons, and questions of pollsters.
Pollsters aren't the only ones who will be asking some questions. Here this
morning, I have some questions of my own to ask.
Do you want your President to accept, without a fight, budget-busting appro-
priation bills? Let's put it another way. Do you want to be deep in the heart
of Texas or deep in the heart of taxes? [Laughter]
Another question. Do you want your President to open the United States
Treasury to every city that hasn't or won't responsibly manage its fiscal affairs?
Do you want your President to roll over and play dead while Congress passes
more and more legislation to strangle free enterprise?
Do you want your President to go along with those who abdicate State and
local responsibility to a massive Federal bureaucracy?
1421
