October 29
[645]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think that is a fair distinction, but in retrospect, as I said at the outset, I am
not sure we didn't make a mistake.
MR. BROOM. Thank you, sir. Another questioner asks: In order to ensure a
continued flow of private funds to public-related entities, how does the Admin-
istration intend to assure future investors that their interests will also be pro-
tected when financial difficulties arise?
The President. The best way for that to occur, Mr. President, is to say that
in the case of New York City, that if there is mismanagement, as there has been,
the city must go into court in bankruptcy, in default. And when that happens,
as every investor knows, their obligations which they bought in the free market,
hoping for a good return on a tax-free basis, was not a good investment.
I think investors will be more discerning. They will be much more discern-
ing, and they will insist that municipal and State officials manage their affairs
in a way that will assure credibility to the investor.
I think this course of action that I am suggesting is the greatest deterrent to
mismanagement of municipal and State action, and it is the greatest assurance
to future investors that when they buy municipal securities or State securities,
they are making a good investment. I think that will be the end result.
MR. BROOM. Another questioner wonders, why will people buy the debt cer-
tificates that you propose when they would not buy "Big Mac" ¹ bonds which
also were backed by assured revenues?
The President. The legislation would provide that the court could cooperate
in the issuance of these certificates with those certificates having the highest
priority on any revenues that come into the city-priority above any other—
which means that revenues from taxes, revenues that might come from the
Federal Government under general revenue sharing or otherwise, would be ear-
marked for precisely those court-backed certificates.
Every other creditor stands in line, and as I understand it, this current prob-
lem that may come in the middle of November, certainly in December, is more
of a short-term cash flow problem, providing the local officials and the State
officials face up to the long-range difficulty.
MR. BROOM. Another questioner says your prescription for New York City
sounds fine, but would it work for management of the Federal Establishment?
The President. Well, we have a little different situation here, but I think the
basic problem, as I said in my remarks, is exactly the same. And if we don't start
getting a handle on these long-range commitments in a wide variety of cases,
1 The Municipal Assistance Corporation was created by the State of New York and was empowered
to issue bonds. Funds from the bond sales were intended for the assistance of New York City.
1737
