August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
When I was in the House of Representatives, I voted twice for the program
that was submitted by the previous administration, because I believed then and
now that welfare reform was mandatory. Unfortunately, even though the House
of Representatives passed that legislation twice, the United States Senate refused
or didn't act on it.
Now, it is my judgment that we will come out of these public hearings, we
will come up with either some tightening of the existing welfare program or
will offer a substitute, and there are a number of alternatives.
I am not going to prejudge what the public is going to tell us. We want the
public to be a participant in this process.
WATERGATE
[5.] MR. AGRONSKY. Mr. President, could we return to the question of con-
fidence, which is a real concern. You have been President for a year, and look-
ing back, would you agree with the conventional wisdom, as far as Watergate
is concerned, that the system worked?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the system did work, Martin. It went through a very
traumatic period, but if you look back through what happened before August 9
and what has happened since, I think you must come to the conclusion that the
system did work.
MR. AGRONSKY. And looking ahead beyond that, do you think that in this year
that you have been in office that safeguards have been put into effect that would
ensure that we would not have another Watergate? Do you feel there is a sense
in the country that you have achieved that?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly what I have tried to do precludes a Watergate
from happening under a Ford Administration, and I believe through the press,
through the public, through the Congress, there would never be an opportunity
for another Watergate to take place.
MR. AGRONSKY. Let me ask you to deal then with a rather remarkable and
startling observation that was made to me by the Special Watergate Prosecutor,
Leon Jaworski, a few days ago. I asked Mr. Jaworski, if your predecessor had
destroyed the Watergate tapes, would he be sitting today in the White House,
and he answered "Yes."
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't undercut any judgment by Leon Jaworski. He
knew intimately the content of many of the tapes, and he had a special respon-
sibility. So, if he made that judgment, I am certainly not going to contradict it.
1127
