September 16
[565]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
supply. We don't have enough for ourselves and can't afford to pay for what
we are getting. How can we supply Israel over several years?
THE PRESIDENT. We believe there are sources available to Israel to keep Israel
secure after they have given up the oil fields in the Middle East. We are not
concerned that these supplies will be turned off, and therefore, it will have no
adverse impact, as we see it, on our own supplies.
Q. But we will pay for this oil, will we not? We will pay for this through
foreign credits?
The President. This is a part of the overall military economic agreement with
Israel, and it is a step, I believe, in maintaining the peace. I think it is fair to
point out that several months ago 76 Senators sent me a letter actually urging
that I recommend to the Congress more money for Israel and no guarantee of
peace, whereas at the present time we have made this agreement—or Israel and
Egypt have made this agreement-and the prospective cost to the United States
is less than what the 76 Senators recommended that we propose to the Congress
for Israel.
So, we not only have peace and a step toward a broader peace but it is also
at a lesser cost than what the 76 Senators promoted.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, you mentioned the Pike committee. They have sub-
poenaed CIA materials from you, returṇable tomorrow. Will you honor that
subpoena?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me give some background, first, on what the situation is.
Various agencies of the Federal Government, with my approval, have given
to the Pike committee everything they have asked for, including some very
highly classified material.
Now, I was disappointed in the manner in which that committee handled
some of this most highly classified material. I think it is fair to point out-I
don't want you to misconstrue what I am saying—but it is fair to point out
that some of that material is specifically protected by law, and if a private citizen
were to release that information involving communications intelligence, it would
be a criminal-a serious criminal offense.
I am not saying that the Congress has violated a criminal law, or this com-
mittee has done so. I only use that as an illustration to show how serious the
Congress felt the release of that information would be, because they passed a
law saying if you or any one of you released it, it would be a serious criminal
offense.
1437
