[493]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
493
Remarks at a Republican Party Leadership Rally in Minneapolis.
August 19, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Chuck. My good friends, Al Quie, Bill Frenzel,
Tom Hagedorn, and Mrs. Ring, and all of you great Republicans:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to be here. You know, it brings back
a good memory I have, going back to 1932-my first visit to Minnesota.
[Laughter] I came up here with the University of Michigan football team and
played against some of those great football players you turn out up here.
I was a sophomore. It was five below zero, and that stadium was very cold. I
wasn't good enough to play very much, so I sat on the bench most of the time. I
won't tell you the score, but 2 years later you made up for it and beat the devil
out of us. [Laughter]
Well, I think you know every visit I have ever made to Minnesota has been
memorable, and it is without exceptions.
As I was getting off the plane at the Twin Cities International Airport last
night, an amazing thing happened to me. Somebody asked me how to get to
the State capital in St. Paul. What made it so amazing-it was Governor
Anderson. [Laughter]
Obviously, I am pleased to be with such a tremendous gathering of Repub-
licans here in the great State of Minnesota. And I understand from Chuck and
the others that you have earned your way here in a tremendous effort in raising
money for the party in your local communities.
I know, from my long, practical experience in trying to get reelected to the
Congress, the heart and the soul of the Republican Party depends upon what
all of you do in your local communities. So, I thank you. I just hope you don't
have to give two-thirds of that money to the DFL [Democrat-Farmer-Labor
Party of Minnesota] as well. [Laughter]
But even more importantly, your individual achievements and accomplish-
ments must give you a great deal of satisfaction, because you know what you
have done will have an impact on the party locally, statewide, and nationally.
It has been my experience that there is a rising tide of enthusiasm and a
great deal of optimism as far as the party's election prospects in November of
1976.
Frankly, as I travel around the country, I like what I see, and I am glad to
see this same spirit here in Minnesota today. You've got a great chairman in
1178
