[488]
August 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
this country to provide more jobs. Just about 2 weeks ago, Secretary Simon
went before the House Committee on Ways and Means and talked about a job
formation piece of legislation. I am cognizant of it. I hope we can get some
legislative action.
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT
[8.] Q. Mr. President, how much emphasis do you think will be placed on
energy and environmental issues during the upcoming Presidential campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me, I didn't hear the whole question.
Q. How much emphasis do you feel will be placed on energy and environ-
mental issues during the upcoming Presidential campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope we can get Congress to pass a good energy program
in 1975, and then the energy issues shouldn't be on the Presidential campaign
agenda in 1976.
SOLAR ENERGY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I appreciate this opportunity. I would like to preface
my question by saying that we in Colorado, as well as many others and yourself,
I am sure, believe that the sun is our ultimate energy source. All of our con-
ventional fuels are merely forms of stored solar energy and, in a sense, are
global solar savings accounts.
Mr. President, the only way to waste our solar energy is not to use it. What,
if any, therefore, plans or efforts are underway to interface long-term energy
goals with mid-term and near-term efforts for energy development? For ex-
ample, if coal is surface mined in the West, does the Government plan to utilize
the reclaimed areas by proper siting and contouring to allow for essential solar
powerplants to be implemented when coal is exhausted?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me take solar energy first.
The Energy Research and Development Agency, called ERDA, has a budget
of something over $2 billion for the current fiscal year. It is headed by Dr.
Robert Seamans, one of the outstanding, I think, administrators as well as
scientists in this country. A very significant part of that $2 billion-plus is used
for solar research.
I was talking to Bob Seamans a few days ago, and they have made significant
progress. There is, unfortunately, competition developing between Arizona,
New Mexico, and Florida, where the Federal Government will establish a
solar energy research center. I don't know what the decision is going to be on
what State gets that facility, but I am only using it as an example to point out
that we mean business in this area.
1158
