August 19
[496]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
natural resource so we can have more productivity, more jobs, and a better
country.
But as I said, the Congress has done nothing, even though common sense says
it must be done and public opinions recently show a growing popular support
for deregulation. Further delay is intolerable. Even if the Congress should act
this session, it will still be one or more winters before we could feel the beneficial
results of that action.
I am delighted to be here. I just had a wonderful experience over in Pekin—
the dedication of the Everett Dirksen Research Center. I am delighted to hear
from all of you, to urge each of you to make your voice heard for the kind of
free and prosperous America we all want and believe in.
Freedom, in my judgment, is more than a word. It is a way of life, a vital,
living thing. And each generation must strengthen and renew it or it will surely
perish, as we have seen all too often elsewhere in the world.
The time is now for our generation to keep this idea alive. We must make sure
that our first 200 years as a free people, glorious as they have been, will only be
the beginning of the American success story. Together, let us prove to the entire
world that the American dream is best realized when we are wide awake.
Thank you very much, and let's go to the questions.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I am Bill Wombacher, a Peoria lawyer interested
in the energy field and chairman of the Peoria Area Chamber of Commerce. I
would like to ask you what priorities, if any, has the White House set in resolving
the seemingly irreconcilable difference in the goals of the Federal Energy
Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I could take quite a bit of time answering that, but what we
have tried to do is to get Russ Train and Frank Zarb to sit down and work
together to make some reason and rationale out of the sometimes conflicting
interests of a great need for additional energy and still the great desire to protect
our environment.
I recall very vividly some discussions we had in December about what the
auto emission standards should be. And we worked it out, and I want to com-
pliment both Frank and Russ for doing it. Of course, we subsequently had a
report that put a different light on the situation. But what I am trying to illustrate
is that we have people in this Administration who have positions of responsibility,
1191
