[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
you believe that the Federal Government can provide greater stability of fund-
ing and programs for higher education so that we can all plan more adequately
for the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with any fluctuations from the budget point
of view. It may vary or fluctuate at the institutional level, but if I recall ac-
curately, there has been no variation of any significance in the total amount
that is made available by the Federal Government to institutions of higher
learning. And speaking of the student loans, student grants, all of those pro-
grams, I know that amount has been going upward at a rather steady rate, and
of course, the educational benefits that go under the GI bill have likewise been
increasing at a substantial rate.
I am not familiar with any dip in the funding for institutions of higher learn-
ing, but if there are, we will look at it. In my recollection, it was a pretty straight
progression.
Q. I think I was referring more, Mr. President, to the fluctuation of programs,
the starting up and dropping of various programs.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what we would rather do, and I think it runs through
the philosophy, is to emphasize the programs for the student of one kind or
another and give the student the money and let him make the choice as to the
institution that he intends to attend.
We will look into it, but I am not familiar with any dips and valleys, or
peaks and valleys. I agree there ought to be a certain stability in many of the
programs, particularly those affecting the students. It has been a progression
upward rather than any decrease.
EMPLOYMENT TRAINING
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am Richard Wilkes, AFL-CIO Appalachian Coun-
cil. Understanding your concern for the unemployed throughout our country
and the job situation and job market today and the Comprehensive Employment
Training Act and the distribution of these moneys to the State and local gov-
ernments for distribution for training and placement purposes, the Manpower
Administration has urged national manpower training sponsors and local
community organizations who formerly sponsored training programs and
placement efforts to look to see that Title I prime sponsors at State and local
levels for continued financing. However, widespread surveys indicate little hope
that these organizations will receive any help. My question: Mr. President, in
light of this, do you propose to continue the funding of these programs which
have demonstrated effectiveness in the field of job training and placement?
1622
