August 30
[512]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
10 million tons. There are rumors to the effect that they want to buy additional
amounts.
I have indicated that we will make no more sales until we get the September
crop report. All the indications are that we will have a record crop in wheat,
in corn, in feed grains, including soybeans.
Now, if we get a record crop and if we can work out some fair and equitable
arrangement, I think it is in the best interest of the farmer, the consumer, our
relations on a worldwide basis, and best for the country, if we do make some
additional sales to the Soviet Union.
Q. Mr. President, I have never seen a President end so neatly. You finished
up the question, and we don't have to cut you off. It's really delightful.
Thank you. The time went awfully fast.
The President. It did, and I enjoyed it. I thank all of you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 6 p.m. in the America's Cup Room at the Sheraton-Islander Inn. It was taped
for broadcast at 7:30 p.m. the same evening.
512
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner in Newport.
August 30, 1975
Thank you very, very much, John. Buddy Cianci, Jim Taft, Jim Field, Jim
DiPrete, Bill Middendorf, and of course, our wonderful host and hostess, John
and Eileen Slocum, and all that worked:
Let me say without any hesitation or reservation, one, it has been a long day,
but the culmination of a meeting like this makes it just like it was beginning
all over again. Thank you very much.
As either Jim or Buddy or Jim Taft said, it has been my privilege to be in
Rhode Island on a number of occasions over a period of years. I was happy and
proud to come here when your fortunes were low to help in a municipal elec-
tion, in a State election, or in an occasion such as this.
I've detected from time to time that all of you in Rhode Island were a little
down in the dumps. You felt that the odds were much too great for any
progress. But I have a distinct feeling tonight that you are on the way up and
that you are going to make Rhode Island a good Republican State in 1976.
You've got good candidates. You've got excellent examples of people that
can run either Providence or Cranston or, I am sure, other communities in the
State of Rhode Island.
1269
