September 16
[565]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT'S SAFETY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I believe when you were talking the other day about
security out in Sacramento and when you were talking about going out and
meeting crowds, I believe one reason that you have given for that is that you
want to go out and get the ideas of the American people. I wonder in talking
and going into crowds and working the crowds, as we call it, and shaking
hands, you don't really exchange ideas with people, and that seems to be one of
the most dangerous parts of these trips of yours.
THE PRESIDENT. You'd be very much amazed at how often people in the
course of shaking hands or greeting them, they will make specific recommenda-
tions or comments. It is rather amazing and very encouraging that they will do
precisely as you indicate they might not do. And it is very helpful in that regard.
PRESIDENT SADAT OF EGYPT
[11.] Q. Mr. President, was President Sadat aware before he initialed this
agreement, signed the agreement, that the U.S. would be discussing with Israel
the missiles and the other shopping list of things that you have mentioned, in
specifics?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they were familiar with the fact we anticipated a
commitment to Israel for sizable military hardware. I can't indicate to you
whether they knew the precise weapons or not, but they knew, of course, that
we were going to make a substantial commitment in weapons to Israel.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[12.] Q. Mr. President, in recent weeks you have been saying some especially
nice things about Vice President Rockefeller. You said you don't dump a good
teammate, and you have endorsed his performance as Vice President, but yet
you have always backed away from giving a flat endorsement of him as your
running mate in 1976. Why won't you do that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that is the tradition at this early stage of a
Presidential convention and Presidential race. There is no need of my reiterating
the many nice things I have said about him, because he knows how I feel
about him.
Everybody, I think, who has read or heard knows precisely how I feel about
the fine job he has done. And he and I are in no disagreement on the comments
I have made or the attitude that I have taken. So, I think the record should
just stand where it is.
1441
