[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, some of your critics say that you have not been suffi-
ciently humanitarian in your approach to the Presidency, to the poor, the needy,
the oppressed, and so on. What is your response to that particular talk?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the best way to describe that, Bud [Godfrey Sperling,
Jr., Christian Science Monitor], is to take an analogy. I have been criticized for
vetoing 40-some bills, some of them, as I indicated earlier, had excellent titles
and some had good substance, but were too expensive.
Let me use this analogy. If the various mayors of New York City over the
last 10 years had managed that city better, had not been as generous in the
handling of some of the fiscal problems, wage settlements, pension programs,
the city would be a lot better off today. But if those various mayors had vetoed
this and been firmer in other areas, those mayors would have been accused of
being lacking in compassion. But the city of New York would have been a lot
better off in 1975.
I think the decisions that I have made have been hard, that on the surface
appear at this time to be lacking in compassion, those decisions, in the long
run, are going to be recognized as right. So, it is a question of understanding
at the moment that you have to take the long view, not the short view, in order
to really indicate your compassion. And that is what I have tried to do.
Q. Are you really saying, Mr. President, that it is very difficult for a man who
is at least largely viewed as a conservative to be also perceived to be human-
itarian?
THE PRESIDENT. In the short run. In the long haul, I think those decisions will
be perceived as compassionate. But the impression that comes out immediately
could very easily and, in many cases, can be described as lacking in compassion.
But I will guarantee you a lot of people in New York City wish there had
been stronger leadership in that city, because they wouldn't be in the problem
they found themselves in 1975 if there had been that kind of leadership.
DÉTENE
[5.] Q. Mr. President in 1972, we and the Russians signed a pledge in
Moscow-
THE PRESIDENT. What year was that?
Q. In 1972, we signed a pledge with the Russians, both sides agreeing not to
raise tensions anywhere in the world-détente. The Russians say that détente
does not mean that the status quo around the world stays the same. We know
2004
