August 19
[494]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
extra thousand miles for the party. We have the principles, we have the programs
and the people to do it.
And what's more, we have the year to do it—1976. Let's make that a year to
remember, to be remembered by all Republicans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:53 a.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Marriott Hotel. In his open-
494
ing remarks, he referred to Carolyn Ring, Minne-
sota Republican Party chairwoman.
Remarks at a Republican Party Luncheon in Minneapolis.
August 19, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Al. Bill Frenzel, Tom Hagedorn, George Pills-
bury, and the distinguished leaders in the Republican finance organization,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It has been a wonderful about 18 hours in Minnesota. We were warmly wel-
comed at the airport, had a wonderful meeting this morning with the news
media people in radio, television, and newspapers, had a grand and wonderful
reception at the American Legion convention, then, of course, the two meetings
with the party people.
I have always had a great affection and fondness for Minnesota, but the time
spent here on this occasion just magnifies my feeling and my sentiments toward
those from "Gopherville." [Laughter]
Speaking of the Gophers,¹ one of the great experiences I have in traveling
around the country is running into old friends.
It is hard to believe, but back in 1932 and '33 and '34 I had the opportunity
at the University of Michigan of competing against Bernie Beerman's tough
Minnesota football team. One of those that I competed against in those years
was Pug Lund, and I was delighted and honored to see Pug here on this
occasion.
Pug and I not only played against one another but we were fortunate, sub-
sequently, to play together on the Shrine East-West team and also in the Chicago
All-Stars. So, we developed a friendship opposite one another and with one
another, and Pug, it is just nice to see you, and I thank you for coming.
It was also great to see an old friend and a dear colleague of a good many
years, Ancher Nelsen, who is a bulwark of strength and integrity and good
1 Nickname of the University of Minnesota football team.
1181
