[647]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
You know, it is always a great enjoyment coming back to California, par-
ticularly when it is so close to October 31-[laughter]—a very special time when
we observe the mysterious and the supernatural, when people tell strange tales
about big, empty houses where rooms lay ghostly silent, where lights are never
seen, where mortals never tread. In most places, it is called Halloween; in Cali-
fornia, it is called the Governor's Mansion. [Laughter]
I deeply appreciate your kindness in tendering this "Salute to the President"
dinner, but I would prefer to designate—and I say this most sincerely—this
evening as a salute to all the men and women of the Republican Party of Cali-
fornia and throughout the Nation who are working to prove that the elephant
has not forgotten how to win elections or provide good government.
Ladies and gentlemen, our Republican elephant will neither be stampeded
nor exterminated. We are full of energy. We are full of fight. We will prove
the rumors of our political extinction have been greatly exaggerated and cer-
tainly have no foundation in this great State of California.
California and the Republican Party started going together with: Free Soil,
Free Speech, John C. Frémont-in your great State of California. Unfortunately,
in 1856, California had only four electoral votes, and Frémont didn't get them.
But let me say this with emphasis and reiteration, if I might: I can assure you,
as Republicans we are going to get a lot better deal in California and the rest
of the Nation in 1976 than we did in 1856. But even more significantly and far
more importantly, we will do much, much better than we did in 1974, here
as well as elsewhere in this great Republic.
The reason I am confident—and I can say this from traveling the length and
the breadth of this country-is the hard spade work that you are doing right
here in California that is being repeated throughout the country. You are rescu-
ing votes we would otherwise lose the votes of over 1 million registered
Republicans who did not go to the polls last November.
You can be proud—and I say this as a former precinct worker myself—of the
dynamic job being done by Walt Smith and Alice Ogle. They and many other
California stalwarts have reregistered nearly 400,000 voters in this State alone.
Your voter registration drive is giving new life to the precincts, and as I said
a moment ago, that is where I started, and I am proud of that heritage and that
experience.
Your 1975 fundraising, including the great work of the Golden Circle Club,
is having its best year yet. You are building the Republican Party on the local
level, where it really counts. And every elected official in this hall this evening
knows that to be true. There is no substitute for it.
1740
