September 12
[550]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
opportunity to see others in New Hampshire today are independence, dedicated,
with great conviction.
You have the kind of characteristics which I think are reflected in Louis
Wyman. If you want an independent guy, a man of dedication with deep
convictions, I urge you to make that extra step to get to the polls on Tuesday.
One final word: All of you have close friends who you would stand up for,
who you would urge to be appointed or elected. Louis Wyman is that kind of
a friend of mine. I am here spending this wonderful day because I want to go
the last mile supporting a person who I respected as a legislator, who I admire
as a person, who I know will do the job best for the State of New Hampshire,
and I know will help me the most as we face the critical, crucial problems of
energy, the economy, jobs, inflation, and all the other things.
Louis, I want to urge you to make the maximum effort, and I want your
literal thousands of friends here in New Hampshire to join in supporting me
in supporting you. Good luck.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:15 p.m. in the town square.
550
Remarks on Greeting Service Award Recipients in the Foster
Grandparent Program. September 12, 1975
A VERY popular song tells us what the world needs is love, sweet love. Off-
hand, I can't think of any other Federal program—and we have quite a few of
them, as you all know-that meets this any better than the Foster Grand-
parents program. And I congratulate all of you for being a very vital part of it.
It is one program that I am familiar with that everybody is for and, as far as
I know, no one is against. Again, I think that is a rarity, and I congratulate all
of you for being a very vital part of it.
It is my understanding that this month is an anniversary month of the Foster
Grandparents program. In its first year, 21 projects were started. By 1966, some
33 projects were operating in 27 States with 782 people totally dedicated, like
yourselves, caring for their grandchildren.
Today, I am proud to say that the records indicate that some 13,600 people are
actively participating. And I join with all of the others in our society who feel
this has been a superb record.
You are a family, you are a friend, and more importantly, a champion for the
1371
