[581]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
relates to the business in which I am personally engaged, which is foreign trade
and agricultural commodities. There has been much discussion recently about
the trade embargo on agricultural commodities. My question is, why should
not our agricultural producers have free access to the world market for their
production, the same as other producers of nonstrategic materials? And then
a second part to the question is, how do you construe the Congressional attitude
on this issue?
THE PRESIDENT. I made a fairly complete speech out in Oklahoma—I guess
it was Friday-[laughter]—on this precise subject. And let me summarize it
for you. I believe that we should sell our agricultural abundance, not only
domestically but internationally, in the free marketplace at fair prices for the
farmer. The best way to ensure the utilization of full production for our farmers
is to find assured markets.
We have a 3-year agreement which was just renewed with Japan for an
agricultural purchase program by Japan. We have other such relationships
with other foreign countries.
The big problem is that of the Soviet Union. If you go back to 1972–73, you
will find that the Soviet Union bought corn, wheat, et cetera, at a relatively low
level. And then they went up to the 1972-73 figure of roughly 13 billion metric
tons, and then they went down in 73-74 to a figure-if I recall accurately-of
around 3 million metric tons. Then the next year they went up to another
figure. This year they have already bought 2.3 million metric tons of grain from
the United States, and they want to buy some more.
Now, these wide fluctuations are not healthy for the American agriculture.
They are not healthy for the farmer, because he ought to have some assurance,
practical assurance, that what he produces is going to be purchased. So, we are
in the process now with a temporary suspension of sales to the Soviet Union—
temporary, assuming we reach an agreement—to be based on the signing of a
long-term agreement-5 years perhaps—with an assured, guaranteed, man-
datory purchase by them with potentially an option to buy more. If we work
this agreement out, I think you will find a far healthier relationship between
our farmers and their markets, a far better relationship between our country
and the Soviet Union, and an overall advancement of a better world.
This, I think, is the kind of utilization of our great abundance that we can
say with pride is part of an affirmative, constructive relationship with not only
one country but many others, to the benefit of the farmer and a healthier rela-
tionship the farmer has with the rest of us Americans.
So, I hope within the next week perhaps or more, hopefully the sooner the
1504
