October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Moore, Senator Brock, Senator Baker, Congressman Quillen, Congressman
Duncan, Mayor Testerman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
That concludes my speech. Thank you and good night. [Laughter]
I know you have had an interesting and stimulating program. I know
from the program that the experts on all of these subjects have spoken to you
about what we are seeking to do and attempting to achieve, and they, in turn,
have listened and, I am sure, gathered information and suggestions from all of
you.
I prefer to concentrate in the area of questions and answers, but if I could take
just a minute or two, I would like to emphasize two very serious problems that
we face.
ECONOMIC AND ENERGY PROGRAMS
[1.] I would like to summarize the proposal that I submitted to the Ameri-
can people last night and which is being submitted to the Congress today by the
Secretary of the Treasury; namely, a two-part package that must go together.
Number one, a restraint on the growth of Federal spending, and number two,
a substantial tax reduction, three-quarters of which goes to individual taxpayers
and 25 percent will go to the business community.
Number one, at the end of this fiscal year, the spending for the 12-month
period will be roughly $370 billion. If no new program is enacted by the Con-
gress and no changes are made in existing law, in the next 12 months there will
be a $50 billion growth in Federal spending.
And if you look at the curve for the last 14 years, and if we focus specifically
on the growth from 1970 on, you will find that there has been a tremendous
acceleration in Federal spending that this country cannot tolerate and we must
change.
Number two, it is my belief that the American people want a fair, sizable,
substantial tax reduction, and the net result is that we are proposing in the tax
reduction field a $28 billion tax reduction to coincide as a part of a package
with a $28 billion reduction in projected growth of Federal spending.
It can be done, and I specifically disagree with those who say that the Con-
gress of the United States can't do it. I think they can. It is mandatory if we
are going to preserve the kind of society that we want, that the American people
want.
Let me summarize very quickly the tax package: an increase in the personal
exemption from $750 to $1,000, an increase at a flat figure for a single taxpayer of
the standard deduction of $1,800, a $2,500 flat standard deduction for a family,
1619
