December 20
[739]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I look at that, I am convinced that we are in good shape in most States and we
are working to improve in those where we are not.
Q. But, Mr. President-excuse me.
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me just a minute.
Now, I think both Bo Callaway and I agree that there should be no personal
attacks on Mr. Reagan. And I understand he feels the same way about any
campaign on his behalf. The thing that I think we are going to emphasize—
myself particularly and, I hope, Bo and the others-is my record, which is one
that is examined on a day-to-day basis by literally millions and millions of
people. And I will stand on that record, and Bo is going to accentuate, as I and
others will, the success of this record. If the public as a whole wants to examine
not only my record but the Governor's record, that of course is the option that
they have.
ANGOLA
[7.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday you issued a statement about your senti-
ments on what the Senate has done on Angola.
THE PRESIDENT. I said it fairly strongly.
Q. You sure did. After you did it, Dr. Kissinger said something a little more—
even stronger over at the State Department around 5 o'clock. He said the respon-
sibility for the conduct of foreign policy is not altered or affected simply because
Congress has taken an action. I don't know quite how to read that, but I can
read that once you spend the money that is in the pipeline there isn't any more.
What is the United States policy toward Angola going to be, given the fact that
you are going to run out of money in about 2 months?
THE PRESIDENT. Our fundamental purpose in Angola was to make sure that
the people of Angola decide their own fate, establish their own government,
and proceed as an independent nation. We think it is fundamentally very un-
wise, very harmful for any foreign power, such as the Soviet Union is obviously
doing and as Cuba is doing, to try to dominate any government in that country.
All we want is for the majority of the people in Angola to decide for themselves
what they want.
Now unfortunately, because the Soviet Union has spent literally millions and
millions of dollars and, unfortunately, because Cuba has anywheres from 4,000
to 6,000 combat troops in Angola, we think this is a setback for the people in
Angola. Now, I take this problem very seriously.
Q. Well, what is to be done with your hands tied, so to speak?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Congress, unfortunately, has tied our hands, and
1985
