November 7
[665]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The only problem is we need a little more quantity. [Laughter] So why don't
you multiply the representation that Silvio and Margaret give by giving us a
couple more Representatives in the House of Representatives from the great
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
I am honored and pleased to speak up on behalf of an outstanding State chair-
man and an outstanding young lady who has done a superb job, Nancy Sinnott
and John Sears. I know a little bit about those people and the job they do, and
they are first-class. And I hope you let them stay in there and fight for us in 1976.
And then we have had some great chairmen, Mrs. Cutler and Mrs. Logan.
I am grateful for what they have done, and I appreciate all of you being here.
This is great to come to Massachusetts and find this kind of a warm welcome
and a sizable crowd. But we should thank Mrs. Logan and Mrs. Cutler for their
part in it, too. Thank you very, very much.
Now can I say a word or two to get the record straight. A great Democratic
Governor of New York once said, "Let's look at the record."
I am not going to abandon the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1976,
and I want that very clearly understood. And let me give you some evidence
of that. And I want you way in the back to listen. The best evidence of the fact
that I want Massachusetts in and not out is the fact that in the Cabinet of 12
we have 4 from Massachusetts. We have Henry Kissinger, John Dunlop, Pat
Moynihan, and Elliot Richardon-very soon. That is not bad representation.
And number two, I have been in the great Commonwealth of Massachusetts
twice in about the last 4 or 5 months. I love it. I like the people, and I am going
to come back in the spring of 1976 to win the primary.
Now, let me speak a little bit, if I might, about 1976. I know a fellow that
is going to enter New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Florida, and every other
primary. And I know he is going to win. He is going to stick it out, and he is
going to win, if we have any competition, right up to the end in August of
1976. And don't forget it.
And then, I know a fellow that is going to win in 1976-in November.
[Laughter] And I happen to think with the kind of leadership you have in Ed,
Silvio, and Margaret and John and Nancy and all of you out there, and millions
like
you all throughout the Commonwealth, we are going to win in Massachu-
setts in 1976.
You know, I am delighted, I am really delighted to be in Massachusetts again
tonight, the home of the world champion Boston Red Sox. That is right—the
world champion Boston Red Sox. Like any good Republican and Boston Red
Sox fan, we are thinking of 1976. [Laughter]
1819
