September 22
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
my energy and economic advisers to take all steps required, in the shortest pos-
sible time, to make this vision a reality. I am also counting on you, the con-
struction workers who will do the job. We need your help, along with the help
of literally millions of others throughout our Nation. You have the skills, you
have the courage, you have the dedication which has enabled America to de-
fend itself in times of war and develop in times of peace.
I am confident of your ability and that of all Americans—labor and man-
agement, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, employed and unem-
ployed, rich, poor, and struggling, old and young-to unite behind this bold
new program that I have outlined.
As America's population grows and our economy expands, we must create 11
million more jobs by 1980. This is a big order. It cannot be filled by government
alone or by industry alone or by unions or by politicians acting on their own.
But the problem can and will be solved if we all work together, just as you
in this hall today are united in building America.
As Bob Georgine said, the door to the White House will remain open, as
it has been since I have been President, to those who champion the cause of
America's working people. Nor will I ever close my heart to the millions of
Americans who are now unable to find work.
I will not rest as long as any American who wants to work can't find work.
Too many people remain without jobs. I have heard references to so-called
acceptable rates of unemployment. I do not recognize the acceptability of any
level of unemployment as long as people cannot find a job. I am determined
to help create new jobs on a sound economic basis-good jobs, real jobs, and
not make-work jobs at $2 an hour.
When statistics are issued on the loss of jobs, there are some losses which are
not published. I refer to the loss of hope among the young people seeking their
first real job, the loss of self-esteem among heads of households who are laid
off, the loss of security and standard of living that people work for years to
achieve, and most important, the loss of faith in America's future.
These are tragic losses. They are losses that the United States of America
cannot and will not permit.
The need for skilled construction workers to build new energy installations
and new operators to run them will be enormous. By planning and working
now, we can ensure that development is orderly and that progress is continuous.
As we enter our third century, Americans can look back with great pride
upon our achievements in providing safe, healthful, stable, and productive
1497
