December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
personnel. It just is such a different view from our own. I don't see how, under
those circumstances, we can feel that we can work with them in the future in
this hemisphere or elsewhere.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, it is quite likely that your proposals to Congress for
changes in the CIA will differ quite a bit with what some Members of Congress
are proposing. Could you give us a glimpse of what you are thinking about now
for any reconstituting of the CIA? How early in the Congressional session will
you be sending those to Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not personally seen any of the specific recommenda-
tions that might be coming from either the Church committee or the Pike com-
mittee. I have a sizable book on the back of my desk there, of recommendations,
not only from the Rockefeller Commission but from the Murphy Commission,¹
from the various departments in the Government.
Within the next week, I will make my decisions based on these recom-
mendations. And early in the session, I will submit a comprehensive program to
strengthen the intelligence community in our Government, at the same time
insisting that the individual rights of citizens within this country will be ade-
quately protected.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[10.] Q. Mr. President, you were talking about your success in dealing with
the economy. The unemployment rate has come down slowly, but sticking to
about 8½ percent. At the same time, you were talking, here in terms of your
budget for next year, of one that puts a lid on additional domestic spending.
How does putting a lid on that, how much does that threaten the improvement
you see in unemployment? And is there some point, say if unemployment were
still around 7¾ percent in June, would you then feel that we would need more
stimulus and more spending of one sort or another?
The President. I think the 395 spending figure for the budget of 1977 is a
constructive effort in continuing the improvement in our economy, not an
undercutting of the progress that we are making. I say that because incorporated
with the 395 ceiling is a $28 billion tax reduction, $10 billion more than Con-
gress passed, if you annualize the tax reduction for the next 6 months in 1976.
So, the 395 will give confidence, in my judgment, to the American people that
we are getting a handle on the growth in Federal spending, and if you incor-
porate it with the tax reduction proposal, I think the stimulant to the economy
1 The Commission on the Organization of the Government for the Conduct of Foreign Policy, chaired by
former Ambassador Robert Murphy.
2007
