August 3
[465]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The two Presidents noted with satisfaction that bilateral relations in the
political, economic, technical-scientific, cultural and other fields have developed
and diversified in recent years in the spirit of the principles inscribed in the
Joint Declaration signed at Washington on December 5, 1973.
Reaffirming the adherence of their countries to the principles in the Joint
Declaration, the two Presidents resolved to continue to develop relations be-
tween the two states on the basis of these principles, in order to promote peace,
international cooperation and the traditional friendship between the Romanian
and American peoples.
The two Presidents gave a positive assessment to the evolution of economic
links between the two countries. They resolved to continue to act to expand
economic, industrial and technical-scientific cooperation and trade based on the
principles and provisions of the Joint Declaration on Economic, Industrial, and
Technological Cooperation between Romania and the United States adopted at
Washington on December 5, 1973.
They noted also the importance of actions taken in recent years to encourage
and intensify bilateral commerce, among these being the establishment and
activity of the Romanian-American Joint Economic Commission and the
Romanian-U.S. Economic Council, as well as joint production and commercial
ventures.
The two Presidents hailed with deep satisfaction the conclusion of the Trade
Agreement between the Socialist Republic of Romania and the United States of
America, which represents a major contribution to the expansion of economic
relations between the two countries. The two sides expressed the conviction that
the entry into force of the Trade Agreement on August 3, 1975, by exchange of
notices of acceptance during the visit, will help Romanian-American trade to
grow and diversify, thereby influencing favorably the entire range of relations
between the two states.
The two Presidents, taking note of the positive evolution of cooperative ties
between economic organizations of the two countries, resolved to encourage
wider links through joint activities, including the establishment of joint produc-
tion and commercial ventures. To this end, the Romanian-American Joint
Economic Commission, whose next session is scheduled soon in Washington,
will examine appropriate ways and measures. The two Presidents decided that
appropriate departments will begin, as soon as possible, the negotiation of a long-
term accord on economic, industrial and technical collaboration, as well as an
agricultural agreement. Possibilities for a bilateral maritime agreement will also
be discussed.
1097
