October 1
[600]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
600
Interview With Reporters in Omaha.
October 1, 1975
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SALES
REPORTER. [1.] Mr. President, I have been talking with some grain farmers
who are very upset because your Administration has urged full production, your
Secretary of Agriculture talks about a free market, and yet, when push comes
to shove, they feel that their sales are being blocked by the grain embargo.
THE PRESIDENT. We have to look at that problem in the long range and still
be very cognizant of the short-term difficulties. What we want are stable, sub-
stantial markets abroad. We have one with Japan. We are in the process of
negotiating one with Poland. We have others that are in being with European
countries.
But the big potential market on a long-range basis for substantial annual sales
is with the Soviet Union, and we are very close. I believe that we will end up
with at least a 5-year program that will mean firm, sizable sales—5 million tons
or more per year—with a possibility of more sales, and all at free market prices
in the marketplace in the United States.
Now, the problem in the past has been in the last 5 years. One year we sold
to the Soviet Union 74 million bushels of grain. Another year we sold 550 mil-
lion bushels. This year, so far, we have sold 320 million bushels.
Well, these wide fluctuations, peaks and valleys, they aren't good for the
farmer; they aren't good for the country. So, we are trying to stabilize a huge
market on a firm basis over a period of time. And if my good farmer friends
will just be a little patient, I think we will do something they will be very
happy with.
TAX REDUCTION
[2.] Q. Mr. President, John Dunlop says that he now favors extending the
tax cut. What will you recommend, and are you prepared to at this time?
THE PRESIDENT. We are in the process right now of finalizing my recommen-
dation in that area. I cannot on this program tell you what the decision is, but
we are trying to coordinate a potential tax reduction program with a rigid
restriction on expenditures.
I think this combination, if we can come up with the right formula, will
give our taxpayers a greater opportunity to spend their own money and will
1553
