[581]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
nation to another, and the freedom of information, the greater freedom of
access between nations, and a multitude of things that were involved.
The language is all right, and as I said in Helsinki, the language we approve
of. What has to be certain is that the spirit coincides with the words, and there
is to be a meeting in 2 years where there will be a review of all of the participants
to see whether the language which was signed in Helsinki is carried out in the
24 months.
And the test is performance. I am optimistic, and I believe that if we keep
pressure on that, we can say that Helsinki was a big plus. If the spirit doesn't
exist, the words mean very little. But I am optimistic that world pressure will
force all nations that participated to have the spirit coincide with the language.
Now, the status of détente. Détente was not initiated as a solution to every
problem in the world or every problem bilaterally between the United States
and the Soviet Union, but it has been extremely helpful in a number of instances
as a line of communication, as a means of relaxing tensions, and as a vehicle for
the solution of problems between the Soviet Union and the United States.
I believe that SALT I was a significant step forward. I believe very strongly
that the agreement at Vladivostok, where Mr. Brezhnev and myself agreed
for a cap of 2,400 on launchers in strategic vehicles and a 1,320 limitation on
MIRVing―SALT II is now moving along at the technical stage, and there
will have to be some very important decisions made between now and when
the final agreement is achieved, if it is achieved, and I hope it will.
I think détente has been successful. It hasn't solved every problem, but we are
a lot better off, in my honest judgment, than to go back to the old days of the
cold war where we talked harshly to each other, we condemned each other, we
threatened one another. I don't think the United States and the Soviet Union
ought to go back to the cold war circumstances that prevailed. But I reiterate,
we can't expect every problem that comes up to be solved by it.
All we can do is work at it. And I can pledge to you and to others we will do
our utmost to make sure that détente is mutually beneficial to each country
at no sacrifice of national security in either case and of tremendous, immense
benefit to the world as a whole. We will do the very best we can.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Bill Wainwright. I am a member of the
World Affairs Council and also a registered Republican in the John Baldwin
mode from Martinez, California. I have a question about the House select
committee's investigation of the Central Intelligence Agency and their review
1506
