September 13
[559]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
industry, agriculture, and free trade unions, the incentives of the free enterprise
system, and the sharing of gains at both home and abroad.
Our third century begins in less than a year. Let this new era be one of
fulfillment for the individual. I see a century devoted to the quality of personal
and family and community life. I see people solving problems rather than
wallowing in despair. I see our people making their own decisions rather than
abdicating their future to the massive big brother governmental structures or
turning their lives to the 1984 nightmare script of what our third century
could be.
It is my fervent conviction that a government big enough to give you every-
thing you want is a government big enough to take from you everything you
have.
I ask you to share my vision of a third American century in which the
individual, not the government, makes personal choices. I am confident that
the American spirit that brought us to our 200th birthday has produced men
and women who are determined to prevail over the agencies and bureaus of
government that would reduce human beings to computerized abstractions.
I see American individualism as the sentinel of 1976 standing watch over
the future. Never forget that in America our sovereign is the citizen. The govern-
ment exists to serve the people. Government must never become an unresponsive
monstrosity that masters everyone and is responsive to no one.
My vision of America's third century is a time of achievement rather than
apathy, fostering human growth and spiritual and moral greatness.
Two centuries of struggle won for America a great measure of political and
economic independence, and I am proud to be President of a free government
that checks and balances its own excesses. I am proud of a free economic system
which corrects its own errors, controlled by the marketplace of free and enlight-
ened consumers.
I am especially proud to be a member of a political party that cherishes the
individual and believes in government that does for the individual only that
which he or she cannot achieve alone. That is what freedom is all about.
Let me add at this point, if I might, a matter of deep concern to me, a matter
that I am positive is of deep concern to all those here and 214 million Americans.
We have tried hard, we have written laws, we have appropriated money to
accomplish quality education for the young in America. In 1954 the courts of
this country decided that one way, in their estimation, to achieve that was
court-ordered forced busing. Now, regardless of how we individually may feel,
the law of the land must be upheld.
1419
