[648]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
and punitive, and in reality it will cost the Nation more to default in New York
rather than to prevent it. How do you respond to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see how it possibly can cost more. The city of New
York and the State of New York have ample resources. They can raise taxes.
They can cut down expenditures. They can modify spending programs. If they
do those corrective actions, which they failed to do for the last few years, there
is no loss at all.
I think it is a warning to the public and every city in the whole United
States—make doggone sure you have mayors and aldermen and councilmen
who are going to manage your city properly.
Fortunately, that has been the case. And if it continues, there won't be any
cost at all. In fact, it will be better. In the meantime, New York City has an
opportunity to do something correctively, and it won't have any problems either.
MR. KLEIN. Mr. President, Mr. Ken Jones of KTTV-TV, Channel 11, Los
Angeles.
Q. Mr. President, who specifically is to blame for New York's problems? Is
it the former administration of Mayor John Lindsay, and did it carry to the state-
house and Nelson Rockefeller-now the Vice President-or is it the current
administration of Abraham Beame?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't like to point a finger, Ken, at any one individual.
I think the record is very clear that the city of New York in the last 10 or 12
years has had an escalating budget. Their expenditures have risen at the rate
of about 14 percent per annum, their income at the rate of about 4 to 5 percent
per annum.
And the net result is they have had an escalating obligation, a debt they had
to carry, about $12 billion. The record shows who was in charge of the city, and
as Al Smith used to say, "Let's look at the record," and we will see what the
public reaction is.
Q. And your investigation—did it carry to the statehouse under Governor
Rockefeller?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in this particular case, the city of New York itself,
there is no history of the State being involved. In the recent months, of course,
the State has gotten involved by what they call the "Big Mac." 2 But the primary
responsibility rests with the locally elected officials over a period of 10 or 12
years in the city of New York.
Q. One other question. Governor Carey said yesterday that you have said
2 The Municipal Assistance Corporation was created by the State of New York and was empowered to
issue bonds. Funds from the bond sales were intended for the assistance of New York City.
1750
