[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
income people are the ones who will be the biggest beneficiary and get a larger
tax reduction, as they should, under my tax proposal.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[23.] Q. Bill Black, WJR News. Mr. President, despite recent improvements
in the economy, one of four in the Detroit area are still out of work, some for
more than 2 years. One, what would you say to those who have been out of work
for more than 2 years, and two, how much impact will unemployment and the
economy have on the next election?
THE PRESIDENT. We are making headway in a good many areas in trying to
eliminate unemployment. Even though the unemployment statistic has not gone
down-except it went from 9.1 down to 8.3—the encouraging thing is that in the
last 6 months we have had 1,600,000 more people added to the employment rolls,
and the trend is going up. There are longer hours being worked. The economy
is out of the recession and starting toward a better time, and this is going to have
an impact in Detroit in the automobile industry.
The automobile industry has responded very well to the needs in the energy
program. And let me tell you how it is going to help employment. The automo-
bile industry in the last 2 years has increased gasoline efficiency by 27 percent-14
percent this year over last year. I think the automobile industry, by responding
to the need of people, is going to have an excellent year, and that will have a very
good impact here in Detroit and in other automotive centers like Flint and
Lansing, et cetera.
Now, we believe that there will be a continuing downtrend in unemployment
rate between now and the end of calendar year 1976. It won't be as low as we
want it, but it will be going down, and furthermore, we will be making con-
tinuous improvement in the rate of inflation. I believe, with those trends—a
lesser rate of inflation, a downward trend in the unemployment statistic―it
will be a good environment politically for the right candidates.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
[24.] Q. Would you consider yourself a cinch next year?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I sure don't. I never enter a ball game thinking I am
going to win, but I sure work at it as though I am going to lose. And I think we
do, with the programs we have, our prospects aren't bad.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I will take one more. I am being prompted to-
1672
