October 30
[652]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
who share our goals enough to work through the Republican Party to achieve
them.
We must build, step by step, a party that works year round and not just at elec-
tion time. Most important, we must emphasize our differences with Democrats
rather than with each other. We must concentrate on winning elections instead
of arguments.
As we look toward 1976—and what a year to have before us—the apathy and
the cynicism which have overtaken some Americans must be overcome by offer-
ing candidates of outstanding ability and rock-hard integrity.
We must develop programs that are forward looking and problemsolving,
and we must elect a Congress that will carry them out, and we will.
In Bill Steiger and Bob Kasten you have got quality, but we need a lot more
quantity from Wisconsin. Isn't that right?
I proposed to the 94th Congress-that is the one in session now, or I guess it is
in session―[laughter]—some people say it has been more out of session than in,
but I wouldn't allege that-but I proposed to the 94th Congress a permanent
annual cut in your Federal tax bill of $28 billion and a corresponding cut in the
growth of Federal spending of the same amount.
But all I get, so far, from this Democrat-dominated, “Can't Do Congress" is it
can't be done. I say it can, it will, and it must be done this year. If this Congress
isn't capable of doing the job, let's elect a Republican Congress that can and will.
America's vitality, its prosperity have been sapped by the irresponsible spend-
ing of this Congress, which is controlled 2 to 1 by the Democrats, and a previous
Congress, which has been controlled by Democrats for 38 out of the last 42 years.
I might add, parenthetically, for 33 out of those 38 years, there have been
deficits which have run up the cost of living and run down the value of the
dollars that you earn by the sweat of your brow.
Under the Democratic spenders, the Federal budget for the first time in our
history topped $100 billion in 1962. It doubled to $200 billion 8 years later and
will more than double again to $423 billion in this coming fiscal year unless we
get some action.
Let me emphasize, the $28 billion reduction in taxes which I proposed must be
accompanied by equally substantial cuts in the growth of Federal spending. This
means the spending ceiling must be $395 billion. That is adequate to meet our
needs both at home and abroad, and we must get that ceiling, period. We will
keep a scorecard on those that don't vote for it.
You know that under the laws Democratic Congresses have already written—
they are piled high in statute books-without a single new appropriation or
1773
