[670]
November 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
For just a moment, let's be specific. I have found the American people want
energy independence—so do we, the Republican Party. The American people
want a sound economy-so do we. They want good housing, good food, and
a good future for their families—and so do we. They want the $28 billion tax
cut I proposed to the Congress so they can spend their own money rather than
have the Federal Government spend it for them—and so do we. At the same
time, they want a $28 billion reduction in the growth of Federal spending as a
start toward a balanced budget—and so do we. The American people want
the Government to help them meet their needs without ordering and dictating
and dominating their lives—and so do we.
As I travel, I find this sort of drive that is, I think, coming to the surface. The
people of America, the length and breadth of this land, are learning that a
government big enough to give you everything you want is a government big
enough to take from you everything you have.
These friends of ours—Democrats, Independents, and our Republican asso-
ciates-want an America at peace and actively promoting peace with a strong
intelligence capability to ensure our protection-and so do we. The American
people want a defense second to none—so do we, and we are going to ensure
that.
If we successfully carry this message to the people of West Virginia and the
voters across America for the next 12 months, we can make 1976 a great year
for the Republican Party, but more importantly, for this wonderful country
that we all love so much.
We need the kind of continuing support you are providing by your presence
here tonight. And I thank you for it. The decisions the American people will
make less than 1 year from now will shape the course of this country well into
our third century of independence.
In our first century of independence, our forefathers put together the greatest
kind of government, the finest structure of government in the history of man-
kind, protected more people, gave more responsibility and opportunity to
people—and how fortunate we were those men had the vision and the courage
to do what they did for us.
In the first 100 years of America, this kind of government was put together
firmly and soundly. In our second century of America, we moved forward into
the greatest industrial Nation in the history of mankind. Now, in the third
century, we are moving into a new era and a new opportunity, an opportunity
to give to the individual the kind of freedom that is so needed, so necessary,
1850
