[598]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let us remember just this: As Republicans we have one powerful resource
which our Democratic friends lack. The majority of Americans-Republicans,
Independents, and discerning Democrats—believe in the same basic principles
that we do, and therefore, I think we can go on a tremendous sales campaign
between now and 13 months from now.
And the net result will be success for these kinds of principles. These individ-
uals who cut across the political spectrum want fiscal sanity restored to our
National Government. They want the free enterprise system freed from the
shackles of overregulation. We all know it is overregulated.
This tremendous part of the political spectrum want a strong national de-
fense which they know is the best assurance of peace in the months and years
ahead. And then they want local people to handle local problems, because
those people know the solutions as well as the problems the best.
But almost more important than anything—fiscal sanity, strong national de-
fense, the free enterprise system, local control-literally millions and millions
of Americans want to preserve and want to expand the dignity and the freedom
of the individual that is basic to the progress and the liberty that we so cherish
in America.
You know, the French have a saying that the more things change the more
they are the same. The platform adopted by the Republican National Conven-
tion in 1860, held right here in Chicago, attacked in these words, and I quote:
“the reckless extravagance which pervades every department of the Federal
Government."
It commended at this great convention the private enterprise system, ad-
vocated local control over local affairs, and stressed individual freedom as basic
to the preservation of our republican institutions.
And I stand here tonight proud to advocate these principles on which
Abraham Lincoln campaigned in 1860. And I invite everybody in 1975 and
1976 who believes in them to join us in the Republican Party and to fight for
them in the months ahead.
This is one of the most important off-year political eras in the history of the
Republican Party. This is the year we must organize to elect Republicans at
every level—Federal, State, and local-next year. And I, having gone through
13 political campaigns in my State, know that party organizations will play a
very vital role in Illinois, in Michigan, and 48 other States.
Through such projects as Task Force 1975-1976, which was headed by Bill
Duvall, inspired by Chuck Percy, you are laying the foundation for the victories
of 1976, victories which will mean so much to so many after that historic elec-
1546
