July 27
[442]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
442
Remarks at a Picnic at Kirchgoens, Federal Republic
of Germany. July 27, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Colonel Wagner. Minister of Defense Leber, Gen-
eral Haig, members of the Armed Forces and families:
It is a very great privilege and pleasure for me to be here with you today, but
before I begin I have two questions.
The first question is: Is it true that the tent over there is filled with good old
German beer?
Then the second question is: What are we doing out here? [Laughter]
I asked one soldier if he drank a lot of beer, and he said, "Of course not, sir."
The only trouble is, then he tried to blow the foam off his sauerkraut. [Laughter]
But every one of you is entitled to all the beer, the sauerkraut, and anything else
provided today. After your 2 hard months of intensive field training at Grafen-
woehr, you deserve this picnic.
As your Commander in Chief, I am now issuing orders that tomorrow, Mon-
day, all members of this brigade who participated in the maneuvers will be given
an extra day off.
I am very, very proud to be here with the tankers, infantry, and artillery of
one of the largest and most powerful combat brigades in Europe. And I am also
just as pleased to be here with your wonderful families.
Let me say a very special word of commendation to our German partnership
units. I thank you for the cooperation you are extending to the United States
and our forces. Together you have developed outstanding skills and qualities that
make first-rate fighting men. I am pleased that you are learning from each other,
and I am also very pleased to meet your charming wives.
I deeply appreciate the very high standards of performance and morale of our
NATO forces as represented by the Germans and Americans here today, and I
thank the Federal Republic and the State of Hesse for the warm, warm hos-
pitality extended to me and to all Americans who are stationed here.
There is a very deep satisfaction for me in this meeting here with all of you
today. It is most rewarding to see firsthand this evidence of our two countries
cooperating within NATO and for the common defense. It is you, together with
the other forces of the Alliance, who are making our collective security a reality.
As we pursue peace together, I am aware that not all of the problems in Europe
and the world have been solved. And I am convinced that under present cir-
cumstances, the best guarantee for peace is a very, very strong defense.
1049
