[671]
November 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
the scout laws. They are good for you today, and they will be good for you
tomorrow, and they will be good for you a long time from now.
So, enjoy what you are doing, but make a big effort to do the best today as a
scout. If you do, you will do a better job for your country in the years ahead.
Good luck. God bless you. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:18 p.m. at the
Charleston Civic Center. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Kenneth D. Wells, president emeritus,
Boy Scouts of America.
672
Remarks at the Swearing In of Daniel J. Boorstin as Librarian
of Congress. November 12, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Nedzi. Dr. and Mrs. Boorstin, Mr.
Vice President, Mr. Speaker, distinguished Members of the House and Senate,
members of the Cabinet, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Some years ago, a little Mom and Pop bookstore went bankrupt in Washing-
ton and had to close its doors. The people who work with and people who love
books always seem to retain their humor even in the face of adversity, I remem-
ber the bookstore as being padlocked, emptied of its treasures, but a small sign
was pasted in the window. It said "Words failed us." [Laughter]
Today, we honor a man as well as an institution that words have never
failed. It is particularly appropriate on the eve of the Nation's Bicentennial
for Dr. Boorstin to become the Librarian of Congress.
A noted American historian, educator, and author, Dr. Boorstin won a
Pulitzer Prize in 1973 for his outstanding book, "The Democratic Experience”
or, as it is known at the White House, "The Democratic and Republican
Experience." [Laughter]
It is evident that Dr. Boorstin will bring to this post a love of learning and a
scholar's appreciation of the importance of libraries and of the unique contri-
bution of the Library of Congress to American life.
As a former Member of the Congress, I am fully aware of the valuable serv-
ices that this facility provides to Members of the House and Senate and to the
committees of the Congress. May I express my appreciation to many of you
who have responded to my requests for help and assistance over the 25 years
that I was privileged to serve in the House of Representatives. And we who
were the beneficiaries of that help and assistance can never repay you for your
contribution to our efforts in the Congress.
1852
