September 19
[571]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
571
Remarks at the Oklahoma State Fair in Oklahoma City.
September 19, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Henry. Governor Boren, Senator Bartlett, Con-
gressmen Tom Steed, John Jarman, Ted Risenhoover, Ed Gaylord, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am highly honored and overjoyed to be here with you, and I express, on
behalf of Betty and myself, our deep, deep gratitude for the wonderful welcome
and reception we have received. Thank you very, very much.
As a former college football player, I can't tell you how pleased I am to be
here in Oklahoma again—the home of the number one team. Michigan is num-
ber two, and we are going to try and get ahead. [Laughter]
I like to come to Oklahoma because adventure still lives here, and it was so
beautifully expressed by your fine Governor, Dave Boren. The pioneering spirit
of the founders of Oklahoma-independent and self-reliant-exists as your
mighty plains, cities, and towns. It represents, as Will Rogers used to say about
Oklahomans, the work of the "big, honest majority." I salute you for your
achievements and commend you for your visions of an even brighter and
brighter future.
Today, the ranchers and farmers of Oklahoma and of other parts of the coun-
try have become the most productive in the world. Last year alone, the United
States exported nearly $22 billion in various agricultural products.
Without these exports, our country would have had a huge balance of pay-
ments deficit, our dollar would have been weakened in foreign markets, and
we would have had to pay higher and higher prices for the items we import
from abroad.
In short, the American farmer not only raises crops but raises the overall
standard of living of every American-210 million Americans—and I compli-
ment you for it.
As many of you know, I advocated a policy of full agricultural production last
year. It is not in the long-term interest of the American farmer or consumer to
limit the production of wheat, feed grains, or any other agricultural product.
Our country has now achieved a record wheat crop, and a record corn crop is
expected by the end of the year. It is a record that every American farmer can
be proud of, and we are proud of you.
Far too often the American farmer has been made the scapegoat of many
1453
