October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
act provides for a national center to review Federal legislation and agency op-
erations for their impact, plus or minus, on the ability of this country to be
productive. The bill also encourages joint labor, industry, and Government
efforts to improve production and work conditions.
Lastly, and perhaps most importantly, Mr. President, the bill provides for a
Federal policy to improve the use of human resources for improved work qual-
ity. I might just say, as an aside, we have never had in this country a Federal
policy and an apparatus for the transfer of science and technological informa-
tion after private enterprise and the local government in the same sense as we
have had through cooperative extension of the Smith-Lever Act for the im-
provement of productivity in the rural sector and improvement of the quality
of life of rural people. And so, we see the seeds of this sort of thing in the
national productivity act. Would you comment, sir, to the extent that you can,
your attitude towards such legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it should be said, first, that of all segments of our
society in the last 20 years that have shown the greatest degree of increase in
productivity it has been in American agriculture. They have plunged forward
and produced more per man, shown the greatest increase of any segment of our
society; for, I think, 5 percent of the American farmers produce enough for the
other 95 percent and sell substantial amounts overseas.
So, the farmers have done a superb job. We have to do better in other areas.
Now, we have had for about 4 years a productivity commission.
Q. That is correct.
THE PRESIDENT. That commission was established on the recommendation of
a former Secretary of Labor, George Shultz. It is in operation now. I think the
law is about to expire, and there is some criticism of it. Whether it is justified
or not, I honestly can't tell you.
The criticism is primarily in the House of Representatives. I think it can be
justified. The annual expenditure or appropriation is about $1,500,000. I am for
that approach. I believe that it is worth that investment. But I think the problem
is not convincing those of us in the executive branch, but convincing the House
of Representatives that the existing law ought to be extended.
And in effect, I would recommend that it be made permanent so that it is out
there as an instrument of trying to increase productivity in our society. It is the
best insurance against inflation. It is the best insurance against foreign competi-
tion.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. That is very encouraging.
1635
