[723]
December 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
reasonable price for consumer products is to restore competition in the market-
place. This legislation will do that.
This is one of the prime examples of how I intend to work with the Congress,
the House and the Senate, on a bipartisan basis to get the Government out of
unnecessary, inefficient regulation in the setting of prices and return that func-
tion to the marketplace.
I look forward to working with the Congress to restore competition in other
areas of our economy now under inefficient Government regulation. I have sub-
mitted to the Congress proposed regulation, or the abandonment of regulation,
in a number of areas, including financial institutions, transportation—including
the airlines, the rails, and the trucking areas—as well as energy. And I hope
that we can work together to make some substantial progress in all of these
areas.
I congratulate those who have worked with the Congress in getting this leg-
islation through to give the consumer a better break in the marketplace so that
competition will be the prime factor in ensuring a fair and reasonable
opportunity for the consumer to be the prime beneficiary.
I congratulate the Members of Congress. And it is a real pleasure for me on
this occasion to sign this legislation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:03 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 6971) is Public Law
94-145 (89 Stat. 801).
724
Statement on the Consumer Goods Pricing Act of 1975.
December 12, 1975
I AM today signing into law H.R. 6971, which will make it illegal for manu-
facturers to fix the prices of consumer products sold by retailers. This new leg-
islation will repeal laws enacted in 1937 and 1952 which amended the Federal
antitrust laws so States could authorize otherwise illegal agreements between
manufacturers and retailers setting the price at which a product would be sold
to consumers. Altogether, over the years, 46 States enacted such laws.
The so-called fair trade laws were a response to the unique economic condi-
tions of the Depression. These State laws require all retail merchants to sell
brand name merchandise at a price set by the manufacturer if the manufacturer
wanted his product to be labeled a fair trade item. In essence, these laws pro-
hibit price competition between retailers on many consumer products.
1966
