October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
protect the purchasing power of consumers through a consumer refund provision
in a windfall profits tax on oil companies.
That claim by some procrastinating Members of Congress that they are trying
to hold down consumer prices, in my judgment, is just plain nonsense. Obviously,
the Congress cannot hold oil prices established by OPEC down. That is beyond
their control. Those prices are going up, and they produce or sell to us approxi-
mately 40 percent of our oil consumed in the United States.
As I see it, the Congress is merely postponing very hard and unpleasant choices
that must be made and is attempting to blame high fuel prices on everybody but
themselves. This is almost unbelievable. Since controls on domestic oil went into
effect in 1971, our bill for imported oil has increased more than 700 percent. Yet a
majority in the Congress does nothing to reverse our growing oil dependency
and increasing vulnerability to the whims of foreign oil producers.
The American people should recognize—if the Congress will not-that the
real issue over price controls on oil is not between cheap energy and expensive
energy. There is no cheap energy anymore.
The real issue is twofold: first, whether we will achieve energy independence
to provide us in the long run as a nation with the lowest possible competitive-
priced energy; and second, whether we will keep America's wealth in America
or send it overseas in ever-increasing amounts.
In 1971 the United States paid out roughly $3 billion to foreign oil producers.
In 1974, just 3 years later, this figure jumped to $25 billion—about $360 for every
single American family. This could top $32 billion within the next 2 years if the
Congress does not act. And it is estimated that the 10-percent increase that was
announced a few days ago will add approximately $2 billion to the present out-
flow of American dollars to foreign oil producers.
Now, if this money was spent at home in the United States, this $25 billion
would employ roughly 1 million American workers. It would obviously speed
our economic growth. These are American jobs and American salaries that I am
talking about. But that is what American energy independence will achieve for
this country. Letting the OPEC oil cartel dictate America's economic growth is
absurd. When the price of gasoline goes up at the pump, I want the American
people to know exactly where the blame lies. Until the Congress acts, there is
nothing this country can do about arbitrary OPEC oil price increases, and there
may still be another increase in 6 months or thereabouts.
So far, I have met with literally thousands of Americans at the various
Presidential town meetings, meetings which have been characterized as func-
tions to listen and to learn. They have been invaluable to me and to my asso-
1567
