[571]
September 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
of our economic problems. The price of beef goes up-blame the farmer. The
price of milk goes up-blame the farmer. The price of bread goes up-blame
the farmer.
Well, I know and you know the farmer is not to blame for the inflation we
have today. I recently read in a news magazine that when it comes to bread,
the food product that seems to get the most attention, the farmer only receives
17 percent of the total retail price of that loaf of bread. The middlemen get the
rest. The American farmer is not the beneficiary of inflation. Along with every
other American, he is the victim.
Fortunately, we have some good news today regarding inflation, and I would
like to share it with you. The latest figures released this morning—and I have
them here—indicate that in August the cost of living rose only two-tenths of
1 percent. This is the smallest monthly increase in more than 2 years, and con-
trary to all the fingerpointing at farmers, food prices held steady. The small rise
was accounted for by other commodities and other services.
Now, I have been around long enough to know that the good news of 1
month does not mean that the battle is won. But I do believe it means we are
winning the battle against inflation if we just keep the pressure on. But let me
assure you, this victory will not be achieved at the expense of the Nation's
farmers, and I pledge you that.
The American farmer wants—and with very good reason—to sell all of his
production either at home or abroad. And I am here today to tell him and to
tell you that we are working night and day to make certain that farmers will
be able to sell what they produce in a free market at fair prices.
We have built regular, profitable grain-trading relations with traditional
buyers in Europe, Japan, and elsewhere. Therefore, we can generally count in
advance on a certain level of sales to these long-time foreign customers. Farmers
can plan for them, and our marketing can accommodate them without disrup-
tion. The Soviet Union represents a relatively new factor in United States agri-
culture trading. Farmers have not been able to predict Soviet Government pur-
chases, and our market has been disrupted when Soviet purchases are unusually
large on the one hand or unusually small on the other.
I am now giving priority attention to reaching an agreement that will enable
us to trade with the Soviets on a more predictable basis. It would permit us to
make, for example, additional sales this year and guarantee sales in the years to
come.
So there will be no misunderstanding about what is happening in these grain
negotiations with the Soviet Union, let's look at our last five crop seasons. Soviet
1454
