November 14
[678]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
as he has been. Rogers Morton is Secretary of Commerce. As long as he holds
that post, he will have no official responsibilities with the President Ford Com-
mittee.
When he leaves the post on or about February 1, he has said he would like
to help in any capacity where he can be helpful, but under no circumstances
that I foresee would he do anything more than a part-time aide in that area.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[2.] Q. Mr. President, the Secretary of State, saying he was acting on your
orders today, was cited by the House intelligence committee for refusing to
divulge certain documents. What is your reaction?
THE PRESIDENT. The Pike committee in the House of Representatives several
days ago made a demand for a very substantial number of documents. They
wanted, for example, in this area documents from 1962 to 1972, documents
which included recommendations from previous Secretaries of State to then
Presidents.
It requested, for example, recommendations from a number of departments
through the 40 Committee, which is our intelligence covert activity group that
recommends to Presidents action that a President would approve or disapprove.
On the advice of the Attorney General, after thoroughly analyzing the docu-
ments requested, the Attorney General has advised me to exercise Executive
privilege, which I have.
Q. Do you expect him to be cited by the full Congress and be indeed fined
or sent to prison?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't speculate on what the House of Representatives
might do, but we have taken this action with reluctance. But it is important to
preserve Executive privilege where recommendations are made by top officials
to a President, and I regret very, very much that the committee has taken this
action.
I think it is shocking. I think it has very broad and serious ramifications. Over
a period of 5 months, I have tried to cooperate with that committee, giving them
tremendous amounts of material, a very substantial number of documents in
order to cooperate. But in this case it doesn't involve my Administration. It
involves the period from 1962 to 1972.
I think it is wrong, and therefore, to protect the confidentiality of recom-
mendations from previous Secretaries of State to previous Presidents, I have
exercised Executive privilege.
1867
