[476]
August 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
international dealings, determination to seek the peaceful resolution of differ-
ences among nations, and firm commitment to social justice and economic
progress around the globe.
—Japan and the United States pledge to support these principles, and to nur-
ture a dialogue among nations which reflects them. They will expand and
strengthen their cooperation in many fields of joint endeavor. Recognizing that
equitable and durable peace in Asia is essential to that of the entire world, Japan
and the United States will extend every support to efforts of the countries of the
region to consolidate such a peace.
-International economic and social relations should promote the prosperity
of all peoples and the aspirations and creativity of individuals and nations. The
interests of developed as well as developing countries, and of consumers as well
as producers of raw materials, must be accommodated in a manner which
advances the well being of all and brings closer the goal of social and economic
justice.
—In a world made small by science and technology, as well as by trade and
communications, interdependence among nations has become a reality affecting
the lives and welfare of all peoples. International economic institutions and
systems must function in a manner reflecting that interdependence and promot-
ing a cooperative rather than a confrontational approach to economic issues.
-The suffering caused by disease and hunger is a most serious and poignant
impediment to a humane international economic and social order. The financial,
educational and technological resources of developed countries give them a spe-
cial responsibility for the alleviation of these conditions. It is imperative that
there be an increasingly effective sharing of knowledge, resources and organi-
zational skill among all countries to hasten the day when these scourges will be
eliminated from the earth. In these endeavors also, Japan and the United States
will contribute fully.
477
Remarks Upon Signing a Bill Extending the Voting
Rights Act of 1965. August 6, 1975
Mr. Vice President, distinguished Members of the Congress, and other dis-
tinguished guests:
I am very pleased to sign today H.R. 6219, which extends as well as broadens
the provisions of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
1118
