August 19
[496]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
for June of just over 9 percent in the cost of living and over 15 percent for July
in the Wholesale Price Index. I think this should serve as a warning that with
the worst of the recession behind us, we must guard against—guard against
vigorously—the kind of excessive new Federal spending that could trigger
another protracted round of double-digit inflation. For my part, I pledge to you
I will do all that I can to hold the line against inflationary Federal spending.
I cannot stop a runaway Congress from voting appropriations that fan the
flames of inflation. But I can and I will continue to use my veto authority to
curb the inflationary spending excesses of a majority of this Congress.
There has to be, in fact, there must be enough good men and women in both
political parties in the Congress who will band together to sustain my vetoes
in the public interest.
Remember—and I think this is what we often forget-inflation doesn't
recognize party labels. When the cost of living zooms upward, we all pay the
price, especially the old, the poor, the jobless, and those on fixed incomes, be
they Democrats, Republicans, Independents, dropouts. The burden is shared
by everyone. Inflation is a common enemy, and we must fight it with a com-
mon front.
And so, each time I use the veto to battle inflation, I am taking, I think, a
positive, not a negative step. The vetoes that I have exercised so far will save you——
the public as a whole in this country, the American taxpayer—an estimated
$6 billion by 1977 in tax payments or loss of purchasing power through inflation.
We are talking about preserving your purchasing power and the value of
your paycheck, your pension, your social security check, and especially your
savings. We are talking about your future economic stability.
Now, I am well aware of the fact that some people don't accept this argu-
ment. I respect their view, and I respectfully disagree. They say, for example,
that no inflationary pricetag exists on massive government spending. But in my
considered judgment, they are wrong.
In their view, the solution to all of our ills is for government to spend more
of your money and for government to regulate more of your lives. Unfortu-
nately, their argument for bigger government and bigger government spending
has been accepted all too often in the postwar years.
The result has been a growing and unwarranted trend toward Federal inter-
ference—interference in the free enterprise system, interference in State and
local government, and as we are now beginning to discover, even interference
in our personal lives.
This trend must be reversed, and it will be if we have anything to say about it.
1189
