[422]
July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President sent similar letters on July 21,
1975, to Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield,
Assistant Senate Minority Leader Robert P. Griffin,
and Senator Roman L. Hruska, ranking Republican
member of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
423
Remarks to Congressional Summer Interns.
July 23, 1975
IT IS nice to see so many fine young people. I feel really at home, not because
I happen to be living here now—[laughter]—but I feel at home because for
better than 15 years of my 25-plus years service in the House of Representatives,
I had a close and very warm relationship with interns, not only in my office but
interns that served the Members of the House as well as the Senate.
I enjoyed that relationship; I benefited from it. And I know this group is just
as qualified, just as dedicated, just as interested as those that I knew in the past,
and I congratulate you for being here.
Let me just tell you a little of the history of the intern program. Well, you
know you have 700 or 800 here. I can remember the days when if there was one
intern in an office, there was apprehension and eyebrows were lifted. They
wondered, wasn't this effort, wasn't this program going to destroy the Congress
and all that went with it? [Laughter]
I can go back and show you records where my office was one of the first, if
not the first that worked on the program and helped to expand it. And I am
darn proud that we now have 800 or 900 young people every year who come
down here and make a substantial contribution to the legislative process and go
back to your respective colleges, your communities, and explain to the American
people that the Government does work, can work, and will be helpful in solving
some of the problems that we have.
Now, I know it is awfully hot in here, but it is a little cooler than if we had
had it out on the lawn. Let me assure you that this Administration and I, par-
ticularly, welcome all of you here, and I am delighted with the atmosphere
that I have found in going from one university or college to another over the
last year.
The warmth of the reception, I assure you, was not always agreeing, but at
least I approached those from the student bodies of Notre Dame, Tulane, et
cetera, with the open mind, and they did, as far as I was concerned. And the
net result was we had a dialog, and this is what we need and this is how we
can work together in the solution of some of the problems that have to be solved.
1018
