[553]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
to a black man who died leading a protest against the British 6 years before our
Declaration of Independence.
As early as 1770, your Baptist faith began to take a foothold in America. At
that time blacks were organizing Baptist state conventions in our various
colonies.
Through the years, religion has always been a very important force in
American life. It has been one of the pillars of black communities, as witness
to your faith in God and all that is right.
As we look back on some of the shortcomings of America, slavery leaves a
sad and sorry chapter in our history. But a powerful belief in God enabled
many blacks to endure those dark and dreary and sad days.
As we begin to celebrate the Bicentennial of our Nation, we have another
historic triumph to celebrate-our victory over tragic injustice—where all of
God's people walk free in a land of a new day.
Equality, in the true spirit of our Founding Fathers, is not yet a full reality
for all Americans. I am sorry to say that. Minorities and women still do not
participate equally in employment. They do not share many economic, social,
and other resources of our Nation. Yet the struggle goes on. And it must con-
tinue until the vision of our Founding Fathers and the dream of Martin Luther
King, Jr., Dr. Jackson, and others have become a reality.
Who will ever forget Dr. George Washington Carver and his experiments.
with the peanut and sweet potato, which were the basis for more than 400
different products? Or Lewis Latimer, the son of a runaway slave, who in-
vented the first incandescent electric light bulb with a carbon filament and
who also helped Alexander Graham Bell develop the telephone? Or Dr. Charles
Drew, who developed the apparatus for preserving blood plasma?
In the field of politics, progress has been slow, but today there are more than
3,500 black elected officials in the United States, including 135 mayors. And those
numbers are increasing every year. There will be more and more and more.
And of course, there will be solid, splendid national leaders like Senator Ed
Brooke and others in the Congress, providing the dedicated leadership that our
country needs now and in the future.
History has not recorded accurately the countless contributions made by
blacks to America. Yet times are changing as we begin our Bicentennial cele-
bration. As President, I wish to help bring about this change by recalling some
vitally important black contributions to our history.
The right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy. I was proud to have
been in the forefront of the battle to pass the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and to
1384
