August 19
[496]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
came at a very last minute, and I think this Administration played a considerable
part—I believe a major part-in making that legislation for 7 more years.
In addition, I think in any other area the employment of minorities in the
Federal Government, not only the employment but the advancement of
minorities in positions of responsibility, has been recognized and carried out by
this Administration. And I pledge to you that that will be our position in the
future.
SCHOOL INTEGRATION
[6.] Q. What about the integration of schools?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me be very frank here. I don't think that forced busing
to achieve racial balance is the proper way to get quality education. The princi-
pal objective is to get quality education for all our young people. And I think
there must be a better way to do it than the way some advocate.
Now, we will carry out whatever the law is and however the courts interpret
it. Don't get me wrong. But it is my personal conviction and has been for 10 or
15 years that there is a better way to get quality education for all of our young
people than the way some advocate.
HIGHER EDUCATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Jerry Abegg, president of Bradley University. As
president of an independent university, may I convey a concern that all of us in
higher education have for a potentially serious threat to the charitable deduction,
which is now being considered by Members of the U.S. Congress. The proposals
which are being considered strike at the heart of American private philanthropy
and threaten serious damage to our traditional dual system of public and
private higher education, which that philanthropy has helped to sustain. I would
appreciate any comments about this proposal.
THE PRESIDENT. It is very interesting. Just last week in Vail, Colorado, where
I am having a working vacation, I met with seven or eight of the top people of
the Aspen Institute, and in that group were two or three who are equally con-
cerned and to some extent represent the private colleges in the country, or at
least their viewpoint.
The real problem you face today comes from the 1969 Internal Revenue Act
that was passed. In '69, a limitation was put on foundations. It made it more
difficult for private colleges to be the beneficiaries of generous citizens or gen-
erous groups.
At the present time, there are some additional amendments before the House
Committee on Ways and Means that would, in a more harmful way, jeopardize
1195
