[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think it is an educational process, and the sooner we start, the better, with the
youth of America. They really have a bigger stake in the future of this country
than some of us older folks.
If they can be taught that the United States, by any standard of comparison,
has produced more freedom, more material goods, and more benefits than any
other country throughout the world, present or past, then I think they will get
an enthusiasm for it.
But it has to start in the school system. It has to start in the home. It has to
start in various organizations, through the Future Farmers of America, et cetera.
I think we are making some headway, and we can't quit just because it is slow
progress. When I travel-I don't care where in this world-I come back and say
how lucky I was that I was born in the United States and I am a citizen of this
country.
Sure, that doesn't mean that we solved all our problems—far from it. It doesn't
mean that we can't do better. It doesn't mean that we should be complacent
and satisfied. But when you take a look wherever you go, we have more oppor-
tunity, more freedom, more material benefits, and we should just thank our
good Lord that we are Americans.
We should continue to work at improving the situation, and we can through
the educational process. I don't have a pat formula, but I sure have faith that
it will happen.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:35 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Omaha Hilton Hotel. He was in-
troduced by William J. Baroody, Jr., Assistant to
the President for Public Liaison.
603
Remarks of Welcome to Emperor Hirohito of Japan.
October 2, 1975
Your Majesties:
It is an honor for me to extend to you, on behalf of the American people, a
warm and heartfelt welcome to the United States.
Mrs. Ford joins me with the greatest personal pleasure for both of us in greet-
ing Your Majesties here today.
This first state visit for an Emperor and Empress of Japan to the United
States is an historic occasion with profound importance. Japan and the United
1582
