October 10
[623]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
State legislature, including your Senate Republican leader, Bob Davis, your
House Republican leader, Denny Cawthorne. I am just real pleased to see them
all here tonight, because it means that our Republican family in the State of
Michigan is working shoulder to shoulder with one objective, and that is to
make our philosophy the right philosophy for the State and for the Nation. And
they who represent you so ably will continue the fight, and your presence here
gives them the inspiration that they need. And I applaud them for their success
under the most difficult odds.
With the people of this caliber representing those of us who come from Michi-
gan, here at home as well as in Washington, it is obvious that if you really make
an effort, you can recruit and you can elect top quality candidates and dedicated
public officials. We are proud of what we have, but we need far more. The 1976
campaign here in Michigan is in good hands, but we have got to go out and
find those that will join with us, seek public office, work to get elected, and
depend upon your help. I concede that your winning spirit is vitally important. It
is the same Republican spirit that I see as I travel around the country, and I have
gone from Maine to Rhode Island, to the Far West, to the North, to the South.
This spirit is beginning to catch on. Not only here but elsewhere, I see dynamic
candidates, and all of you right here in our own State have the know-how to
help them. And I salute you for your efforts here tonight and go on record with
this prediction, if I might: The Republican Party will not only win the White
House next year but we will make substantial gains in the Congress and we
will elect a substantial number of more Republican Governors.
I believe we will make these gains in 1976, because the Republican Party is in
tune with the mood of America, and it is in tune with the philosophy of the
people throughout our country. Across this Nation, whether it is Republicans,
Independents, and discerning Democrats, they realize that America cannot move
forward if we stifle individual initiative or if we continue the growth of govern-
ment, which is already far too big.
As we look back over the pages of history, we know that in this great country
we have accomplished much in two centuries. In the first century, we established
the kind of government that gave stability and strength and continuity. In our
second century, in this new land, we developed the greatest industrial capacity
of any nation in the history of the globe.
But now we are at a critical crossroads in this country's history. We must make
a hard decision. We must decide whether we will continue down the dangerous,
treacherous trend of recent years toward bigger government, higher taxes, and
1675
