August 24
[498]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
merce people met with the Soviet negotiators trying to get a better price, better
freight rate—if that is the right term-so that more American bottoms can be
involved in the shipment of American agriculture to the Soviet Union. So, there
are many, many pieces of this very complicated problem.
And I can assure you that I and this Administration are on top of it, and we
have good people working on it. But if we just cool it a little bit for the time
being, then I am confident we can find some answers.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I might just say in conclusion, it is my recollection that this
organization was initially put together by an old and very dear friend of mine,
Cliff Hope.
When I first came to the Congress, Cliff Hope was the ranking Republican on
the House Committee on Agriculture. I became a very close and good friend of
Cliff's. I learned a lot, not only about Congress from Cliff but a good bit about
agriculture from Cliff.
So, through that channel, I do have at least some connection with your organi-
zation. Cliff was a great Member of the Congress but also a totally dedicated
person to American agriculture.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. in the
Home Stake Meeting Room at the Holiday Inn,
where members of the boards of directors of the
following organizations were meeting: the National
Association of Wheat Growers, the Western Wheat
Associates, and the Great Plains Wheat Associates.
498
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Libby Dam,
Libby, Montana.
August 24, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Mike. Minister Macdonald, Governor Judge, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, Mike, let me express to all of your wonderful friends from
Montana my deep appreciation for the warm welcome here in this great part
of our country. I thank each and every one of you.
Obviously, I am deeply grateful to the more than generous and very kind
words by my long and dear friend, Mike Mansfield.
I had the privilege of coming to the Congress of the United States when Mike
had been in Washington for a number of years as a Member of the House. Our
friendship began then, and it has continued over the years.
1203
