[598]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
I speak at this point concerning agriculture, farm prices. We recognize that
agriculture is a great industry. It participates very significantly in making our
economy strong or weak. Of course, we feel a great debt of gratitude in this
country to the 6 percent of our people who produce so much food and so much
fiber for all of us and literally millions around the world.
Last year, just about this time, the American farmers responded to my call
for full production, literally from one fence to another, and every plot of
ground that they could find-full production.
This year, they have harvested a record wheat crop, and they expect a record
corn crop by the end of the harvest year.
Obviously, American farmers want-and they have every good reason to
expect―to sell all they produce, either at home or abroad. And I intend to see to
it that they do—in a free market and at fair prices.
Profitable and steady grain trading relations have been built with buyers in
Europe, Japan, and elsewhere, and we can count in advance on regular and
significant purchases by those foreign customers.
But there is a new element. With the Soviet Union a relatively new customer,
we do not yet—and I underline “yet”—have that assurance. Soviet grain pur-
chases have fluctuated greatly in the last 5 years. And let me illustrate the peaks
and valleys that we have had in this relationship.
In 1971-72, the Russians bought 182 million bushels of grain from the United
States. In 1972 and '73, the figure soared to 524 million bushels. In 1973–74, it
dropped to 252 million bushels, and then fell sharply, precipitously to 74 million
bushels in 1974 and '75. During this crop year, the Russians have already bought
399 million bushels and are anxious to buy much more.
Now, these wide fluctuations disrupt our markets and make it much more
difficult for our farmers to plan properly. Furthermore, these peaks and valleys,
these wide fluctuations, have an undesirable impact on our overall economy.
Now, to achieve a better result for the farmer, the consumer, yes, our economy
as a whole, I am giving, personally, priority attention to an agreement with the
Soviet Union that will put agricultural trade on a far more certain and a far
more predictable basis-an agreement along the lines of the one which we are
now concluding with Poland to assure grain sales over the next 5 years at levels
considerably higher than in the past and with far less deviations and fluctuations.
I am confident that in a relatively short period of time we will reach an
agreement with the Soviet Union to facilitate the sale of this year's bumper
crop with firm assurances of similar sales of considerable magnitude in future
years.
1548
