[689]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
measures by the United States Government to assure that our antidiscrimina-
tory policies will be effectively and fully implemented.
These actions are being taken with due regard for our foreign policy interests,
international trade and commerce, and the sovereign rights of other nations. I
believe that the actions my Administration has taken today achieve the
essential protection of the rights of our people and at the same time do not upset
the equilibrium essential to the proper conduct of our national and interna-
tional affairs.
I made the basic decision that the United States Government, in my Admin-
istration, as in the Administration of George Washington, will give "to bigotry
no sanction." My Administration will not countenance the translation of any
foreign prejudice into domestic discrimination against American citizens.
I have today signed a directive to the heads of all Departments and agencies.
It states:
(1) that the application of Executive Order 11478 and relevant statutes forbid
any Federal agency, in making selections for overseas assignments, to take into
account any exclusionary policies of a host country based upon race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, or age. Individuals must be considered and selected
solely on the basis of merit factors. They must not be excluded at any stage of
the selection process because their race, color, religion, national origin, sex, or
age
does not conform to any formal or informal requirements set by a foreign
nation. No agency may specify, in its job description circulars, that the host
country has an exclusionary entrance policy or that a visa is required;
(2) that Federal agencies are required to inform the State Department of visa
rejections based on exclusionary policies; and
(3) that the State Department will take appropriate action through diplomatic
channels to attempt to gain entry for the affected individuals.
I have instructed the Secretary of Labor to issue an amendment to his Depart-
ment's March 10, 1975, Secretary's Memorandum on the obligation of Federal
contractors and subcontractors to refrain from discrimination on the basis of
race, color, religion, national origin, or sex when hiring for work to be per-
formed in a foreign country or within the United States pursuant to a contract
with a foreign government or company. This amendment will require Federal
contractors and subcontractors that have job applicants or present employees
applying for overseas assignments to inform the Department of State of any visa
rejections based on the exclusionary policies of a host country. The Department
of State will attempt, through diplomatic channels, to gain entry for those
individuals.
1894
