October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
as we had it at 7 percent, it is now up to 12—it is really 11, but there is another
added 1 percent-investment tax credit, if properly used, can permit us to
modernize our industrial capacity so that we will have better equipment,
better plants to challenge the modern European industrial capacity, and par-
ticularly the Japanese industrial capacity.
So, we depend upon new machinery, new plants, plus increased productivity
of the individual worker. That, in my judgment, is the best way for us to
compete abroad with the products of other countries, plus one other thing.
I am sure you noticed that for the last 5 or 6 months we have had an excellent
favorable balance of trade. In other words, we have shipped far more than we
have imported.
One of the reasons is the fact that we have managed our problem of inflation
better than almost any other country. Our products today are selling better
because of our improved handling of the problem of inflation.
A year ago, prices were at the annual rate of 14 percent, the inflation rate.
Today, for the last 5 months, it is about 4½ percent. If we can make that kind of
progress, we will compete, we will increase our exports and have a much
better economic situation in the United States.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[9.] Q. Mr. President, Jim Evans, executive director of the Urban League of
Nebraska. In Nebraska, over 20 percent of the minorities-blacks, Indians,
Chicanos—are unemployed, and amongst the minority youth, the figure is
closer to 50 percent. Local business, industry, government have not been able
to provide an adequate number of jobs and opportunities for minorities. As a
result, we have a disproportionate number of young minorities in our prisons
and a disproportionate number of young minority mothers on welfare. What
plans does your Administration have to try to bring the level of minority unem-
ployment down to that 6-percent level we talk about for the Nation?
THE PRESIDENT. Number one, it is vitally important to improve the total
economic circumstances, lowering unemployment to a figure between 4 and 6
percent. We are not there yet by any means, but I think we have made some
headway and we will make some more in the months ahead. And that will
come about as we improve the general economic situation in America.
In the meantime, we do have programs such as the summer youth program
where I recommended and Congress approved roughly $450 million for this
past summer to give jobs to the youth of America who were unemployed.
We have a number of manpower training programs that seek to train an indi-
1573
