[437]
July 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Health, Education, and Welfare. The rescissions are proposed for a variety of
reasons: to avoid duplicative efforts, to preserve the effective and limited uses of
demonstration programs, and because program objectives can be met with lesser
amounts than have been made available.
The majority of the new deferrals I am reporting-14 of 23—defer the obliga-
tion of funding provided by the continuing resolution for 1976 (Public Law 94–
41). I have proposed that several ongoing programs be reduced, terminated, or
transferred to other agencies beginning in fiscal year 1976. The Congress has not
yet completed action on the 1976 regular appropriation bills or on my proposed
modifications of certain programs. In the meantime, it has generally provided
for all programs to receive temporary appropriations at ongoing rates. I am
deferring obligations above the levels I have proposed, pending completion of
Congressional action on my proposals. The remaining new deferrals are routine
in nature and have little or no effect on program levels.
The details of each deferral and proposed rescission are contained in the
attached reports.
This special message increases to eight the number of rescissions now pending
before the Congress. I urge prompt, positive action on each of them.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
July 26, 1975.
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescissions and deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of July 30,
1975 (40 FR 32043).
438
Message to the Congress Transmitting Quarterly Report of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability. July 26, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 5 of the Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the Congress the third quarterly report of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability. This report contains a description of the
Council activities during the past few months in monitoring wages and prices in
the private sector and reviewing various Federal Government activities that lead
to higher costs and prices without creating commensurate benefits. It discusses in
some detail the Council's studies of steel and metal can prices, cost-of-living
escalator clauses and marketing spreads for food products. In addition, it con-
1042
