October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
terms of taking each one of the commodities and handling them on a case-by-
case basis-zinc, tin, bauxite, coffee, et cetera.
So, we are not going to be a part of any scheme to establish a new world
order, a new world economic order. I want that crystal clear. But we will work
with those nations, as Secretary Kissinger said, on a case-by-case basis of trying
to assure them of adequate income from their natural resources.
The approach that we took with Secretary Kissinger's speech has created a
totally new and a very beneficial attitude by these countries vis-a-vis the United
States. Instead of just slamming down our foot and saying we won't talk with
you or we won't try to solve the problems-and that hard-line attitude was
exacerbating our relations in the United Nations-we now are really in an
exceptionally good position to work with, deal with, and get support from
these underdeveloped nations.
I think the best example was our agreement that we would sign and be-
come a part of the tin agreement. That gesture on our part, which won't have
any adverse impact on the United States, has helped in a very constructive way
our relations with these underdeveloped countries.
So, rather than talk about some theoretical new world economic order, we
are going to talk about how you solve your problem, and that has produced some
good results for us in the United Nations.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Bill just tried to cut you off, but I will be the good guy.
[Laughter]
FEDERAL SPENDING
[19.] Q. Being number 17 and last, it was a question of whether we would
make it or not. Mr. President, I am Charles Wilson of Red Oak, Iowa. I am the
chairman of the Iowa Manufacturer's Association. We are concerned with the
apparent lack of public understanding of the fiscal economies and of the very
great importance of fiscal responsibility. This is leading us to, we believe, or is
the cause of, many detrimental effects, for instance, very massive welfare pro-
grams, which are very expensive and which lead inevitably to lower productivity.
Another example would be the expensive overregulation of industry and of the
country in general, the cost of which must be passed on to the consumer.
Our question: We would like to know what steps are or can be taken, or what
we can do, to improve the public understanding of the fiscal responsibility of
our Government?
THE PRESIDENT. To some extent, I may have answered that question earlier.
1581
