September 20
[574]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. Do you intend to?
THE PRESIDENT. I may.
Q. Do you see any role for him in national life in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a judgment he has to make, and I really can't
tell you whether he will or he won't, but that is a personal judgment on his part.
Q. You say you may contact him. What is it that you want to say to him?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he is an old friend, and I have known him and worked
with him in the past. What has happened in the past, or recent past, I don't think
should destroy a personal friendship.
PRESIDENTIAL CLEMENCY BOARD
[12.] Q. Mr. President, there has been a minority report from your amnesty
panel being very critical of Charles Goodell, saying that he misinterpreted and
he violated the spirit of the amnesty program in granting amnesty or seeking
amnesty for felons. Would you comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. That was a very controversial area, as I am sure you recognize.
Q. Mr. President, our time is almost up.
THE PRESIDENT. I felt I had to do something, and I can understand, with the
strong people on that board, that there might be controversy.
Q. Mr. President, gentlemen, I am sorry, our time is now up.
Our warm thanks to the President of the United States for joining us here in
Los Angeles.
NOTE: The interview began at 8:57 a.m. in the Santa Monica Room at the Century Plaza Hotel. It was taped
for broadcast that evening.
574
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies at Pepperdine University,
Malibu, California. September 20, 1975
Bill, Margaret, and all of you who have so generously come with your time and
your enthusiasm and your dedication to this wonderful day here at Pepperdine:
I thank you as well as Betty. I have known Margaret a good many years. I
have known her many, many efforts in a broad spectrum. Of course, those of us
who are Republicans knew that she has been a loyal, generous, dedicated Re-
publican and she is sort of known by those of us outside of California as Mrs.
Republican, and we thank you very, very much for that, Margaret.
ยน William S. Banowsky, president of Pepperdine University, and Margaret Martin Brock, for whom the
university president's new residence was named.
1469
