November 29
[699]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I endorse the concept of the Older Americans Act which establishes a system
to deliver coordinated comprehensive services at the community level and which
is designed to enable older persons to live independent lives in their own resi-
dences and to participate in the life of their community.
There are, however, provisions of this act with which I disagree. The provi-
sions concerned with age discrimination on the part of all Federal grantees have
been modified to meet many, but not all, objections. The delineation of what
constitutes unreasonable age discrimination is so imprecise that it gives little
guidance in the development of regulations to prohibit such discrimination.
Also, the provisions raise a question on the extent to which the Federal Govern-
ment should seek to regulate private activity, particularly without holding hear-
ings to permit affected persons and institutions to be heard.
The bill does provide, however, for study of the problems of age discrimination
by the Commission on Civil Rights, and allows for these issues to be discussed
thoroughly. I urge the Congress to reconsider these problems.
At a time when we are struggling to restrain growth in the Federal budget, I
am not pleased to see the high authorization levels included in this bill. The
authorization for social service programs for fiscal year 1976, for example, is al-
most twice that of my budget request. I am confident the Members of the Con-
gress share my concern about the impact of inflation on the elderly. I look
forward to working with the Congress in determining appropriations levels for
this act which will be adequate, equitable, and not inflationary.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 3922, is Public Law 94-135 (89 Stat. 713).
699
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Agreement on the
Conservation of Polar Bears. November 29, 1975
[Dated November 28, 1975. Released November 29, 1975]
To the Senate of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit for the Senate's advice and consent to ratification
the Agreement on the Conservation of Polar Bears, done at Oslo, November 15,
1973.
I am also transmitting, for the information of the Senate, the report of the
Department of State with respect to the agreement.
This agreement, negotiated by the five circumpolar nations, the United States,
Canada, Denmark, Norway and the Soviet Union, provides a plan of protec-
1
1919
