[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
me very briefly touch on some of the basic directions I think our Nation can and
should take in the months and years ahead. Obviously, the economy is one of
our principal concerns; energy is another.
Over the years, the American free enterprise economy has created a better
life for more people than any other system of government in the history of the
world. Yet in the past year we have seen it pass through some very difficult
times. Recession on the one hand, inflation on the other have strained the
economic security of millions and millions of Americans. Some of the causes of
our economic difficulties were beyond our control. International developments
prompted the skyrocketing oil prices. Others were the result of Government
activity, such as inflationary spending at the Federal level. But on the basis of
the latest figures, the darkest days of the recession are behind us. The American
economy is starting a sustained recovery that we all desire.
But let's be frank, we have a long way to go. Unemployment is far, far too
high and must be brought down. Our factories must start producing at maxi-
mum capacity again. And while we must start to fight the recession, we must
also fight just as hard against rising inflation, a problem that is still with us.
Another problem is energy dependence. No one knows better than the people
of the Pacific Northwest the importance of energy in the economy. At the same
time, no part of the Nation is more interested in environmental quality. You
are moving to combine the two, to balance them in the interest of both the
economy and the ecology. The Alaska pipeline will ultimately make Seattle a
lifeline of energy for this part of the country. At the same time recognizing the
need for alternative sources of energy, you are building nuclear energy plants.
In short, you here in Seattle and the State of Washington are making your
own decisions. You are taking action to ensure your future. We must do
precisely the same thing at the Federal level.
You have already heard from some of the key people, some of the real experts
in the Administration on energy, inflation, unemployment, new incentives, the
working people, and employers. I hope we can go into the issues in greater
depth and into any other areas you wish to cover. So, let's start the questions.
QUESTIONS
FEDERAL SPENDING
[2.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Ralph Davis, president of the Seattle
Chamber of Commerce. My question relates to the problem of inflation. You
mentioned just now—and there is a consensus within the business community—
1306
