[490]
August 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
very much to the point. If there is one thing Iowa doesn't need in August, it is
more hot air. [Laughter]
Obviously, it is a great pleasure to be in Iowa, and as I look about me—at the
industry, the creativity, the achievement, the good will, the good sense, and the
good humor of all who are here today—I can't help but think that in Iowa,
happiness is contagious. You catch it from each other.
Flying over mile after mile of the heartland of America to get here this after-
noon, I couldn't help but think that these vast farmlands are perhaps our Nation's
greatest asset. The farm community, the men and women and children who are
a part of it, are prime examples of the resourcefulness and the industry, of all
that is good in this great land of ours.
What a remarkable achievement it is that less than 5 percent of America's
population feeds the remaining 95 percent of us, with enough left over to
significantly supplement the food needs of much of the rest of the world. I
congratulate each of you who participate in this miracle of abundance. You
should be very proud, as we are proud of you.
I think it is amazing that in our Nation today, one farmworker provides food
for himself and 55 others. Output per manhour on the farm has nearly tripled
in the last two decades.
There are reasons-understandable reasons-for this. One is the high capital
investment in agriculture. Another is hard work by the men on the farm. And
the third is individual initiative.
American farmers have moved very quickly to adopt new techniques, new
machinery, and new science and technology. As a result, capital investment in
American agriculture has reached more than $98,000 per worker- the highest
in the world. In contrast, capital investment in manufacturing in our country
stands at $55,000 per worker.
The results are here to see. The productive genius of American agriculture
provides a showcase filled with the bounty of our Nation's farms.
And I am delighted—and I thank you, too—that farmers have responded
so enthusiastically to the demands of the market for full production. Of course,
I am concerned about crop losses in Iowa due to the dry weather the last several
weeks. But the general abundance of the crop in the Middle West shows that
gains can be made from a policy of full production.
Be assured—and I say this with emphasis—that this Administration's na-
tional farm policy is and will continue to be one of full production. It is good
for everybody. It is a policy of fair prices and darn good income for farmers
through commercial sales of their products on a worldwide basis.
1164
