October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
TENNESSEE-TOMBIGBEE WATERWAY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I am Tom Green of the Tennessee River Valley As-
sociation of Nashville, Tennessee. The number one Army Corps project in the
United States is the construction of the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway. This
huge project involves new job opportunity, waterway development, and energy
conservation. What is your position on continuing the construction funding of
the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway connecting mid-America with the Gulf
scheduled for completion in 1981 ?
THE PRESIDENT. Probably the first public works project I ever heard about on
the floor of the House was the Tennessee-Tombigbee River project when John
Rankin was literally the only sponsor of that proposal in the House of Repre-
sentatives. It was approved or authorized. It has had funding. It is a sizable
project. In the budget for fiscal '76 we did recommend funding, I don't recall the
precise amount. It is my judgment that there will be additional funding recom-
mended in fiscal year 1977, but until I see the recommendations of the Corps of
Engineers, which have not as yet come to me, I cannot give you any precise
figure.
I do support the project, I think it ought to be underway from a point of view
of construction, and I think we ought to set a target as to completion. It does
save-what is it, about 1,600 miles if it goes from the Tennessee River down to
the Gulf of Mexico?
Q. About 350 miles, Mr. President, I believe.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is a very sizable saving of transportation. This Admin-
istration is for it. The best evidence is the recommendation we made for fiscal '76.
And I am certain we will make a recommendation for fiscal 1977, but until the
Corps of Engineers gives me their recommendation, I am in no position to give
you an exact figure. It will be included; how much is the question.
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY NOMINATION
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am Carl Holcomb, and I represent the Appalachia
Regional Conservation Commission of the Sierra Club. We want to compliment
you on your interest and concern for this rich and wonderful section of our
great country.
My question is this: Your nomination of Mr. James F. Hooper to fill the
vacancy on the TVA Board of Directors has caused a great deal of discussion and
controversy among the people of this area of the valley, in the national media,
and in the halls of Congress. We feel that this is a very important position
1629
