August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
[laughter]-that he better find a way to cut it down. And I am going to monitor
it, and we are going to have less next year than we have had at the present time.
Now, you are all familiar with our determined and, I think, constructive
effort to get some what we call regulatory reform, which means the many
regulatory agencies in the Federal Government have to start lifting the onerous
burden that they impose upon the American society.
I can assure you, with the help of the Congress—and in this instance Congress
and myself are working together-so, if we achieve that, I think we will have
answered most of the questions that you have indicated.
THE DAIRY INDUSTRY
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Donald Haldeman, president of the Wisconsin Farm
Bureau Federation and also a dairy farmer from western Wisconsin. I have a
two-part question that dairy farmers and farmers in general are passing to me,
as I further state, and I would like to pass these two on to you at this time. Will
the Government import subsidized dairy products in the quantity which will
affect our market price? And the second part is, will our Government give us
access to world markets free of any form of embargoes or unusual transportation
problems?
THE PRESIDENT. We had quite a struggle a few months ago when some of
the Western European countries wanted to send in a number of their cheese
products to the United States at more or less a subsidized price.
Through negotiations between our representatives in the United States and
those in the European economic group, we were able to convince them that
they should eliminate that program. And I am glad to report that Earl Butz
had a significant part in protecting the farmers' interests in that instance. I can
assure you in the negotiations that are underway now under former Secretary
of Commerce-now our Special Trade Representative-Fred Dent, that in
those negotiations, predicated on the new trade legislation, that we will protect
the interests of farmers in making certain that their markets are open in foreign
countries for the fine products that we produce.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[4.] Q. For the benefit of the audience, I have cleared this question with
Fran Ferguson.¹ [Laughter]
Mr. President, I am John Schmitt, president of the State AFL-CIO. Last
August there were 4.8 million unemployed and a Consumer Price Index inflation
¹ President of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company and one of the hosts of the conference.
1227
