August 10
[483]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
483
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the St. Edward Mercy
Medical Center, Fort Smith, Arkansas. August 10, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Congressman John Paul Hammerschmidt. Gover-
nor Dave Pryor, Senator John McClellan, Congressman Ray Thornton, Con-
gressman Ted Risenhoover, Sister Judith Marie, Mayor Freeze, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
At the very outset, let me say without any hesitation or equivocation that
Betty and I are delighted to be in Fort Smith, Arkansas, and of course, we
are more than pleased to have had a quick look at this wonderful facility, which
is a development started some 70 years ago.
You have lots of wonderful brick and mortar, but it is the soul of the Sisters
of Mercy that make it what it is.
I am especially grateful that John Paul came back from the Middle East to
participate in this wonderful ceremony. I think all of us know that that is one
of the most volatile areas of the world. The more attention that Members of
the Congress can give in understanding the intricacies and the complexities of
that area of the world can and will be helpful in the step-by-step progress we
are seeking to make to prevent war again in that area of the world.
I might say to my dear friend, John McClellan-Senator McClellan-if I was
ever to be a Member of the United States Senate, Democrat or Republican, I
would want the reputation you have for ability, integrity. There is none
matched in my time in Washington.
It is really inspirational to have an opportunity to congratulate all of the peo-
ple who have participated in the planning and the construction of this very,
very special hospital of tomorrow that will serve a half million people in western
Arkansas and eastern Oklahoma.
This new facility, having grown from what it was, beginning in 1905, is an
outstanding addition to the thriving medical community in Fort Smith.
It is hard to believe that from what it was in 1905, seven decades ago, that we
now have in St. Edward a facility that will provide vital health services to this
great community and the surrounding areas.
A $2 million local fund drive, combined with a $14 million-plus Federal Hous-
ing Administration guaranteed loan, gave the money that was necessary to
provide the brick and mortar.
And if I can add a little postscript, about 8 years ago, I joined with many others
1143
