[628]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Drug abuse is a problem of deep personal concern to me and one which
requires a careful but forceful policy both at home and abroad. We have com-
pleted an important first step. Now we must continue the vital process of com-
munication and analysis which has begun.
In order to assure prompt implementation of this report, I am directing each
Federal agency with direct program responsibility to analyze and respond to
the white paper within the next 60 days. I am also directing that the report be
released to help refocus the current public dialog on drug abuse.
This Administration is firmly committed to improving the quality of life
for all Americans. Clearly, drug abuse has no place in our society. I believe the
white
paper outlines in realistic terms the drug abuse problem this Nation faces
and presents for my consideration comprehensive recommendations for ways
in which the Federal Government, working with State and local governments
and the private sector, can control drug abuse.
NOTE: The report is entitled "White Paper on Drug From the Domestic Council Drug Abuse Task
Abuse, September 1975-A Report to the President Force" (Government Printing Office, 116 pp.).
629
Remarks at the Convention of the Connecticut Association
of Realtors in Hartford. October 14, 1975
IT IS a great privilege and pleasure for me to have an opportunity to say just a
few words to the Connecticut realtors.
Herb has indicated my credentials. I can't relate how many times I have met
with, discussed with, worked with, first, the realtors from my hometown, Grand
Rapids, the Michigan realtors, the national association. I have attended many,
many, many of the meetings of your organization in the Nation's Capital. Let
me say without any hesitation or equivocation, I feel at home with people who
believe as you do that an investment in a home is an investment in a good
America.
Let me say that I had a great privilege and honor to speak to the national
convention of your organization in Las Vegas, Nevada, last year. You all who
were there seemed to be having a good time. [Laughter] I wish I could have
stayed longer and enjoyed what all of you were doing—working on matters
involving real estate, finance, et cetera. But nevertheless, it was a privilege to
address the national convention. I said then that the country was having serious
problems in the economic field—and we were. I indicated at that time that the
1696
