November 26
[695]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE SUPREME COURT
[9.] Q. Mr. President, will you be submitting your nomination to fill the
Douglas vacancy on the Court before your departure for China?
THE PRESIDENT. I will not submit it before I go to China. I will submit it as
quickly as I possibly can, because I think it is vitally important that that vacancy
on the Court be filled, if at all possible, by the time Congress adjourns in this
session. So, we are expediting the process, and we will submit the name as rapidly
as possible.
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
[10.] Q. Mr. President, the Senate Intelligence Committee has documented
widespread efforts by the FBI to discredit Dr. Martin Luther King before he
was assassinated, as you know. And I just wondered, do you think the Federal
Government and you, as President, have any responsibility now to see that those
who were responsible for that are either purged from Government service if they
still are in Government service, or prosecuted if the statute of limitations has not
run out on them?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly condemn those actions which were taken regard-
ing Martin Luther King. I think it is abhorrent to all Americans, including
myself. Whether or not we can identify the individuals, if they are still alive,
is difficult, but I certainly will consult with the Attorney General regarding that
matter.
Q. You think an effort should be made, though, to identify those people?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[11.] Q. What reaction, sir, do you have to the statement of Senator Mathias
that he may be forming a third force movement, and who do you think that
would hurt or help if he does?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly believe, Mr. Cannon [Lou Cannon, Washington
Post], in a two-party system. It has served our country very well over a long
period of time, and therefore, I would hope that all Democrats would participate
in their party convention and run as a candidate in their primaries. And I would
hope that we would have a similar situation in the Republican Party. The two-
party system is so valuable, has served us so well, I can't believe that a multiplica-
tion of political parties will be beneficial.
Q. Have you attempted to communicate this personally to Senator Mathias,
or do you plan to do so?
1909
