[665]
November 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
You know, coming to Massachusetts-now let's be quiet back there—
[laughter]—it is great to come to Massachusetts again. I feel sorry for the Demo-
crats in the Commonwealth. They have 188 seats out of 240 in your lower
house; they have 33 out of 40 in your upper house; they have every consti-
tutional office and look where they have left you. [Laughter] They have nobody
to blame but themselves. And if we don't win in 1976, we have nobody to
blame but ourselves.
Now let's talk a little practicality. The Republican Party has the right phi-
losophy, but in order to win you have to come in first. Coming in second doesn't
do any good. So, I say to you we should open the doors to everybody that
believes fundamentally in our philosophy.
We are not a rich man's party. We are not a farmer's party. We are not a
laborer's party. We are not a big city, we are not a small city party. We are a
party of the people in this country. And let me assure you when I come, or this
friend of mine comes back up here to campaign in 1976, he is going to prove
to you that between now and then he had a great concern and compassion for
the people in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
We don't like high unemployment. We don't like the difficulties that you
face economically. I don't like them any better in Massachusetts than I do in
my State of Michigan. But we are on the upgrade. We have turned the situa-
tion around economically. We are going to have more employment. We are
going to have less unemployment. We are going to have far less in the rate
of inflation. We are on the way in this country to a solid, cheaper, healthier
economy.
But more importantly, because it involves all that we stand for, we are on
the road to real progress overseas. We strengthened, as Ambassador Volpe
knows, our relationships both militarily and economically in Western Europe.
We made headway, despite a setback in Vietnam, in strengthening our ties in
Japan and elsewhere out in the Pacific. We are making tremendous strides in
the steps toward a just and permanent peace in the Middle East. We are moving
forward in trying to find an answer to the problems between those behind the
Iron Curtain and those on this side. We are going to push, under proper cir-
cumstances, for a way to lower our arms burden without interfering with our
national security.
We are on the road to making real progress at home and abroad, and this is
what the American people want-an affirmative, forward-moving program.
And that is what the Republican Party stands for, and that is why we should
open our doors to people from small towns, big cities, the people from the work-
1820
