[655]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
said that despite attempts on your life—and he was quoted on this about 3 weeks
ago—that you might be engaging in some door-to-door campaigning if security
problems could be worked out. Do you think that is wise?
THE PRESIDENT. I saw Lou Frey's comment in that regard, and quite frankly,
my own technique of campaigning-if that is the right word-is to meet people
face to face. I think that is the way candidates ought to participate. Now, that
is possible when you are running for a governorship or a senatorship or a Con-
gressional race. Whether or not it is feasible for a President to do so under some
of the problems we have faced in recent months may dictate that it shouldn't
be done. But if I had my druthers, if I were to make the choice myself, I think
there is a great deal of merit to it.
NEW YORK CITY
[8.] Q. On the New York City situation, sir, there has been some specula-
tion lately that, because of pending legislation in Congress, you might have to
accept a bill which would contain loan guarantees in order to get the bank-
ruptcy law provisions you want or you would veto both. Can you conceive of be-
ing confronted with a situation like that, and if so, what would your actions be?
THE PRESIDENT. I was very forthright in the remarks I made last Wednesday
that I would not accept any of the legislation that at that time was in one
committee or another in the House as well as in the Senate. I still feel that
because I don't think those solutions are right on the fundamental issue of the
relationship between the Federal Government, the States, and local units of
government. I don't think it would solve the fundamental problem of getting
New York City's financial matters under control.
way
I believe the best way for that to be done is the recommendation I made which
was that if necessary-and I don't really assume it is necessary because I think
the city and the State can still do certain things that would preclude it—but if
necessary, we would have a new chapter in the Bankruptcy Act, Chapter XVI,
as I recall, that would then turn the affairs over to a Federal court, and I think
that is the right answer. If we are faced with the combination of something that
is bad and something that is good, I will take a look at it, but the odds are, be-
cause I feel so strongly the other is not a right answer, that I would not look with
favor on it.
Q. You said, sir, you would not bail out, financially, New York City. Would
you permit, as far as you could control it, any Federal aid to New York City?
The President. Let me set the proper perspective on this. The impression is
created in some circles that the Federal Government has not been generous to
1784
