August 24
[498]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that shows it is possible to take a natural resource and use it wisely to satisfy a
wide variety of human needs.
America needs more homegrown energy. This dam will provide clean elec-
trical power for the equivalent of some 235 (thousand) homes in the Pacific
Northwest. In addition, the Libby Dam will provide security for jobs and for
industry and for agriculture. But most important, this power will be created
without using expensive and depletable fossil fuel. Here at Libby Dam, the
marriage of technology and nature will be a happy and a constructive one.
A second welcome purpose of Libby Dam, of course, is flood control. A televi-
sion commercial tells us it's not nice to fool Mother Nature. On the other hand,
Libby Dam will keep Mother Nature from fooling us.
As an outdoor enthusiast, another purpose of Libby Dam which millions of
other Americans welcome is, of course, the recreational opportunities of this
magnificent lake. It will provide the activities that firm muscles, clear minds,
and renew spirits. I doubt if medical science will ever come up with a better
tranquilizer than a boat, a fishing pole, and a lazy afternoon.
But there is one area where contentment can only lead to chaos, and that's if
we fail to get cracking on a solution to the problem of our increasing dependence
on insecure, overseas sources of energy.
To satisfy their needs, as you heard from the Minister, our good friends to the
north have had to reduce, and may in the distant future eventually have to
eliminate, their exports of oil and natural gas to the United States.
These exports to the United States represent more than 1 million barrels of oil
per day, or its equivalent, which the United States will have to make up from its
own energy resources or become more and more dependent on OPEC nations
primarily in the Middle East.
This is one more indication of why our energy independence is an absolute
necessity to the well-being of our Nation. Although Libby Dam will provide
power for this region, it's not the answer to the energy scarcity nationally.
In the final analysis, each nation must ultimately cope with its own energy
needs and problems of supply. Enlightened self-interest, as the Minister said, is
the key phrase. We will cooperate with all others to ease our energy dilemma in
the short range as well as the long haul.
In my conversations with the Minister before coming here for this occasion, I
assured him and I believe he assured me—as he indicated in his speech to you—
that the United States and Canada will work together.
We can't solve all the problems, but if we approach the difficulties with an
1205
