[704]
November 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Alaska, I go to Ted in the United States Senate, go to Don Young in the House
of Representatives. I get the benefit of their good sound advice. But I also get a
broader perspective than just the Alaskan point of view. Ted is a leader in the
United States Senate, one of the legislative leaders of the Republican Party. And
in that capacity, as well as that of representing all of you, he has done a superb
job, one of those in the forefront of making it possible for the Congress to enact
the Alaskan pipeline legislation.
He, of course, was out in front and did a superb job in reference to the Alaska
native claims settlement legislation. He has fought hard and very successfully
in trying to build for us—when I say us, I mean those of us in the Lower 48
as well as Hawaii-a sound energy policy. And that's not an easy job with all
the crosscurrents that we are faced with in the Congress as well as elsewhere
in the country.
For far too long this country has been dependent upon unreliable foreign
sources of oil. And as our domestic production goes down—and it has been—
we are increasingly dependent upon foreign oil. And that will be true until
we get this great pipeline that I had the privilege of going out and seeing this
afternoon up in Fairbanks. But in the meantime, we have to do everything
possible, by a wide variety of legislative proposals, to strengthen America's
capability to have energy sufficiency and, hopefully, energy independence. And
I can say that Ted is in the forefront of fighting for the kind of legislation that
we need.
Let me say this, as we leave tomorrow for the trip to the Pacific area. We are
leaving tomorrow morning to visit the People's Republic of China, Indonesia,
and the Philippines, coming back through Hawaii. I know that you in Alaska
have probably a greater recognition of the need and necessity for the United
States to be forward-looking, to have views that encompass the views of those
who believe that we have to live in a world, not just within the United States.
I don't believe that we have a trend towards isolationism in America. And I
know that you in Alaska are those who are in the forefront trying to convince
people that our interests are involved in the Far East.
Let me say that our Asian neighbors, we hope, can and will be our friends.
We, of course, count Indonesia and we count the Philippines as friends of the
United States. We are opening, or have opened several years ago, a historic
relationship with the People's Republic of China. For literally years, the United
States and China were friends. We had a period where that friendship was
abruptly cut off. But we are starting a new relationship. And with the 800 mil-
lion people in China and 214 million people in the United States, there is no
1930
