September 9
[538]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Last January in my State of the Union Message, I proposed to the Congress
a comprehensive energy program to make the United States independent of
foreign oil by 1985.
The need for such a program grows with each passing day. Right now, the
United States is dependent on foreign oil for almost 40 percent of its current
needs. If we do not act quickly to reverse this trend, within 10 years, we will
import more than half of the oil we need at whatever price is demanded by
foreign producers who can cut off our supply any time they want to.
The more foreign oil we import, the more dollars and the more jobs we
lose from our economy. And as American jobs and dollars flow out of the
country, so does our economic and national security.
The 1973 embargo cost us more than $15 billion in Gross National Product
and threw hundreds of thousands of persons out of work. It dramatically showed
our vulnerability. Another disruption would be even more costly in dollars and
jobs—and could throw us into a new recession.
The detailed legislative program I sent to the Congress last winter involved
tough measures to put us immediately on the road to energy independence.
It would have conserved the energy we now have and accelerated development
and production of more energy here at home.
Because this program would have increased energy prices somewhat until
new domestic supplies were developed, I also proposed tax legislation to prevent
undue profit-taking by oil companies and to return energy tax dollars to Amer-
ican consumers to offset the slightly higher prices they would pay.
Since I could not gamble with our Nation's security while waiting for the
Congress to act on my comprehensive program, I raised the import fees on each
barrel of foreign crude oil in February as an interim measure to reduce imports.
The Congress still has not acted. Throughout these months, I have compro-
mised again and again and again to accommodate Congressional requests.
I delayed putting the second dollar fee on imported oil for 90 days, finally
imposing it June 1. I delayed the third dollar indefinitely. Still, the country has
seen no Congressional action.
In my State of the Union Message last January, I announced a decision to
remove the ceiling on price-controlled domestic oil April 1, permitting it to rise
from $5.25 per barrel to the free market price. This action would have im-
mediately stimulated production and development of needed additional energy
supplies and also encouraged conservation. At the request of Congressional
leaders, I postponed such action to give them time to work out a different
solution:
1355
