[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
initiatives with the OAU [Organization of African Unity], on a bilateral basis
with African States, with other countries throughout the world that have an
interest in Africa.
I certainly think, despite the handicap of the Senate action, we are going to
do everything we possibly can. And we certainly are not a pitiful giant in this
process.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, can I follow that one up?
THE PRESIDENT. Surely.
Q. You said you would do everything we possibly can. Would this include
the use of rethinking of the sales of grain as a political weapon or as a diplo-
matic tool?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the grain sale with the Soviet Union, the 5-year agree-
ment, is a very constructive part of the policy of détente. It certainly is construc-
tive from the point of view of American agriculture. We have a guarantee of 6
million tons a year with a top limit of some 8 million tons. It, I think, over the
long haul, will be looked upon as a very successful negotiation. I see no reason
at this time, certainly under the circumstances existing today, for any revision
of that negotiated agreement.
CUBA
[8.] Q. Mr. President, why is it necessary for you to rule out any improve-
ment in our relations with Cuba when what they are doing in Angola is essen-
tially no different than what the Soviet Union is doing, or South Africa is doing.
But especially, what evil have the Cubans done?
THE PRESIDENT. It is pretty hard for me to see what legitimate interest Cuba
has in sending some 6,000 well-equipped, well-trained military personnel to
Angola. I just don't see what their interest is. And it certainly doesn't help our
relations with Cuba when they know that we think it is in the best interests of
the three parties in that country to settle their differences themselves.
Q. You say it is not standing in the way of détente with the Soviet Union, it
has not broken off our relations with South Africa and what they are doing
there. Why is Cuba singled out for apparently a more strict treatment?
The President. I think that is very simple. We have had a period of what, 13
years of very few, if any, contacts with the Government of Cuba and many,
many differences, and there were some prospects-I say were some prospects—
for gradual improvement. But when we are trying to resolve differences in
Angola, they are seeking to expand the conflict there with active military
2006
