[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[25.] Q. Mr. President, looking back on 1975, what has been your greatest
disappointment this year, and what would you do differently?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the greatest disappointment was that I couldn't sit
in this office and turn a switch and instantaneously stop the rate of inflation,
stop the unemployment increases. It is frustrating to find that our society,
our industrial society and society as a whole, is so complex that you can't just turn
a switch and everything turns from darkness to sunshine.
I think any President—and the ones that I have known during my lifetime,
I suspect, found that probably the greatest disappointment. I am sure Mr. Roose-
velt, who struggled from 1933 until World War II, worked day and night trying
to find an answer to the Depression. I am sure that he sat in this very office and
wished he could turn a switch and get the 14- to 15-percent unemployment
changed. But it just doesn't happen that way. And that is a hard lesson I think
any President runs into. It is a disappointment, because you know there is hard-
ship, you know there is disappointment throughout the country. From a per-
sonal point of view, that was the most disappointing thing.
Well, any more questions?
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[26.] Q. May I ask one final question? It goes back to the matter of running.
You say that those that think Gerald Ford may drop out of the race before the
very end or should you be defeated simply don't know you. But in all your
political life, 25 years or so, you have never sought the Presidency. The question
goes to whether or not you have, since you have come into office, developed the
all-consuming desire and drive it will take to win election. Do you feel that you
have that now and the determination to do it?
THE PRESIDENT. No question in my mind. I have a vision of what I want
America to be. I think it is a good vision for 215 million Americans—I have
said it in one way or another in response to other questions here. At peace with
ourselves, peace throughout the world, better economic conditions, the strength-
ening of individual freedom in this country, the protection of our environment
as we try to move forward as a nation economically, control of the very difficult
problem of crime-these are the things that I want done. I happen to believe
that they are good for America. I strongly feel that I am qualified to implement
and to achieve those goals, that vision.
So, I do have the drive, and I have said repeatedly-and I will say it once
2018
