December 7
[714]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the steps necessary to conclude the negotiations through the two panels already
organized for that purpose.
President Marcos explained his efforts to attain military self-reliance for the
Philippines and his policy not to allow introduction of foreign ground troops
into the Philippines for its defense except as a last resort. President Ford expressed
support for those realistic policies and to this end indicated that the United
States intended to continue to provide assistance to the Philippines within the
framework of available resources.
The two Presidents reaffirmed their commitment to continue close associa-
tion on all matters of mutual concern. They concluded that the ties between the
Philippines and the U.S. remain strong and mutually beneficial.
President Ford thanked President Marcos for the magnificent hospitality
extended to him and Mrs. Ford. President Marcos accepted President Ford's
invitation to make a return visit to the United States at a mutually convenient
time.
Manila, December 7, 1975.
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was released at Manila, the Philippines.
714
Remarks on Departure From the Philippines.
December 7, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Marcos, our dear friends here in the Philippines:
No words can express the deep gratitude and great appreciation that Mrs.
Ford and I have had for the opportunity of visiting your very beautiful country
and meeting your just superb people.
To you and to all the Philippine people, my deepest thanks for the exceptional,
unbelievable hospitality which made our visit here truly memorable. The frank
and very cordial discussions that we have had here, Mr. President, have con-
vinced me of the unshakable bonds between our two countries in the search for
a better world for our children and our children's children.
In the past 24 hours, Mr. President, we have discussed a great variety of sub-
jects. We talked in particular about the economic relationship between our two
countries and our alliance and our security arrangements.
As befits two old and battle-tested allies, these talks have been very frank and
very penetrating. I thank you for the keen insight you have given me into your
country's hopes and great aspirations.
1947
