[673]
November 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
men this nation's great gratitude for your more than 36 years as a Member of
the Supreme Court. Your distinguished years of service are unequalled in all
the history of the Court. Your contributions to the law both as scholar and
jurist and your service under President Franklin D. Roosevelt as member and
chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission constitute a lifetime of
dedicated public service matched by few Americans.
It is my sincere hope that your health will soon be restored so that you can
enjoy your well-deserved retirement and relax among the natural beauties you
love and have helped to preserve. Future generations of citizens will continue
to benefit from your firm devotion to the fundamental rights of individual
freedom and privacy under the Constitution.
Please accept my respect and personal good wishes.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable William O. Douglas, Supreme Court of the United States]
NOTE: Justice Douglas' letter, dated November 12,
1975, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It was my hope, when I returned to Washing-
ton in September, that I would be able to continue
to participate in the work of the Supreme Court.
I have learned, however, after these last two
months, that it would be inadvisable for me to
attempt to carry on the duties required of a member
of the Court. I have been bothered with incessant
and demanding pain which depletes my energy to
the extent that I have been unable to shoulder my
full share of the burden.
Therefore, pursuant to the provisions of Title 28,
U.S. Code, Section 371(b), I hereby retire at the
close of this day from regular active service as an
GERALD R. FORD
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States.
During the hours of oral argument last week pain
made it necessary for me to leave the Bench several
times. I have had to leave several times this week
also. I shall continue to seek relief from this un-
abated pain but there is no bright prospect in view.
Chief Justice Burger and my other colleagues on
the Bench have extended to me every courtesy and
generous consideration. I have appreciated their
thoughtfulness and I shall miss them sorely, but I
know this is the right decision.
Respectfully yours,
WILLIAM O. DOUGLAS
[The Honorable Gerald R. Ford, President of the
United States, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
674
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Gaston Thorn
of Luxembourg. November 12, 1975
Mr. Prime Minister, our distinguished guests:
Let me say to you, Mr. Prime Minister, it is a great pleasure to welcome you
to our country and to Washington and to this evening with your many friends
as well as others. And this is, of course, a continuation of the first meetings we
had in Brussels last spring.
I was just saying that I had the impression then, and I am even more im-
1854
