[454]
July 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mrs. Gierek for the cordial hospitality arranged for them. They were grateful
to all the Poles who gave them such a warm reception, traditional in Poland.
11. The President and the First Secretary expressed their conviction and
desire for future visits at the highest level between the leaders of the two coun-
tries which would strengthen the U.S.-Polish relations still more. It was agreed
that specific arrangements would be made through diplomatic channels.
12. Warsaw, July 29, 1975.
GERALD FORD
President of the United States of America
EDWARD GIEREK
First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party
NOTE: The text of the joint communique was released at Kraków, Poland.
455
Remarks on Arrival at Helsinki, Finland.
July 29, 1975
President Kekkonen, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Ford and our son Jack join me in expressing our very great pleasure in
being in Finland on this occasion. I extend to the Finnish Government and to
the Finnish people the warm friendship and the warm admiration of the United
States and all Americans.
Finland is a most appropriate host for this final stage of the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe. I join the other participants so that to-
gether we will take another step in the building of a peaceful, cooperative, and
mutually beneficial relationship among all of the countries of Europe.
This meeting in Helsinki can give new impetus to the process of détente.
The provisions of the document we will sign must be translated into policies
and action by the participating states if we are to realize the promises of greater
security and cooperation in Europe.
The United States will participate fully in this process. American security
and well-being are tied to the security and to the stability of Europe.
While our agenda for the next few days will be full, Mr. President, I look
forward with pleasure to seeing you and enjoying the renowned hospitality of
Helsinki and Finland.
Thank you very much.
1070
