[473]
August 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
and learning to achieve understanding and to build a stronger nation. The
course he chose after the war became a symbol to all those who had marched
with him in the bitter years towards Appomattox.
General Lee's character has been an example to succeeding generations,
making the restoration of his citizenship an event in which every American
can take pride.
In approving this Joint Resolution, the Congress removed the legal obstacle
to citizenship which resulted from General Lee's Civil War service. Although
more than a century late, I am delighted to sign this resolution and to complete
the full restoration of General Lee's citizenship.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:12 p.m. at Arling-
ton House, Arlington, Va. Arlington House, for-
merly known as the Custis-Lee Mansion, was the
home of General Lee.
As enacted, S.J. Res. 23 is Public Law 94-67 (89
Stat. 380).
474
Text of a Toast at a Working Dinner for Prime Minister
Takeo Miki of Japan. August 5, 1975
Mr. Prime Minister:
In the last 40 years, you have visited this country in many capacities—as a
student, as a private citizen, as a representative of your government, as a states-
man—but always as a good friend. Ten years ago, you came as Foreign Minister.
We met 2 years ago when you visited Washington as Deputy Prime Minister.
Today, I am honored to greet you as the Prime Minister of your great nation.
Mr. Prime Minister, you and I have participated in public life for many years.
We appreciate the transformation in Japanese-American relations of the last 30
years. We understand the immense benefits our two peoples enjoy because of
this very close friendship. The keystone of this relationship is a sound security
accord. The United States remains firmly committed to the alliance with
Japan—an undertaking we could not value more highly.
It is significant that your first trip abroad as Prime Minister is to the United
States, just as my first overseas visit as President was to Japan. These priorities
reflect the order and standing of Japanese-American relations. They confirm
our growing cooperation, which is basic to our respective foreign policies. Our
visits accentuate the interdependence of our countries and the extent to which
the security and prosperity of our two peoples have become interwoven in the
second half of the 20th century.
1112
