[552]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
the world. President Gerald Ford is in St. Louis to attend a White House Con-
ference on Domestic and Economic Affairs. The conference is billed as a town
meeting, a chance for the President and the members of his Administration to
exchange views with the citizens of St. Louis.
Joining me in the questioning of Mr. Ford today are Richard Dudman, chief
Washington correspondent of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Jack Flach, political
editor of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat, and Bob Hardy, director of special
events for KMOX Radio.
Mr. President, welcome to St. Louis, and thank you for making this your
first stop.
THE PRESIDENT'S SAFETY
[1.] Q. Our first question concerns a matter of major concern to the vast
majority of Americans; that is, your personal safety. It is a frightening fact that
a President of the United States would have to wear a bulletproof vest, and we
wonder whether this is going to become standard hardware, standard issue from
the White House for future American Presidents and yourself? We also wonder
whether or not you feel that in the interest of national security, world security,
you should modify your campaign style?
The President. Julius, let me say at the outset I don't think I should discuss
whether I wear or don't wear—or whether I do something or don't do some-
thing that involves the security.
The Secret Service makes recommendations. I feel an obligation to follow
their recommendations. But to identify, Julius, what I am doing or why I am
doing it, involving security, I think makes security that much more difficult.
As to my desire to meet people when I come to either St. Louis or in New
Hampshire, where I was yesterday, I feel it is important for the American people
to have an opportunity to see firsthand, close-up, their President.
In any job, you know, there is a risk of some kind. I feel that you have to bal-
ance or weigh the risks as to my own personal security against what is a very
important aspect of our political life in America.
It is helpful for me to meet with the people, shake hands with them, get their
questions, and it is just as important for them to have me say hello or to answer
their questions.
So, as I put the alternatives or the contending arguments on the scales, it
seems to me that what is good for the country overbalances anything else.
Q. We can see that your vest today, that we can see, matches your suit and is
quite attractive.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
1374
