October 15
[631]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
1
of this country a meaningful tax reduction. And therefore, in return for a
$28 billion lid on Federal spending, the growth of Federal spending, I have
suggested that we ought to put a $28 billion tax reduction program into effect.
And it seems to me that the program makes a lot of sense; 75 percent of the
28 billion in a tax reduction would go to people. We would hold harmless
those at the lower end of the income spectrum. They would not be treated any
less well than they are being treated under the existing tax reduction legislation.
We would not treat those at the upper end of the income spectrum any differently
than they are treated under the present income tax reduction that was ap-
proved by the Congress early this year.
But what we try to do is to give some long overdue equity and relief to the
middle-income people—from $8,000 to $25,000. We have had inflation for the
last 18 to 24 months that has hurt this group more seriously than any other
group in our society, and they are deserving of tax relief and benefits at the
present time.
Now, the program is very simple—we increase personal exemptions from $750
to $1,000. For those that use the standard deduction, we take the single person
and give him a flat $1,800; for a family of two we give them a $2,500 standard
deduction. And we make some adjustments in rates so that the people at either
end of the economic spectrum are held harmless. But those in the middle-the
hard-working, industrious individuals, families that are trying to improve their
lot and have an opportunity—give them a long overdue dose of equity.
Then we turn to business. We have found that the needs and the demands for
capital to keep our country prosperous, growing, are almost unbelievable in the
next decade. And under our existing tax laws affecting business, it is almost im-
possible for the accumulation of capital, and it is our thought that we ought to
reduce the corporate tax rate from 48 to 46 percent and to make the investment
tax credit permanent.
In this way we are recognizing the need for capital formation, and whenever
I say capital formation, I think we have to add the following: Yes, capital
formation is important for business, but it is even more meaningful for the
people who want jobs. You can't expand industry or retail establishments if you
don't provide jobs. So, really what we are talking about is the expansion of busi-
ness for the providing of jobs for the 1,600,000 new people who enter the labor
market every year.
So, this package in the tax area is well balanced. It is aimed at providing equity
for individuals; it is aimed at providing a stimulant for the continued growth of
our free enterprise system. I think it is good.
1709
