July 22
[420]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I just said to Alpha, as you leave the Rose Garden, if you would like to go
into the West Wing and go through the Cabinet Room, you might have an
opportunity to see what the Cabinet Room looks like and get some of the
atmosphere that comes from that historic room.
As I look out through here, as I said earlier, I am sure that you have got some
potential Presidents of the United States, and obviously you have some potential
candidates for Secretary of Agriculture. [Laughter] No, I think Earl Butz does
a great job as Secretary of Agriculture, and it may take a couple of years for
you to come along and occupy that position.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:28 a.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
420
Statement on House Action Disapproving Compromise Plan
To Decontrol Domestic Oil Prices. July 22, 1975
I WAS disappointed to learn that the House has voted to disapprove the phased
decontrol plan I submitted last week. Under my plan, price controls on old oil
would have been gradually lifted over a 30-month period. This was a fair plan
which would have achieved significant energy saving while not hindering
economic recovery.
My energy plan includes an appropriate windfall profits tax program and tax
refunds to the American people to offset higher energy costs.
The 30-month plan would have resulted in about 300,000 barrels per day less
imports in 1977 and would have added about 1.4 million barrels per day of
domestic production by 1985. Under the plan, petroleum prices would have
risen by about a penny per gallon in 1975 and an additional 3 cents per gallon
in 1976 and 1977.
I remain convinced that this Nation must achieve energy independence in
1985 by increasing domestic supply, encouraging conservation, and removing
the complex regulatory system which affects every American. We must start
towards energy independence now and stem our increasing vulnerability before
our dependence becomes too great.
The gradual decontrol plan I sent to the Congress was an important step to-
ward these goals. The Congressional disapproval of this plan occurs before any
1011
