[518]
September 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
economic disruption resulting from sharp increases in oil prices and worldwide
inflation.
Over the past year another problem-stagnation in world economics-has
been a primary concern. These problems—increased oil prices, inflation, and
recession—are intimately related. Progress is needed in all three simultane-
ously. Individual governments have responded with policies to halt the decline
in economic activity and restore economic health.
I am confident that these steps, combined with the resilience of people and
institutions around the world, will succeed. But the forces of recovery do not
always move quickly. Too many, today, national economies are in an uncom-
fortable and unavoidable period of waiting for the results of earlier actions.
But even in the midst of recession, inflation continues at an uncomfortably
high rate. While some progress has been made, the simple truth is that re-
establishment of a durable and noninflationary period of economic growth in
the world will not be easy.
In the United States, recovery is well underway. Each week brings additional
evidence of renewed economic health, and I am determined to fight against an
acceleration of inflation that could restrain this recovery.
The achievement of a durable economic recovery in America is also in the
world interest. A sound, healthy, growing United States economy is the best
lasting contribution that this Nation can make to other nations. No other
action by the United States will contribute as much to the welfare of the world
economy.
A resurgent United States economy will assist expansion of trade and promote
prosperity for other countries. The United States will continue to ensure that
goods, services, and capital move freely across our frontiers.
We will move forward with negotiations to remove trade barriers and bring
about a more efficient use of world resources. Our capital market will be kept
open. The production of American goods in short supply will be increased.
All of these are firm commitments of the United States.
The United States is acutely aware that while recession and inflation and high
oil prices have resulted in many hardships for the industrial nations, the eco-
nomic consequences have been far more severe for the developing nations. In
recent months, my advisers and I have been studying means of alleviating the
distress of the developing world. True to the traditions of the past, the United
States recognizes its responsibilities to assist others in the most constructive way,
and we intend to live up to those responsibilities.
1288
