October 9
[620]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I reject the prophets of doom who see nothing but depression at home and
defeat abroad. I reject any advice to pull down the Stars and the Stripes and sail
home from the seas of the world to safe anchorage at home port.
If we do so, our home ports will no longer be safe. You know it, and I know
it. Under my Presidency, we will neither furl the flag nor abandon hope. We
will maintain constancy and credibility of American strength at home, as on
the seas of the world.
Thank you very much, and Godspeed to all hands.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:23 p.m. at Leutze
Park at the Washington Navy Yard. In his opening
remarks, he referred to J. William Middendorf II,
Secretary of the Navy, and Adm. James L. Hollo-
way III, Chief of Naval Operations.
620
The President's News Conference of
October 9, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening. How are you all tonight?
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
THE MIDDLE EAST
[1.] Q. Mr. President, it now seems pretty certain that Congress will approve
sending American civilians to the Sinai. My question is: Will any of these
Americans be drawn from the military establishment, CIA, or the intelligence
agencies, and is recruiting underway now?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only tell you that the American technicians will be
American civilians. They are highly qualified, very technically oriented indi-
viduals who have to operate very sophisticated electronics equipment. The actual
recruiting, I assume, will begin very shortly. I am certain they will not be in
the military.
Q. Well, they may not be in the military after they go to the Sinai, but are
they being drawn from that area?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you the specifics on that, except that I can assure
you that they are civilian technicians and will have no relationship to our
military.
NEW YORK CITY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, we are well aware of your opposition to a Federal
bailout of New York City, but does that necessarily mean that you would veto
1645
