August 2
[460]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
aid matter was not expedited. That leads me to the question: Had you been in
Washington, do you think you could have twisted some arms and pulled some
votes?
The President. I don't think so. The one veto that they overrode, I fully
anticipated that they would. I wanted to make the point that I was holding the
line at $60 billion deficit. And by the majority or the two-thirds vote of the Con-
gress, they have breached the $60 billion deficit figure. I think the American
people will support my position.
SILBERT NOMINATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, while we are on the question of Congressmen, I
I understand the Silbert nomination 2 is being returned to the White House by
the Senate. Will you study that or resubmit, or what plan do you have for it?
THE PRESIDENT. Frankly, I had not heard of that action. I reiterated the nom-
ination of Mr. Silbert, and as far as I know, there is no reason why I should
change.
GENERAL SECRETARY BREZHNEV OF THE SOVIET UNION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, at the conclusion of today's talks, you wished Secre-
tary General Brezhnev good health. You negotiated with him over a period of
5 hours or more. How do you think his health is?
The President. I thought he looked very well this morning. In fact, I said it
sincerely because I did feel that he looked better—active and strong.
Q. Better than he did the last time that you saw him?
THE PRESIDENT. I hate to compare, but I can only say that I thought he looked
well and he acted strong, and it was a very good face-to-face negotiation.
Q. Based on what happened today, do you expect the General Secretary will
be in Washington this fall, as you intended all along?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no change in our overall plan in this regard. We
have not talked about details. The plan still is in effect.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[9.] Q. Is there anything new on the Middle East in terms of the possibility
of an agreement between Israel and Egypt?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very cautious, very cautious, more optimistic today than
I was a few days ago, but I don't want to go any further than that.
Q. Would you say why you are more optimistic ?
* Earl J. Silbert was nominated to be United States Attorney for the District of Columbia on November 18,
1974, and again on January 16, 1975. Following the nomination's return by the Senate on September 2,
1975, it was resubmitted on September 4 and subsequently confirmed on October 8, 1975.
1085
