[573]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Congressman Ed Roybal said yesterday that he did not think you had
cooperated sufficiently or compromised, I think, is the way he put it.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me just cite some figures that I did yesterday in Okla-
homa. Since January, when I submitted a program, an energy program, I have
personally consulted with 51 out of 100 United States Senators. I personally con-
sulted with 305 or 310 of the 435 Members of the House of Representatives.
I have recommended two phased decontrol programs. They have rejected both
of them. I have gone more than halfway. And I regret—and I think it is un-
fortunate that the Congress has not responded.
I still think that there is a chance they could at least do something, but if they
don't do something, then I think we also are in a position where we will come
out of it in good shape.
THE NATION'S GOALS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, in times past and in times of national problems, other
Presidents have called on the American people to serve the country in various
ways. It seems to me a lot of people are willing, even eager to do the same thing
now, but they aren't sure exactly how. What would you like to ask the American
people to do?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not pessimistic at all that the American people will not
respond. As a matter of fact, as I travel around the country I find the American
people are eager to cooperate. They can do it in a number of ways. The first is
to impress upon their representatives in the Congress, Senators and Congress-
men, that we have to move ahead, whether it is in energy, or the economy, or
national security. I note a slight change in the attitude of the Congress, because I
think the American people are having an impact.
Q. Indeed, that is what you are trying to do in your travels.
THE PRESIDENT. That is exactly what we are trying to do. And I note some
slight improvement in the attitude of the Congress in trying to cooperate with
and I certainly am going to bend over backward, and I think I have in that
me,
area.
INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING ACTIVITIES
[8.] Q. During the past week we have heard that the intelligence apparatus
in this country deliberately defied the press, the people, and the Congress about
the size of the enemy during the Tet offensive in the Vietnam war. What do you
think about those remarks that were made, and how do you feel, as a former
Member of Congress, having been intentionally defied?
THE PRESIDENT. If it is a fact, and I think the committee ought to get others
to testify who might have a different view
1466
