[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
My answer to that is they have gotten them under the present law. If they
are inflationary, they came under the present circumstances. What we are
trying to do with the amendments that we have advocated is to get some respon-
sibility at the local level, and if they don't achieve local responsibility the
international unions have the right to veto it. I think that is a better way to
achieve wage stability in the construction field, and if those amendments are
approved, I will support it; if they are not approved, I will veto it.
THE BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
[17.] Q. Mr. President, I am Bill Parrish, chairman of the Missouri Ameri-
can Revolution Bicentennial Commission. One of the hopes of the Bicentennial
is to revivify the positive aspects of American life so that the celebration becomes
a catalyst to a rededication of the American people to work together to build
a better future. We are finding a great enthusiasm for this throughout Missouri.
You talked just briefly about this in relation to the crime situation, but I
wonder if you could give us a little more elaboration on how you think we can
better focus in on this problem through the Bicentennial to get a better grip
on moving forward with America.
THE PRESIDENT. I believe our theme for the Bicentennial should be the rights
of the individual operating within the law. I think the individual in the third
century of our country should be free of mass education, mass industry, mass
government. I think the right of the individual operating within the law without
the heavy hand of government or any of the other massive organizations running
him, if we can achieve that, I think it will accomplish what you are seeking to
accomplish.
FEDERAL SUPPORT OF THE ARTS
[18.] Q. Mr. President, I am Homer Sayad of the Arts and Educational
Council of St. Louis. St. Louis has one of the most successful arts councils in
the country. In 13 years it has raised over $14 million in private funds for the
benefit of our cultural organizations. The National Endowment for the Arts,
under its very able Chairman Nancy Hanks, has done much to stimulate the
support for the arts from the private sector. The arts are not a luxury, as some
people may think. They are a softening and humanizing factor and very
essential quality to our life.
Is
your Administration committed to the continued growth and development
of Federal support of the arts through the National Endowment, and will
you oppose tax measures which would tend to discourage and inhibit private
contributions for the arts?
1404
