[620]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
The President. I disapprove of young people using marijuana. I believe the
preponderance of the evidence so far is that it is not a healthy habit to have.
I personally disapprove of it. And on the other hand, I think it is a very honor-
able thing for a son to frankly admit that on a very limited basis, had done so.
And as I said in Nashville (Knoxville), all of our children have been brought
up to be honest with their parents and honest otherwise, and I respect them for
that and I hope they continue that very fine trait. But I repeat, as far as I am
personally concerned, I do not approve of the smoking of marijuana.
NEW YORK CITY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, to return to New York City for a moment—
[laughter]-Secretary Simon-
THE PRESIDENT. My wife is up there tonight.
Q. I hope she has a good time, sir. [Laughter]
Secretary Simon and Chairman Burns have testified that if Congress does
decide to do something to help New York, it should contain tough provisions
to make sure that New York City balances its budget and to discourage other
cities from following the Federal route. Should legislation come to you con-
taining these tough provisions, might you then consider it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I always consider any legislation passed by the Con-
gress, but I certainly have to look at the small print on any legislation that is
aimed at bailing New York City out when their financial or fiscal record has
not been a good one.
As I recall what Chairman Burns said the other day in testimony-that if a
city came up with a balanced budget and if a State guaranteed to provide neces-
sary revenue to keep that in balance, and if there was a long-time responsible
fiscal policy, then he would recommend such legislation.
Well, if you have all of those factors—a balanced budget, the State guarantee-
ing the payment of the money by additional State taxes, and the other factor—
it hardly seems needed or necessary for the Federal Government to get involved.
Q. Well, sir, the only question is the short run, and Congress is thinking of
coming up with something to help New York over the short run. Might you, if
all of these other elements were there, might you support some help in the
short run?
The President. I do not think it is a healthy thing for the Federal Govern-
ment to bail out a city, and I mean any city that has handled its fiscal affairs
as irresponsibly over a long period of time as New York City has. Now, I have
great sympathy for the people of New York, the 6 or 8 million people there.
1652
