[590]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. in the
Great Hall at the Department of Justice. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Harold R. Tyler, Jr.,
Deputy Attorney General, and to Richard W. Velde,
Administrator, and Charles R. Work, Deputy Ad-
ministrator, Law Enforcement Assistance Admin-
istration.
591
Remarks on Greeting Local Officials From Hopkinton,
Rhode Island. September 27, 1975
CHARLES J. HAMMOND, JR. President Ford, I have here a letter that was drafted
and it reads: "Dear Mr. President, we, the undersigned residents of Hopkinton,
Rhode Island," and we have written in, "and vicinity"-[laughter]—“joined a
Happy Bicentennial America delegation to the White House in wishing you
and your family good health and happiness. Respectfully yours . . ."
We have circulated this through our schools, and if you look through just a
couple of pages, we have some very small children that did quite a job on this.
But there are about a thousand signatures in here, and I would like to present
this to you as a token from the town of Hopkinton and thank you very much
for this day.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Mr. Hammond, and I also thank
Senator Pastore and Congressman Beard and all of you for coming down here.
You brought the sunshine this morning. For that we are very grateful. But also,
Mrs. Ford and myself, as well as the children, thank you very much for this
expression of good health and best wishes.
I had the opportunity of being in Rhode Island about 3 weeks ago, and the
people of Rhode Island were extremely hospitable and friendly. And for that
I will thank them through you, if you don't mind.
You are all dressed here in the costumes of earlier days of our great country.
Rhode Island played a very significant part in making this country what it is
today. Your predecessors were among the early settlers, and the year-to-year
contribution of Rhode Island has been very meaningful in making America a
great country.
I have always enjoyed the opportunity to visit in Rhode Island. I can't hon-
estly say I have been to Hopkinton. [Laughter]
MR. HAMMOND. Not many people know where it is. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. But obviously it is a great community with a wonderful spirit
and fine people. I think it is a great idea that you are thinking Bicentennial and
1534
