[712]
December 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
As individuals and as nations, however, we have both tasted the bitterness
of defeat, the satisfaction of joint devotion to a common goal, and the lesson
that victory once achieved is only the beginning of a new challenge.
We have already observed the common determination of people throughout
Asia and the rest of the world to achieve a more satisfying life. That determina-
tion is shared by you in the Philippines and by us in the United States.
We have learned as nations to recognize that we need not all be identical to
survive. We have learned that we need only to treat one another, different or
similar as we may be, in a spirit of generosity and mutual benefit and respect.
This spirit which our nations share is the essence of real hospitality. It is one
of the very special elements that strengthens our sense of common interests in
each other's security and well-being.
In that spirit, Mr. President, let me offer a toast to you, to Mrs. Marcos, to the
people of the Philippines, and to the mutual respect and sense of community
that unite us as two great republics.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 10:20
p.m. at the Presidential Palace in response to a toast
by President Marcos. President Marcos spoke as
follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, Mr. Chief Justice, dis-
tinguished guests, Your Excellencies, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is indeed a great honor for the Filipino people
and for ourselves, the First Lady and your humble
servant, to have as guests at tonight's dinner the
President of the United States of America and his
lady and his daughter and the members of his
party.
It is my hope that my words tonight will record,
even but to a modest degree, the appreciation that
we feel for the honor that you have bestowed upon
our country and people, Mr. President, for visiting
us at this momentous period of Asia's and the Philip-
pines' history.
Our relations are not only deep-rooted, they have
been constant. We have had our differences, but as
you can see from the demonstration not only of
good will but of affection, almost of hysteria, in
the effort to welcome you and Mrs. Ford and your
daughter and the members of your party, there is a
deep reservoir of good will for America in the
Philippines.
Our relations, the relations between the Philip-
pines and the United States, is indeed different from
any other relations between two countries. When, at
the start of your historic journey, you said that your
ยน Querube Makalintal, Chief Justice of the Philip-
pine Supreme Court.
visit to the Philippines symbolizes the links and
commitments of America to Asia, we took it as an
affirmation that such a commitment to the peace of
the world has not diminished, arising out of any
changes in perceptions brought about by recent
events.
The United States, in times past, has opened and
adjusted its perspectives on Asia and the Pacific,
but the American response to any changed situa-
tion has always been the improvement of the
quality of relations with its Pacific and Asian allies.
We are encouraged, too, by the fact that the
political leadership of America has often initiated
the basic policy that if there be any changes and
adjustments so by any of your allies, we will find
America flexible.
Not only the occurrences in Vietnam but the as-
pirations of the new nations of Asia seem to have
brought about a changed situation which challenges
the historic commitment of the United States to
the peace and stability of the region. All the new
nations of Asia, ours included, now seek to fulfill
a belated appointment with modernization.
All these nations now attempt to confront and
change the conditions that have converted them
into spawning grounds for conflict, dependent upon
foreign assistance and susceptible to internal strife
and, worst of all, intervention.
We seek a new basis for order, for harmony, and
for cooperation. And what we seek we seem to see
symbolized in your leadership and in your effort at
establishing a climate of global peace. For this we
extend to you congratulations on behalf of our
people and on behalf of the leadership of Asia.
1944
