[580]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
When I talk about energy, I am talking about jobs—American jobs. Last year
about three-fourths of all planned nuclear plants and over one-fourth of all
coal plants scheduled to be built in the next 10 years were postponed or canceled.
Domestic oil production right here in the good old U.S.A. has fallen by 11 per-
cent since early 1973. Natural gas production has declined so seriously that
thousands of jobs are threatened this very winter.
Last year, the average American home paid about $360 for foreign oil com-
pared with only $45 in 1970. Oil-producing nations know that we are more
dependent and more vulnerable than ever.
There is now a possibility that the OPEC nations' foreign oil cartel will once
again raise prices. In fact, they are meeting this week for that purpose. We don't
have to take this lying down—and we won't.
For starters, let's spend here at home for American jobs some of the billions
we have been spending abroad for foreign oil and foreign payrolls. We can
create construction jobs for workers, capital for industrial expansion, and new
energy for all Americans. That is what independence is all about.
In response to those nations which would control our energy supply and prices
and hence our future, I say to industry, to construction workers, and to all
Americans: Let's go into business for ourselves. Let's produce American energy
in America with American workers and do it as soon as possible.
Last January, I asked the Congress to act. The comprehensive program I then
outlined was based upon my deep personal belief and conviction in America.
By 1985, I envision 200 major nuclear powerplants, 250 new coal mines, 150
major coal-fired powerplants, 30 major new oil refineries, 20 major new synthetic
fuel plants, the drilling of many thousands of new oil wells, the insulation of
18 million homes, and the manufacture and sale of millions of new automobiles,
trucks, and buses that use much less fuel.
I happen to believe we can do it. In another crisis, the one in 1942, Franklin
Delano Roosevelt, our then President, said this country would build 50,000
warplanes in a year. Our enemies scoffed. But by 1943 our production had
reached 125,000 aircraft annually. We did it then, we can do it again right now.
Frankly, we cannot wait any longer for the Congress to act on my compre-
hensive energy program. Long-range security, jobs, and energy are inseparable.
The time has come for action on energy independence.
Accordingly, I will ask very shortly the Congress to erase all doubt about the
capacity of America to respond. I will propose an entirely new $100 billion.
Government corporation to work, with private enterprise and labor, to gain
energy independence for the United States in 10 years or less.
1494
