[468]
August 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the point of view of the world as a whole. Moderation, greater flexibility are
absolutely essential at the present time.
I, of course, thank the President for his cordial and friendly welcome, and I
express to the Yugoslavian people my gratitude for the warm reception given
to Mrs. Ford and myself and our son, and I look forward to an expanding and
improving relationship between our peoples.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:43 a.m. at the Fed-
eral Executive Council Building.
President Tito responded in Serbo-Croatian. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
It is a little difficult for me to make a state-
ment, as the President of the United States has
already said all that I wanted to say.
I must say that the talks have been going in a
very cordial and constructive spirit.
When we discussed bilateral relations, we found
that such relations are already very good, but
we agreed that they could be better and that we in-
tended to expand them in the future.
Both sides have obviously expressed concern about
the situation in the Middle East; I think [in] that
our views are quite identical, especially after I
heard what President Ford said about the actions
the United States intends to take in the future.
As far as the international situation is concerned,
we didn't discuss it in detail, but we discussed more
the economic situation. We found together that the
economic situation is very serious and that it will be
a matter of serious discussion at the forthcoming
Special Session of the United Nations. And after
I heard what President Ford and State Secretary
Kissinger said about the attitude the United States.
are going to take, I think I can be hopeful that the
Special Session will be a successful one.
I think the talks with President Ford and State
Secretary Kissinger were in the spirit of the joint
declaration we adopted in Washington.
I wish to say that the visit has been a very suc-
cessful one; it has enabled us to get to know each
other a little better. I think President Ford has been
able to see that the peoples of Yugoslavia-judging
by the reception they gave you, sir-wish good rela-
tions with the United States of America.
So, I thank you for your visit which will be,
I am sure, beneficial for both countries and for
the future relations.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Earlier in the day, the President met with Prime
Minister Dzemal Bijedic at the Old Palace.
469
Toasts of the President and President Tito of Yugoslavia
at a Working Luncheon in Belgrade.
Mr. President:
August 4, 1975
As our visit in Yugoslavia draws to a close, let me express my deep appreciation
on behalf of Mrs. Ford and our son Jack and all of the American party who
join me in thanking you once more for the warm hospitality and deep friend-
ship that you have shown us. We have had a marvelous time in Belgrade.
Mr. President, I especially appreciate having had this chance to hear your
views on our bilateral questions and on the issues affecting the international
community. I appreciate your long experience and wisdom reflected in each
of the subjects discussed during our conversations here.
1104
