September 30
[598]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
This, in my judgment, will meet all of our needs at home and keep food
prices at a fair and reasonable level, but more importantly, it will give to us as a
nation the opportunity to use our great resource-agriculture—for human-
itarian purposes, for other national interests.
It is something that can be used effectively and beneficially for all of us, and
for that we should thank every farmer who has produced and produced and
produced.
Let me speak for a moment, if I might, about the status of our economy.
Tonight, I can tell you this with firm conviction, without any hesitancy or
reservation: The recession that we have gone through—and it has been tough—
unemployment much too high, inflation much too great-this trend that
started in the late fall of 1974 and was accentuated by serious problems in the
early spring of 1975, this trend has been reversed. Virtually every indicator that
is valid and reliable, significant, gives us the encouraging news. We are getting
some good news also from the supermarkets and even our retail stores through-
out the country.
Let me take you back, if I might, just a moment, to a year ago, September
1974. The cost of living at that time was rising at an annual rate—almost
unbelievable—of 15 percent. For all of last year, 1974, the rate rose by more
than 12 percent. Yet the figures just in for August, just a week or so ago, show
the cost of living rose only two-tenths of 1 percent by any standard and, par-
ticularly compared to 1974, that is encouraging news.
But let me assure you, this bit of information doesn't mean that the battle
against inflation has been won-far, far from it. We must continue to apply
restraint, particularly on inflationary spending by the Democratic controlled
Congress. With the Republicans in the Congress outnumbered better than 2
to 1, my Presidential veto is often the only weapon available to defend fiscal
responsibility against the assaults of the big spenders. And if I might interject
a personal note of appreciation, I had the privilege of serving in the Congress
with the Members of the House and Senate who are here. It was a great
experience. I loved every minute of it, primarily because I enjoyed the associa-
tion with the people who are here representing you from Illinois.
You in this great State have one of the most outstanding delegations of any
State in the Union. They were strong in their support for me when I was
privileged to be the minority leader, and believe me, they have been staunch
and steadfast and discerning and articulate since I have been President.
And I can't thank them enough on your behalf, on behalf of our fellow
Americans. But I want to express to them my deep gratitude for their great
1549
