October 15
[631]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
631
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the National Association
October 15, 1975
of Food Chains.
Thank you very much, Clancy.
Let me say at the outset how grateful I am for the very warm reception and
the opportunity to meet a number of you and shake hands and say hello. This
means a great deal to me, and I am just very, very appreciative.
In the spirit of the express checkout line, I will do something that is very
difficult for a person in the political arena, I will try to limit my remarks to
eight items or less. [Laughter]
What I would like to do is, first, compliment the group that is here and the
people that you represent for contributing a very meaningful part to the free
enterprise system in the United States. During my lifetime I have seen food
chains grow locally in my hometown of Grand Rapids—and I suspect Henry
Meyer and Eberhart are both here someplace—but nevertheless, I have seen not
only local chains but our large chains that operate all over the country contribute
in a very meaningful, significant way to a better way of life in the United States
and I compliment you and congratulate you for this effort.
As I have watched this contribution, it has seemed to me that you have had
to be very careful about your costs, you have had to be very careful on how you
treated your employees, you had to be extremely careful on the product that
you sold, and you had to compete with one another in a fair and equitable way.
These are all of the ingredients that I think make America what it is today.
Now it seems to me that we are seeing this development in America being
undertaken and copied in many other countries throughout the world. And let
me give you one illustration. I was in Yugoslavia several months ago, a country
that has a totally different philosophy than that of the United States. And yet
I saw an illustration there of how they are seeking to follow what we are doing
in marketing, marketing that the food chains have been in the forefront of
for a good many years. And I have heard in many other countries throughout
the world that what you have done and proven to be right is being imitated
on a worldwide basis.
So, instead of your operations being condemned by some, I think that all of
you, for the contribution you have made, should be complimented in the fore-
front of the free enterprise system.
Now, if I might, I would like to use some of the things that you have done
1707
