September 4
[526]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
new jobs every year for young people coming into the labor market. Now, I am
an optimist, despite the problems that we face in this area.
Now, let me talk for a moment, if I might, about foreign policy. For the last
2 weeks or thereabouts, Secretary Kissinger has been in the Middle East. He
arrived back last night. I talked to him for an hour or so upon his return, and
I had a meeting with the Democratic and Republican leadership at the White
House at 7:45 this morning, where we had a report from him firsthand.
Let me summarize very quickly how I see the situation, because this agree-
ment is a key to building a firmer and broader program for peace in the Middle
East.
I can put it this way: If we had not had this agreement, the probability of
another war, the fifth in 20-some years, would have been very, very high. You
know what happened in the '67 war and the '73 war, particularly the latter, with
the oil embargo and the economic dislocations that resulted. If we had not been
able to help get Israel and Egypt together—and Secretary Kissinger played a
very key role-the prospects for war in that area would have been exceedingly
high in a relatively short period of time.
But we got the agreement, and the net result is the path of peace has been
broadened and made stronger. And we will work with others to keep the
momentum going; we have eliminated stagnation and stalemate, and the
momentum for peace on a broader basis, I think, can be kept going and can
materialize. I am not going to be foolish enough to pick a date, but I am firmly
of the conviction that the attitude, the atmosphere is such that this momentum
will keep going.
So, I am pleased to report to you that after the meeting with the leadership
this morning, some 20 Members of the House and Senate, both sides of the
political aisle, there was near unanimity that the concurrent resolution that will
be submitted to the House and Senate will be approved.
The one issue that I am sure bothers you—it was the one issue that was raised
primarily in the meeting with the Congressional leaders this morning-why is
the United States agreeing to send up to 200-up to but not more than, and those
are the precise words in the agreement—civilians, technicians, to be a partner in
the manning of these early warning stations?
Let me tell you the history of it. President Sadat, when I met him in Austria
in early June, suggested it. Prime Minister Rabin several weeks later independ-
ently suggested it. So, we have in this case both Israel and Egypt wanting us
to do it.
1303
