[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
has to come out and solicit views and listen to the views of people, so that the
public doesn't get the impression decisions are made in a smoke-filled room or
behind the locked door.
The people want to participate, and I think by conferences such as this and
other means, the public will feel they are a part of something. Once they feel
they are a part of something, in my judgment, confidence will be restored.
THE MARITIME INDUSTRY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Harvey Mesford, and I represent the
Seafarers International Union. In 1970, the maritime industry was given a
tremendous shot in the arm through the passage of the Merchant Marine Act of
1970. Now, 5 years later, this industry is in dire need of a booster shot in some
form of cargo preference, preferably in the dry bulk import and export field.
My question is, is there any hope for legislation being passed and signed in this
area?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very familiar with the issue, and I have talked with a
good many people, both in labor and management, who have been involved in
this legislative effort. And the basic problem-which is what we have to solve—
our merchant marine is being unfairly attacked on a competitive basis by highly
subsidized foreign ships, and to some extent, other countries are using the cargo
preference approach.
I believe there is a better answer than specific cargo preference legislation, al-
though if it were properly drafted, I said I would sign such a bill.
But let me just take a specific case. In 1972, when the first shipment of grain
was sent to the Soviet Union, an agreement was reached so that one-third of
that purchase would go in Soviet vessels, one-third in United States bottoms, and
the other third in, I guess, any bottom.
Unfortunately, in the 3 years, the United States 1 year got up to its third, in the
other 2 years we were between 20 and 24 percent. That is inexcusable.
Now, one of the problems is that rates paid by the Soviet Union for the ship-
ment have not been adequate, and American shipowners have put the ships in
lay-up. We are in the process now of trying to negotiate with the Soviet Union
a higher freight rate per ton so that those American ships-about 34 or 35 of
them—will be taken out of lay-up and will be used in the shipment of any
grain, whatever the amount is. This, in effect, will provide the dry cargo that you
are talking about, or at least I think you are referring to.
Now, in addition, we are trying to broaden the utilization of any such ships
that are in that category, so they don't come back deadheading, so to speak, but
1312
