[423]
July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
to give the Congress time to reassess, to see whether they did the job right or
wrong.
If you take a look at the veto record this year, in each case where there has
been a veto, the Congress has had an opportunity to reconsider and to see if
there was not some way that they could end up writing better legislation, and
they did.
And the net result is that no part of the Government has a totally free hand
to decide exactly what ought to be done. At least it requires more than two-
thirds for a branch of the Government to make a single decision.
This is one of those very important ingredients that our forefathers were
smart enough to include in the Constitution, that they wanted checks and
balances so that no person, no segment of our society, no branch of the Govern-
ment could run the Government without any control from the minority.
I think this is something we have to protect. One year I may, or a President
may want something done, and the Congress will check him. On the other
hand, you will find that on other occasions, the Congress may want to do
something that is not necessarily the right thing, and the Constitution gives the
President the right to have a slowdown until there has been adequate recon-
sideration.
So, when you get right down to it, a veto is a constructive effort on the part
of a President, and legislative action with more than two-thirds can be a way
in which the Congress can exercise its authority to prevent a President from
doing something that is not right either. So, you know this balance really has
proven over almost 200 years to be a darn good tool for the benefit of all of us.
I do want to thank you for coming here. I do appreciate what you have con-
tributed during this summer that you have been here and the time that you will
be here in the future.
I used to have the privilege of talking to the interns in the House Chamber
when I was minority leader, and the Speaker and I used to participate in that
experience. I hope that the Speaker and the minority leader will do the same
this year, if they have not already done it. They can give you an insight that
is important, and I am sure that the Vice President and the majority and minor-
ity leaders in the Senate will do the same.
I happen to think—whether I agree with everything the Congress does—that
the Congress is a good institution. And I happen to believe that a President tries
to do what is right and that the batting average of a President is pretty good, too.
But the main thing we have to achieve in this country is an understanding
that working together—and I think despite what you read and what you hear,
1020
