November 14
[678]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
REVENUE SHARING AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, Don Hicks, with WBIE Radio in Atlanta. My ques-
tion is, what is your Administration's position in regard to continued funding
of revenue sharing and also CETA programs?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly favor general revenue sharing. About 4 months ago
I requested that the Congress renew the present law for a 5-year period. Unfortu-
nately, the Congress hasn't moved in this area as rapidly as I think they should. I
hope that mayors and Governors and other local officials will join with me in
urging the Congress to extend the present general revenue sharing legislation.
I also favor the CETA legislation, the Comprehensive Education (Employ-
ment) and Training Act. I think it is good legislation. I recommended that it be
fully funded. I think it was very helpful in the recession that we were in, and I
hope that we can continue it in the future.
GOVERNMENT REORGANIZATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, Shelby McCash, with the Macon Telegraph and News.
One of the candidates for President on the Democratic ticket, Jimmy Carter by
name, is proposing a massive reorganization of the Federal bureaucracy, trim-
ming down Government, I think, by several hundred agencies and bureaus, he
claims. If this is a feasible and worthwhile goal, why isn't your Administration
taking the initiative to do this?
THE PRESIDENT. He has never submitted such a plan to me—[laughter]—so
I am not familiar with the details of it.
We, of course, have been undertaking for the last 6 months a very broad
program to deregulate the American business, the American people. We think
this is a big step in the right direction.
I think the biggest danger we fear is not the elimination of agencies-although
I think some can be done away with. I think the biggest danger with this Con-
gress, they want to foist more agencies on the President, and I might say to my
good friend, the former Governor, that this Democratic Congress is the one that
is trying to add to the agencies, not subtract from them.
Q. But there are a few you believe that could be eliminated? Nothing like
300, however?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a slight exaggeration.
ARMY TRAINING STATIONS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am Beryl Sellers, from the Columbus Ledger-
Inquirer. Recently, the Department of the Army has come out in favor of a
1871
