September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
they come back with another cargo, and this is a possibility. It seems to me that
that is a better way than an arbitrary cargo preference approach.
We are working on it. We hope to get the freight rate up, and if we get it up,
those 34 ships will come out and they will be a part of our active fleet.
If we can negotiate and achieve proper arrangement, we might be able to get
more out without having a preference per se. I can assure you, I have talked to
Paul Hall and Phil Carlip and Teddy Gleason,¹ and all of them, and I can just
assure you, as I told them, we are going to get those ships in active duty, period.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. He is in charge. Talk to him. [Laughter]
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Mike Galvin. I am the president of the
Washington Environmental Council. Amongst professional economists, busi-
nessmen, and just plain citizens like myself, there is a debate as to how we as a
country and economic system shall grow. Will we grow as we have in the
past—that is one question—or can we afford to have our economic system ex-
pand at the same rate as it has in the past?
Part of this debate reflects the concern that historical growth patterns cannot,
in fact, be maintained in view of diminishing net energy and raw materials and
increased pollution related to the doubling of the gross national product every
two decades. In addition, a critical question associated with this growth debate
is how to keep people employed, however we choose to grow.
I would like to ask you, is it the Administration's position that our eco-
nomic system must expand at past growth rates in order to maintain employ-
ment levels, or can we channel some of our great resources and abilities to
different sectors of the economy in order to achieve greater energy efficiency,
greater employment levels, and more sensible use and preservation of our nat-
ural resources and environment?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me emphatically say that I believe this country can and
must continue its growth at a high level—and I am not going to define the
level here. But if we are to provide about 1,600,000 new jobs every year for the
young people entering the labor market, we have to have growth. It is manda
tory.
We can't bear these children and then not provide jobs when they become of
¹ Paul Hall, president, and Phil Carlip, legislative representative, Seafarers International Union of North
America; and Thomas Gleason, president of the International Longshoremen's Association.
1313
