[596]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
J. Edgar Hoover served under eight Presidents-Calvin Coolidge, Herbert
Hoover, Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, John F. Ken-
nedy, Lydon B. Johnson, and Richard Nixon. All had high praise for this man
and his professional achievements—praise which I am pleased to join in here
on this auspicious occasion.
In presenting the Medal of Merit to the FBI Director for his wartime services,
President Truman commended him for his able leadership, which made the
Bureau, in Mr. Truman's words, “a powerful instrument of law enforcement
in both war and peace."
President Eisenhower awarded Mr. Hoover the National Security Medal,
which carried a citation praising the Director in these terms: "He has estab-
lished the highest ideals of Federal law enforcement and directed them to
realization."
J. Edgar Hoover earned such praise and such admiration from eight Presi-
dents because, under his direction, the FBI became the superior professional
organization it is today—and will continue to be under the able leadership of
Clarence Kelley-with the very best scientific crime detection facilities to serve
the Federal Government and the American people.
But it is more than leadership and technology that makes the FBI so success-
ful. It is the spirit of the men and women who work for this unique American
institution-the special agents, legendary symbols of American justice for
decades—the thousands upon thousands of professionals who back them up
and, I add hurriedly, their understanding families. Although history records
the names of very few, it is the excellence of the many who make up the success
story of the FBI.
In my 25 years in the Congress and subsequently as Vice President and as
President, I have had the personal opportunity to work intimately with many
of you here today, and as a result, I developed a great admiration for your pro-
fessional competence and your tireless dedication. These are the characteristics
of the entire FBI team.
The Bureau is a success story because of the strength and spirit which you
bring it. Your dedication, your discipline, your courage are all ingredients all
Americans admire and respect. Your fellow citizens are proud of the FBI, and
we who are honored to serve with you in Government appreciate your efforts.
In dedicating this new FBI headquarters, I call for a renewed commitment
to the rule of law in America and to the legal system that perpetuates freedom
and justice. For without law, we have neither freedom nor justice.
1542
