August 15
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
misrepresented Cheyenne interests in negotiating away coal rights at below
market value.
Recognizing this conflict, Mr. President, how do you plan to direct the Secre-
tary of Interior to ensure that the Federal trust responsibilities for Indian lands
are neither violated nor compromised?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I think you have to rely on the people that
are at the head of the Department of Interior. And it is my judgment that
former Secretary of Interior Rogers Morton is a man of complete integrity, and
I am certain that he did not deliberately, certainly, violate or compromise the
conflicting interests that you pose. And I believe the new Secretary of Interior,
when we make the final decision, will likewise have these overall interests in
mind.
Now, if there has been—and I say "if there has been”—and I am not suf-
ficiently familiar with the details to pass judgment myself-but if there has
been a compromising of the rights of the Navajos, I am sure that the matter can
and will be resolved in the Federal courts-the courts, of course, being the pro-
tection to any segment of our society, including the Navajos. And I am sure
there won't be any lack of public interest attorneys who would be glad and
delighted to participate in such legal action. [Laughter]
ENERGY AND AGRICULTURE
[5.] Q. Mr President, in the face of the growing pressures to increase our food
production, what type of trade-offs do you foresee between coal and energy
development and agriculture, particularly as they are competing for land and
water?
THE PRESIDENT. We are, of course, trying to expand our overall land available
for food production, because the United States, fortunately, is the breadbasket
of the world.
We have this as one of our great assets, not only from the point of view of
helping people in less well-off countries from a humanitarian point of view but
also for the implementation of our national policies on the international scene.
We want our farmers to have the availability to produce as much as they can, be-
cause it is in our national interest.
If there is a need also for some of this available land for the development of
coal, we'll have to be cognizant of the competing needs. I can't make a decision
here today on how many acres are going to be reserved for agriculture and how
many will be made available for coal production.
1
1155
