August 25
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Now, the SBA has a program which is aimed at trying to help with financial
assistance. I am sure it doesn't satisfy everybody, but it is under the management
of a good man in Tom Kleppe, and working with Secretary Morton, where
there are deficiencies, I can assure you we will try to help in Milwaukee and
elsewhere.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES STRIKES
[10.] Q. Mr. President, Robert Ross representing the Wisconsin Newspaper
Association. Two short questions. One, what is the President's attitude toward
striking public employees, especially in the areas of vital public services as law
enforcement, fire protection, and sanitation? And number two, does your
Administration propose to take any action to prevent or modify strikes in the
future?
THE PRESIDENT. If my recollection is accurate, when we made the Post Office
Department the Postal Service, the Congress wrote into that basic legislation a
procedure, if there were differences between management and labor that they
couldn't resolve at the bargaining table, they had a procedure for negotiation
with the appointment of, as I recollect, two arbitrators, and they picked the
third. And they are, under that law, precluded from striking. That is what the
Federal Government has done, and I agree with that approach.
It is my general view that the employees working for any unit of government
that involves public health, public safety, must have an agreement where there
should not be a strike. There ought to be a method of negotiation leading to
arbitration such as we have in the Postal Service legislation.
Now, there are alternative ways in which it can be done. One that I think has
great appeal is that if the police or the firemen have a dispute with the city or
county officials, that both sides could make their best offer—management its
best offer, labor its best offer-and have a group of three as arbitrators, not to
narrow the differences, but to pick which of the two offers by labor or manage-
ment is the one in the public interest.
That has been tried in one or more industries that I am familiar with. I think
it has considerable merit. And therefore, if we move down the road in that di-
rection, that approach seems to me to be a preferable one.
I think in the case of the Postal Service, the negotiation has not required the
utilization of the arbitration procedures. I would hope that in those areas
where the Federal Government has no jurisdiction, such as local units of gov-
ernment or even States, that either at the State level or at the local level, they will
take a look at what the Postal Service has done or the suggestion that I have
made. I think it is the way to settle it and protect the public interest.
1233
