[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
unemployment. I believe we will have a better record as far as the rate of infla-
tion so that the end result will be, in 1976, economic conditions will be better.
And the net result is, under past elections, the person who is in office gets the
benefit of that.
I do disagree with you that there is a deterioration of our foreign policy.
Our foreign policy has been a good one. We just were the principal factors in
working with Israel and Egypt in achievement of the Sinai agreement. We have
strengthened NATO. We are continuing good programs and good relations
with the Soviet Union and China. Relations between the United States and
Japan have never been better. I think the American people will judge in 1976
on performance, and I honestly feel that performance over that period of time
will be good.
DÉTENTE
[22.] MR. SPIVAK. Mr. President, on the matter of relations with the Soviet
Union, SALT II seems to have been stalled. What I would like to ask you
is that there is a sharp difference of opinion and considerable confusion in this
country about the meaning and intention of détente with the Soviet Union.
Will you give us your definition of détente, tell us what it means to you and
what it should mean to the American people?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not sure that is the best word but that is the word that
is being used. Détente means to me that two super powers who are strong mili-
tarily and economically, who represent differing political and governmental
views, instead of confronting one another, can consult one another on a wide
variety of areas of potential dispute, whether it is trade, whether it is military
potential conflict, whether it is a number of other things.
Now, détente is not always going to mean that we solve every problem,
because some of them´are very complex and very controversial. It does mean
it is a mechanism for the relaxation of tensions, so that instead of glaring at
one another and opening the potential of conflict, you can sit down and discuss
differences of opinion and hope to accomplish a relaxation and progress without
military conflict.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Monroe.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[23.] MR. MONROE. Mr. President, a recent study showed that people who
are unemployed suffer psychological damage. Even after they find jobs, they
are left with a sense of bitterness, alienation, a sense that the system doesn't
want them. They are, to an extent, radicalized. Now, can we keep on having
1834
