July 25
[429]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
achievements—that of all three of you, with the two cosmonauts-your achieve-
ments are historic. It is a part of our history, which was written by the recovery
forces that have been ready at any time in each case of reentry.
Before I do hang up, I would like to extend my congratulations for a very
outstanding performance to Captain Neiger, Commanding Officer of the U.S.S.
New Orleans, and to his ship's company. They, of course, were standing by
and did a first-class job and have achieved an outstanding record.
The crew, as you know better than I, picked up the Apollo 14 crew in Feb-
ruary of 1971 and was responsible for the safe recovery of both the Skylab 3 and
Skylab 4 astronauts. We thank them and congratulate them on their per-
formance as a part of this overall team.
Your successful completion of this mission, I say with emphasis, has opened
a new era of international cooperation. I strongly hope—as I am sure the Ameri-
cans that are listening or watching and all others do-we hope that this first
international manned flight will provide all of us with an example to remember
for many, many years to come.
We are proud of you, and we thank you, and good luck. And I will see you
back in Washington soon, I hope. It is nice to wave to you on the screen. Okay,
good luck, fellows.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:15 p.m. from the
Oval Office at the White House to the astronauts on
board the U.S.S. New Orleans. The conversation
was broadcast live on radio and television.
429
Remarks to Reporters on Proposed Compromise With the
Congress on the Decontrol of Domestic Oil Prices.
July 25, 1975
I HAVE a short statement that will indicate some action that I am going to take
later today, and I will read the statement and then Frank Zarb will brief on the
details of the proposal.
In the effort to break the deadlock on energy legislation prior to the August
Congressional recess, I am prepared to compromise on the critical issue of oil
decontrol. I will submit to the Congress later today my second administrative
decontrol program.
This Nation desperately needs cooperation, not confrontation on the critical
energy issue. The new compromise decontrol plan I will propose will answer
1029
