August 29
[506]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
States and between African States and the rest of the world-will live on and
continue to have fullest American support.
NOTE: Haile Selassie was Emperor from 1930 to 1974.
506
Special Message to the Congress on the Federal Civilian and
Military Pay Increases. August 29, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Consideration of an adjustment in Federal white collar pay comes at a time
when, although the economy is recovering, unsettling conditions are still ad-
versely affecting the Nation's general welfare.
Under the Pay Comparability Act of 1970, an adjustment in Federal white
collar pay will be required on October 1.
I have reviewed the report of my “pay agent" and the recommendations of
the Advisory Committee on Federal Pay relative to a pay adjustment. Their find-
ings indicate that an 8.66 percent increase will be required to achieve com-
parability with the private sector. I would normally order such a pay raise in
recognition of the loyal service given the country by the Government's civilian
and military personnel.
However, pay comparability must be viewed in the light of the country's
current economic situation. Inflation, unemployment and recession continue to
cause hardships on American consumers, workers and taxpayers—with inflation
showing a new spurt which hits hardest at the jobless and the disadvantaged.
I have attempted to curtail inflation by proposing Federal cost-saving measures
and drawing the line at a $60 billion deficit. However, with Congressional inac-
tion on the expenditure reduction proposals made in my budget, this proposed
deficit has already been exceeded by more than $1 billion and will increase
month after month unless there is new fiscal restraint.
A Federal white collar pay increase at the proposed 8.66 percent figure would
add more than $32 billion to Federal expenditures. A five percent increase, as I
proposed in my budget, would reduce these expenditures by about $1.6 billion.
Over the past several months, I have had to veto legislation involving a num-
ber of programs because of the costs involved. This meant some curtailment in
the future expectations of many Americans. However, the cost impact of these
proposals would have added to inflationary pressures and thus proven to be a
hoax rather than a help.
1245
