[647]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
in any laws, just the automatic increase because more people are eligible, or their
escalation clauses, or a wide variety of other reasons, an increase automatically
of $50 billion.
Fifty billion dollars in spending growth-think of it for a minute. That is
nearly five times the total annual spending of the great State of California.
The majority in Congress-as Chuck Reed said-don't like my vetoes. If I
could reiterate, those vetoes have already saved the taxpayers some $62 billion,
and I will go on vetoing unwise, unnecessary spending bills again and again and
again.
The sole criteria will be, will it save you money and save our country's future?
Now, the Congress obviously doesn't like my combination of a tax cut and a
spending cut proposal. Having served 25 years in the Congress, I understand it.
I know why. Without being seriously unkind to my former colleagues and some
of their new Members, you know, some call this a spendthrift Congress.
I will say this: It is sure a lot more spend than thrift. But to be more emphatic
and more deliberate and more specific, I call it a "Can't Do Congress." They can't
pass an energy bill, they can't face up to one issue after another. But most of all,
on the issue I am discussing, they say, we can't cut the budget. They complain,
they tell us we are to cut it, they ask, where do we start?
Very well. Let me tell them. For a starter, Congress can begin by slashing the
food stamp program. Every Congressman, Democratic as well as Republican,
knows the abuses of the food stamp program are notorious. Congress has no
excuse whatsoever not to begin the $28 billion reduction right here in this pro-
gram. Congress can save taxpayers more than $1 billion in 12 months by passing
my proposed food stamp reform program.
This Democratic Congress knows as well as I do that approximately
one—unbelievable—one out of every five Americans has now become eligible for
food stamps. Congress knows that 57 percent of those eligible for food stamps
are above the nationally defined poverty level-57 percent.
The Secretary of the Treasury, Bill Simon, who was here just a few days ago,
he and his department have calculated that 43,000 American families with
annual incomes above $18,000 per year received food stamps last year-43,000
families. Why? You tell me why. Why does a family earning $18,000 a year
need food stamps? Better still, tell your Congressmen and your Senators.
Since 1965, the cost of this experiment has increased from $34 million annually
to nearly $6 billion for every 12 months. Twenty-one million people, 41 times
more than recipients in 1965, are now getting food stamps. It is unbelievable.
My policy in food stamps is simple, fair. The Federal Government should,
1744
