[516]
September 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
the thrust of your kind comments and your encouraging words, and I can
assure you that we will work with Egypt, not only in seeing that the agreement
is implemented with the spirit as well as the letter, that we will continue to
develop the good relations between Egypt and the United States, working to
make sure that we expand trade, tourism, and our help to the maximum degree
possible and that this is the way that the United States can continue to play a
constructive role in the most important area—the Middle East.
And you have my personal assurance, and I am sure the Congress will co-
operate, because it is recognized in the United States that the Middle East is in a
vitally important area of the world and that our participation in a constructive
way is an important element in the tremendous success that has been achieved in
the negotiations between your country and Israel. I wish to thank you very, very
much.
I said a few moments ago, Mrs. Ford and I look forward to having Mrs.
Sadat, your family, and yourself here in the United States early this fall.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Mr. President, I am looking forward to this visit with you
and Mrs. Ford and your family. [Inaudible] I also assure you we accept this
agreement as a further step towards a successful and peaceful conclusion. I con-
sider it a turning point in the history of the country.
I again thank you, but it is essential, Mr. President, that we must keep the
momentum of the peace process going and continue it.
PRESIDENT FORD. I can assure you, Mr. President, we are going to keep the
momentum going in the peace process. We will not tolerate stagnation or stale-
mate. The momentum is on the way for a peaceful solution on a permanent and
an equitable basis, and you have my pledge that we will make sure that that
momentum keeps going.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT FORD. I look forward to seeing you after that wonderful visit we had
in Salzburg, and give my very best to Mrs. Sadat, if you will, please.
President Sadat. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT FORD. Thank you, sir.
PRESIDENT SADAT. I should like to add another point, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT FORD. Yes.
PRESIDENT SADAT. I think I would like to emphasize the importance of
[inaudible].
PRESIDENT FORD. I, unfortunately, could not hear as well as I would like the
last comments you made. The connection from here is not, apparently, as good
as I hope you have there, but——
1284
