[488]
August 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
uct prices will continue to rise and our vulnerability to future embargoes will
become intolerable.
The net effect of immediate decontrol and the removal of import fees will
mean an increase of a few cents per gallon in the price of petroleum products,
contrary to what others have predicted. This is a very small price to pay to
reduce our vulnerability to embargoes and exorbitant price increases imposed by
foreign producers.
Painful as they are, higher prices do promote conservation, and higher prices
do promote increased efficiency in the use of petroleum products.
Cheap energy encourages waste and preserves inefficient energy technology.
When the price of energy reflects its true value to society, as determined by
the marketplace, there will be an incentive to stop squandering it and to de-
velop advanced technologies, such as solar energy.
Reduced consumption helps reduce dependence. But this alone will not
solve the problem. A dramatic increase in U.S. production is also required.
Decontrol will stimulate domestic production by removing the restrictive $5.25-
per-barrel price ceiling on so-called old oil, which accounts for 60 percent of
all domestic production. This ceiling arbitrarily discourages the use of new and
more expensive production technology. By establishing an artificially low price,
it encourages indiscriminate use of our limited domestic resources. This is not
good energy policy. It is not good environmental policy.
If the Congress also enacts my two proposals for energy refunds to consumers
and a windfall profits tax on oil companies, then the impact of decontrol,
cushioned by the removal of the import fees, will not hinder economic recovery.
Swift action on these taxes must be accompanied by Congressional action on
all segments of my comprehensive energy package.
The on-again, off-again Congressional approach to energy is hazardous,
expensive, and very frightening. Every day that we delay means greater de-
pendence on unreliable supplies of foreign oil, pushes back development of
more efficient use of available energy, and retards the search for new energy
sources here at home.
Quite frankly, we are running out of time. Time can be used to help balance
our environmental concerns with our energy needs. The longer we talk, the
shorter the time to act responsibly. By the time a crisis confronts us, such as the
1973 oil embargo, it is too late to act—too late to act. We can only react.
I urge you to help us obtain Congressional action on a comprehensive energy
program. Failure to make tough decisions-tough decisions today-drastically
1152
