November 14
[679]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
your State and local offices and to the Congress responsible and responsive Re-
publican candidates who believe as we do.
The battlelines for 1976 are being drawn between opposing forces: between
those who believe in fiscal responsibility and those who believe every problem
will go away if we just throw enough tax money at it; between those who
believe in a strong national defense as the best insurance for peace and those who
would spend your tax money instead for every controversial social experiment;
between those who believe in local control over local problems and those who
believe Uncle Sam should solve each and every problem; between those who
believe that American business should be unshackled from government over-
regulation so it can expand and create jobs and those who believe that Federal
papershufflers know what is best for America and American business.
I know which side Georgians will take.
Nineteen seventy-six is more than an election year—it is a year, a vital year of
decision for all Americans. It is the Republican Party's golden opportunity to
prove that with the help of our many friends that we have the strength to
survive setbacks, the resolution to rouse the Nation's greatness, and the will to
win elections. We can do it, and we will do it.
We must build a party that works year round, not just at election time. We
must concentrate on winning elections, not just arguments. We must attract
good candidates, welcoming all who are uncomfortable in other political pastures.
I recently proposed to the Congress a reduction of $28 billion in your Federal
income taxes and a corresponding cut of $28 billion in the growth of Federal
spending, but the Democratic-dominated Congress tells me that it can't be done.
say it can, it must, and it is up to them to do it this year.
I
The American Revolution started with the Boston Tea Party that protested
taxation without representation. I say to the taxpayers of Georgia today, if your
Democratic Congressmen won't do anything about your taxation, maybe you
had better do something about your representation. If this Congress won't do
the job, let's elect a Republican Congress that will.
This month, just a few days ago, we almost won a governorship of the great
State of Mississippi. We came close enough to show that Mississippi has a two-
party system. Let's make every State a two-party State-even Massachusetts.
[Laughter]
You and I know that America's vitality and prosperity has been sapped by
the irresponsible spending of recent Congresses. This Congress is controlled 2 to
1 by Democrats. In fact, Congress has been dominated by Democrats for 38 out
the last 42 years. That's long enough.
1879
