September 12
[556]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
if you won't compromise, we can't either, because we have gone more than
halfway. I think Garner and Larry and the others would agree.
It is so simple, in my opinion. Do you know how much we have paid out
in foreign oil? In 1972 or '73 we were paying $3 billion a year. This year we
are paying $25 billion a year. That is $25 billion a year that goes to foreign
oil producers, takes jobs away from Americans. That money, if we had adequate
production in America, would stay home. Wouldn't that be constructive?
Well, I appreciate the help that Jim Pearson and Bob Dole and the House
delegation have given. This ought not to be a partisan issue, but unfortunately,
there are some aspects of it that appear to be that.
Let me add a special comment. Betty's and my daughter, Susan, was out here
last summer. She had a terrific time, and all of you from Kansas were so nice
to her. And I thank each and every one of you. The Governor and Mrs. Bennett
were especially thoughtful and helpful, and for that, Bob, we are very grateful.
But let me add, concerning Bob, I have had a fair amount of experience
with Governors, and I can say without any hesitation or qualification that all
of you in Kansas are very fortunate to have Bob as your Governor.
Now, let me conclude with this final comment. Seventy-six is a big year, and
a major part of that competition is going to be kicked off right here in your
great State. I think we will have candidates. I think we have the workers. And
obviously, by your attendance here, we have people who will help to support
it in a financial way.
It is a combination of good candidates, good workers, good financial help,
plus sound principles. And as I look at our policies, our principles, I think they
are the ones that appeal to most Americans.
We believe in fiscal responsibility, both at the State as well as the national level.
We believe that we should have a national defense program second to none
in order to ensure peace.
Thirdly, we believe that local government, either at the local level or at
the State level, is the best way to run our country. I don't think we need the
bureaucrats in Washington telling Bob Bennett or the local mayors how to
run their respective responsibilities. Local control-the people that you know
are infinitely better prepared to do the job than somebody on the banks of the
Potomac.
And then I think it is important that we make a special effort to make
certain and to make positive that individuals have a growth of freedom rather
than the heavy hand of government.
The third century of our country ought to emphasize the freedom of the
1409
