[670]
November 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
and its visitors alike as "Almost Heaven." Incidentally, I have one of your ties
on tonight. [Laughter]
I am pleased to be back in Charleston, the city of imagination, of enterprise,
and above all, a city that is blazing new trails in the delicate science of removing
bridges. [Laughter]
The first time I came to West Virginia was back in 1949 to make a high
school commencement address in Berkeley Springs. Since then, I have been to
Charleston, Clarksburg, Wheeling, Morgantown, Elkins, Berkeley Springs, as
I mentioned, and of course, White Sulphur.
Don't ask me which place I liked the best. [Laughter] But I made that high
school commencement speech in Berkeley Springs. I don't remember what I
said on that occasion, and probably nobody else does either. But I distinctly
remember my first impressions of West Virginia—the beauty of its mountains
and particularly the warmth of its people.
The impressions haven't changed a bit over the last 27 years, but West Vir-
ginia has changed a lot. The West Virginia I see today is a new State. The beauty
of its mountains still remains. The warmth and hospitality of the West Vir-
ginians continue to strike the visitor like a summer breeze. But through all
those impressions, something new has been added, that is, the feeling of the
people here striding confident into the future while retaining the heritage and
the charm of your great past.
The reasons may be complex, but they have a great deal to do with coal. Your
State is one-as I have heard from Arch and others—one of the largest bitu-
minous coal producers in the Nation and among the largest in coal exports.
This great natural resource has improved the living standard of many of your
citizens, enriched your State treasury through an increased tax flow, and pro-
vided much of the fuel to keep this Nation warm, its lights burning, and its
factories humming. But beyond the surging demand for coal, West Virginia's
present prosperity can be attributed in large measure to the energy, self-reliance,
the imagination of your citizens and public officials.
Under the enlightened leadership of my dear friend and your Governor,
Arch Moore, you have vastly-under the leadership of Arch, you have vastly
improved your highway system, raised the quality of education at every level,
built tourism into a $600-million-a-year business, and conducted a highly suc-
cessful drive for new industries that has paid off in thousands and thousands of
jobs and an unemployment rate below the national average.
I congratulate every one of you, and thousands like you throughout your
State, on this new prosperity for this great State of West Virginia.
1846
