[532]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
have just made in defusing the timebomb that has been ticking away ominously
in the Middle East.
California is blessed above many, many States when it comes to energy re-
sources. But by the same token, Californians are exceptionally aware of the
importance of power to make things move, to make things grow.
I have decided, however, to discuss with you today another subject high on
my agenda, one that affects every American and every Californian, one in which
the role and the responsibility of State officials is even greater than that of the
Federal Establishment; that is, the truly alarming increase in violent crime
throughout this country.
Crime is a threat so dangerous and so stubborn that I am convinced it can be
brought under control only by the best concerted efforts of all levels of gov-
ernment-Federal, State, and local—by the closest cooperation among executive,
legislative, and judicial branches, and by the abandonment of partisanship on
a scale comparable to closing the ranks in wartime against an external enemy.
I come to California not only to plead for this kind of Federal, State, and local
citizen coalition against crime but to praise the progress you have already begun
in California.
California has long been a leader in both law enforcement and criminal
justice. The rate of increase in violent crimes here remains less than the national
average. For the first quarter of this year, serious crime rose 18 percent for the
Nation as a whole. It rose only 13 percent in California.
But both figures, I am sure we agree, are far, far too high. The rate for forcible
rape was down, but murder was up 22 percent in California and robbery up 23
percent. What is more distressing, my good friend Evelle Younger¹ tells me
that nearly 4 out of every 10 persons convicted of using firearms to kill someone
or to rob someone were given probation. Approximately 2,300 persons convicted
of violent crimes involving firearms are returned to the streets of California
each year without serving a prison sentence.
Clearly, the billions of dollars spent at all levels of government since 1960
have not done the job of stemming the rise in crime. The reported crime rate
has doubled, and unreported crimes have probably multiplied even more.
As a former lawmaker among active lawmakers, let me put before you three
simple propositions about crime.
First, a primary duty of government is to protect the law-abiding citizen in his
peaceful pursuits of life, liberty, and happiness. The Preamble to our Constitu-
1 California State attorney general.
1342
