[653]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
653
Remarks on Arrival at Jacksonville Naval Air Station,
Florida. November 2, 1975
Admiral Green, Captain Bernstein, Mayor Tanzler, Senator Chiles, Congress-
man Burke, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
First, I am deeply grateful for the warm welcome by Admiral Green and
all of you from the Jacksonville Naval Air Station. I am most appreciative,
on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself, that so many of you have come out on a
Sunday on this occasion.
As all of you know, I am in the process of having further very important
meetings with President Sadat of Egypt. It is quite interesting, in my judgment,
that I am meeting this afternoon with a man who represents a country whose
history goes back literally centuries and centuries and centuries.
And at the same time, I am in a part of our country where we have some
contrast between the old and the new. Jacksonville is a relatively modern city,
historically, and certainly a very progressive city in our development of our
great country.
But not far from here we have the oldest city in the United States-St.
Augustine. So, in a relatively small part of this great country, we have a history
that goes back from the very beginning and a community that represents
progress and tremendous enthusiasm and drive.
I believe this shows the diversity of America. And this diversity in this great
country is one of our strengths as we meet the challenges both at home and
abroad.
But we cannot, in this country, solve our problems at home or meet our com-
mitments internationally if we don't have a strong national defense program. It
is vitally important for peace that we have a national defense program second
to none.
All of you at the naval air station in Jacksonville perform a great service
in that regard. I know of the missions and responsibilities that you have here.
You have the helicopter antisubmarine warfare unit that does a tremendous
job. You have the long-range naval capability in the antisubmarine warfare
area. You have nuclear-powered naval vessels.
This naval air station is a vital part of our total national security capability,
and what you do here protects 214 million Americans. And on behalf of them,
I thank you for your contribution.
1776
