[643]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the entire family of man. We share with you, too,
the hope of fulfilling the great ideals of democracy,
human dignity, and equality.
Mr. President, the past 2 years have witnessed a
tangible improvement in our relations. For the most
part, the credit for such an improvement is due to
a greater degree of American understanding of our
just cause and our legitimate struggle to establish
peace in the area.
We feel, rightly I hope, that the events following
October 1973 have dissipated many misconceptions
and myths that marred the healthy development of
our relations for so long. As you know, we have
always maintained that if the United States adopted
an even-handed policy in the Middle East, there
would be no problem between us.
We expressed our readiness to respond positively
to any favorable change in American policy. Thus,
when there appeared some indications that the
United States has started to see the realities in their
true perspective, matters began to move in the right
direction.
Bridges of friendships and channels of communi-
cation were established for our mutual benefit. You
have my assurance that we intend to spare no effort
to strengthen our relations even further and broaden
the scope of our cooperation.
The Egyptian people and, in fact, the entire Arab
nation expect the United States to continue to
demonstrate by words and deeds alike its genuine
interest in reaching a final peace settlement.
We recognize and acknowledge with satisfaction
the role you have played in the past few months to
stimulate and accelerate the process of a final settle-
ment. We realize also that it is your firm and
solemn commitment to pursue this policy until the
ideal of peace becomes a living reality.
We do not question your dedication to work
seriously and tirelessly towards that end. However,
you would agree with me, Mr. President, that we
cannot allow the situation to slip back to a state of
no war and no peace. We feel that the momentum
for peace should not be squandered under any
circumstances.
Rather, it should be utilized fully and with a sense
of urgency commensurate with the still persisting
danger of explosion. Any stalemate or stagnation
will not only delay the settlement but in all prob-
ability it would introduce certain qualitative and
substantive changes that would obstruct the road
to peace.
I trust that it has become quite evident that if
we are really concerned with an overall settlement,
we have to address ourselves to the core of the
problem—namely, the Palestinian question. The
Palestinian people have been deprived for over 27
years of having their own state where they can lead
a productive and fulfilling life.
Are they not entitled to their national rights like
all other peoples? Would it not be a travesty of
justice to deny them the inalienable right to live in
peace and dignity? Does it serve any useful purpose
to perpetuate the state of strife and frustration?
Fortunately, there are increasing signs that their
cause is gaining more international support every
day. Nations are coming to grips with the reality of
the Palestine people as an indispensable factor in the
equation of peace in the Middle East.
Many Arabs are confident that the United States
will not dissent from this irreversible trend. They
feel, not without reason, that faithfulness to the
essence of the American Revolution and the heritage
bequeathed upon this Nation by its Founding
Fathers entail lending the Palestinians your under-
standing and support, thus reinforcing the road
to peace.
We can all be assured that once the Palestinians
have been accorded their basic right as a free people,
they will become a force for peace, stability, and
human progress. Reason and reconciliation would
prevail over animosity and hostility.
Americans can understand, perhaps better than
any other people, man's attachment to his land, for
this has been one of the main characteristics of the
American culture. Such relationship instills in us
a strong love for our country and a devotion to
defend it, no matter what the sacrifice is.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to say that
you have a President you can be proud of. Through-
out my contacts with him, I have found him a
statesman of great ability, vision, and understanding.
He is a genuine man who radiates sincerity and
honesty. It shall give me and the Egyptian people
immense pleasure to welcome him and Mrs. Ford
in Egypt in the near future.
May I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to join me
in a toast in honor of President and Mrs. Ford,
wishing them health, happiness, and fulfillment.
1726
