[623]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing up over the years. And I think we have to concede they won't go away
overnight.
The underlying causes of this economic problem or these economic difficulties
must be attacked responsibly. We must come up with solutions that not only
serve this year but the next generation and the next generation. That is our
obligation. We don't want any short-term, superficial answers that will lead
us down a path of disaster a year or two from now. Our cause is far greater.
To see the cause of underlying problems, we have only to look to Washington,
where one big spending program piled upon another and upon another and
upon another has created a Federal monstrosity. The result: Government now
takes a far larger share of your personal income, creates record budget deficits,
prints more money, and inevitably escalates inflation. This trend must be
stopped, and this trend will be stopped.
Congressional critics of my proposals to cut taxes and to cut spending call
this proposal political. But politics is government-government with the con-
sent of the governed for the good of all Americans. I ask my friends who were
the critics of this combination of a $28 billion tax reduction and a $28 billion
lid on the growth of spending―I could not help but read in the morning paper
here in Detroit that when the question was asked, 70 percent of the answers said
that is a good program, and 30 percent disagreed.
I think the public understands that this is sound, it is right, and the Congress
better do something about it.
Quite frankly, that is what representative government is all about. I believe
in the right of the American people to spend their own money rather than
letting Congress spend it for them. What could be more political-and I ask
this in all seriousness-than proposals of the big spenders, the big spenders in
the House and the Senate, to reduce taxes on the one hand and to increase
spending on the other to help their special interest groups. That is the most
obvious and the most cynical politics-politics concerned only with the next
election.
America's greatness was not achieved by taxing people to their limits. It was
achieved by free people, freely exercising their own ingenuity and their own
energies to the fullest. We must once again, if we are to move ahead as we have
in the past, release the full, full energies of the American people by getting the
Government off their backs on the one hand and out of their pockets and their
pocketbooks on the other.
And let me use an illustration of how much better it is for a free enterprise
system to operate rather than having a government controlling everything.
1678
