[463]
August 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
the agreements in Helsinki that we have reaffirmed and expanded our fine per-
sonal relationship, that we have seen concrete evidence of better relations between
the Romanian people and the American people, and that we have listened to the
words of one of the leaders of the nations in Europe who has been strong and
forthright, that we should meet here on this occasion.
Our talks today, Mr. President, reaffirmed in the most positive terms our
mutual interest in continuing to build our excellent bilateral relations.
Mr. President, my visit to Europe is of significance for another reason. We
both participated in the final stages of the European Security Conference in
Helsinki.
As you, Mr. President, have pointed out on many, many occasions, the dy-
namics of change-social, technological, global, and dimensional-affect all
nations. So can and should the results of Helsinki.
We welcome, Mr. President, the changing relationship being forged between
East and West. This is a relationship in which Romania continues to assume a
most important role. The efforts of the United States and Romania and those
of the other [thirty-] three participating nations will be very useful, and deeds
equal words.
Not the least result of the Conference has been to show that smaller nations
can make an independent, can make an equal and valuable contribution to the
world.
While recognizing the importance of the Conference's work, the United
States views it as one important step in a continuing process. It is imperative
that we work together to lessen the chances for conflict. Let all nations cooper-
ate to lessen human poverty, human suffering, and human hunger.
The challenges we face require the best efforts and the best ideas of all con-
cerned, and all nations must have a positive and active role to play.
Mr. President, my country fully recognizes the growing interdependence of
mankind, the need for increased cooperation among the industrialized nations,
and a greater recognition of the concerns of the developing nations.
The United States will make full and fair contribution. We look to the other
nations of the world to join with us in this important endeavor.
Mr. President, I came to Romania for another very important reason. This
complex world is marked by diversity. We recognize the importance of close
ties with a country that shows such independence and such vigor. We do not
always agree, but we value the courage of a nation that wants to make its con-
tribution to a better world by its own very special efforts.
Romania has won the admiration of the American people for her positive
1092
