[718]
December 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
These elements, which we consider essential to a settlement, are consistent
with the aspirations of the overwhelming majority of the people of Cyprus.
Beyond that, only the Cypriot people can decide how to rebuild and preserve
their sovereign, independent nation so it may again serve the interests of all its
citizens.
With this appreciation of both the opportunities and limitations of U.S. action,
I declared immediately following enactment of P.L. 94-104 on October 6 that
the United States would make a major effort to encourage a resumption of the
Cyprus negotiations and to facilitate progress by all the parties involved-
Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus-toward a peaceful and equitable solution. I
also stated that the United States would undertake whatever role the parties
themselves wanted us to play in achieving a settlement.
Immediately thereafter, we took a number of steps through diplomatic chan-
nels aimed at helping the parties find a basis for resuming the intercommunal
talks under the aegis of U.N. Secretary General Waldheim. As a first step, I
wrote directly to the Prime Ministers of Greece and Turkey to stress the impor-
tance the United States attaches to the resumption of the intercommunal Cyprus
talks and to emphasize our wish that the Cyprus problem be removed as a
source of instability in the Eastern Mediterranean. My letters were followed by a
series of communications from Secretary Kissinger to the Foreign Ministers of
Greece and Turkey and to President Makarios of Cyprus. In each of these com-
munications, an effort was made to define the differences as we saw them between
the negotiating positions of the other parties and to urge that an effort be made
to narrow the gap.
The Secretary of State, during the past sixty days, also has consulted extensively
with several of our major European allies who have engaged in corresponding
and complementary initiatives with the Greek, Turkish and Cypriot govern-
ments. Parallel initiatives also were undertaken during this period by the
European Community.
These initiatives have not produced a major breakthrough; but taken together
they have advanced prospects for a negotiated settlement. A new appreciation
now exists in Athens, Ankara, and Nicosia that delay in resuming the inter-
communal talks will harden attitudes and make future progress more difficult.
In each capital, there is a desire to begin anew an earnest search for a solution.
Each party also has a realistic understanding of what it must do to make progress
possible.
In Ankara, the Turkish Foreign Minister announced on October 21, shortly
after the Turkish senatorial elections, that the time was opportune to search
1958
