[538]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
After nearly six months without Congressional passage of a decontrol bill or
any other positive legislation, I proposed in early July a compromise 30-month
phased oil decontrol plan. This program represented an effort to meet the con-
cerns raised by many members of Congress and showed the Administration's
willingness to compromise. The House of Representatives rejected this plan.
I made another effort to reach a solution before the August Congressional
recess by submitting another decontrol plan, which would have gradually phased
out price controls over a 39-month period and put a price ceiling on all domestic
oil.
I believe this decontrol plan went more than halfway to meet concerns raised
by the Congress. Although it would achieve energy objectives more slowly than
warranted, I offered it in the spirit of compromise, because action was desper-
ately needed.
Instead, the House also rejected this compromise attempt and Congress passed
this bill which would simply extend the pricing and allocation authorities for
another six months. This proposed action would only ensure the continued
growth of our dependence on foreign oil.
I cannot approve six more months of delay-delay which would cost needed
jobs and dollars and compound our energy and economic problems.
From my experience in the Congress, I am well aware that it will be easier
to pass the tough legislation needed to begin solving the energy problem this
year rather than during the 1976 election year. The six-month price controls
extension contained in the bill I am vetoing would postpone possible action until
at least the spring of 1976 and in all likelihood would mean an indefinite delay
in our efforts to begin solving this problem.
Despite last minute attempts made in good faith by the Democratic and
Republican leadership, their effort to achieve a compromise in the Congress
has failed. It is clear that too many Members of the Congress have not come to
grips with the decontrol issue-much less the overall energy problem.
We must have a national energy program before we have a national energy
emergency. Our time to act instead of react grows shorter with each day and
with each delay.
Without price controls on domestic oil, we can reduce dependence upon
imported oil by reducing domestic consumption by more than 700,000 barrels
per day within two years. We can reduce dependence in the long run by in-
creasing domestic production by nearly one and one-half million barrels per day
by 1985. By continuing controls, imports will increase because of a lack of
1356
