September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think maybe we can get by a year or two, but in a relatively short period
of time, more is going out than coming in of the trust fund and we have roughly
a year's funding available. Unfortunately, they are all in Government bonds, so
the Government will have to cash in those bonds to pay these people and then
go out and borrow more money to finance the Federal Government.
But it is a problem, and we have got to face up to it. The best estimate I have
seen is that by the year 2000 if we don't do something we will be in a serious
deficit with no reserve and not enough to pay the beneficiaries. So, we have
either got to get it out of the general fund, increase the wage limit, or we have
got to increase the taxes, or we have got to put a cap on the benefits. The benefits
today are escalated on a cost-of-living basis, and they are putting the sanctity
of that trust fund in some jeopardy down the road not too far away.
As long as we are talking about caps, I recommended that we put a cap this
year of 5 percent on Federal Government pay, on Federal retirement, social
security, the whole range of things in order to get away from the budget deficit
I described a few minutes ago. The present law says that every September I am
supposed to recommend a cost-of-living increase for Federal pay. Well, the cost-
of-living increase by this commission was 8.66 percent and by a new law passed
just a month ago, Congress and judges and people in the executive branch were
included.
I had the temerity to recommend that that 8.66 percent be 5 percent rather
than the higher figure. I am led to believe that my efforts to keep that difference
which amounts to $1,600 million—just $1,600 million—will be overridden by
either the House or the Senate. I hope you write your Congressmen and your
Senators and tell them to stand firm and tough. This is just indicative of the
kind of problems we are in—in a financial bind, at the present time.
COMMON SITUS PICKETING
[16.] Q. Mr. President, I am Earl Dille, president of Associated Industries
of Missouri, and I would like your position on the issue of the legalization of
common situs picketing at construction projects.
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the legislation originally introduced should be
vetoed. I believe that there are amendments that have been added, that will be
added, if they are added to force local union responsibility, then the legislation
ought to be approved. I know the arguments that the building trades have gotten
wage hikes of too high or too great an amount, and people say, "Don't change
the law."
!
1403
