[512]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
You've got the enthusiasm. You've got the unity. You've got the feeling that
you are going to beat the opposition. You've got 14 months to prove it—with
money—[laughter]—with candidates, with unity. I will be very disappointed
if you don't make it in November of 1976.
In the months ahead, as I have tried to do in the months before, it is my
feeling that we have to make a tremendous effort to go to every State to talk
to the people who have fought long, hard battles, people who have been disap-
pointed for one reason or another that we didn't do everything or we didn't
succeed.
But it seems to me that we have the most unique opportunity in the months
ahead to decide that America is going to continue to rise, to make the progress
in the future that we have been blessed with in the past.
It is my judgment that the Republican Party is the vehicle that can achieve
that. And if we are going to do it, I think we ought to take a look and see
what our commitments are-at least mine.
And I believe most, as I travel around the country, would agree in these four
or five basic commitments that we have, that seem to fall within the frame-
work of what is good for our country: Fiscal responsibility in the Federal Gov-
ernment, the reinvigoration of a free enterprise system in this country, a strong
national defense program that makes America second to none, local control
over local concerns under the leadership of people like Buddy and Jim and others
in your State of Rhode Island, and then lastly but far from least, personal free-
dom for the individual.
We are about to kick off our Bicentennial in America. The other day I was
looking at the progress that we have made as a nation over the last 200 years.
And if I were to analyze it, I would say that in the first hundred years—and
Rhode Island was a tremendous contributor to this effort-in the United States
in that first century, we developed a kind of government that gave us strength,
consistency, a solid base from which we could operate.
In our second century in America, what did we do? We went through what
I think most historians would call an industrial revolution. We built the mills
and the plants, and we developed means of transportation, communication, and
the like. We moved from the 1-yard line a long, long ways down the field to
become the most effective and constructive and successful nation in the history
of mankind in an industrial competition.
So, we have a government and we have the industrial capability. What do we
want in our third century, which begins in just a few months? It seems to me
1270
