September 12
[553]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
extend and broaden that landmark legislation by signing the new measure only
last month. It represents my faith in the desire of blacks and other minority
citizens to strengthen our political system for the good of all Americans.
The contributions of blacks cross all walks of American life, including the
tragedy of war. In our historic battles around the world, the blood of the black
soldier, sailor, airman, or marine has run just as freely as that of other Americans
defending our beloved country. It would be difficult to imagine American music,
art, culture, science, and medicine—almost anything that is considered Amer-
ican—without acknowledging the great contribution of blacks in our society.
Many of us remember these names, but it is still well to pay them formal
tribute here as we speak of our Nation's history and the American Bicentennial:
Phillis Wheatley, one of America's first great black writers; Lemuel Haynes,
a minister who served at Lexington; Peter Salem and Salem Poor, who were
singled out for gallantry at the Battle of Bunker Hill; Booker T. Washington,
the distinguished scholar; Frederick Douglass, the magnetic orator; Harriet
Tubman, the underground railroad conductor; Daniel Hale Williams for his
pioneering work in open heart surgery; A. Philip Randolph and his efforts for
the worker; Walter White and Roy Wilkins of the NAACP; Whitney Young,
Jr., of the National Urban League; poet Paul Laurence Dunbar; the Reverend
Leon Sullivan in job training; and General Chappie James in the United States
Air Force; in music, contralto Marian Anderson, Duke Ellington, Louis Arm-
strong, and many, many others; in sports, Jesse Owens, Joe Louis, Muhammad
Ali, Jackie Robinson, Henry Aaron, and of course, the incredible Lou Brock
and Bob Gibson; and I should add a personal friend of mine, Sammy Davis, Jr.
These men and women gave, and still give, pride and dignity to our people
and honor to our Nation. Many of their names have virtually become institu-
tions in our country. It is evident that the church has been a major influence in
black accomplishments.
When we think of freedom, including freedom of religion, the National
Baptist Convention stands as a monument and a testament to the strength of
spiritual conviction and commitment. With more than 6 million members, the
National Baptist Convention gives testimony to the individual integrity and
dignity of the black American.
I would be negligent if I did not pay tribute in the very highest sense to the
untiring, unselfish work of Dr. Jackson, your spiritual leader for more than
two decades.
Many of the traditional black colleges were founded by the church. The first
black Senator, Hiram Revels, was a minister. Prince Hall Masons, one of the
1385
