[511]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
ECONOMIC RECOVERY
[4.] Q. I think he did say that energy was the main component. But follow-
ing up on your answer, I have been talking to people around New England in
anticipation of your visit, and I keep coming up with that old folk saying:
“Democrats get us into wars, Republicans into depressions.” That, of course,
may be oversimplified, but previous administrations and your Administration
have chosen to fight inflation first and unemployment second.
I am just wondering, when will the time come to switch so that this recovery,
which seems as if it is on the horizon, will recover in a hurry rather than just
stumble along?
The President. I would say that the recovery is doing better, that we are
coming out of it more quickly now than some people anticipated. For the fifth
month in a row, as I recollect, our overall indicators show that we were making
headway. We are seeing higher housing starts. We are seeing better retail sales.
We are making some headway, except for the last month, in inflation, and I
think that was an unusual example. And we are optimistic in the future.
One thing I'd like to point out is I think it is important to talk about some
affirmative things. In the last 5 months, we have had 1,200,000 more people gain-
fully employed in this country. We now have over 85 million people gainfully
employed.
We have too many unemployed, but more and more people are being em-
ployed, and the indications are that that will be a continuing trend.
So, we have to win the battle against inflation. If we let the problems of
inflation recur—every knowledgeable economist that I have talked to says,
if you went back up to 10- or 12-percent inflation, in 12 to 18 to 24 months we
would be in a far worse recession than we are at the present time.
So, it is a very narrow line that we are trying to follow: to win the battle
against inflation on the one hand and at the same time provide more job
opportunities. And I think we are being reasonably successful.
As Jack said over here, New England, or at least Rhode Island, has some
unique problems, and we are going to work on it, as I indicated.
OIL PRICES
[5.] Q. Mr. President, let's return briefly to energy. We have dealt with
domestic crude oil by saying the approach now is to gradually decontrol do-
mestic oil prices. The OPEC countries, the oil-producing countries, will be
meeting to decide soon what price increases they will ask by October 1. It is
1264
