August 9
[482]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
we discussed recently, obligations to my family make
it necessary that I submit my resignation, effective
September 19, 1975.
In parting, may I take this occasion to congratu-
late you on the successful completion of the first
year of your Administration. This historic period,
which began under such sad and difficult circum-
stances, is closing with a renewed sense of hope and
confidence by the American people in their institu-
tions of law and government. Your leadership,
backed by courage, understanding, and integrity, has
set the Nation on a recovery course of tranquillity
and prosperity at home and sound relations abroad.
I am proud to have shared in a small way in the
accomplishments of your Administration, and I sin-
cerely regret the necessity of leaving. Nevertheless,
with the work on behalf of the Special Prosecutor,
conducted under my direction, in its final stages,
and with several other projects nearing their con-
clusion, the time seems especially appropriate for my
return to private life. After ten and one-half years
in the Federal government, I intend to enter the
private practice of law-a decision which I have
often postponed and can no longer delay.
I want to thank you for the many kindnesses,
professional and personal, which you have shown to
me and my family over the years. Beginning with
your election as Minority Leader, I have always
treasured our association and will sorely miss it. Of
course, in my private capacity, I remain ready to
assist you in any way you deem appropriate.
With deepest appreciation and warmest personal
regards to you and your family,
Sincerely,
WILLIAM E. CASSELMAN II
Counsel to the President
482
Remarks at the Awarding of the NASA Distinguished Service
Medal to Americans Participating in the Apollo-Soyuz
Test Project.
August 9, 1975
LET ME say how happy and pleased I am to be here today and to participate in
this ceremony.
We honor three men who have risen 137 miles above this Earth, looked down
at all the turmoil, the pollution, the confusion, and the problems, and still
decided to come back. [Laughter] I think it gives all of us, the rest of us, some
hope.
We also honor the project director who, along with thousands of unsung but
far from unappreciated members of the NASA space team, have made this trip
possible. And we thank them as well as the others.
I think you all have the gratitude and the admiration of all Americans, some
214 million. I think the entire world shared, as I did, in the excitement and in the
achievement of the Apollo-Soyuz mission. It was a great triumph of science and
technology, but it was also something more. The Apollo-Soyuz flight was an
encouraging reminder in an atmosphere of mutual trust and respect, men from
different countries and different systems can work together for a common goal
with courage, intelligence, and success.
Although this wonderful lesson was learned nearly 140 miles from Earth, it is
one that can make a great, great contribution to a better and more peaceful
planet in the years ahead. If we can bring the spirit of Apollo-Soyuz to bear on
1141
