[536]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
ought to have the right of expression on his own. And I can assure you that as
far as this Administration is concerned, we are going to promote the right of
the individual to be free from big government, big education, big labor, big
business, and the like.
Now, 1976, with our principles and with the organizational effort that can
be generated by a strong national committee and strong State central commit-
tees, I think 1976 can be and will be the year for the Republican Party and its
candidates. When I speak of candidates, I mean Republican candidates from
the local to the State and the national level.
We have to find good candidates for local office, for State office, and for na-
tional office, the Congress particularly.
Let me assure you that in the months ahead I will help in any way I can to
get good candidates locally or statewide or for the Congress. And once you have
selected them in whatever way you do in your respective States, I will be proud
to campaign with them.
This is the way we build a party, but more importantly, it is the best way I
know to spread a philosophy locally, statewide, and nationally.
Now, as we enter the last 14 months before this campaign, which ends in
November of 1976, I think it is important for us to welcome as many, many
people—Independents, particularly—who want to join our party.
I think the door of the party should be wide open for those that want to join
us and believe in our philosophy. I don't believe we should open that door just
a crack for a limited few. We have to have a wide spectrum of people who are
believers in our philosophy and who want to join us in, literally, a crusade. And
let's work for a common victory at all levels of government rather than work-
ing against one another for a sure and certain defeat.
We can win. I believe we will win. But if we join arms and work together,
that is the best insurance I know for a happy day after Election Day 1976.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:59 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
1352
