[743]
December 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
for the public, and further slowdown in a basic industry that is already severely
depressed. This is not the time for altering our national labor-management rela-
tions law if the experiment could lead to more chaotic conditions and a changed
balance of power in the collective bargaining process.
NOTE: The President's message vetoing H.R. 5900 on January 2, 1976. On January 19, the House
was transmitted to the House of Representatives reconsidered the bill and referred it to committee.
744
Statement on Signing the Metric Conversion Act of 1975.
December 23, 1975
I AM today signing H.R. 8674, the Metric Conversion Act of 1975. This legis-
lation establishes a national policy of coordinating and planning for the increased
use of the metric measurement system in the United States.
To say that this legislation is historic is an understatement. The question of a
common measurement language is, in fact, nearly as old as our country. President
George Washington raised the issue in his first message to Congress on January
8, 1790. He called at that time for a uniform system of currency and weights and
measures. He repeated his request several times thereafter.
President James Madison also urged Congressional action on a measurement
system. Fifty years later-in July 1866—Congress did pass legislation making
it legal to use the metric system in U.S. trade and commerce.
In 1875, the United States was one of the 17 countries which signed the
Treaty of the Meter. In spite of that, the country retained its old measurement
system. There have been expressions of legislative interest from time to time
since 1875, but no further definitive statement of national policy has been
forthcoming.
We should learn from this brief history that legislation cannot solve all our
problems. Indeed, if the legislation is not founded on public acceptance, it will
have less than no effect at all.
That is why I think this bill is so interesting—because the real impetus came
from the private sector, from people in the business of buying and selling
American products here and overseas. U.S. industry in this regard is miles
ahead of official policy. American companies already are making great use of
metric measurements. Many areas of our industry—such as pharmaceuticals,
cameras, and space exploration—already are entirely or largely metric. In addi-
1996
