August 30
[508]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
joint goals, controlling inflation and creating new jobs, are essential to our pro-
grams of restoring the strength of our economy.
All of us-labor, management, government-must work together if we are
to achieve long-term economic health.
I call on business, I call on industry to do everything possible to bring back
our laid-off workers, to reassess the job assignments of those employed be-
neath their true qualifications, and to give new opportunities to young people
eager to join the labor force.
I appeal not only to the patriotism and courage and determination of Amer-
ica's working people but to those same qualities in our business community.
I ask managers to take a new look at ways they can expand productivity to
make possible the rehiring and the new hiring of workers, and I ask them to be
more aggressive in seeking new markets at home and abroad to create new
jobs.
Economic progress depends on our ability to foster capital investment and to
increase the productivity of our workers the length and the breadth of this
country. The share of our gross national product committed to private invest-
ment must increase over the next few years if we are able to reach our economic
potential. Economists predict, or I should say, estimate that the total invest-
ment requirements could be in excess of $4 trillion. And I had the privilege,
riding from the airport to this community center, of talking with your Gov-
ernor, indicating to him some of the thoughts that I would express here today.
And I was pleased and delighted to learn that in Maine he is approaching the
problem in a similar way, seeking to expand industry by making certain that
there is adequate investment capability.
As we look at the history of recent years, however, overall, we find that our
financial ability to increase production is declining. This decline is curtailing
needed growth in jobs, in income. It undermines seriously our capability to
compete abroad.
Once this becomes clear, I am confident that there will be an understanding of
the need for tax policies to channel our resources into the expansion of produc-
tive capacity.
We must not, under any circumstances, condemn our fellow citizens to un-
employment because the modern tools needed to compete in world markets are
lacking.
This Administration has proposed some reforms to the Congress to stimulate
what economists call capital formation through tax incentives. I like a better
1251
