November 26
[695]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The President. It certainly is a very important part of the problem, because
the Palestinians do not recognize the State of Israel. And under those circum-
stances, it is impossible to bring the Palestinians and the Israelis together to
negotiate. So, unless there is some change in their attitude, I think you can see
a very serious roadblock exists.
THANKSGIVING
[24.] Q. Mr. President, tomorrow being Thanksgiving Day, I ask this not
of Jerry Ford, individual, but as the President of the United States. What do
you have, number one, to be thankful for?
THE PRESIDENT. I am primarily thankful for the fact that this country is at
peace on this Thanksgiving rather than engaged in a war, as we were for 4
or 5 or 6 years.
NEW YORK CITY
[25.] Q. Mr. President, thank you, sir. As a New York reporter, I am very
interested in something you said in your statement. Part of the package that you
found to indicate progress on the part of New York officials involved $205
million in taxes, which are a very onerous burden on the middle class in New
York, on the working man and woman, including a 25-percent city income tax
raise. Now, are you concerned politically that these taxes, these new taxes on a
very heavily taxed city, one of the most heavily taxed cities in America, that
these taxes are going to become known as the Ford taxes and that you are going
to have to kiss the voters of New York goodby next year?
THE PRESIDENT. As I have said repeatedly, the only requirement that I im-
posed was that the financial situation in New York City be such that we could
handle the problem at the Federal level in the way in which we are doing it
today.
As I understand it, Governor Carey has taken the full responsibility for the
total package, including the taxes that were imposed through his recommenda-
tion to the State legislature. I think that is a very courageous stand by Governor
Carey.
Under those circumstances, since I didn't recommend any particular tax
package, or any additional taxes, I don't see how those taxes can be labeled taxes
of this Administration.
Q. Although you do approve of those taxes as part of this package?
THE PRESIDENT. I approve of the financial plan of responsibility which the
Governor and the city officials and others have put together.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
1915
