September 3
[523]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
warning system in the buffer zone between the Egyptian and Israeli forces in the
Sinai.
A similar proposal will be signed by the Prime Minister of Israel. The text of
that document is also enclosed. I intend to request formally that Congress ap-
prove this document. I would appreciate your views on the form which this
approval should take. As soon as the official texts of the other documents related
to the Egypt-Israel agreement initialed on September 1st have been signed
by the parties in Geneva, I will be making a formal transmission of the texts of
the agreement and related documents for the information of the Congress.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
GERALD R. FORD
The texts of the proposals approved by the Egyp-
tian and Israeli Governments are printed in Treaties
and Other International Acts Series (TIAS 8155 and
8156, respectively).
523
Remarks on Secretary of State Kissinger's Return
From the Middle East. September 3, 1975
Mr. Secretary and Nancy and the party that have spent so many hours and days
in the Middle East:
Let me say with great emphasis that I am delighted to welcome you, Mr.
Secretary, back from this very important mission of peace in the Middle East.
The success of that extraordinary mission is of tremendous importance, not
only to the parties immediately involved but, in my judgment, all the world.
The interim agreement that Secretary Kissinger negotiated with great skill and
with enormous diligence provides an important contribution to our continuing
efforts toward an overall settlement in the Middle East. For that, all of us have
great reason to be most grateful.
As far as both sides were concerned, war was an unacceptable alternative in
the Middle East. Both sides felt that the risks of peace in the long run were
more acceptable than the dangers of war. The agreement initialed this past
week provides time that will be needed to work—and we intend to work very,
very hard-toward concluding a lasting peace agreement in the Middle East.
America can be very proud of its role as peacemaker in these negotiations, a
role which demanded the respect and the trust on each side, a role, which
demonstrated again America's credibility. We can be confident that the civilian
1293
