September 12
[557]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
What I am saying is that domestically it has been a hard fight. It hasn't been
pleasant, but we have made headway by being candid, forthright, determined,
and I think the public is on our side—I think not only Republicans but
Independents.
and
And as a result I believe we have created the climate that gives our party
our candidates an opportunity to run on a record of responsibility fiscally, a
party that has a record of trying to do what was right and not necessarily what
was political.
Now, we are going to continue in the domestic area of trying to be straight-
forward, firm, openminded. In the field of foreign policy, we are going to con-
tinue our efforts of trying to negotiate rather than confront, and the best evi-
dence of that is what was achieved in the last few weeks in getting two nations
together that couldn't in the past agree-Egypt and Israel—to settle the problem
in the Middle East.
And I give full credit to the genius of Henry Kissinger, who did a superb
job in taking two longstanding nations of vast differences, and the net result
is we have made progress toward peace in that very volatile, difficult area. But
wherever we go around the world, we are going to keep the pressure on, the
pressure on for peace with strength, fairness, and I believe the record will be
one on the plus side.
But what makes it possible for us to have that capability is very simple. It is
a military program second to none, not to wage war, but to ensure the peace.
I know from my negotiations and discussions with world leaders they respect
us because we are strong. They will work with us because we are able. And
therefore, it is extremely important that America maintain an Army, a Navy,
an Air Force, and Marines that is second to none, not for war, but for peace.
And that is what we have.
One final observation, if I might. I have made quite a campaign about trying
to get the Government off your back, whether it is through the executive
branch or through the regulatory agencies. I am not advocating all regulation—
certainly not that that involves health and safety-stripped, but there are some
obsolete regulations, there are some obsolete laws, there are some bureaucrats
that hang on to power like they had to have it to live.
We are going to get rid of some of these things. We are going to get rid
of them, because during a period of time within the last 25 years, to my own
personal knowledge, there was this effort made to expand controls and to
increase regulation.
I used to sit in the Chamber of the House of Representatives, and I would
64-630 - 77 31 (Vol. 2)
-
1415
