October 7
[615]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
for me a this time to make any comment pending a decision by the Senate com-
mittee, and of course, the nomination in the normal course of events would go
to the Senate floor. But until the Senate committee completes its investigation,
makes its report, I think the matter ought to stay exactly where it is.
Q. If Hooper does not achieve recommendation, do you have a backup name?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a number of names and a number of fine people,
but I think it is premature, pending the situation, for me to even comment on
that.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee
investigating the CIA, Otis Pike, has recently suggested citing Administration
officials for contempt of Congress because you believe certain national security
materials should not be released to that committee. Is the Administration work-
ing on a compromise agreement to provide some material to the committee, and
what kind of agreement would be acceptable to you?
THE PRESIDENT. Last week we gave to that committee 710 pages of classified
material, and we deleted 50 words, as I recollect. I think that is substantial com-
pliance with the committee.
We have said that we would not give to the committee the names of intelli-
gence agents. We would not give information concerning certain mechanical
equipment that is vitally important for the gathering of intelligence information.
I think that is a fair proposition. And I am glad to report that in this area, the
committee has approved that arrangement by a vote of 10 to 3, with Chairman
Pike being among the 10. So, I think we have worked it out so they will get all of
the information that they require to carry out their legislative responsibilities.
Q. So, the committee is satisfied?
THE PRESIDENT. It is on that point, yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT'S SAFETY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, in recent weeks you have found yourself the victim
of two assassination attempts. What were your feelings? What thoughts went
through your mind whenever you found yourself staring at Squeaky Fromme's
gun and then later, whenever you found that you had been shot at? And on
a related matter, do you think the media bears any responsibility for these events?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the incident in Sacramento happened so quickly, and
the Secret Service acted so rapidly in handling the matter, that frankly, I didn't
have an opportunity to think about it. The Secret Service did a superb job, and
1611
