August 25
[500]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of star sailing. Bill Parks has done a wonderful job in giving me the history
and the experiences that he has had and all of you have had in this great
competition.
In tomorrow's races and those that follow, I wish you all could win. But in
just being part of this very special sport, I know that you feel it has been a great
and a rewarding experience.
Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. at the
Chicago Yacht Club. The 53d annual competition
was held in Chicago to commemorate the 100th
anniversary of the Chicago Yacht Club.
In his remarks, the President referred to Wil-
liam W. Parks, president of the International Star
Class Yacht Racing Association, and James "Ding"
Schoonmaker, North American champion in star
class yacht racing.
500
Remarks in Chicago at the Convention of the American
Hardware Manufacturers Association. August 25, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Hudson. Cardinal Cody, Mr. Spencer, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very special pleasure and privilege for me to be here this morning and
to pay tribute to the American hardware industry and to kick off Hardware
Week in the city of Chicago.
Yours is an industry that has taken American ingenuity and coupled it with
some of the most effective merchandising techniques known to mortal man.
Now, that may seem like some exaggeration, but a hardware store is the only
business I know of where you can go to buy a 10-cent carriage bolt and come
out with a can of paint, a new, improved screwdriver, 50 pounds of charcoal
briquets, a bicycle repair kit, 10 minutes of free advice, 12 picture hooks, 6 fuses,
and a lawnmower—and then have to go back because you forgot the 10-cent
carriage bolt you went to buy there in the first place. [Laughter]
I have been a typical homeowner most of my life, and my wife, Betty, knows
it. She says that sending me to a hardware store is the nearest thing she knows
to playing chicken with our life savings. [Laughter]
Nevertheless, on behalf of all of us "do-it-yourselfers,” let me thank all of you
here for making possible the wonder of wonders—the neighborhood hardware
emporium, more affectionately known as the world's only candy store for
grownups. [Laughter]
In your business, you constantly seek out those new ideas that are so im-
portant to a great country, and so do we in this country. In fact, no nation or
1209
