November 24
[692]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Education, and Welfare, Senator Randolph of West Virginia, and Senator
Stafford of Vermont, as well as representatives of eight key organizations work-
ing for the handicapped.
A major purpose of this conference is to generate a responsive national aware-
ness of the problems facing the handicapped. Concern for the handicapped is not
unique to the Federal Government. State and local officials and private citizens
must also turn their attention to the needs of the handicapped.
Action to alleviate these needs will be one of the major purposes of this
conference. Along with my colleagues in the Congress and State and local units
of government, I look forward to receiving the recommendations from the
conference.
I was delighted to learn that the newly formed National Planning and Ad-
visory Council will require that at least a half of the National Conference be
handicapped individuals themselves. Obviously, this makes very good sense. The
problems of the handicapped are too often left to people without handicaps who
may sometimes lack personal experience which gives great insight.
Of the 28 million adults with physical and mental handicaps, only 800,000 are
currently employed and many of these have jobs below their abilities.
This Nation's handicapped citizens have a right to live with self-reliance, with
the same dignity as all of their fellow citizens. To help them realize their full
capacity as human beings, to help them achieve higher levels of personal and
professional fulfillment-these are the goals of this conference, and I wish all
who participate from now on, as well as those who will participate in December,
I wish them the very best.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:15 a.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
692
Toasts of the President and Chief Justice of the United States
Warren E. Burger at a Dinner Honoring the Judiciary.
November 24, 1975
Mr. Chief Justice, distinguished members of the judicial system, both Federal and
State, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It has been said that the law is the only profession in which the practitioner can
produce something that is 200 pages in length and still have it called a brief.
[Laughter]
1899
