[560]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our second century transformed an underdeveloped country into the most
productive nation that ever existed. America reflected the pioneer spirit, the
achievements of industry, agriculture, the incentives of free enterprise, the con-
tributions of free trade unions, and the widespread sharing of economic gains
both at home and abroad.
As we approach our third century, I see this era as one of the fulfillment of
the individual citizen. I see a century devoted to education, which equips young
men and women, like the students of SMU, to make their own decisions rather
than permit their future to be programed by massive government structures
that an imaginative writer foresaw for 1984—a nightmarish fantasy of what our
third century could be.
It is my deepest conviction that a government big enough to give you every-
thing you want is a government big enough to take from you everything you
have.
Let us usher in a third century in which the individual rather than the govern-
ment makes personal choices and decides how individual income is to be spent.
Men and women must prevail over the endless agencies and bureaus that would
reduce human beings to computerized abstractions and program people into
numbers and statistics.
I place a high premium on creativity, originality, and your right to differen-
tiate yourself from the mass. Today's mounting danger is from mass government,
mass education, and mass technology, and we must not let them prevail.
I am determined to do everything in my power to prevent conformist pressures
from smothering individual expression or stifling individual opportunity. Indi-
vidualism must stand as the sentinel of 1976 against the monolithic threat of
sameness in our society.
Never forget that in America our sovereign is the citizen. The governments
and institutions exist to serve people. The state is a servant of the individual. It
must never become an anonymous monstrosity that masters everyone and is
responsive to no one. These propositions are the foundations of our Bicentennial.
My vision of America's third century is one of an era of achievements rather
than apathy, of fostering the ennobling and transcendental qualities of the indi-
vidual spirit rather than building huge new bureaucracies.
Two centuries of sacrifices and struggle, of conflict and compromise, have
won an unprecedented measure of political and economic independence for
each of us. I am proud to be the President of a free government that checks and
balances its own excesses.
1424
