[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
But let me add one thing. We have had these loan programs to students in
higher education for a number of years. It is awfully disappointing to see the
very poor repayment schedule of a lot of the students. I looked at the figures
the other day, and you get some variation, but as I recall, it is somewhere between
25 and 10 percent-how you judge it.
Now, that is not a very good record for students who have borrowed from
their country. And it better be better.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Orville Mertz. I am chairman of the Wisconsin
Manufacturers Association. The question that I had dealt with the actions that
you are taking selectively to deregulate business for the benefit of our total
economy. You have really virtually answered that question to my satisfaction
already, so let me just say our hearts are with you, Mr. President, you and your
team, in the job that you are trying to do and are doing. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. That concludes the 19, but there is a gentleman back here
who has been standing. I will be glad to answer his question.
THE GREAT LAKES
[20.] Q. Mr. President, I want to thank you. My name is Mosby-William
Mosby. I am president of the Longshoremen's Local 815, Milwaukee. I asked
this morning Secretary Butz a question. I asked again Secretary Coleman that
question. I met him before in various places. I would like to ask you a question.
I am sort of in the same position that you are—[laughter]——
The President. I am glad somebody shares those problems. [Laughter]
Q. I have a lot of people that I am the president of their organization and a lot
of them are out of work—the same as you, the President of this wonderful
United States of America, and a lot of us are out of work, our people.
About 5 or 6 years ago, the military units came through and did a survey of
the Great Lakes District as far as shipping military cargo. We have not heard
why they did not ship military cargo through the Great Lakes.
Is there anything that you can do about that and let us have some informa-
tion on what can be done, because we do know that military cargo is being
shipped through other ports, and I think that not only Milwaukee but the
ports on the Great Lakes are equipped, efficient to handle this work.
THE PRESIDENT. I must confess I am no expert on this precise problem. I
appreciate your calling it to my attention.
As one person who was a long fighter for the St. Lawrence Seaway, which
permitted ocean shipping to come into the Great Lakes and shipping to go
out, offhand, without any more information than I have, I don't understand
1242
