[496]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
We came to Peoria to listen as well as to speak, and judging by that stand-
ard, I believe the conference has been a success.
It's my strong and very deep conviction that to do its job well, the Govern-
ment must be tuned into the people it serves. It must be open, it must be re-
sponsive as it maintains a two-way conversation with citizens from all walks of
life.
Today, you have heard about agriculture from Earl [Butz], about the econ-
omy from John Dunlop-John Dunlop and Bill Seidman—and about energy
from Frank Zarb, about education from Commissioner Bell, and about the
environment from Russ Train.
I know they have tried to give each and every one of you an idea of what this
Administration's goals are and where we are heading in our efforts—and I say
most sincerely—in our efforts to develop some new directions while strength-
ening the basic free enterprise system and the values which make America
great.
But just as importantly, we have also heard from you, from the men and
women representing nearly every facet of life in the Peoria area. And I thank
all of you-labor, business, industry, education, farming, the minority com-
munity, women's groups, the press, and the legal profession. I am grateful
that you participated.
This is the seventh Presidential townhall meeting that I have had the privi-
lege of attending. The more of them that I attend, the more I learn and the
more optimistic I become about America's long-term future. In the people
gathered here in this room and millions of others like you around the country,
we have one of the priceless natural resources that will never be depleted.
And as long as we can meet together and work together like this, in an
atmosphere of candor, trust, and mutual respect, there is no problem we can't
solve together.
And after all, that is what America is really all about-people with different
ideas, different approaches, from all walks of life, pulling together to make this
great country a better place for all of us.
You know they did it in 1776 in Independence Hall. We, too, can do it 200
years later.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:42 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Peoria Hilton Hotel. He was intro-
duced by William J. Baroody, Jr., Assistant to the
President for Public Liaison.
1198
