November 14
[677]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the contributions that they made when they were in the House of Representa-
tives and the fine job they are doing in our Administration at the present time.¹
One of my dearest friends in the Congress for 20 years was Charlie Jonas. He
and I served on the Committee on Appropriations together. We literally voted
day after day after day the same way. And I haven't had a chance to see Charlie
here today, but if any of you do, give him my best. He is a great, great American.
Now, the Republican Party in North Carolina has grown; it has prospered in
a very dynamic and dramatic way. Although you are still a minority in voter
registration, as we are as a party nationally, you have won victory after victory
with good candidates, good issues, and good, strong, active, party organization.
And these are the keys to success in North Carolina as they are everywhere. I
think with your record, we are going to send some folks in to learn how you do it.
I congratulate you.
Because we are a minority in this State, in registration at the national level, I
don't think we can afford dissension within our own party. When we sacrifice
party unity, we all too often sacrifice victory as well. From now on, let's con-
centrate on winning elections instead of arguments.
In 1976, I am absolutely convinced that a strong, united Republican Party will
win more than its share of victories in North Carolina and throughout America.
And what you do here in North Carolina can be tremendously significant. We
will go, in trying to achieve these successes, to the American people with a record
of strength at home and strength abroad.
Our national defense has never been stronger. The American dollar is once
again one of the strongest currencies on the international money market. Our
trade surplus is once more the envy of the world. Let me thank with emphasis
the farmers of North Carolina, the working people of North Carolina, and the
businessmen of North Carolina for helping to make this significant progress a
reality.
Over the past few months our economic progress at home has been very
encouraging. From time to time I concede there have been some temporary
interruptions, but on balance, we are moving toward a strong economic recovery
and long-lasting economic stability.
The signs of this progress are clear for all to see. Our gross national product
for the third quarter of 1975 increased by more than 11 percent—the biggest
quarterly increase in 20 years. That is progress, by any standards.
1 Governor of American Samoa and Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development,
respectively.
1863
