[739]
December 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
[Laughter] Can you tell us anything about your campaign plans for next year?
Are you going into New Hampshire and Florida, for example?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a lot of open dates in those months, because we first
felt that the most important thing was to do the business of the Federal Govern-
ment. I am sure that we will participate to some degree in various primary
campaigns, but I emphasize, and say it very strongly, that the principal respon-
sibility of the President of the United States is to make sure that he exercises his
full responsibilities as President. If there is time for any campaigning—and only
time can tell—then I will do what I can, but I have no concrete plans at this
moment.
Q. Mr. President, could you give us a sense of how you feel you are doing
politically right now, especially in view of that poll that showed Ronald Reagan
ahead of you by a substantial margin among both Republicans and
Independents?
THE PRESIDENT. The way I judge it is whether I think I am doing a good job as
President. I am concentrating on that responsibility. I think we have made sub-
stantial progress in the last 16 or 17 months in straightening out a very serious
economic problem, in carrying on a sound foreign policy. And in my opinion,
the American people in the final analysis will judge whether I should be nomi-
nated and/or elected on the basis of how I conduct myself in this office. And that
is where the concentration will be.
Q. Just to follow up on that, sir. In view of the fact, of course, you have been
President, what do you think is the significance of that poll? What does it tell
you, if anything?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not sure I understand the intent of the question.
Q. Well, since you have been functioning as President and doing the best job
you know how, as you say, what is the importance of the poll that shows you
trailing Mr. Reagan politically even so?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the final answer, of course, comes in the ballot
box. And if I do the job—and I think we have made some great progress certainly
in solving economic problems, and I think we have done a very good job on
foreign policy—that will be the test, not any interim polls.
Q. Mr. President, after Mr. Callaway stirred up a bit of a storm in Houston
with criticizing Mr. Reagan's record as Governor, you talked to him the next
day. Did you tell him to lay off this, and what do you think of the way he is
running the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think overall that Bo Callaway has done a good job. I get
weekly reports on the status of our organization in the various States, and when
1984
