[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
and some modification of the rate structure. In the business field, a reduction
from 48 percent to 46 percent, a permanent extension of the investment tax
credit, and the personal income tax reductions would be on a permanent basis.
I think it is a fair proposition to the taxpayers, and the spending limitation
can be achieved. And I can assure you that all of us are going to maximize our
efforts to convince the American people so that in turn the Congress will re-
spond. I believe the Congress can handle the problem of a spending restraint
and a tax reduction.
Now, the second point I would like to make is the need and necessity for a
comprehensive energy program. Two basic points: One, we have to stimulate
domestic production. Number two, we have to conserve. We have been far too
long vulnerable to foreign oil control. In the last 2 or 3 years, we have been
literally vulnerable to decisions made overseas, primarily by the Middle Eastern
countries.
Four years ago the Federal Government—I mean, the United States was pay-
ing out roughly $3 billion a year to foreign oil producers. Last year we paid out
$25 billion. There has been roughly a fourfold increase in our payments overseas,
and with a 10-percent increase announced roughly a week or 10 days ago, we will
pay an additional $2 billion a year to overseas oil producers. That money ought
to remain in the United States.
If it does, it means roughly a million more American jobs. In order to make
ourselves invulnerable, we have to stimulate the production of domestic oil, we
have to more affirmatively use coal, we have to get into the exotic fuels, we have
to expand our research and development. And we are. And we must, because
the risks are great, push what I recommended about a week or 10 days ago—
the energy independence authority. That proposal will go up to the Congress
in draft form and with a message this week, and it will be aimed at taking
those energy projects that cannot, because of the risk or the gamble, be financed
by private enterprise and push them so we make real headway in the synthetic
fuel area. We will have to do something in the area of transportation and con-
servation through this mechanism, through this facility, but we can do it.
We cannot in the future leave the United States vulnerable to energy decisions
by nations overseas. The United States, for its own security, for its own economic
progress and headway, has to have more of our energy developed right here at
home. And we are going to do it.
So, with those very limited observations, I would now be delighted to respond
to the first question.
1620
