[612]
October 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
If we are to deal effectively with this problem, we must act with boldness
and with a truly national commitment. More than 9 months ago, I sent to the
Congress legislation to start this Nation on the road to energy independence.
So far, we have had a mimimum amount of action and very little, if any, results.
Just last week, I proposed the establishment of an energy independence au-
thority to help finance the development of this Nation's resources and to meet
our goal of energy independence in 10 years or less. Time is running out.
If Congress acts on these programs that I have submitted, we will be on our
way to this era of independence. This time it is not independence from foreign
rule, but from foreign oil. We suffer the consequences today that when OPEC
raises prices, we have no counterweapon to use.
Do you realize that in the last 4 years, we have had a 700-percent increase
in our payments to foreign nations for the oil that we import from them. And
today we are the victims that we have to use 40 percent of the oil we consume
coming from overseas sources.
When they raise oil prices, as they did 10 percent or thereabouts, we have
no counter. And we won't have until we develop more and more domestic
energy capability on the one hand or more effective conservation measures on
the other.
Time is passing, and every day that it goes by we become more and more
vulnerable. May I say the energy independence authority that I have requested
can help in stimulating the public as well as private efforts to achieve energy
independence for our country.
It is not our goal that government replace private enterprise in the energy
field. Far, far from it. But it can be an active partner in this great national
endeavor. The endeavor is great and as urgent as those which saw America two
or three decades ago produce synthetic rubber in the heat of World War II,
harness the atom with the Manhattan Project, and to put the first man on the
Moon just a few years ago.
We must, as a nation, have an adequate supply, a dependable resource of
energy if we are to keep our economy moving forward, producing jobs and
profits so that people can live a happy and a successful life.
No national goal today in the domestic area is more important than this one.
Yes, energy does mean much more than operate machines of industry or heat
our homes or power our automobiles. It fuels our total economy. Energy means
jobs. If we increase our energy capability or capacity, there will be more jobs
for New Jersey and for every one of our States, including my State of Michigan,
which is in a somewhat comparable situation to all of you in this great State.
1598
