[530]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
of Joseph's coat is its many colors. The beauty of America is its many, many
individuals, each a little different from the other.
For America's third century of independence, I commend to each of you
this great objective-freedom for everyone who respects the freedom of others.
You, all of us are inheritors of a great trust. We must honor the past by work-
ing for the future. A nation born of a dream and carried forward by action
requires from each and every one of us, all of us, a commitment of faith to
advance individual liberty and to make America strong, to make America
secure for this third century.
Thank you very, very much.
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, Ronald Reagan said that his running against you would
strengthen the Republican Party and the Nation. What are your thoughts on
this?
The President. Well, I have always believed that competition in the political
arena is healthy. I have always had political competition whenever I ran for
political office in the past.
I emphasize, however, that in my own campaigns, instead of discussing the
views of others or being critical of others, my view is that a person seeking
public office ought to have his own platform, his own program, and sell that
and concentrate on an affirmative program and an affirmative basis.
So, if and when there is competition for the nomination of my political party,
I will run it in that way, affirmatively aimed at discussing the issues and not
indulging into personalities. Competition is good in politics like anything else.
Q. Mr. President, the large corporations all around the Nation seem to be
making the Bicentennial celebrations too commercialized. Many Americans,
young people included, believe the Bicentennial could be more relevant by
realization of the revolutionary democratic principles our ancestors fought for.
What is the White House commission doing to promote the revolutionary spirit
for our 1976 Bicentennial?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it has been my privilege to participate in several Bi-
centennial celebrations, and none of them were commercial. None of them
had any aspects that would, in my opinion, undercut the thrust and the em-
phasis that I think is important, which is recognition of the tremendous com-
mitment, dedication, sacrifice that was made by so many some 200 years ago.
Let me illustrate. I am sure you have read—I am certain you know the story
of Paul Revere and the Old North Church in the city of Boston. I participated
1330
