[587]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
bia, Alfonzo Lopez Pumarejo, whose distinguished son honors us with his
presence here tonight.
During his inaugural address in 1934, President Lopez Pumarejo said, and I
quote: "Our foreign relations in the future must not be based on that formal
reciprocity of soulless diplomatic notes that travel from chancery to chancery.
We shall try to take advantage of every opportunity to invigorate the ties of
cooperation and active friendship with all nations but, above all, with those of
our hemisphere."
How well this distinguished leader—and permit me to add, Excellency, his
distinguished son-have succeeded in that very high purpose. Our mutual rela-
tions today are born of a very precious common heritage forged out of the travail
of wars of independence. Both of our nations paid with the blood of patriots to
achieve the dream of freedom, both in your country as well as in ours.
That common experience, I think, gives us common aspirations. Both of our
nations desire to see the rule of law apply to our relations and to those among
all nations. Both seek equality and reciprocity among nations. Both share the
common knowledge that in the complex world of today, nations bound in his-
toric friendship and traditions must depend very directly upon one another.
Your country is renowned, Mr. President, for its moral and intellectual
leadership, for its moderation, for its keen sense of justice, and for its dedication
to greater progress and social justice for your people and the peoples of our
hemisphere.
We of the United States admire those goals you have set not only for your-
selves but we appreciate them as great objectives for all of your people.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to His Excellency, the
President of Colombia, to Mrs. Lopez, and to the people of Colombia. May our
two countries always walk together in a mutual confidence and respect, and
may our historic friendship contribute to the achievement of these noble goals
of mankind—justice, peace, and freedom.
To the President.
NOTE: President Ford spoke at 10:25 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Presi-
dent Lopez responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, Mr. Vice President, Mrs.
Rockefeller, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished
Members of the Senate and the House, ladies and
gentlemen:
Six years ago, a few hours before man first set
foot on the Moon, another President of Colombia,
Dr. Carlos Lleras Restrepo, then the guest of Presi-
dent Richard Nixon, had the honor of speaking in
this very room. The dream cherished for centuries
by poets and fiction writers was brought to reality
by American science and technology. We had evi-
dently reached a landmark in the history of
mankind.
Today, when the United States is preparing the
Bicentennial celebration of the Declaration of In-
dependence, it seems fitting to ask which of the
two events constitutes a greater contribution to
western civilization. The Declaration of Independ-
ence had a decisive influence on the process that led
to the French Revolution. It carried the seeds of the
1526
