[492]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
the tremendous cost of maintaining the capabilities required for a potential
major war?
These are exceedingly difficult questions to answer. At times, we have come
perilously close to a major military confrontation. We have suffered some serious
setbacks. And we are still unable to resolve some dangerous conflicts festering
on nearly every continent in the world.
But we have prevented world war III. We have preserved civilization. Few
who remember the immediate postwar period after World War II would say
that the world is not calmer and better off today than it was.
The free world, as we define it, is essentially intact after 30 years of uneasy
peace between the super powers, instability in former colonial areas, and sporadic
outbreaks of local and regional violence. And three decades of imperfect peace
have permitted unprecedented gains in productivity and economic progress for
much of mankind, including the United States.
Some fundamental lessons were learned in this period. They must not be
forgotten.
First, the military might, the material strength, and moral purpose of the
United States were absolutely essential to achieve the present level of inter-
national stability. They remain absolutely essential. We are still the principal
defender of freedom throughout the world.
Second, our enormous defense capability and its economic base have been
reinforced by the growing resources of our allies in Europe and in the Pacific
and by the increasing interdependence of industrial democracies in both military
and economic areas. They must continue.
Third, the policies of five American Presidents before me for strong national
defense, for reduction of East-West tension and the threat of thermonuclear war,
and for the bolstering of our essential allies, have had the unswerving and non-
partisan support of the Congress and the American people. I will continue to
seek that support. But today I ask you, my fellow Legionnaires, to help me
achieve that objective, and I know that I can count on your support.
We share a very deep concern over the cracks now appearing in the founda-
tions of essential national unity on defense and foreign policy.
Without a clear consensus among 214 million Americans, the role of the United
States as the champion of freedom and peace throughout the world would be
crippled-crippled very seriously, if not fatally. The ability of a President to
carry out his constitutional duties would be dangerously diminished. The
temptation to potential adversaries to take advantage of any apparent weakness,
1172
