[553]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
oldest black fraternal groups, traces its origin back to 1787. As many of you
know, Prince Hall was a minister.
In our own times, Dr. Martin Luther King, Dr. Jackson, and other clergymen
led the civil rights movement inspired by the teachings of the Prince of Peace.
The black church saw the need to concentrate early on education. Let me
add that the issue in 1837, when Cheyney State College was founded in Penn-
sylvania as the first black institution of higher learning, was quality educa-
tion. The need today is still quality education. I assure you here today that I stand
for quality education for every American. Not one single child in this country
is excluded. With reason, with calm, with sincerity and some prayers from all
of us, we will master these trials and tribulations and become a greater nation
because of them.
The need for strong church leadership is just as great today as it was 200
years ago or a century ago. As a matter of fact, I firmly believe there should be
more church leadership in this country. We see enough of material power.
What the American people need to know and feel more often is the spiritual
power of the church, school, and family in our lives. As I look out at all of you
at this great convention, I see a giant family. All of us are brothers and sisters.
This is a magnificent concept, because the family is the world's basic social,
economic, and political unit. I believe we determine the course of our lives, for
the most part, in the family home. It is the home which teaches basic princi-
ples-the imperishable qualities of truth, integrity, unselfishness, and most
importantly, love.
Society has undergone vast changes in the past generation, and new ideas
are constantly influencing our lives. New materialism, the pressures of modern
life, new attitudes, social values, crime in our inner cities—all of these greatly
affect the everyday life of the family. All of us have the responsibility to stand
and support the standards we believe in. As religious people, stand up for your
faith. I stand with you. We believe in the same God.
Wherever I go, people are kind and say to me: "We are praying for you. You
are in our prayers.” This has been a tremendous source of inner strength and
peace for me. It inspires me to pray harder when I get on my own knees for
God's guidance, and it reminds me that I do not act alone, but for and with you
and all our fellow citizens.
For life to be constructive, to build a greater, finer nation, we must appeal
to higher motives than fear, higher beliefs than a passing fancy or fad, higher
aspirations than the law. We must appeal to the highest motive and aspiration
1386
