[565]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, the committee has all of the information that it asked for, some highly
classified. They have all of the information that they need to make a legislative
determination as to whether the intelligence community was properly organized,
properly managed, did its job well.
I am very concerned as to the damage to our intelligence sources if the pro-
cedure used by the committee in this last instance is to be the procedure used
by the committee in the future. Until I find from the committee what their
procedure is going to be, I will not give them the information.
I have to have from them what their procedure is under this very important
classified or secret material that we have given them and that they want.
TAX REDUCTION
[6.] Q. Mr. President, some Members of Congress are talking like an ex-
tension of the tax cut is already an accomplished fact next year. In fact, they
are saying that an even larger cut needs to come. What is your thinking right
now on the tax cut next year?
THE PRESIDENT. We have made no firm decision on that. We will, in a rea-
sonably short period of time, make a recommendation. If the economy needs
any additional stimulant, we will, of course, recommend a continuation of the
present tax cut.
If we find that the economy is continuing to come out of the recession, as
it is, and there is no danger of added inflationary problems, we would probably
not recommend a continuation of the tax cut. But we do feel that we have some
additional time before making a specific request of the Congress for action in
this area.
SCHOOL BUSING
[7.] Q. Mr. President, you have been saying that there is a better way than
busing to achieve quality education. You suggested some better ways, such as
improving facilities and the teacher-pupil ratio. Are you prepared to approve
of more money to do things like that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we, of course, do have in the emergency school aid leg-
islation and appropriations a substantial amount of money that is available, and
we have made money available to Boston, and we have-if my memory is cor-
rect-done the same in Louisville, although I will have to check that.
The thing that bothers me about actions of some of the courts, where they
are involved in the school busing controversy, is that they apparently have not
taken into consideration the law that was passed and signed by me on Au-
gust 12 [21], 1974, 3 days after I was sworn in.
1438
