[447]
July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
lose in Turkey if we cannot remedy the action. Their loss would seriously down-
grade our capabilities in major areas of national security. These installations are
not replaceable.
In reviewing the debates of the last several months, any fair-minded person
would agree that there is not a fundamental dispute on the objective of achieving
a peaceful and equitable solution to the tragic Cyprus problem. The Congress
has chosen means to accomplish that end which in my judgment would not
only delay and impede a Cyprus settlement but, as now can be seen clearly,
cause a disastrous deterioration in our security relations with Turkey and in
the Eastern Mediterranean in general. In addition, these effects will certainly
not make for an improvement in relations between Greece and Turkey, with-
out which a Cyprus settlement is not possible.
My Administration has been and will continue to pursue the cause of a just
and peaceful settlement in Cyprus. But I must emphasize in the strongest terms
how seriously hobbled our efforts will be if the embargo against Turkey is
maintained.
I, therefore, urge through you, Mr. Speaker, the immediate reconsideration
of the House action. Only if we preserve our vital security relations with Turkey
will I be able usefully to assist the parties in the area toward better relations.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
448
Remarks on Arrival at Warsaw, Poland.
July 28, 1975
Mr. First Secretary, Mrs. Gierek, Mr. Chairman of the Council of State, Mr.
Prime Minister, distinguished hosts:
Mrs. Ford and I are deeply grateful for your very cordial words of welcome.
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to return to Poland. Mrs. Ford and
I had the privilege and honor of being here a number of years ago and spent
some 11 days in Warsaw and in Poland, and we have fond memories of that
wonderful experience.
During the 16 years since my first visit to your country, the friendly ties
between our peoples have developed in a way that should provide us much
mutual encouragement. Building on a foundation laid nearly 200 years ago,
when courageous Poles came to our shores and helped make American inde-
1056
