[460]
August 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
hand, I do not believe the American people want their President to give more
than he gets.
So, that is the basic problem in our negotiating process. I can assure you that
we will not give more than we get, but I still feel that in the process of
negotiations, compromise, we can end up with what is good for both peoples.
Q. Do the Soviets raise specific objections to some of the criticisms by
Senator Jackson of the SALT agreements and the SALT negotiations when you
are having these talks with them?
THE PRESIDENT. We never discuss personalities. We discuss the issues. We
discuss the facts. We discuss our security, the objective of peace, and obviously
they discuss their security. We don't get into personalities on the American scene
or otherwise.
OIL PRICES
[5.] Q. Mr. President, what about oil? What is going to happen now on the
oil decontrol in view of Congressional rejection of your compromise proposals?
THE PRESIDENT. I am terribly disappointed that after I have made two con-
structive compromise efforts to phase decontrol over first a 30-month period,
then a 39-month period, that the Congress would reject these proposals.
I am very grateful for what the Senate did. I am terribly disappointed in the
attitude of the House, because the House action does nothing to stimulate
production on the one hand and it does literally nothing to emphasize con-
servation on the other.
The House action, at least by a majority, it does not have-there is no other
reason or political ramification—it does not have any substantive answer for
the need for more American production and less reliance on foreign sources.
Q. What is going to happen now?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the American people are far ahead of the majority
of the Congress. They understand the problem, and they will understand if
and when I veto the extension.
Q. “If”” you would? Ron [Nessen] has always said that you would.
THE PRESIDENT. There is 999/10 percent chance answer that I am going to
veto it, but I do want to wait until I get back. And I think the American people
are a lot smarter than the majority of the Congress in this case.
THE CONGRESS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, you have had a series of setbacks in Congress while
you have been on the road-your veto was defeated on the health matter, the
military appropriations bill, one of them was defeated today, and the Turkish
1084
