[571]
September 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Many people in the United States apparently do not believe there is an energy
problem, including too many Members of the Congress. I am glad to say it is
not the Oklahoma delegation, but they know who I am talking about.
But I say to you in all seriousness, the United States is headed for very deep
trouble unless we act while we have time. We will soon have time only to react
and that will be too late.
We are engulfed in Washington in apathy on the part of some, distrust on the
part of others, and indecision among still others. Let me repeat with emphasis,
the energy threat is very real. It will not go away. It will grow steadily worse
until the United States makes some hard, tough choices about its energy future.
Since 1971, the amount of money we have been spending overseas for foreign
oil has skyrocketed by 700 percent. Our annual bill for foreign oil was just over
$3 billion 4 years ago, and today it has ballooned to $25 billion.
That $25 billion could have provided more than 1 million jobs for unemployed
Americans here at home. As American dollars pour out of our country, so does
our economic stability and our national security.
Eight months ago I proposed to the Congress this Nation's first comprehen-
sive national energy program. Well, let me just tell you how many times since
then I have tried to work out an energy solution with the Congress.
You won't believe this-between January 1 of this year and as of a week ago, I
held 48 energy or energy-related meetings with Members of the Congress. I have
met at least once with 51 out of the 100 United States Senators and at least once
with 304 out of the 435 Members of the House of Representatives. I listened to
their pleas and promises, asking for more time to act. I offered compromise, I
sought cooperation, all without avail.
But we are no closer now to a positive energy-producing program from the
Congress than we were 8 months ago. And may I, at this point, reiterate what I
indicated a few moments ago—and Henry Bellmon, Dewey Bartlett, Tom
Steed, John Jarman, and Ted Risenhoover and the Speaker of the House of
Representatives and the other Members of our delegation—if I had that kind of
full support from the delegations of every State, we would have had an energy
program on the statute book 6 months ago.
I have met the Congress more than halfway. It is time for the Congress to co-
operate, for the Congress to act to protect the future security and prosperity of
the United States.
The problem is perfectly obvious—if we don't get a program on the statute
books this year, you can bet it won't happen in a national election year. All
efforts to achieve energy independence will be set back even further.
1456
