[735]
December 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
735
Statement on House Action Sustaining Veto of the Tax Reduction
Bill. December 18, 1975
I AM very gratified that the Congress has sustained my veto of the temporary
tax cut extension bill sent me yesterday.
As I said then, I am willing and waiting to sign legislation coupling a tax cut
extension for 1976 with a clear commitment by Congress to cut the growth of
Federal spending. Today's vote was a major milestone toward my goal.
I had every confidence that enough Members of the House of Representatives
would have the courage to face the fundamental issue of fiscal responsibility
and face it now. I am still convinced that a majority of the House and Senate
will, before recessing for Christmas, send me a tax extension bill that recognizes
this basic truth: The only honest way to reduce taxes is to reduce the spending
of tax money.
There is no need for income taxes to go up on New Year's Day if the Congress
in the 13 days remaining in 1975 will join me in such a simple commitment to
the American people.
NOTE: On December 23, 1975, the President ap-
proved H.R. 9968, the Revenue Adjustment Act of
1975. As enacted, the bill is Public Law 94-164
(89 Stat. 970).
736
Remarks at the Lighting of the National Community Christmas
Tree. December 18, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. John Dixon. Mayor Washington, Mr. Ambassador,
Secretary Kleppe, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
As we gather here before our Nation's Christmas tree, symbolic of the com-
munion of Americans at Christmastime, we remind ourselves of the eternal
truths by which we live. We celebrate the virtues of the human spirit—faith in
God and love of one another, and the guiding principles of America-liberty and
justice for all.
In our 200 years, we Americans have always honored the spiritual testament
of 2,000 years ago. We embrace the spirit of the Prince of Peace so that we
might find peace in our own hearts and in our own land, and hopefully in the
world as well.
Christmas is a celebration of love-it is a time of joy, of giving, of caring. We
1978
