September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
INFLATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, Florence McGiffin, president of the Missouri Federa-
tion of Women's Clubs. Some of our members have just returned from their
spring buying of wearing apparel. Most of the merchandise is higher by 20 to
25 percent. What can be done about the rising prices?
THE PRESIDENT. The best way to battle inflation, or one of the best ways, in
my humble opinion, is to get the Congress to stop spending a lot of the money
that they are trying to throw away. And let me be specific, instead of perhaps
being facetious.
Last November and December I spent a good share of my time trying to put
together the budget that by law the President has to submit to the Congress in
January for action by them prior to July 1 of that year.
When we sat down and literally spent hours, lo and behold, we found that
despite our efforts to turn the squeeze to cut back employment roughly 40,000,
everything we could do, we ended up with a deficit of $52 billion—$52 billion.
I was dumbfounded. Then we submitted that to the Congress. And under the
new budget act that Congress passed a year ago, they now have a responsibility
to analyze the budget, set their spending limits, and come up with their deficit.
Well, after I submitted the budget in January or February of this year, there
were screams and hollers that I was a spendthrift. But you know what happened
when they had to sit down and do the same job? They came up with a budget
deficit figure of $68 billion. And now, despite that cutoff point that they set,
they have now gone above it about $4½ billion, so it is $70 billion or more.
Somewhere along the line, we have to start controlling some of the programs
that haven gotten out of hand. I think we can, but if we don't, these deficits,
which will range between $60 and $75 billion this fiscal year and probably one
of $30 to $50 billion next year, inflation will be very difficult to control, to get a
handle on.
Now, there are other things that can be done, but this is the one where the
President and the Congress have a responsibility. And I can promise you to the
extent and authority I have, we are going to keep vetoing spending bills that
go beyond the budget I submitted, and that was high enough as far as the deficit
was concerned.
Take the education bill that I vetoed. This last week the Congress overrode
it 300-and-something to 30 or 40 in the House, and in the Senate it was 70-some-
thing to 12. That single education bill will add $350 million to spending in this
1399
