[708]
December 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 8 p.m. in the Great
Hall of the People.
Vice Premier Teng spoke in Chinese. His response
was translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President and Mrs. Ford, Mr. Secretary of State,
ladies and gentlemen, comrades and friends:
President Ford will conclude his visit to China
tomorrow. Here, on behalf of my Chinese colleagues
present, I would like to thank President Ford for
giving this banquet on the eve of his departure.
In the last few days, our two sides have held sev-
eral beneficial talks on matters of mutual interest.
What is particularly important, Chairman Mao Tse-
tung had an earnest and significant conversation with
President Ford on wide-ranging issues in a friendly
atmosphere.
China and the United States have different social
systems, our two sides have different ideologies, and
naturally there are differences of principle between
us. At the same time, in the present international
situation, our two countries face problems of mutual
concern and share many common points.
The direct exchange of views between the leaders
of our two countries on this occasion helps to in-
crease mutual understanding and serves to promote
efforts by both the Chinese and American sides to-
ward the direction and goal defined in the Shanghai
communique.
Both sides agree that the Shanghai communique
is a document of historic significance and constitutes
the basis of Sino-U.S. relations. As facts prove, it
remains full of vitality today.
President and Mrs. Ford and their party have also
visited places of interest in Peking and come into
contact with people of various circles in our capital.
Our American guests must have found that the Chi-
nese people are friendly to the American people.
On the eve of the departure of President and Mrs.
Ford from China, I would like to take this opportu-
nity to convey the best wishes of the Chinese people
for the American people. I wish President and Mrs.
Ford and their party a pleasant journey.
In conclusion, I propose a toast to the friendship
between the Chinese and American peoples, to the
health of President and Mrs. Ford, to the health of
the other American guests, and to the health of our
comrades and friends present.
On December 3 and 4, 1975, the President's activ-
ities included meetings with the Vice Premier.
709
Toast at a State Dinner in Djakarta, Indonesia.
December 5, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Suharto, distinguished hosts:
Our two great nations enjoy a growing bond of friendship while reflecting
differences that enrich humanity. We are on opposite sides of the world with
great contrasts in history, geography, and culture. But Indonesia and the United
States also have very, very much in common.
We share a dedication to peace in Asia and in the world. We share a commit-
ment to economic and social progress. We share the realization that interna-
tional cooperation is essential for international stability and prosperity.
In recent years, we have seen many dramatic changes in the world transform-
ing the international and political and economic affairs. But the last vestiges of
colonial empires have disappeared. The cold war division of the world has
broken down. We now live in a world of some 150 independent nations. It is a
smaller world in which the destinies of nations are more clearly interdependent.
In this complex time of change, America, as always, looks to its relationships
with friends. Indonesia is such a friend. Indonesia exemplifies strength and self-
1938
