[488]
August 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
ENERGY CONSERVATION
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in the development of a comprehensive energy pro-
gram, what provisions has the Administration made for educating the present
and future generations for a positive energy conservation ethic?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have tried, but I must confess that we haven't been
as successful as we should have. And the best evidence of a lack of a successful
education program is that Congress doesn't comprehend the problem we are
in. [Laughter]
What I am really saying is, if the American people were sufficiently educated
to the crisis, the short-range problem and the long-range difficulties, the impact
on the Congress would be reflected and the Congress wouldn't have dilly-dallied
for the last 6 months as they have.
Now, I hope that through the Federal Government, through many voluntary
agencies, through other sources, we can convince the American people that we
have to increase domestic production of those resources we have and also de-
velop the so-called exotic energy programs, such as solar, geothermal, et cetera,
and at the same time, we can convince the American people that conservation
is an integral part of our overall program. And when you talk about conserva-
tion, it means the development and utilization of more efficient energy use.
We have been squanderers, as I said in my prepared text, because we have had
so much at such a cheap price. We have to convince the American people—and
they, in turn, the Congress-that this is one of the major decisions affecting our
country for the next 100 years.
And Frank Zarb and others on the top staff in the White House have gone
around the country with me trying to preach to the people in the audiences, but
I don't think we have done as well as we should. We are going to continue to
do our best.
INDIAN LANDS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am an employee of the Navajo Tribe. The tribe is
concerned because the Administration is currently proposing energy develop-
ment policies that impact significantly on Indian lands in the Western United
States. Administration of trust responsibilities for these lands is carried out by the
Department of Interior, which is also responsible for effecting Federal land-
leasing policies directed toward energy self-sufficiency. A conflict of interest
exists.
The Northern Cheyenne Indians, for example, have already entered a suit
against the Department of Interior claiming that the Bureau of Indian Affairs
1154
