[448]
July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
During my visit to the United States, which indeed
has left indelible memories of the hospitality ac-
corded to me there, I found that desire shared on
both sides and that you, sir, are personally the advo-
cate of friendly cooperation of our peoples and states.
Your present visit to Poland is about the most elo-
quent testimony of that.
We are glad that while in this country you will
be able to acquaint yourself with the great record of
achievement of the Polish People's Republic, with
her dynamic development, with our plans for the
near and more distant future.
I am sure you will find, Mr. President, that the
Polish people, who have rebuilt their country from
the ravages of war with toil and self-sacrifice, are
working perseveringly to build a strong, modern,
and prosperous country worthy of both its best tradi-
tions and of its Socialist ideals and aspirations of
today.
I am sure you will find also, Mr. President, that
the most profound desire of our people is peace. You
will see no ruins of Warsaw, which 30 years ago
proved to be such a shocking experience to one of
your predecessors, General Eisenhower.
Our capital has been restored to life-beautiful
and modern-yet the memory of the immensity of
sacrifice and suffering remains, as does the desire
impressed upon the hearts and minds-no more war.
Our people and according to their will, also the
authorities of the Polish People's Republic-conceive
of the establishment of lasting peace as of the most
important and supreme cause.
We are pleased that we are receiving you, Mr.
President, on the eve of the final phase of the Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and
only soon after the Soviet-American cooperation, one
of paramount importance to the world peace, has
been reaffirmed in the joint Soyuz-Apollo project,
crowned as it was with such a magnificent success.
You are arriving in Poland, Mr. President, at a
time when the process of international détente is
acquiring new dimensions, a process which our coun-
try, along with her Socialist allies and friends, deem
to be one of great importance.
We are greeting you as a leader of the great nation
which plays its important role in the world of today,
and we trust it will be making an ever greater con-
tribution to the cause of strengthening peace.
We are happy to see you in Poland, Mr. President.
We are happy to see Mrs. Ford in Poland.
449
Toasts of the President and First Secretary Edward Gierek
of Poland at a Luncheon in Warsaw. July 28, 1975
Mr. First Secretary, Mrs. Gierek, ladies and gentlemen:
I am delighted on this occasion to be your guest, along with my son, and we
regret that unfortunately Mrs. Ford could not be here, but she will, I am sure,
be joining us later.
It is a great pleasure for me to return to this very great country in the center of
Europe, a country which is so rich in tradition and so important to the con-
temporary world. I welcome this opportunity to reaffirm the United States
commitment to friendship with Poland. And I am determined to strengthen
that friendship.
When we met in Washington last October, Mr. Secretary, you and I pledged
our countries to acquire a better knowledge of their respective achievements and
values. Both nations can take great satisfaction in progress toward that goal. We
have made vitally important advances in our bilateral relations.
This is in keeping with the spirit of the documents that we signed during the
First Secretary's visit. And I am pleased to cite the continuing efforts of both
sides to increase trade and commerce, the visits and the exchanges between our
1058
