[492]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
spending on nuclear forces. This tentative judgment is conditioned on real
progress in SALT II. But the Congress and the American people must realize
that, unless agreement is achieved, I will have no choice but to recommend to
the Congress an additional $2 billion to $3 billion for strategic weapons programs
in current and coming fiscal years.
In recent weeks, there has been a great deal said about the subject of détente.
Today, let me tell you what I personally think about détente.
First of all, the word itself is confusing. Its meaning is not clear to everybody.
French is a beautiful language, the classic language of diplomacy. But I wish
there were one simple English word to substitute for détente. Unfortunately,
there isn't.
Relations between the world's two strongest nuclear powers can't be
summed up in a catchphrase. Détente literally means "easing" or "relaxing,"
but definitely not—and I emphasize "not"—the relaxing of diligence or easing
of effort. Rather, it means movement away from the constant crisis and danger-
ous confrontations that have characterized relations with the Soviet Union.
The process of détente—and it is a process-looks toward a saner and safer
relationship between us and the Soviet Union. It represents our best efforts to
cool the cold war, which on occasion became much too hot for comfort.
To me,
détente means a fervent desire for peace-but not peace at any price.
It means the preservation of fundamental American principles—not their sac-
rifice. It means maintaining the strength to command respect from our ad-
versaries and provide leadership to our friends—not letting down our guard
or dismantling our defenses or neglecting our allies. It means peaceful rivalry
between political and economic systems—not the curbing of our competitive
efforts.
Since the American system depends on freedom, we are confident that our
philosophy will prevail. Freedom is still the wave of the future. Détente means
moderate and restrained behavior between two super powers-not a license to
fish in troubled waters. It means mutual respect and reciprocity—not unilateral
concessions or one-sided agreements.
With this attitude, I shall work with determination for a relaxation of
tensions. The United States has nothing to fear from progress toward peace.
Although we have still a long way to go, we have made some progress: a
defusing of the Berlin timebomb, the ABM treaty, the first SALT agreements
and progress on SALT II, the start of mutual and balanced force reductions
in Europe, and other arms control agreements regarding space, the seabeds,
and germ warfare.
1174
