August 3
[464]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I do hope that Mrs. Ford-as it happens the world
over, given the private life of Presidents-in this
respect will be successful in persuading you to come
back to Romania for a longer stay.
May I ask all that are present in this hall to join
me in this toast to the President of the United States
of America and to the esteemed Mrs. Ford, for the
continuous developments of friendly relations and co-
operation between Romania and the United States,
for the continued well-being and prosperity of the
great American nation, for peace and cooperation
among all the nations of the world, to the health
of all of you.
464
Remarks Upon Signing the Joint Communique and Trade
Documents in Sinaia, Romania.
Mr. President and distinguished guests:
August 3, 1975
Let me say with great emphasis my appreciation for your warm hospitality
and that of the Romanian people. It has been a wonderful experience for Mrs.
Ford and myself to meet so many of your people, and it has been a glorious
opportunity for me to not only see Bucharest but this superb area of your coun-
try where we are today.
I am especially grateful for the opportunity to have friendly, constructive, and
frank discussions with you, not only on our bilateral relations but those prob-
lems that we see on a worldwide basis.
For the last several years, Mr. President, you have taken the leadership in
bringing about an exchange in the area of culture, scientific matters, economic
problems between your country and our country, and the net result has been
mutually beneficial to both.
The documents that we have just signed make possible the kind of trade
relationship between your country and mine that will enhance the prosperity
of both, make the life of your people and mine richer, and will be beneficial
on a worldwide basis.
What I have signed on behalf of my country has received the endorsement
of our Government—the executive, the legislative—and therefore, it is a true
contract between your country and my country for all of the benefits that we
can share equally.
I thank you again, and I thank the Romanian people.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 1:15
p.m. at a ceremony following their meeting at Peles
Castle. In addition to the joint communique, Presi-
dent Ceausescu and President Ford signed and ex-
changed notices of acceptance of the U.S.-Romanian
trade agreement.
President Ceausescu spoke in Romanian. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, gentlemen, and comrades:
I should like to express my satisfaction in con-
nection with the signing of our communique on the
results of the visit paid to Romania by you, sir, and
1095
