July 23
[423]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
So, as you work with your committees or you work with the Member of the
House or Senate or you work with those that you are involved with, I can assure
you, whether they are Democrats or Republicans, they want your views. And
I hope and trust they just don't put you in the job of licking stamps. [Laughter]
I used to have some staff members who would look at these interns that would
come into the office and they would be suspicious of them. And finally, we got
my staff people to understand that the young people who came down here
really were interested in making the Government work and finding out so they
could go back and do a better job at home.
I think throughout the Congress and elsewhere in Washington, we have been
able to establish a new attitude and a new view. So, I think most of you-and
I hope all of you-have an opportunity to make a contribution.
Now, let me just talk a little bit about how you can help us. I don't mean
me personally, but I mean us as a country. We do have some problems, and
we have some differences in this Government. We have differences politically.
We have differences, maybe, philosophically. We have differences between the
executive and legislative branches. But that does not mean that we can't solve
some of these problems or make some headway in those solutions.
I spent a couple of hours last night with some of my good friends on both
sides of the political aisle and both sides of Capitol Hill, trying to find how we
could take some views I have and how we can take some views they have to
try and get an energy program.
Doesn't it frustrate you up there to see that there is not any real meaningful
progress in trying to conserve on the one hand and stimulate production on
the other? I think it ought to frustrate you, as it does me, that we can't move
ahead with greater alacrity and more-
INTERN. Stop vetoing.
THE PRESIDENT. You know, I am very glad—I think a young lady raised that
question. And let me tell you, a veto is a constructive method for a President
under the Constitution to get good results. Let me tell you why. Our Founding
Fathers decided that a system of checks and balances had a lot of merit, and
that is why they provided under the Constitution, we would have a judicial
branch, an executive branch, and a legislative branch.
They did not want any branch or any segment of our society running the
whole country freehanded, and so they provided in this delicately balanced
Constitution that we have the right of the Congress to pass legislation and they
also gave in that Constitution the authority of the President to veto legislation
1019
