[632]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
632
Remarks on Greeting Participants in the World Conference on
Law. October 16, 1975
Mr. Rhyne, distinguished guests from around the world, ladies and gentlemen:
First, it is delightful to have you here in the Rose Garden and to have you
as the guests of the White House. It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to
say a few words to you this afternoon—a great gathering of world jurists.
Never before in the history of mankind has the importance of law in our
society received such overwhelming support. And of course, as I look around
and see all of you men and women, I commend you for the great dedication
that you have individually as well as collectively. And your presence here in
Washington for the seventh World Conference on Law not only represents the
largest meeting ever in the history of the international legal profession but I
think demonstrates very vividly a significant cooperation so necessary to world
survival.
The languages we speak and the political and religious beliefs that we have
obviously can be very different. But I am confident that we share a very com-
mon conviction that adherence to law is fundamental to a stable world and to
a world society that has stability and, of course, also to world peace.
The world cannot afford to be without just laws, nor can nations exist without
adequate enforcement of those laws. I am encouraged by your presence in our
National Capital for the World Law Conference.
We know, individually as well as collectively, that laws do not exist in a
vacuum. They must be part of our daily lives, the existence of our communities.
And your efforts as judges, scholars, and legal practitioners are very vital to the
end result that we all seek.
Laws, I know from my 25 years in the Congress of the United States, are
proposed, discussed, legislated, and adjudicated by men and by women. Human-
ity, we all know, is not perfect. But our potential for achieving a viable and a
just system of laws across the world determines the quality of human life.
This World Law Conference recognizes the need to eliminate the discrimina-
tory legal barriers confronting women throughout the world.
That is a line my wife insisted on. [Laughter]
Your efforts to promote human equality under the law, as well as other issues,
ranging from the role of multinational companies to the law of the sea, demon-
strate very properly and, again, very vividly that you are addressing the major
1712
