October 20
[634]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
for environmental quality. You must forever be mindful that the public lands
under Federal stewardship belong to all Americans. Even when we grant cer-
tain privileges to one portion or another of our citizenry to use these public
lands, they must never be used to benefit the few to the detriment of the many.
I know you will do a first-class job, as you always have, that you will bring
dedication to this job that will benefit our entire country.
Now I am very pleased to ask Justice Potter Stewart to swear in our new
Secretary of the Interior, Tom Kleppe.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:38 a.m. in the
East Room at the White House. Potter Stewart,
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, admin-
istered the oath of office.
Secretary Kleppe's response to the President's
remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 1182).
634
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Food Stamp Reform
Legislation. October 20, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress today the National Food Stamp
Reform Act of 1975.
I call to the attention of the Congress the particular importance of this reform
proposal for two reasons:
First, we-the Executive Branch and the Congress-have an obligation to
work together to reform a Federal assistance program that has been widely
abused.
Second, we-the Executive Branch and the Congress-must begin now to
work together to make those changes which will enable us to hold down federal
spending in fiscal year 1976 and meet the spending ceiling of $395 billion for
fiscal year 1977.
My recommendations for dealing with the Food Stamp assistance program
follow a fundamental principle on which I stand: The Federal government
should help, within the limits of national resources, those who are in need; but
we should not give one dollar of Federal assistance to those not in need.
It is in that spirit, the spirit of providing dignified and humane help to those
who are in need, but none to those who are not or should not be, that I recom-
mend the enactment of the "National Food Stamp Reform Act of 1975”, which
would:
1715
