October 30
[652]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Ody Fish, but most importantly it is great to be back in Milwaukee again,
particularly on the day before a favorite American event, Halloween.
In fact, on the way in from the airport I asked Ody Fish if there was any
special way people in Milwaukee and particularly Wisconsin celebrated trick
or treat. Ody said, “Well, for the treat we pretty much give out the traditional
items like candy, apples, popcorn, things like that.” I said here in Wisconsin do
you have any special treats—or tricks I should say. He said, “Mr. President, only
when the Democrats in the legislature work on the State budget." [Laughter]
Ody said this is one year Wisconsin Republicans could have used Houdini.
He was an expert on getting through locked doors. [Laughter]
I commend everyone in the Republican Party, particularly the Republican
State legislators, for the battle you have fought this year with the Democrats
against secrecy and for openness in government. Congratulations.
Since this is our Bicentennial year, let's remember that the history of the
United States and the Republican Party are closely linked. No history of
America can be written without that of our Republican Party. We have over 100
years of sound principle and good people, and we should be darn proud of it.
You here in Wisconsin know better than anyone for much of the ground-
work of the Republican Party was laid right here in Ripon in 1854. Of course, I
better mention Jackson, Michigan, for some very obvious reasons. [Laughter]
But tonight I want to talk with you not only of our common heritage but our
common journey into the future; not only of the proud principles of our
Nation's past but of those upon which we must build for the future.
There is an increasing expression in America today that the beliefs and the
values of our past are no longer relevant to our present nor to our future. Some
suggest that America has seen its best days, that our decline has started, that the
quality of life in America is sliding downhill, that our economy is on the skids,
that the values most of us hold high are out and the new counter-culture is in.
To that I say, nonsense-with emphasis. And to those who would write a self-
fulfilling prophesy of doom for this country, I say you are out of step with the
vast majority of Americans, Americans who believe in this country and in
themselves, and they are proud of our country and they are proud of them-
selves and their families.
Let me make certain there is no misunderstanding. I did not take the sacred
oath of President to preside over the decline and fall of the United States of
America. I totally reject the scenarios of pessimism. I have no sympathy with
those who have a self-destruct attitude for this great country.
Instead, I look to the future of America, a future which will be built upon a
1771
