[619]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our Navy remains the symbol of the United States—of our dedicated and
skilled sailors, of our technological genius and our massive, but controlled, mili-
tary strength, which patrols the oceans of the world on a mission of peace.
I pledge to you today that I remain fully committed to a Navy second to
none in readiness and capability, a Navy devoted to the Nation's highest ideal.
Since our first sailing ship mounted a cannon, our sailors have protected
America at home and throughout the world. As we begin the celebration of our
National Bicentennial, much has changed, but the Navy remains steadfast as
our first line and guardian of liberty and peace.
It took naval power to win our freedom. It still takes naval power to preserve
freedom. As President and as Commander in Chief, I will do all that I can to
keep the United States Navy supplied with the best and the most modern ships,
weapons, training, and equipment in the world today.
It is my sworn duty to maintain the power for peace that the Navy symbolizes.
The credibility of the United States, in the eyes of both our friends and political
adversaries, depends upon the courage, the skill, and the discipline of the men
and women of the United States Navy.
Any assessment of our military, economic, and moral strength must take into
account the respect the United States commands on the high seas. My budget
recommendations for national defense are the minimum essential for our safety,
and I might add, I am more than disappointed that in too many instances these
budget recommendations for weapons, for equipment, for this and for that have
been so deeply cut.
Some now advance the misguided notion that Americans are no longer fight-
ing anywhere; because we are seeking to broaden every channel to peace, we
can afford the luxury of some new domestic programs out of defense cutbacks.
I am convinced that the adequate spending for national defense is an insurance
policy, one for peace that we cannot afford to be without.
Certainly the most important obligation of government is to guarantee all
citizens protection of their lives and freedom against outside attack.
Today, that protection is our principal hope for peace. What expense item in
our Federal budget is more essential? Obviously, from my previous remarks,
I will resist to the utmost the scuttling of the United States Navy in every way
available to me.
On the 200th anniversary of our heroic Navy, I appeal to the common sense
and courage of the American people. At home, we are making real progress
on the problems that beset our Nation. It is not the time to dismantle our
defenses.
1644
