[511]
August 30
Public Papers of the President.
511
Interview With Television Reporters in Newport,
Rhode Island. August 30, 1975
SARA WYE. What you are about to see is a weekly public affairs program we at
WJAR normally call "10 News Conference." Because of the stature of our guest,
we have expanded the format and produced this special edition, which is being
shared with 12 television stations throughout New England. All of you are most
welcome.
Our guest is President Gerald Ford, who promised when he came into office
a year ago to bring a new openness and accessibility to the White House. His
presence in this unusual sort of regional format indicates he is making that effort.
Mr. President, welcome.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. It is a pleasure to be on the program, Sara.
Ms. WYE. Thank you. Asking the questions along with me tonight will be
Jack Kavanagh of the WJAR news staff and Arthur Alpert, news director of
WJAR Radio and TV.
OIL PRICES
[1.] I think one of the subjects you will be hearing a lot about in this discus-
sion in the next half hour is energy. Obviously, it is heavily on the minds of most
people in the country and, certainly, those of us in New England. Until Friday
we were braced for a massive increase in domestic crude oil because of your
decision to veto the Congressional extension of price controls. You have since
changed your mind about decontrol, and you are suggesting perhaps a 60-day
extension and gradual decontrol. What went into the decision to change your
mind?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think first, Sara, you have to understand that the
United States, our country has a serious energy crisis. Actually, the energy crisis
in New England is more serious than it is in any other part of the country,
primarily because New England is more dependent on foreign oil than any other
part of the United States.
So, unless we solve the energy problem for the United States and unless we
make ourselves more free of foreign oil imports, New England is going to be in
more and more trouble.
Now, in January I submitted to the Congress a comprehensive energy program
for a 10-year period, and we made some exceptions as far as New England was
concerned, recognizing the vulnerability of New England.
1260
