October 29
[647]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
within the limits of its resources, help Americans in need who cannot help
themselves. We should not give Federal assistance—and I emphasize "we should
not give Federal assistance”—to able-bodied adults without dependents who do
not choose to work,
I simply don't understand the logic of this Democrat-controlled Congress. If
every housewife can revise her budget and every businessman can cut the frills
out of his office or industrial activity on spending, why can't the free-spending
Congressional Democrats do the same?
I say, in all sincerity, I will work with the Congress to ensure that those who
deserve the help of our Nation will continue to get it. The elderly, the poor, the
men and women who have borne our Nation's arms-the Federal Government
must and will meet these legitimate obligations. But we must not pay one more
cent of tribute to interest groups with frills who can afford to work and we
cannot afford to support.
I will also keep faith with those who innovate and invest, those who work,
those who pay their taxes, those who obey the law, and those who save for their
children's future. I speak to you in these very frank and categorical terms
tonight to underscore my deep conviction and greatest concern, that a govern-
ment big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to
take from us everything we have.
While serving in the Congress, I won five "Watchdog of the Treasury"
awards. I am very proud of that. I am and will be a watchdog of the Treasury
in the White House now and in the future.
You know some of my friends told me I shouldn't come to California again.
[Laughter] They say there is nothing a President can learn by leaving Wash-
ington and meeting Americans face to face. Apparently only Congressmen,
columnists, and pollsters should talk to people. Well, I kind of prefer to get my
information firsthand and speak to all of you face to face.
As President, I can advance programs, I can prod the Congress, but I need
your voices, loud, clear, telling me where you stand and where you want to go
individually and collectively.
Tonight as I conclude, I will tell you where I stand.
Your President will not cave in to the big spenders and the budget busters in
the Congress.
Your President will not fling open the U.S. Treasury to every city with a hole
in its pocket.
Your President will not let a massive bureaucracy dominate your State, your
cities, your business, and more importantly, your lives.
1745
