September 22
[581]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
As America completes its first 200 years as a nation, we must resolve to solve
our energy problem. It is the key to our future.
At home and in our relations with the rest of the world, it is my conviction
that energy independence is vital to protect ourselves against any arbitrary
price increases or future embargoes by foreign nations. It is the way to end an
intolerable situation in which America's exports last year totaled more than
$25 billion to pay for imported oil while plentiful energy is potentially available
to us here at home.
The money we now pay out for foreign oil in 1 year would put over one
million more Americans back to work. We must have the earliest possible
action to spend these rapidly growing sums at home and to strengthen America
domestically as well as internationally. With those observations, I will be glad
to respond to questions.
QUESTIONS
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
[2.] Q. Mr. President, my name is William Sumner, and I am not sure
what Mr. Mersman meant by my associations, but for your sake I will say I am
a registered Republican.
THE PRESIDENT. I appreciate that. We need more in California. [Laughter]
Q. Well, I have worked on getting a tough question for you. Over the years,
Mr. President, foreign aid programs have proved themselves quite long-lasting
and very costly. Some have met with success, probably many others have met
with obvious failure. Very clearly, the American electorate has been disillusioned
with foreign aid and both parties have promised to cut it back as best they can.
However, every administration has favored foreign aid at some time or an-
other, frequently to buy itself out of a jam overseas. The recent Sinai accord
can be said in part to follow this example, and I deliberately use the Sinai
example to make the question as tough as possible. We all hope it works, but,
Mr. President, in balancing the near-term practical usefulness against the huge
cost and the growing unpopularity of foreign aid, do you think it is realistic
for the American electorate to expect perhaps some cut in the foreign aid bill
during the remainder of your 5-year Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me assure you that at the time that Secretary Kissinger
and I had to make some very hard decisions on what we could do to help
facilitate the negotiations between Israel and Egypt, we took into consideration
the request by both countries for us to make available not more than 200 tech-
1499
