[739]
December 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
of bills, of course, down from the Hill-some easy, some controversial—but we
expect to get an awful lot of work done over this weekend.
With those very general observations, I would be glad to answer any questions.
FEDERAL BUDGET
[1.] Q. What are some of the hardest budget decisions you are making right
now?
THE PRESIDENT. They are all hard, Ann [Ann Compton, ABC News], be-
cause even though the budget will reflect an increase over the current fiscal year,
it will reflect a $28 billion cutback in the growth of Federal spending, and
therefore, you have to make hard decisions in practically every department. But
if we are going to get a $28 billion tax cut, we have to have a $28 billion cutback
in the growth of Federal spending. And we are going to have a $395 billion
spending budget for the next fiscal year, and that will permit me to recommend
to the Congress a bigger tax reduction than the Congress passed and which I
will sign Monday when the bill gets down here.
The American people need and deserve a larger tax cut. And I am delighted
that the Congress after a lot of pulling and hauling finally agreed that we would
have in principle a tax reduction and a spending limitation on a one-for-one
basis. That, I think, is a very sound principle. That is what I have been fighting
for. And now that the Congress has made a good faith commitment, I think
my larger tax recommendations to cut taxes more than the Congress passed
means that we will get a firm handle on the growth of Federal spending.
TAX REDUCTION
[2.] Q. Is the $28 billion what you will propose again next month as far as
a tax cut goes?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the tax bill that I intend to sign reduces taxes on a full
year basis of about $18 billion. My tax reduction proposal will add another
$10 billion in additional tax cuts, and it will all be predicated on a restraint, a
control in the growth of Federal spending of a like amount.
ENERGY
[3.] Q. What are you going to do on the energy bill, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I have recommendations from people on the outside on both
sides of the issue. I have recommendations from my top advisers on both sides
of the issue. And I am going to spend a good part of this weekend analyzing
the pros and cons. We have had an Economic Policy Board meeting on that
issue, and I will make the final decision probably on Monday.
1982
