October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding or reaction that in the vocational
education program overall, in recent weeks or months there has been an order
issued that permits the Future Farmers of America and five other comparable
organizations as active participants in organizations that will get financial assist-
ance in the handling of vocational education.
This will be implemented. I think it is a right step, and I am sure that the
Future Farmers of America as well as the other five organizations will carry out
a very constructive and appropriate role in teaching young people who are inter-
ested to be good farmers so we can produce a better crop and a larger supply.
But that is my understanding of what we are doing with the six organizations
such as the Future Farmers.
MEDICAL AND DENTAL EDUCATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I am Dr. Holthaus, dean of the School of Medicine
at Creighton University. I am sure you know, Mr. President, that in the State
of Nebraska we have two schools of medicine and two schools of dentistry.
Together we produce 255 M.D.'s every year and 142 dentists. This represents
176 physicians per million population and 97 dentists per million population.
This is by far and away in excess of the rate of production of any other State in
the Union. We have done this in response to the Federal mandate and in re-
sponse to the demands of the American public for more physicians and dentists.
In order to continue to do this at this rate, it is absolutely essential that we
continue to receive Federal support either directly to the institution or in the
form of Federal dollars available for student loans. Recently the Federal support
of medical and dental education has tended to trail off. My question to you,
Mr. President, is: What position will you take in regard to current Federal
legislation which is being designed to support medical and dental education?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't recall the precise figures, but we have had a substantial
program that, number one, added to or built new facilities for medical schools.
We have had programs that permit student loans to medical students. We have
had programs in the Department of Defense where a person can get rather
substantial financial aid if he is going to medical school, provided he agrees
to take 2 or 4 or 5 years, whatever the number is, and stay in the Army, Navy,
Air Force, or Marines. I can't quote you the precise figure, but it has been sub-
stantial both in buildings and financial support to the universities or the medical
schools and as to students.
I don't want to kid you that we are going to recommend a substantial increase
in this area. I think I have to be very honest and very frank with you. We have
1575
