August 30
[511]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I had hoped that the Congress would act on a comprehensive plan, either the
one I submitted or the one that they might put together. Unfortunately, Con-
gress has not acted.
So, after attempting to decontrol on a phased basis on two occasions—one
over a 30-month period with an increase in old oil, so to speak, at a rate of about
3 percent per month-the Congress turned that down.
Then I made another effort of compromise and conciliation, making it a
39-month phased decontrol program. The Congress turned that down.
Under those circumstances, I had no alternative but to say: Unless you act,
we are going to decontrol all old oil, all domestic old oil. Well, I think at least
the leadership in the Congress—Senator Mansfield and Speaker Albert-recog-
nized that was not the right answer.
So, we had a meeting on Friday, and I said that I would hold off the veto
until they could get their troops together and come up and agree to the phased
program that I submitted about a month ago.
Q. So, what you are saying is that you never were in favor of immediate and
sudden decontrol?
The President. No. I proposed two examples of phased decontrol, one a 30-
month, another a 39, but the Congress turned both down. So, in order to try and
avoid an abrupt end, I agreed to resubmit a 39-month phased decontrol program,
and hopefully, the majority party leadership will be able to work with the
Republicans in the House and get a phased program over a 39-month period.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[2.] Q. Mr. President, the controls have to come off eventually, but New
England will have to bear the brunt of those controls because we have such
problems with energy, because our economy is in such bad shape right now.
What do you say to the people who are unemployed here, who have to bear up
under this energy crisis, or is the Federal Government going to make any kind
of a specific commitment to New England to help us bail out of this situation?
THE PRESIDENT. Over the last 3 or 4 months, I have made exceptions as far as
New England is concerned. In the first imposition of the import levy, it had no
effect on New England, it had an effect on the rest of the United States. When I
put the second dollar on to try and prod Congress to do something, the second
dollar only affected New England to-I think it was 60 cents a barrel.
So, I've tried to recognize the needs, the problems that exist in New England.
As I said at the outset, New England has a greater need for a comprehensive
solution to the energy problem than any other part of the United States.
1261
