November 3
[655]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
LYNETTE FROMME
[2.] Q. Mr. President, what can you tell us about your videotape testimony
in the Lynette Fromme case? ¹
1
THE PRESIDENT. It would be very inappropriate for me to comment in any
way whatsoever on my participation involving that matter.
Q. Can you tell us, sir, if you testified as to whether the trigger was pulled?
THE PRESIDENT. I respectfully must not answer that. I was admonished by
the judge himself that any comment by me other than what I had made in my
testimony would be very inappropriate.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[3.] Q. Mr. President, the Florida Presidential primary is drawing very
near, and there have been some comments lately to the effect that you are pay-
ing only token efforts in Florida and that you may, in fact, have written off
the State to Ronald Reagan. Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. That is completely inaccurate. I have a very fine State
chairman in Congressman Lou Frey, one of the outstanding Members in the
House of Representatives. And I can assure you that I will be a participant—
and an active participant—in the Florida primary.
Q. To what degree, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. The people on the President Ford Committee who have the
responsibility for working out the details are in the process now, working, of
course, with Lou Frey. I am not familiar with those details as of the moment,
but the decision is firm and certain that I am coming down to be a participant
in that Florida Presidential primary.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[4.] Q. Mr. Frey also thinks that you should not have Vice President Rock-
efeller on your ticket next year. Can you indicate at this time, Mr. President,
whether Mr. Rockefeller will be your running mate if you are the nominee?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said repeatedly and very firmly that at the proper
time I will make that decision. In the meantime, I say with deep conviction that
Vice President Rockefeller has done a superb job as Vice President. I picked
him because I thought he was the best man for the job. He has performed beyond
¹ The President's deposition was taken at 10 a.m. in Room 345 at the Old Executive Office Building on
November 1, 1975. Present were Thomas J. MacBride, U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of
California; John Virga, attorney for the defendant; and Dwayne Keyes, U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of California, and Richard L. Thornburgh, Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, who
represented the prosecution.
1781
