July 28
[450]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
II.
During the talks, the President and the First Secretary reviewed US-Polish
bilateral relations, noting with satisfaction the progress achieved, which corre-
sponds to the interests of both nations and is in conformity with the long and
rich traditions linking the peoples of the United States and Poland.
The two sides were unanimous in their judgment that the Statements signed
on October 8, 1974, during the visit of the First Secretary of the Central Com-
mittee of the Polish United Workers' Party, Edward Gierek, to the United
States, constitute a solid foundation for the further strengthening of peaceful and
friendly cooperation between the United States and Poland and they were happy
to note the successful implementation of the respective economic agreements.
Attaching particular weight to the growth of trade exchanges, both leaders
considered a further substantial increase in trade turnover between their two
countries to be a feasible, realistic, and desirable goal. Both sides expressed their
intention to act jointly in removing difficulties that may arise. They will lend
particular support in this respect to the activities of the Joint US-Polish Trade
Commission.
Both sides noted the further successful development of financial cooperation
between the two countries and recognized its impact on the pace and scope of
industrial co-production. They are resolved to encourage further cooperation
between the firms and enterprises of both sides.
Emphasizing the great role of scientific and technical cooperation, both sides
appraised positively the work done so far in putting into effect the Agreement
on Funding of Cooperation in Science and Technology. They also expressed
their support for its further expansion, especially in such fields as coal mining
and coal processing, the protection of the environment, and transportation.
The two leaders also attached importance to the longstanding tradition of co-
operation in the field of health protection, drugs, and biological materials.
Under the program, joint research will be continued, including such fields as
oncology, health problems related to food and drugs, and planning, delivery,
and evaluation of health services, especially those to mothers and children.
The two sides believe that there exist broad possibilities that the traditional
field of cooperation between both countries—trade in agricultural products—be
broadened and supplemented by scientific and technical cooperation in agricul-
ture, particularly in stockbreeding, production of fodders, technology of food
preservation, and production of high-quality varieties of protein.
Mindful of the importance of the rational use of the food resources of the
1063
