October 10
[623]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Oh, I know there has been some criticism that we have not proposed a tax
proposal that does everything everybody wants. But as I look at the past history,
I know that this middle-income group, which is the hard core of strength in
America, good people the length and the breadth of America, they have had a
tough break and have borne far too much the burdens of taxation.
I think they are deserving because they have been subjected with growing
families, house payments, and everything else, paying rising taxes and ever-
rising inflation. They are the ones who have known over a period of time from
their personal experience the economic problems that have faced 214 million
Americans.
They know precisely what it means to pay more and more of their income
merely to feed and clothe their family and to maintain a decent home. They
know the sinking feeling when a member of their family or a friend is laid
off from work. They know the desperation that comes when these forces un-
fortunately seem beyond their control.
None of us want these experiences to be repeated in the months ahead. All
of us want steady prices, steady jobs, a chance once again to get ahead on our
own initiative. And we want to make sure with the kind of programs we are
putting together that everybody feels that their own destiny is in their own
hands. This is the strength and the history of America.
When I spoke here in this hall exactly 1 year ago tonight, our Nation faced
some very serious economic problems. Inflation was running at the annual rate
of 12 to 14 percent. Unemployment was increasing. We were on our way to
the most serious recession in the post-World War II period. But the encouraging
thing was that America didn't throw up its hands and quit. We fought back,
and we reversed the recessionary trend. We cut the rate of increase in the cost
of living very sharply, but still, we have a long way to go in winning the battle
against inflation.
In this period of time of adversity in the last 6 months, we added 1.6 million
workers to our employment rolls. We still have far too many unemployed. The
economic indicators are good; industrial production is climbing at a strong
rate; retail sales are up, and so are new orders for durable goods.
In short, the recovery that began this spring is gathering the kind of momen-
tum that is constructive and permanent. If we act wisely, it will continue on
an upward path, providing America with more jobs, more stable prices, and
more opportunity than ever before in the history of our country. But we must
not delude ourselves. Just beneath the surface there is still, or there are still,
some deep-seated problems in our economy-problems which have been build-
1677
