October 30
[648]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NEW YORK CITY
[1.] Q. Mr. President, the New York Daily News today carried the follow-
ing headline bannered on its front page, "Ford to the City: Drop Dead." Is that
what you were saying yesterday?
THE PRESIDENT. Gabe, not at all. I was saying to the city of New York that
the best way is for we in the Federal Government to put pressure on the
responsible officials in the State and in the city to do some things that had to be
done that have been neglected, have not been done over a period of time, and
indicate to the city that if responsible officials at the State and local level don't
act, then there was a way in which the Federal Government, after default, could
come in and participate in providing what we call essential services.
But the people in New York have been the victims of mismanagement by
public officials, and the only way to get that situation straightened out is to put
the pressure on those people to do what they should have done over the years. I
have great sympathy for the people of New York, the 8 million people who have
been misled, who have not been given the leadership that they need.
Q. Mr. President, you made two speeches yesterday, one in Washington in
which you said that our leaders in New York have to take the responsibility for
past follies, what you have just said. You also made one here in Los Angeles
to a Republican fundraising dinner in which you expressed great sympathy for
the middle Americans, the middle-class Americans, and the pensioners, and the
people who are really footing the bill and taking the punishment in this
country. Isn't it a fact that default in New York City is going to affect tens of
thousands of these people, both civil servants who will be laid off and people
who work for private vendors that aren't going to be paid by the city of New
York? So, is there an inconsistency between your attitude on default and your
sympathy expressed for the little guy?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, Gabe. The principal investors in the securities, the
long-term bonds, and the short-term notes are the banks in New York City and
throughout the country. They have made an investment in a free market. They
took a gamble on a tax-free investment; they expected to get a good return. If
the city officials of New York don't do something properly to correct the situa-
tion, these investors, yes, will have to defer the receipt of their interest and the
repayments on principal. But they made an investment in a free market. They
should have known that the circumstances weren't as good as they might have
been told they were.
On the other hand, we have said to the fireman, to the policeman, to the nurse
in the emergency ward, we will help and work with the court if default comes,
1747
