November 26
[695]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
don't you think it would be in the national interest to reopen the assassination
investigation of President Kennedy and now Martin Luther King as well?
THE PRESIDENT. I, of course, served on the Warren Commission, and I know a
good deal about the hearings and the committee report, obviously. There are
some new developments—not evidence but new developments—that according
to one of our best staff members, who has kept up to date on it more than I, that
he thinks just to lay those charges aside that a new investigation ought to be
undertaken.
He, at the same time, said that no new evidence has come up. If those particu-
lar developments could be fully investigated without reopening the whole
matter that took us 10 months to conclude, I think some responsible group or
organization ought to do so—but not to reopen all of the other aspects, because
I think they were thoroughly covered by the Warren Commission.
Q. Are you prepared, then, to take that step on the part of the Administra-
tion to appoint a task force from the Justice Department, say, to look into the
new developments and to report on those as well, or would you rather have it
done by an independent organization?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in light of my former membership on the Warren
Commission, it might be better done by somebody other than I appoint.
FEDERAL TAXES AND SPENDING
[20.] Q. Mr. President, is it still your intention, sir, to veto any tax cut
package that Congress might pass if it does not conform precisely with what
you proposed a few weeks ago?
THE PRESIDENT. I intend to veto any tax cut measure that does not couple with
it a comparable reduction in the growth of Federal spending.
Q. Well, sir, that implies you might be flexible on the precise numbers. Is that
correct, so long as there is a balance?
THE PRESIDENT. I, of course, proposed a $28 billion tax cut, coupled with a
$28 billion reduction in Federal spending. I think that is the right level in both
cases. The Congress, I hope, will accept it.
INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING ACTIVITIES
[21.] Q. A follow-up question, if I could, Mr. President, to the earlier state-
ment on the Central Intelligence Agency. As you know, there is a gray area in
which the CIA might take an action which could eventually lead to danger
or assassination of a political leader. Now, in your first news conference you
indicated that you supported such covert activities, particularly in the case of
1913
