[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
rate of 9 percent. Today, a year later, there are 8.2 million unemployed and an
inflation rate of 12.7 percent. We of the AFL-CIO continue to oppose your
economic policies which brought this about, because we believe stimulating
production rather than restricting production-restricting production is the
best way to fight both unemployment and inflation. Do you still believe we are
wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have some differences with the programs of my good
friend George Meany and others associated with him.
When I took office, the inflation rate was closer to 12 percent, and the unem-
ployment was about 5, 5½ percent, as I recollect. Shortly thereafter, however,
unemployment escalated very rapidly, and the unemployment rate today is far
higher than I want it to be.
We have made some slight progress in the last several months. For example,
since March of this year, although unemployment has remained too high, we
now have 1,200,000 more people gainfully employed than we had in March of
this year.
The inflation rate today, for the last 6 months, averages between 6 and 7 per-
cent. So, we have made some, in that instance, substantial progress compared
to a year ago. In both cases, the results are not entirely satisfactory.
Now, in the area of unemployment, we have a number of programs. We have
extended the unemployment compensation period from 26 weeks to 65 weeks.
We have broadened the eligibility, so that people who didn't qualify under
individual State programs are now qualified under a Federal program.
We are seeking through, I think, responsible efforts to increase the Federal
highway program. Bill Coleman over here is expediting some of the mass
transportation programs to get meaningful jobs in that area.
Other departments are taking affirmative action to increase employment in
meaningful ways without busting the Federal budget.
It is my judgment that if we keep a steady, firm hand on the tiller, as I think
we are, with good programs that mean meaningful jobs, we will not only lick
the unemployment problem, lowering the unemployment rate and increasing
the number of people gainfully employed, at the same time not letting inflation
get out of hand, because if we do, as was done in 1973 and 1974, we could end up,
Mr. Schmitt, with a very serious, far more serious economic problem a year or
18 months from now.
I welcome your suggestions. I will differ with you on occasion. But the main
problem we have is to work together—the Congress, the President, and organiza-
tions such as you represent.
1228
