July 31
[458]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
458
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Arthur F. Sampson,
Administrator of General Services. July 31, 1975
Dear Art:
I have received your letter of July 28, and it is with sincere gratitude for your
many years of dedicated public service that I accept your resignation as Admin-
istrator of the General Services Administration, effective October 15, 1975, as
you requested.
Throughout your six years at G.S.A.—and before that as an exceptionally able
assistant to two governors of the State of Pennsylvania—you have fulfilled your
challenging leadership responsibilities with skill and distinction. Better than
most, you know that your assignments as Administrator have never been any-
thing but demanding and difficult. Yet I have had the utmost confidence in both
your ability and your determination to carry on each of your tasks in the best in-
terests of the Nation. You have worked tirelessly to build at G.S.A. an institu-
tional reputation for productivity and effectiveness, and I commend you for the
outstanding record of achievement which is the result.
Now as you prepare to return to private life, I hope you will always look back
on this time of public service with the fullest measure of satisfaction and pride.
You may be sure you take with you my warmest good wishes for every future
success and happiness.
Sincerely,
NOTE: Mr. Sampson's letter of resignation read as
follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It is with deep regret that I submit my resigna-
tion as Administrator of the General Services Ad-
ministration effective October 15, 1975. I had
planned to stay in government until the latter part
of 1976 but circumstances are such that I am ad-
vancing my schedule by a year.
I leave with a great deal of sadness. But I also
leave with a great deal of pride.
I have now completed over 12 years of govern-
ment service. Every year has been a grueling one.
But each has also been a very rewarding one. No
matter what the circumstances or the time frame,
I continue to promote government service to every-
one.
Governor Scranton persuaded me to leave the
GERALD R. FORD
business world and enter government service in
1963. I served as his state purchasing agent for
four years. He was and is a great American.
I then served as Budget Secretary and Secretary
of Administration for Governor Raymond Shafer
for two and a half years. He was a courageous and
effective Governor and a statesman. I am happy to
see that he is now working for you in a significant
role.
In June of 1969, I came to work in GSA for Bob
Kunzig, my predecessor as Administrator of GSA.
Before becoming Administrator I managed the two
largest operations in GSA-the Federal Supply
Service and the Public Buildings Service.
GSA was a moribund, static agency in 1969. Bob
Kunzig revitalized GSA and I feel proud that I
helped him, and then, as Administrator went on to
further improve GSA. Today, GSA is an exciting
1073
