August 25
[501]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tration, we had 550,000 young men fighting in Korea [Vietnam], and we had a
military force on active duty of over 3 million men. Today, of course, we have
nobody fighting in Vietnam, and we have about 2,100,000 on active duty in
the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines.
So, I think you have to put all of these factors in perspective. I hope, with the
policies that we are following, we are going to get unemployment down, em-
ployment up, and the rate of inflation under control.
I think it is a very unfair criticism to say that I have a callous disregard for the
unemployed. This Administration, during my 12 months, has recommended
the extension of unemployment compensation from 39 weeks to, now, 65 weeks.
We have broadened the eligibility so more people are covered under unem-
ployment compensation. I think this is an indication that I and the people that
work with me are very concerned about the unemployed, but more importantly,
the policies that we are advocating and urging Congress to enact, in my opinion,
would get our economy moving again without any difficulties internationally.
Q. This morning in Chicago you indicated that perhaps there should be a
creation of many more jobs by 1980. Will there be some legislation coming from
the Administration to do that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, all of the technicians tell me that if we are to create more
jobs, we have to get more money invested in business, because business buys the
equipment, provides the factory, and provides the wherewithal for the expansion
of business throughout the United States.
Secretary Simon recently appeared before the House Committee on Ways and
Means and indicated that we favored new legislation for the creation of funds
for job formation, job creation. That legislation is before the Congress. I hope
they act affirmatively.
COMMON SITUS PICKETING
[3.] Q. Mr. President, one of the job bills or one of the bills that the construc-
tion industry here in the State of Wisconsin is vitally interested in is Senate bill
1479, which many of the contractors seem to feel would provide for an illegal
secondary boycott. There have been some direct appeals, I know, to your office
on 1479. Have you reviewed the bill? Have you made any kind of decision as to
whether you will veto that bill or let it go by?
THE PRESIDENT. About 3 months ago, Secretary of Labor Dunlop appeared
before the House and Senate Committees on Education and Welfare, and he
testified that if the original so-called situs picketing bill were modified with
three amendments—at least two amendments—it would be acceptable.
1217
