November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
CONFIDENCE IN GOVERNMENT
[10.] MR. SPIVAK. Mr. President, on the matter of restoring trust in gov-
ernment, how do you reconcile what you have just said with the recent findings
of pollsters that public confidence in government is probably lower than it has
ever been since they began to measure these things scientifically?
THE PRESIDENT. This is bothersome because it is a public view, according to
the poll I think we are both thinking of, a public unhappiness with the execu-
tive branch, the Congress, and even the courts, to some extent. On the other
hand, there was a very recent poll that related precisely to myself, some 74 to 17
indicating a belief in my honesty and candor. That is not enough, because I
want all of our Government, whether it is the President or the Congress or the
courts, to have public support. And all of us have to work at it.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Monroe.
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE SCHLESINGER
[11.] MR. MONROE. Mr. President, to follow up for a moment on your
remarks to Mr. Broder, the firing of Secretary Schlesinger appeared to be abrupt,
especially considering the fact that you apparently had an hour and a half
meeting with him on Saturday-I gather, talking about defense matters, no
mention of his leaving the Government-called him back in the next morning,
less than 24 hours later, and let him out of the Government. Could you com-
ment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. The meeting that I had with Secretary Schlesinger on Sat-
urday was a long-scheduled meeting, as I recall, requested by him to talk about
some personnel matters and to talk about other defense problems. At that time,
I was not cognizant of some leaks that had appeared here in Washington and
elsewhere. I had not planned to make the decision and to announce it on
Monday, but the development of these leaks and the information getting out
in part, not in whole, prompted me to make the decision to see Secretary
Schlesinger the next morning.
MR. MONROE. Did your Sunday conversation involve any issue that came up
between the two of you where maybe you put one emphasis on something and
he put another emphasis on it—there was a difference between the two of you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that I ought to discuss personal conversations.
I said on my press conference on Monday night that I had great respect for
him as a person, I appreciated the fine job he had done at the Pentagon and his
other service as Chairman of the AEC and as head of the CIA, but as I explained
in response to Mr. Broder, there had been a growing tension and I was uncom-
1827
