October 4
[612]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Five years ago the percentages were just about reversed, about 40-some per-
cent for the military and roughly 28 or 29 percent for domestic programs. So,
we have been putting a greater and greater emphasis out of our total resources
in recent years for people, for cities, for States, for programs. And we have been
cutting back a percentage of what we utilize for our national security as we
protect our own interests and seek to help others as they are challenged through-
out the world.
Now, I don't say the Army and the Navy and the Air Force and the Marines
spend every penny the most economically and the most efficiently, but as I look
around the room, I bet a good percentage of the people and men in this room
served in one or more of the services. We know basically we should be very
proud of our Armed Forces, because they have done a great job. And they have
a responsibility for all of us to maintain the peace. And they will if we give them
the resources to do the job. We cannot slash the appropriations and cut their
programs and limit their weapons systems if we expect them to do a job.
You know it never pays off to be second best in any military conflict I have
ever read about or participated in. That is about the worst experience for a
country or for a service. And if I have to err, I would rather err on being a little
more generous rather than seeking to destroy their capability.
I am disturbed, for example, that the House of Representatives this last week
cut roughly $7 billion to $9 billion in our defense appropriation. I think they
went too far. I hope the United States Senate will restore some of the reduc-
tions that were made, because we cannot seek to have an influence and an
impact for good, for peace in this world if we are not respected, not for aggres-
sive action, but because they know we have the capability to ensure the peace.
What we want in this world is peace. We want to help those nations less well-
off than ourselves. We want to make sure that there is negotiation rather than
confrontation between us and those nations that have different ideologies than
we do. I think we are making headway and progress, whether it is in the Middle
East where Secretary Kissinger has done a superb job in achieving something
that no other foreign minister could possibly have accomplished.
We are more respected and have a higher degree of respect in the United
Nations today than we have had for a long, long time, because we are nego-
tiating rather than confronting. And yet we are doing it with firmness and
strength.
The United States has a unique opportunity to make some real headway. Yes,
I happen to believe that SALT I was progress, and we should work strongly
to put other limits on strategic arms between the Soviet Union and ourselves.
1601
