[494]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
budget with the kind of leadership that we are getting in the Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Marines is the best way to ensure our security.
We believe in the control of our affairs at the State and local level-the
officials who are the closest to the problems and to the people that they represent.
We think this is an infinitely better approach than having things controlled in
Washington by a very remote bureaucracy.
But most importantly, as Republicans we believe in the freedom of the
individual and in retaining that uniqueness of individual responsibility.
I think we are heading rapidly into a very, very important campaign. Next
year's election at every level-local, State, as well as national—will be a critical
test of our ability to convince a majority of Americans that Republicans care
about things that concern most people today, that we are ready to listen to
them, that we are prepared to work—and I mean work—our very hardest and
to do our very best for them.
It is my sincere hope and my confident belief that if we are successful in
getting across the message to the people over and over and over again, 1976 can
be a great year for the Republican Party here in Minnesota, as well as through-
out the United States. I believe that we can make future years great ones for
our country. I have come here to ask for your help in that effort.
I want, obviously, to thank you for what you have done and what you are
going to do. I am confident if we make this maximum effort—every one of us—
we can share a great Republican victory in 1976.
Together we can make it a banner year. Let's make certain and positive that
banner says "Republican."
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:58 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom at the Registry Hotel.
495
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Everett McKinley
Dirksen Congressional Leadership Research Center, Pekin,
Illinois.
August 19, 1975
Thank you very much, Howard Baker. My dear friend Louella, Senator Chuck
Percy, Senator Jennings Randolph, Senator Roman Hruska, Governor Walker,
my very good and dear friend, Charlie Halleck, and of course, my longtime
friend and great helper, Les Arends, Mayor Waldmeier, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
1184
