August 2
[460]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. Oh, yes. I spent with no trouble at all.
THE PRESIDENT. So, I would say they both had a very good time.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC RECOVERY
[12.] Q. Sir, there is some feeling in Europe that the United States was not
going along with any eagerness in this effort to get some sort of monetary or
economic talks going. Were the Europeans trying to drag us into some sort of
arrangement which, in order to help their economic recovery, might affect the
way in which the United States is recovering?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to discuss whether there will or won't be an
economic conference. There was agreement that the recovery of Europe and the
recovery of the United States were very closely intertwined. I was very happy
to point out that our recovery was coming more quickly than theirs.
They were most interested in how we had achieved this. They wanted us—
and I agreed—to recognize that there was this interrelationship, this interde-
pendence, and in the months ahead, we will keep a very close liaison, because
economic recovery for the free world—this includes more than the four coun-
tries-is vitally important to the political stability of the free world.
GENERAL SECRETARY BREZHNEV OF THE SOVIET UNION
[13.] Q. What was your personal reaction to Mr. Brezhnev's speech, es-
pecially the controversial part where he talked about no country has a right to
tell another country how to manage its internal affairs?
THE PRESIDENT. Overall, I thought Mr. Brezhnev's speech was very moderate.
I did notice that part of the speech. I thought, as he said that, that I as President
or any other President would not want some other country telling us how to
manage our domestic affairs.
I think each country has a certain sanctity of internal operations—we do, other
countries do. I understand it. They can try to be suggestive, maybe persuasive,
but I don't think we can assume the stature of telling another country what they
should or should not do internally. I don't think they would want us to do it.
INTERNATIONAL RADIO BROADCASTING
[14.] Q. Did you notice the section of President Ceausescu's speech in which
he complained about Radio Free Europe, and do you have any reaction to it?
THE PRESIDENT. I listened very carefully to that part of the speech. He didn't
complain, as I recollect, about Radio Free Europe.
Q. He didn't name it.
1087
