[626]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
And this indeed, at that point, the sustained combined deficits of many years
could then threaten to abort the recovery prematurely.
THE PRESIDENT. I would add this, too, Bart, that if the Congress is concerned
about that, there is no reason why they can't cooperate in a number of the
authorizations and appropriation bills that they and I will be considering be-
tween now and January 1, which would have an impact on the spending in the
first 6 months or 9 months of calendar year 1976.
As a matter of fact, we are probably going to have that struggle during that
period of time anyhow, and our emphasis will be, as it has been, to hold the
line on some of these spending proposals, whether it is an authorization, appro-
priation, or substantive legislation. And so, in effect, I will be seeking to put
some lid on the second half of fiscal year 1976 spending.
DIRECTOR LYNN. If I might on that, Mr. President, on even remaining actions
from your original $17 billion proposals you made in the January budget that
affected fiscal year 1975 and 1976, they still have time to take action on, I think
it is, better than $4 billion worth of reductions on the growth of rescissions and
deferrals.
I think the other side of the statement is maybe they will look harder now
at what I call the salami tactics of adding a slice here and adding a slice there
in the regular appropriation and authorization process.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Holmes [Holmes Alexander, McNaught Syndicate].
Q. Sir, if, as you say, the American people are demanding that the Federal
Government be reduced, won't Congress get that message during this vacation
and other times and will help you out there?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is very opportune that they are home to get that
message. We expect to get the benefits of that, because it is my distinct impression
that the American people are eager for this action, and I think it will be reflected
on the Congress when they return.
Q. Mr. President, why do you think it is that the American people need this
additional tax cut?
THE PRESIDENT. Why do I think?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. As we have had inflation, we have had, because of our pro-
gressive tax rates, as people have moved up the salary and wage levels, they
have been hit by the progressive rates that are in effect at the present time.
I have read a number of articles that make this point very vividly, and the
ones who have been hurt the most are the ones who have moved into the middle-
1690
