[581]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
information we gave them, because it probably had the impact of making
available some communications intelligence information.
What we have to do is to sit down, not with one committee of the Congress,
not one subcommittee, because there are 300 subcommittees and full committees
of the Congress. If every one of them established different rules on how we were
going to handle with them this highly classified information, well, I think you
would probably have 300 different rules of declassification.
So, what we have to do—and I can assure you, as others—we have to find a
way of getting a uniformity in the handling of classified information by the
Congress and the 300 committees and subcommittees and the executive branch
so that what is essential can be made public and what is so sensitive that it should
not—if we can't do that, after 200 years of cooperation between the executive
and the legislative branch, something is wrong.
I am an optimist, but it is a very serious matter. I am not going to be a par-
ticipant in destroying the effectiveness of a good United States intelligence
agency, because that involves our national security, period.
Yes, one more, I guess.
THE UNITED NATIONS AND ISRAEL
[10.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Clark Maser. I am a member of the
World Affairs Council and an elderly skier. [Laughter] What steps should the
United States take if the State of Israel is expelled from the United Nations,
which has been threatened by the so-called tyranny of the majority? Should
we withdraw in that case all financial support to the United Nations or should
we withdraw from the United Nations?
The President. I, as well as Secretary Kissinger, have strongly spoken out
against the threats that primarily came from the nonaligned nations. The atti-
tude that we expressed toward the nonaligned underdeveloped nations has, to
a substantial degree, softened some of the prospective actions that were antici-
pated in the United Nations. You don't find that pushing quite as hard today
as it was 6 months ago or a year ago.
Now, we believe in the universality of the United Nations. And I don't believe
nations should be kicked out because the majority have a grudge or an adverse
point of view. You can't make the United Nations do its job, perform its func-
tion, if a simple majority in the General Assembly can just arbitrarily decide
that that nation ought to be kicked out.
I totally disapprove of that procedure. And this country, as long as I am Presi-
1508
