[631]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
to be successful as an analogy as to what your Government ought to do to do
a better job. I said a moment ago that you had to keep a very close check on
expenditures and that you had to make an honest effort to see that the money
that was collected and spent was spent wisely. And it seems to me that what I
suggested to the Congress and to the American people about 10 days ago has a
great deal of relevance to some of the objectives and the aims that you have
had in your industry.
What do we want to do? What are we seeking to accomplish, to achieve? We
are seeking to put a lid on costs, to weed out those programs that are costly,
that no longer are up to the criterion-they don't measure up to what we need
in the decade of the seventies, the eighties, between now and the year 2000, and
at the same time give to our taxpayers all over the country a fair break, a fair
opportunity. And as a result, 10 days go I suggested to the Congress, and I
intend to pressure and push on this combination, because it is my impression,
as I travel around the country, that the American people want a lid on the
growth of Federal spending and a return to them of their taxes at a lower rate
than they have been paying in the past.
Let me illustrate, if I might, very quickly the rate of growth in Federal
spending over the last 10 or 12 years. Roughly 10 years ago the Federal budget
involved the expenditure of roughly $100 billion. In the short span of a decade
or thereabouts Federal expenditures have gone from roughly $100 billion to al-
most $400 billion. And the rate of growth has been somewhere in the mag-
nitude of 10 to 15 percent. The net result is that if we don't put a lid on Federal
spending for the next fiscal year, we will go from an anticipated Federal spend-
ing rate of $370 billion to a Federal spending during a 12-month period of
$425-plus billion-over a $50 billion increase in Federal expenditures without
any change in programs, without any new programs. And if we continue this
rate of Federal expenditure growth, it is anticipated that by the year 2000, half
of the American people will be supported by the other 50 percent of the
American people. That is without a change in programs or any new Federal
spending programs.
It just seems to me that we ought to take a look at a number of these programs
that were put in—and I give them the benefit of the doubt—with the best of
intentions. But in a period of time when we weren't as concerned about this
growth factor, they expanded by one means or another, and they are completely
and totally out of hand.
Now, it seems to me that if we can find a way to sift out the bad and modify
those that can't be justified, we at the same time ought to give to the people
1708
