[695]
November 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is definitely a meeting that can have far more
meaning than symbolism. I think that the meetings, the talks, can and will be
constructive.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[7.] Q. Mr. President, will you agree to a debate with Ronald Reagan
during the Republican primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I have always found that debates are helpful when the views
of the participants are not well known. In my case, my views on matters are
known virtually every day. I have to make decisions where the public knows
how I feel on this issue or that issue or any other issue, and of course, between
now and February 24 I have a fairly busy schedule. I am going to be preparing
for the State of the Union Message, I will be putting together the Federal budget,
and in the meantime, I will be signing or vetoing a lot of legislation. So my
views will be very well known by everybody. So, at the present time I can't make
any commitment as to whether or not there should or should not be any such
debate.
NEW YORK CITY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, Mayor Beame in New York was asking as long ago
as September for short-term Federal assistance. How is the plan that you propose
tonight different from what he was seeking then?
THE PRESIDENT. Significantly different. As I pointed out a minute ago, when
the Governor and the mayor were asking for any kind of help, short-term or
long-term there was the anticipated deficit for the current fiscal year in New
York City of $4 billion. In the meantime, the mayor and the other public
officials in New York City, along with the help of private citizens, have reduced
that fiscal deficit for this current year to zero. So there is quite a different
circumstance.
Q. Well, you seem to be suggesting, Mr. President, that your opposition
earlier to assistance for New York was based primarily on a tactical maneuver
to get them to make the hard decisions that you say they have now made. Why
couldn't you have said then that the aid would be forthcoming if they did all
those things?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have always felt that they could do enough, but only
because we were firm, have they moved ahead to accomplish what they have
done now which is a bailout of New York City by New York officials. If we had
shown any give, I think they would not have made the hard decisions that they
have made in the last week or so.
1908
