[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
need more investment by the American people for job creation, for greater
productivity in our overall economy.
I don't like the term "capital formation." I would rather have the American
people invest in American industry to provide jobs. And about a month ago,
Secretary of Treasury Bill Simon testified before the House Committee on
Ways and Means on a proposal which we think is one way to do it.
Now, there was some criticism. But it is my feeling that if the Congress doesn't
like our proposal to provide investment for more jobs, then the Congress has an
obligation to come up with its own answer. We cannot afford, if we are to take
care of the 10 million more jobs that are needed by 1980, we must have more
investment in America, and our tax laws have to provide some help in that
regard.
We have made a recommendation. If Congress doesn't like that proposal, let
them come up with another. I just hope they do better than they have done in the
energy program.
JOB OPPORTUNITIES
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am John W. Maxwell, Jr., president of the board
of directors of the Milwaukee Urban League. My concerns are similar to those
that have been expressed earlier. Since World War II, there have been five
recessions and/or depressions. Among minorities, before there was the oppor-
tunity for recovery, there was another situation of decreased economic oppor-
tunities. Blacks, native Americans, and other minorities have been biting the
bullet to the point of lead poisoning.
My question: How long will this Nation, the richest nation in the world,
accept our present unemployment situation, particularly among the 18- to 25-
year-olds, the Vietnam veterans, and the people of the central cities?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me, at the outset, say that I recommended to the Con-
gress—and Congress did pass—an appropriation for the amount of about $450
million for what we call a summer youth employment program. I was in Chicago
yesterday, and I was told by the mayor of that city that that program worked
extremely well this past summer. And if it worked well there, I hope it has
worked well in Milwaukee and other major metropolitan areas.
We have for the last several years had a program designed primarily to help
the Vietnamese (Vietnam) veterans working through the VA and through other
governmental organizations. It is tough, but through the combined efforts of
a number of departments, we have made substantial progress.
I am not satisfied, but between the educational opportunities under the GI
bill and the other efforts that have been made, the GI from the Vietnam war is,
1230
