August 19
[496]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
are able at the same time to continue to squeeze the inflationary impact out of
our society.
Now, some of these decisions, I am sure you recognize, are not easy. Let's
take the housing one that you spoke of.
We recommended a housing bill. We proposed that some additional stimulant
be given to the housing industry, but unfortunately, the Congress added a lot of
extras that would have had a substantial, adverse impact on our deficit. And it is
big enough now. Sixty billion dollars is a bad deficit by any standards, and if we
had let that housing legislation go through, it would have added significantly
to it.
I vetoed the bill, not because I didn't want a housing bill, but I didn't want a
bad housing bill. The Congress reconsidered, took some time, analyzed the
arguments that we presented, and they passed another housing bill. And that
housing bill we are using and implementing.
In fact, I asked the Congress just before they recessed for a vacation to appro-
priate an additional $5 billion for what we call the tandem plan to stimulate
housing.
Now, I can't say that what we have done is the reason we had an announce-
ment yesterday that there was a 14-percent increase in housing starts over the
previous month.
Housing is beginning to go, and that is going to end the unemployment in the
construction trades where there has been a very heavy and a very substantial
unemployment rate.
But you can't turn a spigot and get all these things done overnight. It takes
time and a narrow path, a very narrow position, to win the battle against infla-
tion, construct a strong economy, and reduce unemployment and provide jobs.
We are doing the best we can.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am Joe Ferstl, president of the Illinois Press Associa-
tion. Our member newspapers are very much dependent upon the mail service,
especially the second-class mails. And we fear that the posture taken by the
Postal Service since reorganization will result in disaster to the free flow of in-
formation. We are, however, encouraged by the provisions of House bill 8603,
which reestablishes the concept that the mails are a public service and that the
cultural, educational, and informational values of the mails must be considered
in setting rates for all classes of mails. Mr. President, do you support this public
service concept, and can we count on your support for House bill 8603?
[Laughter]
1193
