October 3
[609]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Second, we will make a major effort to encourage resumption of the Cyprus
negotiations and to facilitate progress by the parties involved-Greece, Turkey,
and Cyprus—toward a peaceful and equitable settlement of this dispute. In this
connection, we will fulfill whatever role the parties themselves want us to play
in achieving a settlement acceptable to all. In accordance with S. 2230, I will
submit to the Congress within 60 days of enactment a report on progress made
in reaching a solution to the Cyprus problem.
Third, the Administration will intensify cooperation with appropriate inter-
national humanitarian agencies to find ways to alleviate the suffering of the
many people displaced as a result of the 1974 hostilities. The plight of these
unfortunate people makes progress towards solution of the Cyprus problem all
the more important.
Finally, the Administration intends to provide support to the democratic
Government of Greece. In that regard, we will pursue efforts to help that coun-
try overcome its current economic and security problems. Also in compliance
with S. 2230, I will submit within 60 days my recommendations for assistance to
Greece for fiscal year 1976.
Our goals in the Eastern Mediterranean in the months ahead-to help the
parties involved achieve a Cyprus settlement, to rebuild a relationship of trust
and friendship with both Greece and Turkey, to alleviate the suffering on
Cyprus, and to meet Greece's needs for assistance-are objectives on which we
all can agree. Let us now join in working together to achieve them.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2230, approved October 6, 1975, is Public Law 94-104 (89 Stat. 508).
609
Veto of the National School Lunch Act and Child Nutrition Act
of 1966 Amendments of 1975. October 3, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my signature H.R. 4222, the National School Lunch
and Child Nutrition Act Amendments of 1975.
If this bill provided food for children truly in need, as I proposed in March, I
would give it my wholehearted support and approve it immediately. Children
of families living in poverty who need help in raising their level of nutrition
should receive that help.
It was with this in mind that I recommended early this year a reform of the
1589
