[478]
August 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
country and to their survivors. The Nation owes them a special debt of gratitude.
H.R. 7767 will cost the Federal Government one-half billion dollars a year.
In the current fiscal year, this is more than double the cost of a 5-percent benefit
increase.
I must, therefore, remind the Congress that we simply cannot continue add-
ing to Federal deficit spending without facing a day of reckoning.
My pledge still stands to do all in my power to hold this year's budget deficit
to $60 billion. I urge the Congress to hold spending in future legislation to the
limits proposed in my 1976 budget requests and to find sufficient savings in
other programs to make up for the added spending called for in H.R. 7767.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 7767, approved August 5, 1975, is Public Law 94-71 (89 Stat. 395).
479
Interview With Paul Duke and Martin Agronsky of the
Public Broadcasting Service. August 7, 1975
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
MR. DUKE. [1.] Mr. President, we are delighted to join you here today in
the Solarium on the third floor of the White House, a charming and homey
room.
As you now round out your first year in the White House, do you feel at home
here? Do you find that you enjoy the "splendid misery" of the Presidency, to use
those famous words of Thomas Jefferson?
THE PRESIDENT. Paul, I think my family as well as myself enjoy living here.
It is a magnificent home, of course. It can get a little lonely at times. It is big,
but there are so many wonderful things here that you can enjoy. It is a super
place to live.
It also gives you an opportunity to focus in on the problems, and it is the prob-
lems that come with the house that make it somewhat difficult at times to
really relax and enjoy yourself.
MR. DUKE. Speaking of those problems, Mr. President, I think many people
regarded you as something of an interim President when you first assumed
office. Do you feel now that a year later, that you have established a Ford
Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have gradually put together a domestic program
and a foreign policy that can be identified as a Ford Administration. As we move
1120
