[589]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
degree of interdependence which characterizes our modern world and agreed
that Colombia and the United States-two democratic nations which share
many values and goals—should seek means of ever greater cooperation on the
bilateral, regional and international planes.
590
Remarks at the Career Criminal Conference of the Law
Enforcement Assistance Administration. September 26, 1975
Mr. Attorney General, Attorney General Tyler, Mr. Velde, Mr. Work, ladies
and gentlemen:
I am delighted to be here this afternoon and to give my personal encourage-
ment and help and assistance to a program that I feel very strongly about.
Last September, as was mentioned by Mr. Velde, I directed the Department
of Justice to develop a program to deal with the career criminals throughout
the country. Its goals, as all of you know, are quick identification of those who
repeatedly commit serious crimes, priority of prosecution of those cases, and
the assurance of appropriate sentences upon conviction so that they could not
return immediately to victimize the community.
And speaking of victimizing the community, it of course means the victimiz-
ing of the individual. And in a speech that I gave at the Yale Law School this
past spring,' where I sought to lay out some guidelines and some further direc-
tion, we used two phrases that, in my opinion, ought to be the direction in
which we go-concern for the victim of crime and concern for the domestic
tranquillity of our country.
Now, this program that you are a part of has been funded with LEAA
grants—and I commend each of you from your respective 11 communities for
your participation—to prove that a program can work in this field. I am enough
of an optimist to believe that this kind of well-directed, well-funded—with the
right personnel, will result in success.
I am told that it will be operational in all 11 cities in a relatively short period
of time. And although we recognize it as experimental in nature, I personally
have very great expectations for its success.
All of you, through your various responsibilities, know far better than myself
the toll that crime exacts from our fellow citizens—a toll measured in blood,
treasure, and peace of mind.
1
¹ See Item 217.
1532
