[630]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
when it comes to paying taxes, whether it is new taxes here in Connecticut or
anywhere else in America.
The tax burden of millions and millions of Americans is far, far too heavy. It
affects family budget decisions and the Nation's economic recovery. And let me
read to you, if I might, a letter from a Connecticut woman who, obviously, is a
constituent of Stew McKinney's. It is dated October 7, a day or so after I made
a speech on national television. It says, "Dear Mr. President"—and I would
like to use her words and her thoughts for the theme that I am going to spend
a few minutes with you on this evening.
"Dear Mr. President, I want to go on record that I truly agree with everything
you said on your broadcast on Monday night. It is about time someone said
something sensible. We do want our freedom back. We don't want anything
given to us or done for us. In this time of the Bicentennial, let's get back to the
principles set forth in the Declaration of Independence. As far as I am con-
cerned, we have been taxed without representation. Most people I know think
taxes are too high, but our Representatives keep giving us benefits and our taxes
keep going up. Why do they do this?
"I want this country to declare its independence once again—freedom from a
too strong government. Of course, with freedom comes responsibility. We are
all responsible for letting our leaders know what we feel, and too many of us,
myself included, stood by watching while all of this happened. We only wake
up and get motivated to do something when it is almost too late. I am not a letter
writer but from now on, even if it is a postcard, my Congressman is going to
know how I feel."
Let me say this is the tone and the thread of many, many letters we have
received in the White House in the last 10 days. The theme is that our tax load
is too heavy and our spending rate is far too high.
The Congress and others connected with the Government bear a very heavy
burden of responsibility for the heavy taxes now imposed on the American
people, especially those in the low- and middle-income brackets.
For the last 38 out of 42 years the Democrats have controlled the Congress—
the House as well as in the Senate-following the old Democratic formula of
tax and tax, spend and spend, elect and elect. I respectfully suggest, let's turn that
formula around and elect Republicans who will tax less and spend less.
If we expect to restore economic stability and develop sustained growth in our
economy, we must first set the United States Government's fiscal house in order.
And that is precisely what we intend to do. That is why I insist on a decision
from the Congress on the question of whether we will continue the tragic di-
1702
