September 22
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
This new energy independence authority will have the power to take any
appropriate financial action—to borrow or to lend-in order to get energy
action. It will serve as a catalyst and a stimulant working through, not in place
of, American industry.
It can stimulate economic growth. It can create new jobs. It can give us con-
trol over our own destiny. It can end runaway energy prices imposed by foreign
nations. It can give foreign nations a new look at what Americans can do with
our great resources when we stop talking and start acting. That is my answer
to those who tell us Americans can no longer do what they set out to do.
I speak today to the great majority who believe in American capacities rather
than in American incapacity. I speak to all Americans who know that this is
the same Nation that made up its mind during World War II to develop
synthetic rubber, and did so; who know that this is still the same Nation that
decided to harness the atom by the Manhattan Project and accomplished that
objective; who know that this is the same Nation that said it would put the first
man on the Moon, and did so. Perhaps, people said, all these projects were
impossible, but Americans have done the impossible.
The proposed energy independence authority would have a 10-year life
and be self-liquidating. It is designed to achieve what many regard as im-
possible—energy independence by 1985. It is a program to secure our jobs, our
standard of living, and the national interest of the United States.
This new Government corporation would be an independent Federal author-
ity reporting directly to the President. This concept is bigger than partisanship.
I am determined to appoint as directors Americans of stature without regard
to politics.
The new energy independence authority will seek new technologies to sup-
port or directly produce or transport American energy; technologies to support
American nuclear development; and electrical power from American coal,
nuclear, and geothermal sources.
The energy independence authority will undertake only those projects which
private business cannot undertake alone. It will not replace the private enter-
prise system, it will supplement it.
My vision is of dramatic action to produce oil and gas from coal, safe and
clean nuclear and coal-generated electrical power, harness the energy of the
Sun and the natural heat within the Earth, and build numerous other energy
facilities throughout our great country. The energy independence authority
would act to finance those projects vitally needed for America's energy inde-
1495
