[657]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
But we have got lots of time, and we will think about all of those alternatives
as we move ahead and try to do the business of the Government.
Q. Mr. President, have you any commitment in your conversations with
Governor Rockefeller that he will support you in 1976, or might he conceivably
go off and seek the job himself?
THE PRESIDENT. Vice President Rockefeller has assured me categorically that
he will support me in 1976.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[3.] Q. Mr. President, we are told that not only have there been personnel
changes in the area of foreign policy and national security matters but the
decisionmaking process has been altered as well, that Secretary Kissinger now
will have to share access to you on a regular basis with the new Defense Secre-
tary and with Mr. Bush of CIA. That leaves a very strong impression that
Secretary Kissinger's influence in both these fields has been substantially re-
duced. Is that a correct impression?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me state affirmatively that Secretary Kissinger has done a
superb job as Secretary of State and as my Assistant for National Security Affairs.
He will continue to handle the responsibilities of a foreign policy which I think
has been not only successful but in the best interest of the United States.
There will be organizational changes, as I have indicated, and there will be
closer liaison and cooperation as is necessary as we move ahead. But Secretary
Kissinger will have the dominant role in the formulation of and the carrying
out of foreign policy.
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, could you tell us why Mr. Schlesinger and Mr. Colby
did not fit on your new team?
THE PRESIDENT. I think any President has to have the opportunity to put to-
gether his own team. They were kept on when I assumed office because I wanted
continuity. But any President, to do the job that is needed and necessary, has to
have his own team in the area of foreign policy. I believe the team that I have
assembled, as I have indicated tonight, will do a first-class job.
Q. Mr. President, there are reports, though, sir, that Secretary Schlesinger was
in conflict with your attitude on détente and with Secretary Kissinger's. Can you
address yourself to that?
THE PRESIDENT. There were no basic differences. I wanted the team that I
selected. And as President I think it is important that a President have that kind
of a team on an affirmative basis. And I have it in Secretary Kissinger and in
1794
