November 3
[655]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Embassy to return. And we have warned Americans in Beirut, particularly, that
the situation is very serious and that they should leave, and the sooner the better.
Q. Would you send troops in, if necessary?
The President. I wouldn't want to speculate on any action of that kind. I
don't think it will be necessary. In the meantime, we are working with all
parties—and it is a very confused situation in Lebanon. They have the Muslims,
the Christians, the Palestinians. It is a very complicated situation. We have, in
proper channels, sought to calm the various factions in an appropriate way,
because we think it is tragic that a country like Lebanon is being torn apart by
these riots that have gone on far too long and have been far too bloody. But I
wouldn't speculate—I think it would be, inadvisable—as to any action I might
take. We urge the Americans, because of the tenseness of the problems, that it
would be in their own best interest to leave at the present time.
UNITED NATIONS RESOLUTION ON ZIONISM
[6.] Q. Mr. President, there is considerable feeling in south Florida that the
attacks in the United Nations on Zionism as being racist are unfair and inaccu-
rate—especially the Jewish community feels this way. Your guest here in
Jacksonville, President Sadat, has made similar statements. How do you feel
about these allegations, and what action will our Government take if the United
Nations brands Zionism as racist?
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure you know Ambassador Moynihan has spoken out
very strongly on this issue. I am sure you know that Secretary Kissinger has
also spoken out emphatically. I issued a statement doing precisely the same.²
So, this Administration is very, very much opposed to the resolution to which
you refer. We are doing all we possibly can in the United Nations to defeat the
resolution. We think it is contrary to the basic Charter of the United Nations.
And if we can defeat it, which I hope we can, the matter will be resolved. And
I am getting more and more optimistic that the possibility does exist, because it
is fundamentally contrary to the United Nations Charter. What we will do if
we lose is a matter that I will pass judgment on at that time. But I think on sober
reflection that a majority of the members of the United Nations will recognize
that that is not in consonance with the Charter of the United Nations.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[7.] Q. Mr. President, you said a few moments ago that you intend to fully
participate in the Florida March Presidential primary. Congressman Frey has
2 See Item 640.
1783
