October 15
[631]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
last 12 to 14 months a pretty tough time in America. It doesn't do us any good to
say that in most other countries of the world they have had reasonably com-
parable circumstances. The facts are we have had the worst recession since the
end of World War II.
A year ago we were suffering inflation at the rate of 12 to 14 percent per
annum. Shortly after that was peaked, we found that we had a soaring unem-
ployment rate. But instead of saying we couldn't do something about it, we have
sought to follow policies that will solve the problem, the current one, of an
inflation rate of that magnitude and an unemployment rate which is totally
unacceptable, by policies that will keep us moving steadily forward toward a
solution—not a quick fix, but a solution that will hopefully prevent the recur-
rence of soaring inflation and far too high unemployment.
Now, I know some people have gotten a little impatient. Some people wanted
a quick fix here; some people wanted a short answer there. But as we look
back over the last 25 or 30 years, whenever those quick fixes were used, they
may have appeared to solve the problem or problems then, but the net result
has been we have laid ourselves wide open for a recurrence. And as long as I
am President we are not going to have any quick fixes.
We are going to try and give you a right answer. It will be tough because
there will be all kinds of pressures, but we are headed in the right direction. We
are down now to a far more manageable inflation rate, somewhere in the annual
rate of about 6 percent.
Our unemployment figure is going down. In the last 6 months, 1,600,000
more Americans are gainfully employed. You are going to probably see some
very encouraging economic statistics coming out in the next few days. We are
on our way to a sensible, constructive, long-range answer to the peaks and the
valleys that we have had far too often in the last 25 or 30 years.
I thank you for your warm welcome. I appreciate your support. But more
important than almost anything is our joint support for the kind of society that
we have in America, the kind of country in which we live.
Every time I travel anyplace around the world I always come back and say,
"Thank goodness I am back in the United States"-a country that was given
to us by hard work and good judgment and strength and character and courage.
We have that obligation right now. We have that burden to do as well for
those that follow as those who preceded us did for us.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:37 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. He was introduced by Clancy Adamy, presi-
dent of the organization.
1711
