October 7
[615]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
615
Interview With Reporters in Knoxville, Tennessee.
October 7, 1975
REPORTER. Mr. President, first we would like to welcome you to Knoxville and
to express our appreciation for your meeting with us here today.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have been here a number of times, and it is a pleasure
to be here. And thank you for the opportunity of answering some of your
questions.
TAX REDUCTION
[1.] Q. As taxpayers, we would also like to thank you for your proposal to
cut our taxes. We understand this is tied in with a reduction in Federal spending.
THE PRESIDENT. It is a two-part package, but it is absolutely necessary that
both the spending limitation or the decrease in the growth of Federal spending
be imposed at the same time that we go for the tax reduction. If we don't do
something about spending, we can't, in good conscience, do something about
reducing taxes.
Q. What would you do if Congress should approve the tax cut and not cut
spending?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I tried to say last night as directly as possible that the
Congress had to act on the limitation on the growth of Federal spending, or I
would be forced-and I said I would not hesitate to veto the tax bill.
ENERGY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, we here in the Tennessee Valley have rather a unique
situation as to our power, the electricity that we have due to the Tennessee Valley
Authority. But in the past 13 months we have had something like 13 or 14 rate
increases, and we are expecting another one very shortly.
Now, in the past 3 or 4 days a special House investigation subcommittee has
even proposed that the utility companies be forbidden from having the con-
sumer pay for the high cost of coal to produce electricity. Will you entertain the
idea of abolishing the fuel adjustment clause?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that I should make a commitment on this
program, on any legislation or regulation that would come to my desk without
having an opportunity to look at the pros and cons. I think it is unwise for a
President to make an off-the-cuff decision. I have a good staff. If and when any
change in the law regulations comes to me, I will give both sides a very fair
1609
