[675]
November 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
often bus passengers pay higher fares because the Federal Government sanctions
efforts by a few firms to block the entry of new companies into the market.
Archaic and artificial regulatory constraints also force unnecessary usage of
significant quantities of energy and other valuable resources.
This legislation will benefit American consumers in several ways. For ex-
ample, it will have a direct effect on the traveling public by encouraging a
greater variety of bus transportation services at a wider range of prices. Also,
it will enable interstate household moving companies to be more responsive to
customer needs and give the public a choice of services. Individuals who want
quick moving service and are willing to pay a premium will be able to do so.
Others who prefer to pay less for moving services that are not so immediate
will find such alternatives available.
These are two examples of how the bill will benefit consumers directly. Other
less visible results will have an even greater impact. For example, the bill will
provide trucking firms with more freedom to adjust prices to meet market
conditions. It will remove artificial entry barriers and encourage new companies
to enter markets and to compete on the basis of innovative services and lower
prices. It will allow smaller trucking firms-owner operations and contract
carriers to compete more effectively and to grow in response to normal market
demand. It will strengthen the common carrier system and enable small busi-
nesses to better meet their transportation needs. Such actions will enable some
manufacturers to lower the costs of distributing goods and thereby help reduce
consumer prices. The removal of uneconomic restrictions on the goods and com-
modities a truck is permitted to carry and the specific routes it must travel also
will help eliminate wasteful energy consumption and avoid empty backhauls
which raise prices unnecessarily.
In summary, the bill will reduce or eliminate many of the inefficiencies which
have
crept into the motor carrier industry during 40 years of regulatory control.
Where regulation is acknowledged as necessary to protect the public interest,
the bill will streamline and improve such regulation. For instance, the bill
eliminates gaps in present safety enforcement statutes to improve the already
high overall safety record of the motor carrier industry.
The importance of regulatory reform to improve our transportation system
cannot be overemphasized. I urge the Congress to give this measure serious
consideration at the earliest possible date.
The White House,
November 13, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
1858
