[559]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me thank all of you for the especially warm and friendly welcome. I have
heard nothing but wonderful comments about the convention—the enthusiasm,
the dedication, and the conviction.
You know, there is a slogan that says, "Never underestimate the power of a
woman." I can assure you the National Federation is an organization of Repub-
lican women whose power, prestige, perception, and purpose will never be
underestimated by anyone. I know it. You know it. And next year a lot of
Democratic candidates are going to know it, too.
First, let me thank President Connie Armitage for her introduction, and let
me also thank Connie on behalf of all Republicans for her quarter century of
outstanding contribution to our party. Connie, you have made excellence look
all too easy.
But the Federation has always been very rich in exceptional leadership, and
I know that Pat Utar will continue this great tradition of outstanding executive
achievement. As one chief executive to another, I pledge, Pat, my fullest coopera-
tion in putting our party's principles to work throughout the length and the
breadth of this United States.
The Republican Party, its men and women, will be facing an historical chal-
lenge next year. Nineteen seventy-six will determine whether we can regain our
numbers, our stature, our effectiveness on the national political scene, or whether
America is truly on the road to one-party rule. To meet this challenge, we need
the spirit, the determination, and above all, the talent of all Republicans. We
need your help, as I have gotten that wonderful help over the years from the
Michigan delegation here at this time.
Frankly, I have had it with the negative attitude that would write a self-
fulfilling prophesy of doom for America. I have heard much too much from
people who say everything is falling apart, how the quality of life in America
is sliding downhill, how the dollar is worthless, how muggers and murderers
have driven everyone behind locked doors, and how even the President of the
United States should stop visiting public places and seeing the American people.
I have had it with that attitude. I did not take the sacred oath of office to
preside over the decline and fall of the United States of America. I most
emphatically reject the scenario of pessimism. In contrast, I look to the future
and to building upon the proud past of America.
In America's first century, a young nation forged political institutions respon-
sive to the people. Unity grew from diversity.
Our second century transformed America into the most productive nation
that ever existed. America vibrated with pioneer courage, the achievements of
1418
