[531]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
tionalized and whose existence is unquestioned as their budgets climb into the
billions. Yes, I have seen many, many Federal programs and agencies and de-
partments begin. I have seen very few ended.
There is a spirit here in California that has its roots in the character of the
pioneers who first settled here. It is a spirit of fierce independence and self-
reliance. It is a zest for innovation and imagination. It is essentially the spirit of
America-the spirit of 1776, 1876, 1976, and the years beyond.
Americans who have overcome the towering obstacles of the past need fear no
problems, no problems in the future if we are free to utilize our potential. We
can get the American economy off the roller coaster of boom and bust cycles
and into a sustained and substantial pattern of growth.
We can create jobs for all who want them and incomes for all who need them.
We can live the future of our forefathers as they dreamed it.
Help me, help your Representatives in the Congress, help your Governor,
help your State legislature, help us all to free the free American enterprise sys-
tem. Give America the means and the Americans will find the way.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:50 a.m. at the Com-
munity Convention Center. The annual breakfast
was sponsored by the Host Committee, in conjunc-
tion with the California Chamber of Commerce, for
leaders in California government, business, finance,
education, agriculture, and labor.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Carlyle Reed, chairman of the Sacramento Host
Committee, and Stuart Davis, president of the Cali-
fornia Chamber of Commerce.
532
Address Before a Joint Session of the California State
Legislature. September 5, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Governor Brown. Mr. Speaker, Mr. President,
members of the State legislature, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is indeed an honor to come before the California Legislature. You represent
more Americans than any other legislative body except the Congress of the
United States, with which I have had some acquaintance over a good many
years.
Almost half of California's delegation in the current Congress are alumni of
this legislature. I cannot take time to salute all of them by name, but from vet-
erans like the able majority whip, John McFall, to respected newcomers like
Bob Lagomarsino, they are really an outstanding group.
1340
