October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
QUESTIONS
TAX REDUCTION
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I am Tom Stone, president of the Greater Knoxville
Chamber of Commerce, and I think I would be remiss if I did not tell you that
we recognize this conference as a very unique way to bring the White House
to the people. And I also think that I should-I believe I am speaking for all the
people in this room when I express to you our appreciation for the time and
the effort that your staff has put in to having these conferences. And I would
suggest to you that you have an excellent staff in the form of Mr. Bill Baroody
and John Shlaes and the members of his staff who have been so kind and so
easy to work with, and I would hope that you would continue these.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am very proud of them and I am delighted to hear a
public acknowledgement of the fine job they do. They do a good job.
Q. Mr. President, my question: As a representative of the business community
struggling to be competitive, to provide secure employment, and to generate
capital that is needed for growth and stability, we generally agree with your
proposed tax programs. Our concern is a big “if” and that big “if” is Congres-
sional acceptance of a $395 billion budget ceiling. What hopes can you share
with us that Congress will be favorable to your proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. As I indicated, questions have been raised by the Congress
or by certain members of the Congress as to whether under their procedures
such a result can be accomplished.
Since January I have heard a great deal about the reforms that have been put
through the Congress of the United States to make it a better parliamentary
body to meet the problems that we face. I think if they put their nose to the
grindstone and show a little imagination and a little strength, it can be done.
And I believe the American people want it and we are going to go out and do
our utmost to sell the American people, and if they have not the mechanism
to do it now, the Congress has the responsibility to do it when they get back to
work, and we intend to push it.
HIGHER EDUCATION
[3]. Q. Jack Reese from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. Mr. Presi-
dent, I should like to thank you for your recent statement on tax reform, spe-
cifically the issue of charitable contributions to colleges and universities. The
question I have, however, deals with the severe and perennial fluctuation in
Federal support for students and for our institutions of higher education. Do
1621
