[577]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
as Federal—gradually have amassed great amounts of information about almost
every one of us. As technology advanced, it made administrative sense to com-
bine and codify such information, especially when it was voluntarily given in
expectation of benefits and beyond the special legal safeguards provided for
Federal census and Internal Revenue data.
Here we face another dilemma of democratic society in this new techno-
logical era where information is not only power, as it has always been, but
also instantly retrievable by anyone trained to push the right button.
Certainly, we cannot scuttle worthwhile programs which provide essential
help for the helpless and assist the deserving citizen. Yet we must protect every
individual from excessive and unnecessary intrusions by a big brother bureauc-
racy.
Many of the recommendations of the Committee on Privacy, which I chaired
as Vice President, were incorporated in the Privacy Act of 1974, which a
cooperative Congress passed and I was pleased to sign as President. That law
goes into effect next Saturday.
Briefly, the Privacy Act generally prohibits collection of information con-
cerning exercise of an individual's first amendment rights. It requires that
files on individuals be accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. It requires the
Federal Government to reveal the existence and the whereabouts of all data
systems containing identifiable personal information. It gives everyone the right
to read his own file and to make corrections or to make amendments. It com-
mands the Government to use the information only for the purpose for which
it was collected. And it sets up an independent Privacy Commission with a
2-year mandate to monitor the operation of the law and investigate additional
privacy rules.
It is, to be sure, extremely experimental. But it makes a long overdue start
in trying to restore to every individual some of his rights which have been
eroded in the process of gaining other advantages.
I have said in Bicentennial speeches around the country—and I will continue
to say—that the great achievement of the first century of American independ-
ence was to perfect political institutions strong enough to endure stress and
responsible to the times and to the needs of all of our people.
The second century of our independence, now ending, saw the development
of the world's strongest economic system in a free climate our political freedom
fostered. Two hundred years of American independence have gained for all of
us an unprecedented measure of political and economic stability and success.
But we should ask ourselves, what should be the goal of our third century
1480
