[530]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, was I ever a Cub Scout. I was not. I joined
the Boy Scouts, as I recall, the day that I was 12 years old, and that was the day
that could join in those days. I don't think there was a Cub Scout organiza-
tion that far back. [Laughter] I am told that that was supposed to be the last
question, but I will take one more.
you
Q. Mr. President, what is going to happen to all the Vietnamese in Camp
Pendleton ?
THE PRESIDENT. Could you repeat that again, please?
Q. What is going to happen to all the Vietnamese that are stationed at Camp
Pendleton right now?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what is going to happen to all the South
Vietnamese, Cambodians, who are either stationed at Camp Pendleton, Fort
Chaffee, Eglin Air Force Base, and there is the one in Pennsylvania.
There are now approximately 40,000 Vietnamese, Cambodian refugees who
have not been sponsored. There were 140,000 in total. So, we have, in effect,
gotten sponsors for roughly 100,000. I think that is a lot of progress. And I
believe that at the rate of about 650 a day and about 4,000 a week, we will be
able to get all of the remaining 40,000 sponsored and living in the United
States by the middle of December or certainly by the end of this year.
May I thank you all, Governor Straub and the others, as well as the young
people here, the audience, the participants. It has really been a great experience.
I love this kind of an exchange between those of us who are older and those of
you who are going to be the leaders in America.
I am proud of you. We all love you. And we know you will do a good job.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:25 p.m. at the Portland Memorial Coliseum Arena.
531
Remarks at the Annual Sacramento Host Breakfast in
Sacramento, California. September 5, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Reed. Governor Brown, Lieutenant Governor
Dymally, Stuart Davis, members of the Host Committee, ladies and gentlemen:
This has been a week that I will long remember with great satisfaction, a
week that found Dr. Kissinger returning to Washington with some important
answers to a very critical situation in the Middle East.
1334
