[495]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
"Dirksen and Company Show"--because it is obvious, you know, who was the
star.
It seems that some of the legacy of homespun humor, left in this part of
Illinois by Abraham Lincoln, was reborn in Everett Dirksen. He had a little
quip or he had a little story for each and every occasion, regardless of the
circumstances.
He was the only politician I have ever known who could walk into a press
conference like the prophet Daniel and walk out leaving the lions all purring
and without a scratch on him. Isn't that right? [Laughter]
I learned an awful lot from Ev, and it's only fitting that others should learn
from him also. The Dirksen Research Center, with mementos and papers from
his long and productive career, will enable generations of students to learn more
about the United States Congress and how it works.
The Senator believed, as you all know, the opportunities to examine the papers
and documents of top legislators were far too limited. He had an idea for a
research center long before his death. And I agreed with him, as I think most
of the Members of the House and Senate would, that the study of the Congress
has been far too long neglected.
Ev knew every piece of legislation, and he knew that every piece of legislation
could have a lasting imprint on our society and this country. He believed more
historical attention should be given to the drafting and the approval of Federal
legislation. With the Dirksen papers and those of other Congressional leaders,
this great center will give students in many universities and colleges in this
area a very special viewpoint on American history.
One of the most fascinating areas of study in the Dirksen papers will be to
trace just how influential a single dedicated man can be. His career spanned
almost four decades and six Presidents. From the very first of the hundred days
of President Franklin D. Roosevelt to Ev's eventful 10 years of service as minor-
ity leader in the Senate, Senator Dirksen participated rigorously in the
enormous social and political changes of those years.
I have sometimes wondered whether Ev Dirksen ever regretted that he
promised his mother not to pursue a career on the stage. [Laughter] But he got
around it by playing a much larger stage, and we were lucky to have been
in his company.
I think it's wonderful that the tapes of Senator Dirksen's speeches will be
available to students, because his voice, as well as his presence, were part of
his political magic.
The person who knew and loved him best, Louella, his wife and partner for
1186
