October 7
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
[615]
between the protection of the environment on the one hand and the capability
of utilizing our vast coal reserves on the other.
Unfortunately, the Congress in neither case approved the amendments that
I recommended which, in my judgment, would have produced a balanced bill.
We are still willing to sit down with the Senate and the House and try to work
out a compromise. One of the problems with both of the bills I vetoed was that
it would have severely restricted the mining of coal, and coal is our best imme-
diate alternative to foreign oil. We are now mining roughly 600 million tons
a year and we want to go to, I think it is, the 1,200 million tons in 10 years.
The legislation that I vetoed would have, as a matter of fact, cut back our
production, not permitted us to accelerate. In addition, it would have probably
meant the loss of, oh, as I recall, about 125,000 jobs, and jobs are important.
So, if we could get together, and I am willing to negotiate with the Congress,
I think we could pass a well-balanced strip mining bill.
Q. Do you see a bill of this nature coming across your desk anytime soon?
THE PRESIDENT. It is sort of dormant at the present time, but that does not
mean that some negotiations aren't going on. But nothing has emerged at this
point.
EQUAL TIME PROVISIONS
[11.] Q. President Ford, what is your personal reaction to the decision by
NBC and CBS last night not to carry your address regarding the tax cut recom-
mendations? And do you think it is a valid objection that the networks have
that they would have to provide equal time to other candidates if they provided
time to you?
THE PRESIDENT. It is a very controversial issue. They have been very coopera-
tive in almost every case, if not every case in the past, and of course, the closer
we get to a convention or an election, their problem gets more and more difficult.
I was very happy, of course, that ABC, along with Public Broadcasting, did
do it, but I am not going to hold it against NBC and CBS. I think I would have
to say I thought they made a mistake, but I am not going to be prejudiced
against them as a result.
Q. Do you think the equal time provision is a valid objection?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the fairness doctrine is really the way to handle it.
In other words, it gives some discretion, it gives some judgment factor to televi-
sion and radio stations. And I would think that some modification of Section
3152 is in order.
2 The equal time provision of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 315).
1615
