September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that excessive Government spending over the years has had a very serious impact
on this problem of inflation. Could you mention for us the principal points of
the programs and the plans that your Administration may have to try to bring
Federal spending more within the line of revenues?
THE PRESIDENT. I will be very glad to, Mr. Davis.
In the budget figures that were submitted to me in November, shortly after
I was sworn in as President, I was reviewing the budget to be submitted to the
Congress in January for the fiscal year that begins July 1.
When the figures first came to me, they showed a deficit substantially higher
than the one I finally submitted. It was an astronomical figure, somewhere in
the magnitude of 60 or 70—or higher-billions of dollars.
In order to get at the basic problem that had accumulated over the years, I
instructed that in the preparation of the budget, for example, we should put
certain caps on spending programs that would have risen to coincide with the
cost-of-living increases.
I suggested a 5-percent cap. This would have saved, as I recollect, $3 or 4 bil-
lion. It wouldn't have reduced any payments or benefits. It simply would have
put a cap on the spending for a 1-year period.
Unfortunately, the Congress rejected all of those recommendations.
We have also instituted what I call a no new program approach, which
meant that any new program other than those affecting national security or
energy would not be approved by me. I thought we should have a 1-year mora-
torium on new spending programs. So far, as best I can recollect, we have been
able to preclude any new programs being initiated by the Congress, and we in
the White House did not propose any.
These are the kind of efforts that we have made, but despite that—and I want
to be very frank with you—the deficit, when we added up all the income that
could be anticipated and the expenditures that were frozen into the Federal
statutes, we ended up with a deficit of $60 billion-originally 52, but the added
costs of the recession made the difference between 52 and 60.
Now, our biggest problem is trying to convince the Congress to go along
with the caps, to go along with our no new spending programs, and to show
initiative in other areas.
But if we don't for this fiscal year, you will have more than $60 billion
deficit, and you will have built into the next budget figures that will probably
mean as big a deficit for the following fiscal year.
That is one of our basic causes of inflation; and it has been in the past, it is
now, and it will be in the future.
1307
