[508]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
cooperation, demonstrated by a labor-management committee that works with
me in the White House.
We have developed a strong, flexible collective bargaining system which
stands, in my judgment, as a tribute to the men and women of labor and man-
agement who have devoted themselves to building a better America.
While the government, as I said a moment ago, can't do everything, it can
do some things. It can help stimulate the private sector of the economy to
create jobs, the jobs that are needed to put people to work and provide work
for those entering the labor force.
During the past year, American workers and businesses received a Federal
tax cut to increase purchasing power and to stimulate growth in our economy.
It did generate jobs, and it did generate movement toward economic recovery.
While the unemployment insurance system is no permanent solution—we all
know that, no permanent solution to the joblessness that we face today—it
temporarily keeps individuals and our society functioning.
Some $20 billion in benefits will be disbursed in 1975, this calendar year,
providing a means of income maintenance for our unemployed workers. That
money pumped into the economy serves as another built-in stabilizer by pro-
viding purchasing power to the unemployed worker.
This year, we increased the number of weeks of unemployment compen-
sation from 39 to 65. We extended the coverage of unemployment insurance
to 12 million people not previously protected. I have proposed to the Congress
other necessary improvements to be made in such areas as adequacy and dura-
tion of coverage. Using new insights and some of our more recent experience,
we will work with the Congress to improve this system.
I am fully aware that some workers in Maine and elsewhere have lost their
job as a result of imports from abroad. Last May, for example, just a few
months ago, some 300 employees of the Allen Quimby Veneer Company in
Bingham, Maine, became the first workers to be certified under the Trade Act
of 1974 as eligible for adjustment assistance.
For the first time in the nearly 40-year history of unemployment compensa-
tion in the State of Maine, your State applied this month for a $2,400,000
Federal loan to pay unemployment insurance benefits starting in September.
This is a role that the Federal Government can play in these unique circum-
stances that we face, and I am glad to say that today we are granting Maine's
request.
Now, I can't stress too much that this Administration recognizes the equal
importance to recovery of controlling inflation and creating good jobs. These
1250
