[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
sat in this seat, deeply grateful for your contribution to the understanding of
the problems and the people, and I thank you on behalf of all who have gone
before me.
MR. SPIVAK. Thank you, Mr. President, for your very generous remarks.
THE PRESIDENT. I should have thanked the panel, too.
MR. SPIVAK. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. It has been a great experience.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:30 a.m. in the
NBC television studios in Washington, D.C. It
was broadcast live on radio and television. Mr.
Spivak's remarks relating to commercial announce-
ments and station identifications have been edited
from the transcript as released by the White House.
667
Remarks at Ceremonies Commemorating the Bicentennial of the
United States Marine Corps in Arlington, Virginia.
November 10, 1975
Thank you very, very much, General Wilson. Distinguished Members of the
House and Senate, Secretary Clements, Secretary Middendorf, Mr. Gagnon,
Mr. de Weldon, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Two hundred years ago today, by an act of the Continental Congress, the
United States Marine Corps was born. Less than 4 months later, on March 3,
1776, 234 Leathernecks made the first U.S. Marine Corps amphibious landing.
Today we honor the Marine Corps and the Bicentennial of its "uncommon
valor."
The heroic spirit of the corps is preserved in the magnificent Iwo Jima monu-
ment which stands before you. It raised our spirits even as those brave Marines
raised our flag on that eventful day.
This is an historic vantage point. We can see nearby Arlington National
Cemetery, the final resting place of so many of America's service men and
women—all who gave their last, full measure of devotion to the United States.
Across the Potomac from here is a panorama of our past, present, and future.
The Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials and the Washington Monument repre-
sent, along with other historic structures, our past. Our present can be seen in
the daily work of our Government and the life of the Nation's great Capital
City. Our future is epitomized in the timeless ideals which all of these places
and all of these people represent.
Today we remain true to the ideals of the Marine Corps which have fought
1838
