August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. DUKE. But despite what you are now saying, Mr. President, there is in
this country, as you well know, a rising amount of criticism about détente itself,
people questioning the value of détente. What is your feeling about this criti-
cism, and do you think this is endangering détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope it is not endangering détente, because I think there are
many pluses to us and, yes, to the Soviet Union. It has to be a two-way street.
I believe that SALT I was an outgrowth of détente. Does anybody want to
tear up SALT I? I don't think so. Anything that puts a lid or a limitation on the
development of nuclear weapons, the expansion of nuclear weapons-any
agreement that puts a lid or controls, that is good. So, détente helped achieve
SALT I.
Détente may help—I hope it will-SALT II, where we will put an actual
cap on nuclear weapons and other nuclear weapons systems.
MR. AGRONSKY. One of the happiest dividends that détente could possibly
produce would be a reduction of forces by the Soviet Union as well as the
Western allies in Western Europe.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree.
MR. AGRONSKY. Was that raised at Helsinki? Did you get anywhere at all
with that with Brezhnev?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, historically, when CSCE was originally agreed
to as a program, it was also agreed to that there would be negotiations for
mutual and balanced force reductions in Europe-MBFR. Those negotiations
have been going on now for about 2 years. They are presently stalled, but now
that we have the Helsinki agreement, it is my judgment that we have opened
up encouraging prospects for additional movement in the MBFR negotiations.
I think the Allies and the West are getting together for perhaps a new posi-
tion. I believe that the Soviet Union and its allies are taking a look at the current
stalemated negotiations and may come up with some agreement. The prospects
for a mutual and balanced force reduction in Europe have been enhanced by
the Helsinki agreement-no question about that whatsoever.
MR. DUKE. Well, Mr. President, to go back to SALT I for a moment, you
said at a recent news conference that according to your investigation the Rus-
sians had not cheated on the agreement limiting the use of certain strategic
weapons. Your old friend, Melvin Laird, had written an article suggesting
they had cheated. Since then, you have talked to Mr. Laird. Have you changed
your mind about what you said earlier?
The President. I naturally investigated the allegations that were made by a
number of people, including Mel. And after a thorough investigation, I have
1133
