[657]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the decisions that I have made and the an-
nouncements that I have made officially give to me the people and the team
and organizational structure to continue to carry out an affirmative, successful
foreign policy on a global basis and to keep our national security forces second
to none. I, therefore, feel very pleased with the acceptance on the part of in-
dividuals for these new responsibilities. They are important, not for me, but
primarily for the country.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[24.] Q. Mr. President, you recently have had two resignations——
THE PRESIDENT. Now, don't make a speech, Wally [Walter Rodgers, As-
sociated Press Radio]. [Laughter]
Q. No, sir. You recently have had two resignations from your campaign
committee, and some of your aides have said you are having problems in
your primary organization, especially in New Hampshire and perhaps Florida.
I was wondering, is your campaign in trouble?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is. I was in Florida yesterday and talked to
Lou Frey. He is very encouraged. We have some very encouraging news about
the organization in New Hampshire. I am very happy about it.
Q. Could you tell me, please, the basis for your optimism going into the
election year? Why are you confident that you will not only be your party's
nominee, beating Reagan, and why you will beat the Democrats?
THE PRESIDENT. You couldn't have asked a better question, Wally. I am
happy and I am optimistic about the nomination and the election because I
am convinced the American people feel that we have been successful in foreign
policy—the Middle East, Europe, et cetera. I am convinced that we are well
on the road to a good economic situation in 1976. So, when you combine peace
and prosperity, any incumbent President ought to be very happy.
PRESIDENT SADAT OF EGYPT
[25.] Q. Mr. President, you will be concluding talks with Egyptian Presi-
dent Sadat on Wednesday. Can you tell us whether the President will be going
home with a commitment-or what he thin is a commitment-for future
military aid for his country?
THE PRESIDENT. The final decisions in these areas will be made on Wednes-
day and properly announced. We have had very successful negotiations, but I
think it is premature for me to make any announcement at this time on those
matters.
1802
