November 14
[679]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
679
Remarks in Atlanta at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner.
November 14, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Mack.
And may I say at the very outset how grateful I am for your hospitality and
the superb job that you do as a State chairman of this great State. All of us
who represent the Republican Party in office are deeply grateful for the great
job that you have done and the superb organization that you have. And the
fine support is obvious here. Thank you very, very much.
To Nora Allen, Nolan Murrah, Bo Callaway, Ben Blackburn, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my deepest appreciation for the
warm welcome and the great day that we have had in Atlanta. I can't thank you
deeply enough for this tremendous dinner and the wonderful people that I have
seen and the kind of organization that I know you have. Thank you very, very
much.
May I very strongly acknowledge an outstanding Republican sitting out there
in the audience. He is an old and very, very dear friend, one of your number one
citizens from the great State of Georgia. And while he is no longer Secretary of
the Army, there is no doubt that Bo Callaway still knows how to fight.
Bo, I thank you for your unselfish dedication, and I congratulate you for your
long and magnificent record, your tremendous dedication to public service. Your
State and our country is better off for the things you have done for all of us. And
we thank you.
It really is a pleasure to be in your great State again, particularly at this time of
the year. I hear rumors that some of you may be going to the Georgia-Auburn
game in Athens tomorrow. Somebody even suggested that as a football fan
myself, I might make a prediction or two as to who the winner might be.
[Laughter]
All I can say to that is, "No way." I might make my own breakfast in the
morning, but I am not about to cook my own goose tonight. [Laughter]
Frankly, I have come to Atlanta tonight with a heartfelt conviction. The
Republicans of Georgia may be outnumbered, but you are big and strong in
spirit, and that counts an awful lot.
Your spirit is going to make some history in 1976. The Bicentennial year, I
predict, will be a Republican year. A great comeback in Georgia can be the great
1877
