December 20
[739]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
voted for it and very few Democrats did. That, in my opinion, was a rejection
of the ceiling concept at that time. But after the veto of the tax bill and it being
sustained, the Democrats in the Congress then came forward with this dollar-
for-dollar reduction in taxes and a dollar-for-dollar reduction in Federal spend-
ing. It was their proposition, but it followed the guidelines that was within
the parameters of what we had long sought.
Q. Mr. President, do you expect Congress to go along with the $395 billion
ceiling? They haven't said they will so far.
THE PRESIDENT. We are going to submit a budget for $395 billion or less, and
I think we can justify it fully. I believe there is a little different attitude up on
the Hill among Republicans as well as some Democrats that that is a responsible
figure. I think we have a fair chance of achieving it. We are certainly going to
try.
NEWS MEDIA COVERAGE
[11.] Q. On John's [John Cochran, NBC News] question, he had asked
about political motivation as far as the tax cut. Taking that a step further, what
do you think when you look at the cover of Newsweek and some of the other
stories that have your face and says "Ford in Trouble"? Have you been mis-
judged by some of the people who are covering politics?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the record is good, and I think time will prove it.
Q. Time magazine? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. The passing of time—and don't take that wrong either.
[Laughter] I think when the record is laid out from August a year ago and 1976,
I think the public will support what I have done, and it will be done in the
ballot box.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press]. Thank you, Mr. President.
The President. Thank you all. Have a good weekend.
Tom [Thomas M. DeFrank, Newsweek], you were going to ask a question.
You have been sitting there silently, and that is unusual. [Laughter] Well, go
ahead, one for you, Tom.
COMMON SITUS PICKETING
[12.] Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to go back to situs picketing
just for a second. There is a lot of speculation around town that Secretary Dunlop
might resign if you veto the situs picketing bill, and some of the people standing
over here kind of get that same queasy feeling themselves. I am wondering
whether you and Secretary Dunlop have talked about that, whether he has
1989
