[626]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, are you saying that you would veto any tax cut bill that comes
in unless you have this $28 billion reduction from the anticipated increase in the
1977 budget?
THE PRESIDENT. In the speech that I made, I said I would not hesitate to do
that. I have since indicated a harder line. I think in all likelihood that would be
the net result.
Q. Mr. President, both you and Mr. Greenspan have said the program was not
designed to have an economic effect in the short run; it was directed more to the
long-run growth in spending. But does it not nevertheless have an economic
effect in the short run? What do you anticipate that would be?
THE PRESIDENT. I have to rely on Alan's analysis and that of others who are
far more expert than I on that matter, and he can probably better speak for
himself. But it is his judgment, as I understand it, that the economic impact will
be minimal in that 9-month period.
Q. Mr. President, do you find the predicates for the kind of action that you
are asking Congress to take now, that you have cited in your press conference
last Thursday and that Ron Nessen has cited for you—I guess going back to
1967, 1968-do you find them really convincing?
THE PRESIDENT. As I recall the history of those, President Johnson wanted
some action by the Congress, and Wilbur Mills said no. And finally, Wilbur
came down-I am putting together things that come to mind—and Wilbur
came down and finally agreed on the basis that there would be a spending
limitation implemented at the same time in both cases.
Now, the Congress in 1967, in December, and in June in 1968 as I recall, did
take action to tie the two together. If they could be done then, I see no reason
why they can't be done at this time.
Q. Mr. President, that raises the question why you did not consult with the
Congress this time, as Johnson and Mills consulted in 1967 and 1968, and why
you just confronted them with a fait accompli in this tax and budget cut.
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is a little different situation, Pete [Peter Lisagor,
Chicago Daily News], in that in 1967 and in 1968, a then Democratic President
had a substantial majority in both the House and the Senate. In our case, we are
confronted with just the opposite situation. And we did do some consulting, or
informing, I should say, but there was, I think, a different factual situation.
Q. Mr. President, you said in response to Bart Rowen's [Hobart Rowen,
Washington Post] question that you thought there would be, or Mr. Greenspan
thought there would be a negligible impact on the economy. Suppose the reverse
happens? Suppose the Congress serves up a tax bill, which you vetoed, but the
1686
