[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
[21.] Q. Mr. President, thank you for coming to Tennessee, and we wel-
come you here. I represent the "Stop Equal Rights Amendment" group in East
Tennessee.
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me. I didn't hear.
Q. I am Dorothy Warnacut from Etowah, Tennessee, and I am an east
Tennessee chairman for Stop the Equal Rights Amendment. I think you have
heard of that amendment. [Laughter] You have met with pro equal rights
amendment representatives, and we want to know if you would please grant us
our equal rights to meet with you? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar that I have met with any group such as you
describe. I was in the House of Representatives and voted for it. So, my record
is clear.
It is now out of the Congress, and it is in the hands of the various State legisla-
tures or in the hands of the people in the respective States. That is a procedure
that is proper under our Constitution, and individuals pro and con at the State
level now have the responsibility to decide under the Constitution whether there
should be a ratification of that action taken by the Congress.
I thank you very, very much. It is a pleasure and privilege to be here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m. in the Cum-
berland Ballroom at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. He
was introduced by William J. Baroody, Jr., Assistant
to the President for Public Liaison.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Governors Ray Blanton of Tennessee, Julian M.
Carroll of Kentucky, William L. Waller of Mis-
sissippi, James A. Holshouser of North Carolina,
James A. Rhodes of Ohio, George Busbee of
Georgia, and Arch A. Moore, Jr., of West Virginia.
617
Remarks at a Reception of the American Society
of Oral Surgeons. October 7, 1975
of my
former
IT IS great to be here, and as I look over the audience I see some
colleagues in the Congress. But it is delightful to be here again as I was in 1971
when I was still in the House of Representatives and had the opportunity of
joining Dr. Jim Edwards, who is now a great Governor in South Carolina, and
also to be here I am sure he must be here someplace-Dr. Lee Ricker from my
hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Well, I just met Dr. Hayward from the University of Michigan as I came in.
A long time ago, before many of you knew anything about oral surgery, I was
the beneficiary of some experimental work—[laughter]—at the University of
1638
