August 19
[492]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
disunity, and indecision could become irresistible. With your support and that
of other Americans, my Administration will give them no such temptation.
George Washington, our first President, said the best way to preserve peace is
to be prepared for war. In one way or another, each of President Washington's
successors has repeated that truth. Unfortunately, we have historically ignored it.
We have abruptly demobilized after every war, and the next generation—the
next generation of Americans—paid very dearly for this folly. I see some danger
signs of our doing it again, with the stakes infinitely higher than ever before.
That is why I say to you, I am determined to resist unilateral disarmament. I
am equally committed to keeping America's defenses second to none.
Now that Americans are no longer fighting on any front, there are many
sincere but, in my judgment, shortsighted Americans who believe that the
billions for defense could be better spent for social programs to help the poor
and disadvantaged.
But I am convinced that adequate spending for national defense is an insurance
policy, an insurance policy for peace we cannot afford to be without. It is most
valuable if we never need to use it. But without it, we could be wiped out.
Certainly the most important social obligation of government is to guarantee
all citizens, including the disadvantaged, sufficient protection of their lives and
freedoms against outside attack. Today, that protection is our principal hope of
peace. What expense item in our Federal budget is more essential?
This is one place where second best is worth nothing. The proportion of Fed-
eral spending for national security and the proportion of our gross national
product going for defense requirements have declined in recent years. The dollar
figures in the Federal budget go up, but simply because of inflation. But the
weapons we can purchase and the personnel we can afford have declined.
During the Vietnam war, defense spending concentrated—and properly so—
on current combat requirements, shortchanging our long-range research and
development efforts. If our technological lead is not rapidly recovered, this
could be fatal to our qualitative superiority in the future. Scientific progress in
the Pentagon must be an equal partner with the best in personnel and the best
in weapons in maintaining peace and deterring war.
Our potential adversaries are certainly not reducing the levels of their military
power. The United States, as a result, must be alert and strong, and it will be.
The defense budget which I submitted for fiscal year 1976 represents, under these
circumstances, the bare minimum required for our national security. I will
vigorously resist all major cuts in every way I can, and I hope I have your help.
For the next fiscal year-1977-I honestly and sincerely hope to hold down our
1173
