October 14
[630]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
630
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner in
Hartford. October 14, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Fred. Senator Lowell Weicker, Congressmen Ron
Sarasin, Stew McKinney, Ed May, and all of my former colleagues in the House
of Representatives who are here, and it has been wonderful seeing you all-Lloyd
Elston, John Filer, Archie McCardle, and all of those who have made this dinner
possible, ladies and gentlemen:
I am thrilled by not only the size of this tremendous gathering but the en-
thusiasm and may I say this most sincerely, it has been my privilege in the last
month or so to attend a number of comparable Republican gatherings such as
this and each and every one seems to get better. The momentum is there and this
is the highlight, and I congratulate all of you in the great State of Connecticut
for this wonderful turn-out.
I do wish to express my personal appreciation to the two fine bands-the New
Britain High School Band, and I also wish to express my gratitude to the Cen-
turian Drum and Bugle Corps. And of course, the tremendous enthusiasm of all
of you who just joined us really makes this wonderful gathering here a great
family affair. And for those of you who are interested, the Red Sox are ahead
1 to 0. [Laughter] I am told that Carlton Fisk hit a home run. That is not a bad
way to go.
You know, it really is a great pleasure to be back and, I emphasize, back in
Connecticut. Trying to drive into Hartford, in particular, is always a very
fascinating experience for anyone in politics. With all of those interchanges,
cloverleafs, by-passes and on-ramps and off-ramps, you have the exact same
problem the Democrats have in Congress. [Laughter] No matter which way
you go, it is wrong. [Laughter]
But let me add this, if I might. In 1976 we are going to help those Democrats
out of their problem. [Laughter]
I am very grateful to Fred for his overly kind and very generous introduction.
And I certainly wish Fred the very, very best in his new role as chairman of the
Republican Party of Connecticut.
Although this is a new job for Fred, as Eddie said earlier, he is an old and
enthusiastic hand at party activity. Fred Biebel has come up through the chairs,
so to speak, in the Republican Party. He has served as a doorbell ringer, as town
chairman, as county chairman, and many, many other important assignments
1699
