September 22
[582]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
plans to ask him, but if a person decides, it is a free country. He can participate
in any way that he wishes, but that is a personal choice for him.
Q. So by that answer, Mr. President, without trying to put words in your
mouth, you would not reject his help or whatever support he would give you?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a matter of semantics. What he does is his decision.
We are going to run my campaign, as I said several months ago, on my record
and on our program for the future. If people want to help, I can't preclude it.
It is up to them to decide.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[7.] Q. I have a couple of questions, sir, on the Central Intelligence Agency,
which has been in the news, as we all know, for the past year or so with mount-
ing rapidity.
First off, are you frightened by the latest revelations of the CIA, namely, the
Cobra venom stockpiled, the shellfish toxin stockpiled, the poison dart guns sup-
posedly they have, and the latest story that broke over the weekend that alleges
that E. Howard Hunt supposedly was supposed to kill columnist Jack Anderson.
Do these allegations frighten you, sir?
The President. I think you have to go back to the charter that President
Truman recommended to the Congress and the Congress in 1947 wrote into
law in the establishment of the Central Intelligence Agency. As I recall—I
wasn't in the Congress at that time—that it was virtually unanimous that Presi-
dent Truman's proposed Central Intelligence Agency should be established by
law, it was given a charter and given certain responsibilities. And the Central
Intelligence Agency over this period of 27 or 28 years has carried out its re-
sponsibilities under the law.
Now, there may have been certain indiscretions or actions or programs that
border on being outside of that charter, and that is what the Congress is in the
process of examining. And I think it is a very proper responsibility for the
Congress, in an oversight capacity, to examine, such as they have in both the
Church committee and the Pike committee, the operations of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned former President Harry Truman, and it
was published in the Washington Post on December 22, 1963, a column that
was written by the former President. In that he said, "The role of the CIA
should be limited to intelligence; there is something about the way the CIA
has been functioning that is casting a shadow over our historic position in this
country and I feel that we need to correct it." That was 12 years ago. Do you
1513
