[674]
November 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me assure you that the American people support what you believe in
and the things that you represent and those that your country represent.
So, may I offer a toast, Mr. President, to the Prime Minister, to our continued
close ties, and to His Royal Highness, the Grand Duke Jean.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:03 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Because Prime
Minister Thorn was not feeling well, Luxembourg
Ambassador Adrien Meisch was requested to deliver
the major portion of the Prime Minister's remarks,
as follows:
AMBASSADOR MEISCH
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
"Let me thank you, first of all, for your kind
words and the warm reception you have given me on
my first visit to Washington as Prime Minister of
Luxembourg.
"Your long experience in politics, as well as your
frank and sympathetic approach, greatly facilitate
a common understanding and create a rapport which
I felt was most helpful in our discussions this
morning.
"Since then, I had the privilege to meet with
other prominent politicians, and I was pleased to
see on all these occasions how closely our two
countries are linked together. Those ties are not
only based on the identity of our political, economic,
and security interests but also on the interplay of
cultural and historical developments that have been
of such great importance to us.
"It gives me particular pleasure to be in the
United States on the threshold of the great jubilee
of its history, the Bicentennial.
"You are the only country in the world with 200
years of uninterrupted republican, democratic tra-
ditions, a country which for two centuries has made
liberty and equality for all citizens its law of life.
Those ideals remain today the most important, the
most topical, and the most vital for all of us.
"Over the last centuries, many Luxembourg emi-
grants have come over the Atlantic Ocean. There
are now almost as many descendants of Luxem-
bourgers in the United States as there are citizens in
the Grand Duchy, a unique record indeed.
"My country, of course, owes a tremendous debt
to the United States. The Luxembourg people will
never forget that it was the American Army which
liberated them during the last World War, that it
was the Marshall Plan that permitted Europe to close
its terrible wounds. This great deed of peace is
unique in the history of international cooperation
and remains forever a testimony to the generosity
of the American people.
"Democratic freedoms and prosperity can, how-
ever, only be preserved if they are linked with readi-
ness to defend them both internally and externally.
That is precisely the purpose of the Atlantic Alliance
in which we are united, the purpose of the Atlantic
partnership to which we again committed ourselves
at the NATO Council 6 months ago in Brussels.
"The Alliance shields us not only against aggres-
sion. It provides us also with a framework within
which our countries can develop their cooperation
among themselves. It constitutes the indispensable
basis for successful détente.
"We all know that a nation's external strength
is only as great as its internal strength. A free
society cannot pursue a positive and convincing for-
eign policy if its internal structure is not sound and
well organized. That is why it is absolutely essential
for our democracies to keep their own house in order.
"In this respect, I want to stress the outstanding
role of the economy. Indeed, I do think that we can
no longer isolate the political and security questions
from the economic and monetary problems. Within
the framework of the Atlantic Alliance, we must be
aware that the economic and social evolution is hav-
ing a direct bearing on our defense efforts and our
willingness to defend our democratic ideals.
"I am convinced that our democracies can cope
with the present economic and social crisis if they
act in solidarity. I am no less convinced that eco-
nomic and political cooperation of the nine West-
ern European states will be of major significance in
this field, as in others.
"European union, to which we have committed
ourselves, has not yet been completed, and to be
frank, in this respect we are still a long way behind
our hopes and promises. But a united Europe is
essential, and we shall build it.
"In doing so, we need the understanding of the
United States. One thing is certain. Only through
close cooperation between North America and
Europe and by harmonizing our interests have we
any prospect of mastering the great challenges with
which the world confronts us today.
"If anything can fill us with courage to face
this tremendous task, it is a belief in the inalienable
dignity and freedom of man which inspired the
founders of your mighty country 200 years ago."
Mr. President, before offering a toast to you, I
think I pass.
PRIME MINISTER THORN
Mr. President, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, may I thank you for your hearty
welcome and for all your comprehension. It was
your doctor who 2 hours ago didn't allow me to
deliver myself the speech, but he allowed me to
make a toast.
1856
