[664]
November 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
man's party, it is not a party of one nationality or one religion or one geography.
It is a broad national party.
We almost won a governorship in the State of Mississippi just last Tuesday.
We came within less than one percentage point, as I recall. We are going to
make every State a two-party State. Competition in the political arena is there.
It is good in Massachusetts. It is good in Mississippi. And I don't like those
odds that you have got in the State legislature—[laughter]—and I don't like
them in the Congress. And I happen to think that—you have Margaret and
Silvio here, they are high on quality, but they need a little more quantity.
So, it is my feeling that we have the programs both at home and abroad.
We have to recruit the candidates. We have to go out with the time and the
talents and the money.
This is a turning point in political history in 1976. We want a Republican
candidate who can win. We want a Republican candidate who knows how to
work with the Congress. We want a Republican candidate who knows that
it is essential to win in the statehouses and in the State legislatures.
We can get that kind of a program and that kind of a candidate, and I hope
and trust that when I come up here in the spring of 1976 I will see all of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:15 p.m. at the
Museum of Science. In his remarks, he referred to
John W. Sears and Nancy Sinnott, Massachusetts
State Republican chairman and vice chairman, re-
spectively.
665
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Reception in
Boston. November 7, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Ed.
I am most grateful for all that you have done for the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts and in the United States Senate. I am deeply grateful for all you
have done for the United States in the United States Senate. You should be
doggone proud you have a Senator like Ed Brooke, and I am.
Let me say I feel better that John Volpe is our Ambassador to Italy. Repre-
senting us in a tough situation, John, we thank you for the fine work you are
doing on behalf of our country.
And I had the great privilege of serving in the House of Representatives with
this young fellow and this very young lady, and I can tell you that they are
quality, real topnotch fighting quality for what they represent in your State.
1818
