October 14
[630]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
rection of recent years, the path toward bigger government, higher taxes, higher
inflation, or in the alternative, whether we will now take a new direction, bring-
ing a halt to the suffocating growth of government, restoring our national
prosperity, and allowing Americans a far greater voice in their own future and
a greater say on how to spend their money.
May I add one or two sentences right at this point. As we talk about the
problem of bigger government, heavier burdens financially, and less and less
freedom, it is well to remember the following: A government big enough to
give us everything we want is a government big enough to take from us every-
thing we have.
Now, in choosing a new direction, I propose a fresh start for America and for
the American people. I have recommended a $28 billion tax reduction on a per-
manent basis starting January 1 and, at the same time, a matching limitation in
the growth of Federal spending. As a very distinct part of this program, I think
we have to make a date certain for a balanced budget.
Let me emphasize that in the tax proposal the following provisions should be
remembered: We recommend that 75 percent of the tax reduction go to the
people, the taxpayers, and the other 25 percent go to those in business and
industry. The 75 percent for individuals involves an increase in personal exemp-
tion from $750 to $1,000, the standard deduction to a flat $1,800 for a single
person and $2,500 for a couple. Those are tax deductions that are good to give to
people who deserve them, who have been shortchanged in the years in the past.
And in the area of tax reduction, the remaining 25 percent for industry is
oriented to provide a sustained growth, to help in the creation of capital for the
production of jobs, because we have to provide new jobs for about 1,600,000
younger people entering the labor market every year. And if we don't provide
some incentive for industry to expand, to modernize, to improve, we aren't
going to be able to satisfy the job needs of our younger generation.
So, there is an equal balance in the proposals that I have made on the tax
side. But let me emphasize that if we don't get an equal reduction in the growth
of Federal spending, we cannot justify a tax reduction.
Obviously, in the process of reducing spending, a lot of belt-tightening will
have to take place. But let me emphasize with conviction and very firm state-
ments that those who deserve help will continue to receive it—the elderly, the
poor, the veterans who have borne arms in our Nation's defense. And then I add
hurriedly, we will not permit slashes in our national security defense forces that
are necessary for the protection of the United States.
Overall the proposals to cut taxes and the growth of Federal spending will not
1703
