December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
it isn't the same in Angola. Aren't they breaking the rules on détente there, and
how do we stand?
THE PRESIDENT. Both Secretary Kissinger and I have spoken out very strongly
against the Soviet activity in Angola, and I reaffirm it today. I think what is
being done in Angola by the Soviet Union in conjunction with the Cubans is not
constructive from the point of view of détente.
We couldn't be any firmer publicly than we have been in that regard. But I
think we have an obligation to continue to work within the framework of
détente because there are some other benefits that have accrued. I think SALTI
was a step forward, and if SALT II can be negotiated on a mutual basis, it
will be constructive within the framework of détente. But I reaffirm, Angola is
an example of where I think détente has not worked the way it should work,
and we strongly object to it.
Q. Is it possible, sir, that détente may simply end up being agreements on
nuclear weapons and nothing else?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope not. I think it ought to have a far broader implication.
I think détente can be helpful, just as an example, in the long-run solution in
the Middle East. And there are some good signs that it is helping to moderate
certain influences in the Middle East.
FOREIGN POLICY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, your predecessor sat in this office and in May of 1970
warned against the United States of America becoming a pitiful, helpless giant.
In a sense, our speaking out on Angola is about all we can do. The United States,
seemingly operating within the framework of détente, seems to be powerless
to do anything else other than speak out in offering statements by the President
and by the Secretary of State. Have we, therefore, in effect, reached a kind of a
status in the world where we are a pitiful, helpless giant in the continent of
Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we are a pitiful, helpless giant in Africa. We have
a great many countries that look to us and work with us and, I think, are
sympathetic to what we are trying to do in conjunction with them. There are
some African States that obviously don't look toward us, but look toward the
Soviet Union.
I think we would have been in a stronger position to find a compromise in
Angola if the Senate had not taken the action that it took. Nevertheless, despite
that setback, we are maximizing the utilization of funds that are available, small
as they are. And we are moving as strongly as possible in the area of diplomatic
2005
