[739]
December 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think it is a serious mistake. I feel very strongly that a great country like the
United States should have flexibility to help those people in any one country
to decide their own fate. And the action of the Congress is crucial in that it has
deprived us of helping a majority of the people in Angola to make their own
decisions.
And the problem that I foresee on a broader basis is a good many countries
throughout the world consider the United States friendly and helpful, and we
have over a period of time helped to maintain free governments around the
world. Those countries that have depended on us—and there are many—can't
help but have some misgivings, because the Congress has refused any oppor-
tunity for us in Angola to help a majority of the people. And they can't help
but feel that the same fate might occur as far as they are concerned in the
future.
I hope the House of Representatives will have a different view, and we are
certainly going to try and get the House of Representatives to reverse the
Senate action.
Q. If not, are we through there?
THE PRESIDENT. I never say we are through, but the action of the Senate has
seriously handicapped any effort that we could make to achieve a negotiated
settlement so that the people of Angola could have a free and independent
government.
Q. Mr. President, on that subject, why did we not start earlier in making
public our opposition to what the Soviet Union was doing there and telling
this country how much money and what effort we were making there, and can
you tell us how much money we spent there?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is wise for me to discuss in any detail what we
have done or contemplated doing. It was a legitimate covert operation where not
one American military personnel was involved in the operation, and we had no
intention whatsoever of ever sending any U.S. military personnel there. But to
discuss any further details than that, I think, in this case as in any other covert
action case, the President just should not discuss it publicly.
THE SOVIET UNION AND CUBA
[8.] Q. Mr. President, now that the Soviet Union is persisting-despite what
the Congress did on our side-in pouring equipment and material into Angola,
do you see now the possibility that this might seriously harm any chance for a
completion of SALT II?
THE PRESIDENT. The persistence of the Soviet Union in Angola with a hundred
1986
