[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
come to the conclusion that a person might legitimately make the charge there
had been violations, but on complete and total investigation I think any person
who knew the facts as I know them would agree that there had been no viola-
tions of any consequence.
There are some ambiguities—I want to be frank about it—but all of the re-
sponsible, knowledgeable people in the Pentagon or in any of the other respon-
sible agencies would agree with me there have been no serious violations, and
any that have been called to their attention have been stopped.
MR. DUKE. But you are suggesting there have been some infractions, then?
The President. Very minor, but we have what we call a consultative group
where if we think they are violating something, we make that point. It is in-
vestigated, and in the cases where there was any instance that might be an
honest charge of a violation, they have been stopped.
The Soviet Union has raised some questions about certain activities that we
have undertaken, and we have investigated them. And I think that arrange-
ment of the consultative group has been very effective in making sure that
SALT I was lived up to.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[8.] MR. DUKE. Let me turn now to the Middle East, Mr. President.
MR. AGRONSKY. You beat me to it.
MR. DUKE. We have had intensive negotiations going on now for about 2
months to try to get a peace treaty moving in this area. What is the prospect?
The President. They are better today than they were yesterday, and they are
a lot better today than they were last March when the negotiations unfortunately
broke off.
MR. DUKE. Does this mean you are increasingly optimistic?
THE PRESIDENT. I am optimistic on an increasing basis, but I have learned that
until it is signed in black and white that I shouldn't predict that it will be
finalized.
MR. AGRONSKY. Let me ask you——
MR. DUKE. Pardon me, Martin. I want to just ask you one more question in
this area. Do you find the Russians are now less troublesome in the Middle East
in the efforts to achieve a peace agreement?
The President. They have acted in a very responsible way, during my time,
in the Middle East. Let me just turn to the question of these negotiations that are
going on between Israel on the one hand and Egypt on the other.
1134
