July 22
[419]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
very significantly to the kind of America that we believe our country represents
and the future that we need for younger generations.
The farmers of America, representing some 6 percent of our population, are
a tremendous force for a better America. The productivity of American agricul-
ture is one of the wonders of this century, but American agriculture can do
even better with the kind of young people that are here today and those that
you represent.
Agriculture is vitally important in the future of America. We have many
problems. We are faced with an oil shortage; we are faced with an energy
problem. And the productivity of agriculture can help us immeasurably in
trying to resolve some of these international differences that we have. Agricul-
ture and what is produced by the farmers of America can be extremely im-
portant as we try to work out some of these delicate relationships in the many
commodities of the world.
I happen to believe that young people such as yourselves are the real hope
for the America that we want now and in the future. You have done a great
job in being elected State presidents or State officers, and you are here to learn
how our Government works so that you can go back and instruct your associates
in your respective States that our Government is a good Government.
But it can be improved, and we are working at that. But we need understand-
ing that we are working at making our Government the kind that is responsive
in agriculture, in industry, in business, in labor. This Government can work
better and it will work better, but we need understanding in the process.
And as you spend your time here meeting with many, many people-people
in the Government, people outside of it—become an expert so you can go back
and talk about what we are trying to do in the executive branch, what the
Congress is seeking to do in the legislative branch, and what the judiciary is
seeking to do in its role as a part of the Government.
But I think there is another benefit from your visit here. I hope you will get
an inspiration to be a part of the Government as you grow older and mature.
We need the kind of leadership in government that each of you can give, and
what you learn here in this experience will be tremendously significant in how
you pattern your life in the months and years ahead.
It's not inconceivable-in fact, it's very possible-that at some time in the
future one of you, as presidents of your State organization, can be President
of the United States. And all that you have learned and all that you will experi-
ence in the future can help prepare you for that great opportunity.
1009
