September 16
[565]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
565
The President's News Conference of
September 16, 1975
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
REPORTER. [1.] Mr. President, you are beginning to get some flak now from
people who think you haven't been minding the store, and in the last 2 days I
noticed you had one announced business session yesterday and you have, I be-
lieve, only one today. I assume you are doing something besides playing with
the puppies, so, what are you doing? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have some big decisions coming up that involve,
for example, the course of action that we will take on any SALT II agreement,
and we have some very important decisions concerning the energy matter.
We have some decisions to make that involve the delivery of material to the
House and Senate committees, the Church committee and the Pike committee.
So, I would say the day has been full, even though there haven't been any
announced public meetings of any kind.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
ISRAEL
[2.] Q. I think you probably read the Post today and also Jack Anderson
concerning secret accords with Israel for supplying the newest technology, in-
cluding missiles that could be armed with nuclear warheads and so forth. Is
this true?
THE PRESIDENT. That material has all been submitted to the responsible com-
mittees in the Congress. The announcement concerning the F-16 and the Persh-
ing missile-those are not firm commitments. They do involve negotiations
between the United States and Israel. They are on a shopping list, and they will
be discussed with representatives of the Israeli Government.
Q. But do you really think you should arm one power in the Middle East at
a time when you are moving toward peace with the potential of offensive
weapons in that——
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have for a long, long time supplied Israel with
very substantial amounts of military hardware. This was a policy established a
good many years ago, and we have always felt that the survival of Israel in the
Middle East was very important. And the military hardware that we have in
1435
