[679]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
comeback for all America. Georgia needs Republicans, and Republicans need
Georgia.
The tenacity of the Peach State is America's tenacity, your comeback is Amer-
ica's comeback, and your pride is America's pride. Georgia is not only the Peach
State, it is a "Can Do State." There are some of this population we have in
America who follow the defeatist philosophies of can't do or won't do. They
say America has had its best days, that there will be no more quality for life, that
our moral values are out of date, that our economy is bogged down in the
swamps, and that we will never again see the sun shine.
To those who voice such self-fulfilling prophecy of gloom and doom for this
country, I say that you had better come down to Georgia and taste the sweetness
of peaches and learn about real folks and real life.
Actually, this State and the rest of the South are justifiably proud of great
breakthroughs. Your excellent educational institutions, your thriving industries,
your productive agricultural activities demonstrate what Americans can do. The
South has moved from a basic agricultural economy to a modern industrial
society which manufactures much of America's total output. More and more
people are moving, for good reason, into the South. You are growing far more
rapidly than any other region of our country.
I want to see the Republican Party grow with you. Just as the South came
back, Republicans can come back everywhere, and especially in Georgia. You
can be missionaries of a great Republican revival in every one of the 159 counties
in the great State of Georgia.
Let there be no misunderstanding where I stand. I did not take the sacred
oath of office for the Presidency to preside over the decline and fall of the
United States of America. I totally and categorically reject the scenarios of
pessimism, and I am certain all of you totally agree with my views.
Instead, I look to a future built on a proud past. I see an America whose
citizens have the highest standard of living in the world and who live in peace
at home and with all nations.
I see an America where we live longer because killer diseases have been con-
quered, where the quality of life is enhanced, where we develop stronger and
stronger moral and spiritual qualities, and where we enjoy the widest oppor-
tunities, limited only by individual initiative and capability.
To make this vision come true which I think we all must have, we must return
government to sound, responsible Republican principles. And with your help
and the help of millions like you in 49 other States, we will. We must elect to
1878
