[610]
October 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Through quiet and very diligent endeavor, Japanese-Americans have attained
highly respected places in the most exalted ranks of every profession, in the arts
and sciences and, of course, in public affairs. The cultural heritage that they
have given us has enriched American life. They are actually a living bond
between our two great countries.
Your Majesty, when you assumed the throne in 1926, you chose the Japanese
words showa, meaning "enlightened peace," as the name of your reign. Those
words expressed an exalted ideal, and now in the unprecedented 50th year of
your reign, the Japanese people's accomplishments and their place in the world
have fulfilled your early hopes.
Your Majesties' historic visit has enhanced Japanese-American relations with
a new dignity, and it has made us even more aware of the benefits of peace as
well as friendship between us. It has also reinvigorated our shared determina-
tion to encourage even closer ties and greater cooperation between the Japanese
and the American people.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you join me in expressing appreciation for
Their Majesties' hospitality this evening as I propose a toast to Their Majesties,
the Emperor and the Empress of Japan.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 10:45
p.m. at the Smithsonian Institution Building in
response to a toast by Emperor Hirohito.
Emperor Hirohito spoke in Japanese. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
The Empress and I are greatly honored to be
with you this evening, Mr. President, Mrs. Ford,
and distinguished great guests representing the broad
spectrum of the American people.
May I take this opportunity to impress on you
our sincere appreciation for the cordial hospitality
extended to us by the President and the people of
the United States.
The Japanese-American relationship began some
120 years ago when Commodore Matthew Perry
reached our shore to begin the process of opening
Japan to the outside world. Five years later Japan
dispatched its first delegation to the United States
on the mission of exchanging the instruments of
ratification of our Treaty of Amity and Commerce. It
is recorded that the delegation visited this Smith-
sonian Institution.
One of Japan's leading intellectuals at the time
of my grandfather, the Emperor Meiji, was Yukichi
Fukuzawa. He accompanied the delegation to the
United States aboard the escort ship Kanrin Maru.
Upon his return, Fukuzawa wrote a book entitled
"Seiyo-jijo" or "Things Western." In this volume
Fukuzawa described how the United States, under
the "purest form of republican government," had
been living up to the ideals of its Founding Fathers,
and included a full Japanese translation of the
Declaration of Independence of the United States.
His enlightening suggestions were a source of in-
spiration to the Japanese people of the time, who
were just beginning to emerge out of centuries of
isolation into the age of modernization.
Succeeding generations of Japanese and Amer-
icans have built on those early interchanges, es-
tablishing in our time a relationship of extensive
cooperation in political, economic, industrial, aca-
demic, cultural, and many other fields.
Today, as the United States is about to celebrate
its Bicentennial, Japan and the United States have
become the nearest of neighbors, despite the vast
reach of the Pacific Ocean, which separates our
two countries, and despite the great distances be-
our respective histories, traditions, lan-
guages, and cultures. Never before in history have
two such distant and different peoples forged such
close bonds of friendship.
tween
I am confident that friendship, so well tested
through a number of trials in the past, is an
enduring one which will withstand whatever vicis-
situde there may be in future history.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in
a toast to the continued health of the President of
the United States of America and Mrs. Ford and
to the prosperity of this great Republic.
1592
