[649]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
AFRICA AND LATIN AMERICA
In these two geographic areas where there were widespread special develop-
ment problems, I am proposing security assistance programs with emphasis on
training as a common denominator. While the training programs are not individ-
ually costly, the fact that they are distributed among many countries should con-
tribute to the strengthening of our regional relations well beyond the military
sector. The only significant MAP proposal in either area involves a $12 million
program for Ethiopia, where we have been committed to an armed forces
modernization program of reasonable dimensions. No other grant aid funds are
envisioned elsewhere in Africa. MAP proposals throughout Latin America are
confined to small sums, mainly for vehicles, communications equipment and
spare parts. FMS credits for Latin America are proposed in amounts com-
mensurate with the relative sizes of the recipients' armed forces, their repay-
ment ability and overall development needs. In Africa, the only significant
FMS credit proposals are $10 million for Ethiopia and $19 million for Zaire.
SECURITY SUPPORTING ASSISTANCE
Aside from the special programs for the Middle East states which I have
described previously, my proposals for security supporting assistance include $35
million for Cyprus, including $10 million for the United Nations Forces there,
$55 million for Portugal, $65 million for Greece, and $23 million for Zaire.
Other small programs and administrative expenses will total $33 million. In all
instances, these programs reflect enlightened self-interest for the United States
and a carefully documented need.
CONCLUSION
While the extraordinary recent developments in Indochina and the Middle
East have necessitated a re-examination of our policies and changes in the focus
of our security assistance programs, there can be no doubt that bilateral and
multilateral cooperation in the defense sector remains a vital and necessary com-
ponent of American foreign policy. The proposals that I am now able to make
after this reappraisal are addressed specifically to a new global situation and to
the extraordinary challenges and opportunities confronting us in the interna-
tional sphere. Just as it would be a grievous mistake to base our current and
future security assistance programs on the precepts of the past, it would be an
even greater error to ignore our enduring responsibilities as a major world
1760
