October 14
[626]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
overall Middle East policy of the United States is founded upon the most basic
reasons of national necessity as well as our desire to help bring peace to a region
whose peoples have suffered too much already.
I reaffirm today that we will not accept stagnation or stalemate in the Middle
East. The participation of the United States civilians in the Sinai early warning
system demonstrates that determination.
I appreciate very greatly the cooperation of the Congress in this important
contribution to stability and peace.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House. His remarks were recorded
for later use on radio and television.
As enacted, the bill (H.J. Res. 683) is Public Law
94-110 (89 Stat. 572).
626
Remarks During a News Briefing on Federal Taxes
and Spending. October 14, 1975
I JUST thought that before Alan and Bill had a chance to answer any questions,
that I would come in and indicate for a few minutes my strong personal feeling
and my personal identification with this approach that we have taken, and to
give you an opportunity, if you want it, to answer some questions before either
Bill or Alan respond to any other information that you might want.
Let me put at rest, at the outset, that this was not something that came out of
thin air at the last minute. The whole thought really began sometime early this
year and has been worked on over a period of several months in some detail.
The thought of really pinning them together, of course, was precipitated by
the need to make a decision on whether we would support, or not support, or
make revisions, in the 1975 tax matter.
I, in a press conference—I have forgotten where it was-Omaha¹—gave the
first indication that this was an approach that we were actively considering, but
the fact is that approach had been worked on for some time.
Now, there were some obviously fine details that had to be put together in the
last 72 hours, when we got down to some of the charts and rates and so forth.
But the basic decision was made sometime before.
Now with that, I will be glad to answer any questions.
1 See Item 600.
1685
