[501]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. I gather from your statements in Chicago earlier this morning you are not
exactly pleased with the speed of that upward swing?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact, it is reasonably on schedule—some disap-
pointments, but overall, I think we are moving ahead in a constructive way. It
doesn't mean, however, that we are satisfied with the current unemployment
rate. And we are not satisfied with the increase in the cost of living. But if you
look at the overall, the kind of progress we have made in the last 12 months,
we are doing quite a bit better. I am sure with the policies we have, with the
cooperation of the Congress, we are going to have a healthy economic situation
on a growing basis in the months ahead.
Q. We are walking sort of a tightrope in our economy right now.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right.
Q. We can't overheat the economy, of course. There is a current tax cut on the
books now which ends the end of this year. Do you see a further tax cut next
year?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a decision that I will have to make and the Congress
will have to make. I think it is a little premature to make a final decision. If we
need a further stimulant in the economy beginning on January 1, 1976, then I
would recommend that the current tax cut be extended for another year. On the
other hand, if we have to keep some additional pressure on inflation, then the
judgment most likely would be otherwise.
So, until we get several more months of readings from the economists and all
of the technicians, I think it is premature to make any categorical commitment.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[2.] Q. Mr. President, the opening remarks made at this morning's confer-
ence whereby the AFL-CIO leader of the State, and he was very critical of your
Administration, particularly, for what he said, what he indicated was a callous
disregard for the unemployed, saying that there is a 35-percent unemployment
rate among the skilled trades here. What would you say if you were speaking
to an unemployed worker in Milwaukee today?
THE PRESIDENT. I noticed the newspaper story where the gentleman was quite
critical. I think he indicated that the rate of inflation when a Republican ad-
ministration took over was about 42 percent, where the unemployment rate
was about 5 percent, saying that when Republicans took over from the Demo-
crats, conditions were good, unemployment was down, and inflation was less.
I think it is fair to say that you ought to put those figures in perspective. In
1969, when a Republican administration took over from a Democratic adminis-
1216
