[430]
July 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
our interests in Berlin and Germany and have obtained the public commitment
of the Warsaw Pact governments to the possibility of peaceful adjustment of
frontiers—a major concession which runs quite contrary to the allegation that
present borders are being permanently frozen.
The Warsaw Pact nations met important Western preconditions—the Berlin
Agreement of 1971, the force reduction talks now underway in Vienna—before
our agreement to go to Helsinki.
Specifically addressing the understandable concern about the effect of the
Helsinki declarations on the Baltic nations, I can assure you as one who has long
been interested in this question that the United States has never recognized the
Soviet incorporation of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia and is not doing so now.
Our official policy of nonrecognition is not affected by the results of the Euro-
pean Security Conference.
There is included in the declaration of principles on territorial integrity the
provision that no occupation or acquisition of territory in violation of inter-
national law will be recognized as legal. This is not to raise the hope that there
will be any immediate change in the map of Europe, but the United States has
not abandoned and will not compromise this longstanding principle.
The question has been asked: What have we given up in these negotiations and
what have we obtained in return from the other side? I have studied the nego-
tiations and declarations carefully and will discuss them even more intensely
with other leaders in Helsinki. In my judgment, the United States and the open
countries of the West already practice what the Helsinki accords preach and
have no intention of doing what they prohibit—such as using force or restricting
freedoms. We are not committing ourselves to anything beyond what we are
already committed to by our own moral and legal standards and by more formal
treaty agreements such as the United Nations Charter and Declaration of
Human Rights.
We are getting a public commitment by the leaders of the more closed and
controlled countries to a greater measure of freedom and movement for in-
dividuals, information, and ideas than has existed there in the past, and estab-
lishing a yardstick by which the world can measure how well they live up to
these stated intentions. It is a step in the direction of a greater degree of European
community, of expanding East-West contacts, of more normal and healthier
relations in an area where we have the closest historic ties. Surely this is the best
interest of the United States and of peace in the world.
I think we are all agreed that our world cannot be changed for the better
by war, that in the thermonuclear age our primary task is to reduce the danger
1032
