[578]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
of course, are still serving. And from everything I understand, the intention
is to continue.
But my feeling is that first we have to have a person who is very qualified in
the law, as such. On the other hand, I don't think you can exclude certain
classes of individuals because they don't happen to be a practicing lawyer. We
have some very knowledgeable people in the law who might have other cur-
rent occupations. So, they have to have a competence, a very high competence
in the law, but that doesn't mean they have to be restricted within a certain
framework in a very limited sense.
Now, they have to be a person of great integrity. I would hope it could be
someone in a relatively middle-age group, because I think continuity on the
Court is a matter of importance.
I wouldn't want to make any commitment as to ideology. I don't think that is
necessarily something that you can tell precisely, and I wouldn't want to preempt
anything in this area by any comment I make at this time.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
[2.] Q. Mr. President, do you think you can match your wife's ardent sup-
port of the equal rights amendment?
The President. Well, I voted for it in the House of Representatives. I can't
do any more than that.
Q. Would you do one more thing-[handing the President a button]-
would you take this back to Betty Ford? "A woman's place is in the world.”
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. She has been doing quite well lately—[laughter]—for which
I am very proud of her.
CHILE
[3.] Q. Under Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon, the United States
attempted to help achieve the violent overthrow of the Governments of Cuba,
the Dominican Republic, and Chile. We would like to know under what cir-
cumstances your Administration will participate in the violent overthrow of
Latin American countries. And I would like to know why you have not spoken
out against heinous abuses of human rights in Chile and sought to bring pres-
sure to bear on those who do?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to indicate that our Government is going
to interfere with the internal operations of any government anyplace in the
world. I think it is a matter that has to be carefully considered in the context
of how it relates to our own national security. And to even imply that this
1482
