[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Under the agreement that we seek, fixed minimum grain purchases each sea-
son by the Soviets will be established for a 5-year period at the going market
price. More importantly, these agreements will be in the long-term best interest
of the farmer as well as the consumer. Having said that, let me turn to another
subject.
I am determined that our energy crisis in America will be solved in the long-
term best interests of the farmer and of all Americans. The damaging effect
of continued delay in achieving energy independence were dramatically head-
lined just the other day when OPEC oil-producing cartel nations raised oil
prices by 10 percent. The arbitrary and excessive OPEC price increases of 1973
and 1974 seriously depressed economic productivity and accelerated inflation,
not only here in the United States but throughout the world, in industrial na-
tions as well as underdeveloped nations. The latest prices, the price increases
announced over the last several days, will worsen inflation and hinder eco-
nomic recovery on a worldwide basis.
There is absolutely no economic justification for this latest price increase. It
proves beyond any doubt whatsoever that we as a nation must move quickly
and we must chart our own energy program. And there has been too much
delay already.
Time after time, starting last January 14, I warned Members of Congress that
the United States was becoming more and more and more vulnerable to the
price increases imposed by other nations. I have appealed to the Congress to
approve my program or come up with its own program, to free America from
dependence on foreign oil suppliers.
I offered to compromise again and again and again. Two days ago I agreed
once more to such a compromise, to the decontrol of domestic oil prices, by
signing a bill extending for another 47 days, to November 15, the control of
domestic oil prices. And in that period of time, Congress can either arrive at
either a sound and mutually acceptable plan for phased decontrol or, as an
alternative, pass emergency legislation that I have recommended to cushion the
immediate impact of decontrol on certain of our domestic aspects of the
economy.
If they won't pass a phased decontrol program that is acceptable, then I propose
that they move with speed as follows: I propose to assure adequate propane gas
for the millions of farmers and others living in rural areas and in mobile homes;
I propose to protect heating oil and independent retail gasoline dealers from
arbitrary curtailment and cutoff from suppliers; I propose to assure independent
refiners of adequate crude oil supplies at reasonable prices; and I propose to
1566
