[545]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Report describes the activities of the National Institutes of Health (NIH),
the Health Services Administration (HSA), and the Center for Disease Control
(CDC). Research and development are underway at NIH in the diagnosis,
treatment, and prevention of Cooley's anemia. High priority is being given to
the development and evaluation of effective, nontoxic iron chelating agents to
reduce iron buildup which occurs in the bodies of patients treated for Cooley's
anemia with periodic blood transfusions.
High priority also is being given to pilot programs in screening, education,
and counseling in coordination with NIH and HSA. In addition, HSA is
evaluating the information gained from the extensive screening, treatment, and
counseling studies in sickle cell anemia (which is also a genetic blood disease)
as a means to plan more effectively the Cooley's anemia screening programs.
CDC is involved in a number of activities concerned with the laboratory de-
tection of Cooley's anemia, including screening techniques and educational
programs.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
September 11, 1975.
NOTE: The 15-page report is entitled "Third Annual Report on the Administration of the Cooley's Anemia
Programs."
546
Proclamation 4390, National Saint Elizabeth Seton Day.
September 11, 1975
By the President of the United States of America a Proclamation
Among the most important elements of America's Bicentennial observance-
and of everyday American life for nearly 200 years—is the religious heritage of
our Nation, rich in its diversity and its quality.
The singular devotion, faith and courage of such servants of God as Elizabeth
Ann Seton give life to that heritage and inspiration to us all.
On Sunday, September 14, 1975, His Holiness Pope Paul VI will confer
upon "Mother Seton," as she is known to millions of Roman Catholics, the
rites of canonization. From that day, Mother Seton will be Saint Elizabeth Seton,
the first American-born saint of the Roman Catholic Church.
Born in New York more than 200 years ago, Mother Seton was content in
her early years to live the common life of the 18th century woman. But tragedy
1364
