July 25
[431]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of unprecedented destruction. This we are doing through continuing strategic
arms limitations talks with the Soviet Union and the talks on mutual and
balanced force reductions in Europe. This European Security Conference in
Helsinki, while it contains some military understandings such as advance notice
of maneuvers, should not be confused with either the SALT or MBFR negotia-
tions. The Helsinki summit is linked with our overall policy of working to
reduce East-West tensions and pursuing peace, but it is a much more general
and modest undertaking.
Its success or failure depends not alone on the United States and the Soviet
Union but primarily upon its 33 European signatories—East, West, and neutral.
The fact that each of them, large and small, can have their voices heard is
itself a good sign. The fact that these very different governments can agree,
even on paper, to such principles as greater human contacts and exchanges, im-
proved conditions for journalists, reunification of families and international
marriages, a freer flow of information and publications, and increased tourism
and travel, seems to me a development well worthy of positive and public
encouragement by the United States. If it all fails, Europe will be no worse off
than it is now. If even a part of it succeeds, the lot of the people in Eastern
Europe will be that much better and the cause of freedom will advance at
least that far.
I saw an editorial the other day entitled: “Jerry, Don't Go." But I would rather
read that than headlines all over Europe saying: "United States Boycotts Peace
Hopes."
So I am going, and I hope your support goes with me.
NOTE: The President held the meeting at 11 a.m. in ican organizations with Eastern European ethnic
the Cabinet Room at the White House with seven backgrounds.
Members of Congress and representatives of Amer-
431
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Secretary of the Interior
Stanley K. Hathaway. July 25, 1975
Dear Stan:
I have your letter, and it is with my deepest regrets that I accept your resigna-
tion as Secretary of Interior, effective upon the appointment and qualification
of your successor. In so doing, I want you to know that I fully understand and
sympathize with the health considerations which have prompted your decision.
1033
