September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
think I quote him properly-he is looking for new directions to go back to
old truths.
I am asking if you could not convene a working task force to develop guide-
lines toward a revival of spiritual values as inscribed on our coins-"In God We
Trust"-appoint men and women of wisdom from churches and schools and
homes, and then could you please use your good offices to spread these principles
of right conduct through the printed word, the news media, and television,
which should again lift the spirit of our people and encourage the return of
heroes to our land?
THE PRESIDENT. I made a speech this morning, or this afternoon, where I
made some comments that I think would fit in very neatly with the observa-
tions made by both of you.
I think that we have got to seek the strengthening of the family in the first
place and the strengthening of our individual ties to the church in the second.
I believe that all of the money we have spent-and we have spent a great
deal of money at the Federal level, about $800 million a year in the last 3 or 4
years—for what we call Law Enforcement Assistance Act programs, Federal
money to States and local units of government, and unfortunately despite that
vast expenditure of money, the crime rate continues to go up.
So, money itself will not meet the problem. The basic one is how we can
strengthen the family, the church, our moral and spiritual values.
I will take under consideration the establishment of a national commission
or committee, but I think it is more basic than that. I think the leadership has
to come from the clergy, from civic leaders, from others in the local area.
I will certainly consider it, but I think we ought to take a look at other alterna-
tives aside from money, and money at the Federal level really hasn't solved the
problem.
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Jerry Sugarman. I represent the Ozark
chapter of the Sierra Club. We have a great many problems in the St. Louis
region, stemming from the Corps of Engineers' relentless promotional activities
on the Mississippi River and on our agricultural flood plains and on our scenic
Ozark streams.
The Council on Environmental Quality has recently conducted a special
review of the Merrimack Basin dam project in eastern Missouri, but has been
blocked by the General Counsel from publishing their findings. Meanwhile,
citizens would like very much to debate the issues knowing the facts that CEQ
1393
