September 12
[556]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ful economy. And you also have the tradition of superior people, such as Ike
Eisenhower and William Allen White, men who have made history not only for
your State but for our country.
I might add that none has stood taller than my good friend Alf Landon. I
understand that next week Alf will be celebrating his 88th birthday, and I am
sure all of us wish him the very, very best, not only on the 88th but for many,
many more to come.
Now, let me just say a word or two about what I think of the Kansas delega-
tion. You have, in the delegation that represents you in Washington in the
Senate, two outstanding Senators-Jim Pearson and Bob Dole. I have worked
with both of them over the years. And I think from my own experience of
25 years in the House of Representatives, I can tell quality of either Senators
or Members of the House, and I do wish to compliment you from Kansas for
having two outstanding Members of the United States Senate.
I never had the privilege of serving in the Senate, except for an interim period
as Vice President, and then they don't let you say anything. [Laughter]
But anyhow, I did have a great honor of serving almost 26 years in the House
of Representatives, and during that time I got to know Larry Winn, Keith
Sebelius, Garner Shriver, and Joe Skubitz.
The Kansas delegation had a very unique—I don't know whether it was an
honor or not, but they had a responsibility. In 1965, in January, when I ran
for minority leader of the House of Representatives, I was contesting the estab-
lishment. And the Kansas delegation unanimously, in the House of Representa-
tives, supported me and therefore contributed significantly to the landslide
victory that I had of 73 to 67. [Laughter] And it was your delegation in Kansas
that really tipped the balance.
But as I look at the responsibilities that your House Members have repre-
senting the Republican Party in Kansas, you cover a broad spectrum with their
assignments in committee and elsewhere. So, I can assure you, on the basis of
quality and talent and experience, you in Kansas are well represented. And I
hope you send every one of them back next year and you add one. [Laughter]
That would be very helpful.
We have some problems in this country. In the 13 months that I have been
President, we have had our ups and downs. We had some problems when I was
sworn in. We have some today. But with the help of people like yourselves, with
the help of people in Congress, mainly Republicans but a few Democrats, we
have made a significant rate of progress in many areas. We failed in some
others.
1407
