[623]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
many questions were asked of me by the press. Tonight I would like to ask you
some questions-questions which concern major issues, issues that I face, ques-
tions that the Congress faces, and questions that face each and every one of you
along with 214 million other Americans. And I would like your response.
Are you with me when I insist that the Congress cut spending enough to give
all Americans a meaningful permanent tax reduction?
Are you with me in getting government bureaucracies out of your business,
out of your pocket, and incidentally, out of your hair? I know that each and
every one of you know that a government big enough to give you everything
you want is a government big enough to take from you everything you have.
Are you with me when I demand from the Congress, after pleading, begging,
compromising, an energy policy that will make America forever free of foreign
whims and wishes and dictatorial actions? I think you are.
Are you with me in keeping the heavy hand of Washington out of your State
and local units of government?
And finally, but just as importantly, if not more so in many respects than any
other, are you with me in keeping our national defense second to none?
I think all of you here tonight reflect what most Americans believe, and those
are the policies that we are going to espouse in the months ahead. Our Republican
commitments to fiscal responsibility, to vigorous free enterprise, to a strong
national defense, to local control over local concerns, and a personal freedom for
the individual—these are the commitments shared by the vast majority of our
fellow Americans.
We should make our third century the century of individual freedom-free-
dom from mass government, freedom from mass education, freedom from mass
industry, freedom from mass unions, freedom for each and every one of us. We
don't want to be a computer; we want to be individuals as we grow and mature
and express our views and act by ourselves. And that ought to be the objective
of our third century—individual freedom.
I think we can go back to Abraham Lincoln for some of the thoughts that he
gives us. Lincoln said that government should only do for the people what they
cannot do as well for themselves.
I believe that America's people have grown weary of government's overblown
promises and overbearing controls. We believe the American people are ready
to do great things again for themselves and for their country. Republican govern-
ment, we know, is commonsense government, and the net result is it is effective
government.
On the eve of the 1976 campaign, let me emphasize as I close, as a Republican
1680
