[491]
August 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
You know, I have been looking forward to this evening and particularly
the entertainment part of the program that follows this speech. I understand
that Governor Bob Ray and Attorney General Dick Turner are going to sing a
duet together. It will be their favorite song, "Come Josephine In My Flying
Machine." [Laughter]
But I am really so encouraged to be here tonight to enjoy your wonderful
hospitality and especially ask for your help next year in making it a banner
year for the Republican Party in Iowa, as well as across the country.
Without question, 1976 offers a great, great opportunity for the Republican
Party to prove once and for all to the skeptics that it has the strength to survive
setbacks, the resolution to rouse the Nation's greatness, and the will to win
elections. We can do it, and we're going to do it.
I think it is obvious to all of you the fondness that I have for Bob Ray, who
is nearly a year into his fourth term and who is also serving with great distinc-
tion as the chairman of the National Governors' Conference. He has done a
magnificent, a superior job of putting across what I think is the most important
thing—the commonsense philosophy of the Republican Party—and making it
work here in your great State of Iowa.
His successful administration—not one, but several-is a testament to the
effectiveness of both his leadership and the sound Republican approach he has
brought to government here in your State.
And I must say I thank you very, very deeply for giving us Mary Louise Smith,
who is doing an outstanding job as Republican National Chairman. As you
know, the Iowa State slogan is "Iowa is a place to grow." Mary Louise has
definitely applied this philosophy, this thinking to the Republican Party na-
tionally, and we are seeing some results. And I thank you and congratulate you,
Mary Louise.
And in Chuck Grassley, you have a fine new younger Member of the House
of Representatives. He may be outnumbered—what is it, 5 to 1, Chuck?
[Laughter] Not always, because votes do count in the House, but when you
put it on another scale, I'd rather have quality than quantity.
Chuck has impressed me as well as his colleagues in the House of Repre-
sentatives, and after spending 25 years in the House, I have a feel for the kind
of people that will grow and become more and more effective. And it would
be my judgment that Chuck fits that pattern. He started well, he will do better
and better every year. Just give him some help here in Iowa. We could use
those votes, too.
1168
