[715]
December 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe they will see peace come through and thank us as we thank those
fallen heroes we honor here today. Their duty is done. Let us do ours.
Thank you and aloha.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:01 a.m. at the
U.S.S. Arizona Memorial. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Adm. Noel A. M. Gayler, USN, Com-
mander in Chief, Pacific.
716
Address at the University of Hawaii.
December 7, 1975
Thank you very much, Dr. Kleinjans. Governor Ariyoshi, Senator Fong, Con-
gressman Matsunaga, Dr. Matsuda, students, faculty, and members of the com-
munity here in Hawaii:
It was nice to see you, Doctor. I had the honor for a good many years of
representing an area, a wonderful community, from which the Doctor came. I
know more of his relatives perhaps than he does—[laughter]—and they were
always very kind to me, for which I was deeply grateful.
But it is good to be home again in the United States. I have just completed, as
many of you know, a 7-day trip to the State of Alaska, to the People's Republic
of China, to our good friends Indonesia and the Philippines, and now I am
obviously happy to be home in our 50th State, Hawaii.
This morning I reflected on the past at the shrine of Americans who died on
Sunday morning 34 years ago. I came away with a new spirit of dedication to the
ideals that emerged from Pearl Harbor in World War II-dedication to Amer-
ica's bipartisan policy of pursuing peace through strength and dedication to a
new future of interdependence and cooperation with all peoples of the Pacific.
I subscribe to a Pacific doctrine of peace with all and hostility toward none.
The way I would like to remember or recollect Pearl Harbor is by preserving
the power of the past to build the future. Let us join with new and old countries
of that great Pacific area in creating the greatest civilization on the shores of
the greatest of our oceans.
My visit here to the East-West Center holds another kind of meaning. Your
center is a catalyst of America's positive concern for Asia, its people and its
rich diversity of cultures. You advance our hope that Asia will gain a better
understanding of the United States.
Last year we were pleased to receive and to welcome nearly 54,000 Asian
students to the United States, while thousands upon thousands of American
1950
