[663]
November 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
that of our allies as well and on the solidity of our ties with them. Our alliances
reinforce global stability and make the world a more secure place. They rein-
force our own strength.
In dealing with our allies, my objective has been to build on the unity we
have achieved together over the past 30 years and to expand our cooperation
even further. I believe that our efforts have been well received in recent months,
whether in Western Europe or in the Pacific.
Last May I attended a summit meeting of the 15 member nations of NATO
where we repledged ourselves to the common defense. Next week I will meet
with the leaders of Britain, France, West Germany, Italy, and Japan—nations
which, along with our own, represent about half of the total world trading
volume.
These meetings at the highest level reflect a new intensity of allied coopera-
tion. The industrialized democracies of the world share common values, a
common political and economic system, and a common interest in an open and
cooperative world order. Today, perhaps as never before, these nations perceive
the need to revitalize the bonds between us, not only militarily but economically.
The policies of five American Presidents before me for a strong national
defense, for a reduction of East-West tensions and the threat of thermonuclear
war, and for the bolstering of our essential allies, have had the unswerving and
nonpartisan support of the Congress and the American people. I will continue
to seek that support, the kind exemplified for so many, many years by our
former Speaker, John McCormack.
Without a clear consensus among the 214 million Americans, the United
States could not continue as the champion of freedom and peace in the world.
The ability of a President to carry out his constitutional duties would be dan-
gerously diminished. The temptation to potential adversaries to take advantage
of any apparent weakness, disunity, and indecision could become irresistible.
With your support and that of other Americans, the Administration will give
them no such temptation.
Our potential adversaries are certainly not reducing the levels of their military
power. The United States must and will remain alert and strong.
Peace is the primary objective of the foreign and defense policies of the United
States. It is very easy to be a cold warrior—especially in peacetime. But it would
be irresponsible for a President to engage in confrontations when consultations
would advance the cause of peace. As I said at Helsinki, peace is crucial, but
freedom must always come first. Today, I reiterate that priority.
We will, therefore, continue to seek meaningful arms agreements on a two-
1814
