[501]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
defeated us at Ann Arbor. That rivalry is great. I am a little prejudiced for those
Wolverines, but I think it will be a great game, and I understand the Badgers
are going to be tougher this year. So-
Q. They smell the roses.
THE PRESIDENT.
now and then.
-we better be a little cautious and go to work between
Q. Come see the game.
THE PRESIDENT. I would love to, love to.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[15.] Q. Mr. President, a North Carolina Republican chairman said last
night that he felt there was a consensus of the Southern Republican leaders in
the meeting over the weekend that Mr. Rockefeller should not be on the ticket
in '76. Does that give you any cause for concern? Will you be talking about
that with the Republican leaders of the State later on this afternoon?
THE PRESIDENT. I will express, as I have before, that I think Nelson Rocke-
feller has done an extraordinarily good job as Vice President. He has lived up
to my expectations, he works hard, he has got a lot of ideas, he has a lot of
energy, he has been a good teammate. And you know I just do not like to break
up a good team.
RONALD REAGAN
[16.] Q. The meeting that you have with the Republican leaders later on
perhaps will bring up some conservative sentiment. There is some in Wiscon-
sin. Do you anticipate any questions about perhaps Mr. Reagan challenging in
the State?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, I think I am a middle-of-the-roader or a con-
servative, and I am a practical conservative with, I think, a good orientation to-
ward the solution of problems in the international field.
I will be glad to answer any questions the most conservative people want to
ask, because I am a practical conservative with a middle-of-the-road orienta-
tion. I think that is the only way a Republican can win a national election.
Q. Mr. President, our time is just about up. We want to thank you for being
with us this afternoon and answering our questions. Thank you very much, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Ron and John. I appreciate it very much. It has
been a good experience.
NOTE: The interview began at 3 p.m. in Room 621
at the Pfister Hotel with John McCullough of
WTMJ-TV, Ron Scott of WISN-TV, and Carl
Zimmermann of WITI-TV. It was broadcast live on
local television.
1224
