October 30
[648]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to tighten its belt. And if they haven't done it enough, and if they do it right,
New York City can get straightened out.
MR. KLEIN. Larry Moore.
SCHOOL BUSING
[2.] Q. Mr. President, school busing is a problem affecting Kansas City and
many other cities in the country. You have not exactly endorsed school busing
to achieve integration in the schools, but at the same time, you haven't exactly
outlined an alternative. What hope can you hold out for cities like Kansas City
that run the risk of losing millions of dollars in Federal aid in the not too
distant future if they don't use school busing?
THE PRESIDENT. Really, I have spoken out consistently and for some time on
this problem. I was one of the original Members of the House or the Senate that
said that court-ordered forced busing to achieve racial balance was not the way
to accomplish quality education.
That has been a consistent statement, view, policy of mine for a number of
years. I believe it even more fervently today than I did before. So, we have to
start out with the assumption that education, quality education, is what we are
all seeking to accomplish.
Now, some people say we ought to spend more money, and I think there are
programs where you can spend more money at the local level to upgrade schools
in disadvantaged areas; there are others who say the long-range and, even to a
substantial degree, short-range is better distribution of housing, so we achieve
integration in a different way and you can still rely on the neighborhood school
system.
3
Dr. Coleman, who testified before the Senate Committee on Judiciary just
a few days ago he had some thoughts on it. And it is interesting that
Dr. Coleman, who was an initial proponent on busing to achieve quality educa-
tion, has now—after studying the problem in a number of cities-come to the
conclusion that it is not the answer.
I don't think there is any patent medicine that can give us the answer, but I
think we ought to spend whatever money is necessary for what we call magnet
schools, to upgrade teachers, to provide better facilities, to give greater freedom
of choice-these are the kind of things that we ought to push hard.
EDUCATION
[3.] Q. There are those who say, including Congressman Jerry Litton from
Kansas City, that a separate Department of Education should be established,
³ James S. Coleman, professor of sociology at the University of Chicago.
1753
