October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. When our boys come on the field to play, the referees officiate the game
and call the plays by the same rules for both teams. You have taken a strong
stance in the decontrol of oil which, to me and to us, is saying that the market-
place is the place to establish price.
Now, some 2 to 3 years ago we saw, we were witnessing price controls. We
saw these controls lifted with one exception-beef. Now we are currently wit-
nessing some restriction in feed grains. My question is, Mr. President, we would
like to be one of the teams and have the game called by the same rules. We kind
of look at this as somewhat of a bending of the rules. We would like to see the
marketplace the determining place for the price of agricultural products.
THE PRESIDENT. Before answering your very appropriate question, wouldn't
all of you like to have Michigan beat Missouri on Saturday? [Laughter]
Q. No, no, no. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, now I have said, and I will repeat it here, I do not
think that wage and price controls are the right remedy for a healthy economy
in the United States, period.
I am not familiar with any controls we have on the price of agricultural com-
modities, including feed grains. We have a temporary suspension of world sales
to the Soviet Union, but for a purpose of making the market for agricultural
products-corn, wheat, feed grains-better. And I think a 4- to 6-weeks delay
at the most is the best way to get that assured market.
In the meantime, as I recall grain prices—what is it, wheat is about $4.20;
corn is about $3.05; I have forgotten what soybeans are; $5-something, is it?—
we are going to see that the farmer gets a good price, fair price in the market-
place, but we are also interested in having him an assured market over a long
period of time from a buyer that will buy a lot of corn and wheat, et cetera.
If we can just be a little patient for this interim where we haven't had any
precipitous drop in wheat and corn prices in the last month-have we, Earl?
SECRETARY BUTZ. They have increased.
THE PRESIDENT. As I say, I think they are in pretty good shape. But we want
a big market, and that in the long term is in the best interest. And a little time, if
you are a little more patient, we will get a good deal for you.
NEW YORK CITY
[17.] Q. Mr. President, I am Paul Amen, representing the Lincoln Chamber
of Commerce. Here in the Midwest we sense that pressure is building in Wash-
ington to have the Federal Government rescue financially New York City.
What is the Administration's position at this time?
1579
