[655]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
that the patrols are not effective. Do you have any alternate plan to solve drug
smuggling?
THE PRESIDENT. The President's Domestic Council just received a report
which makes certain recommendations. It is being circulated in the departments.
And I am certain that report, with the recommendations of the departments
affected, will come up with some proposals that will improve and better our
handling of the smuggling of drugs in the United States.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[11.] Q. Mr. President, as you know, there are a great many Democrats who
would like your job next year, and most of the talk seems to center on two
particularly Senators Humphrey and Kennedy. Do you have any predictions at
this moment as to which, if it narrows down to those two, would be the Demo-
cratic nominee, and which you would prefer to run against if you are your
party's nominee?
THE PRESIDENT. Some time ago, 4 or 5 months, as I recall, I forecast that
Hubert Humphrey would be the Democratic nominee. I said that primarily
because on or about that time Senator Kennedy had made a very categorical
statement that he would not be a candidate. And I took him for what he said,
when the words were very specific.
So, if you have the rest of the field, it seems to me that Hubert Humphrey is
the most likely person to get the nomination. I know him; I like him. We have
many differences, but I think that would be a good contest.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The interview began at 2:44 p.m. at the Deer-
wood Country Club. It was taped for broadcast on
November 3. Participants included William D. Grove
of WJXT-TV, Jacksonville, Ron Hunter of WPLG-
TV, Miami, Hugh Smith of WTVT-TV, Tampa,
and Ben Aycrigg of WDBO-TV, Orlando.
656
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
United States Participation in the United Nations.
November 3, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress the 29th annual report on United States
participation in the work of the United Nations.
This report, which covers the Calendar Year 1974, shows how U.S. national
interests were affected by the work of the United Nations, its specialized agen-
1788
