[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
vidual for a specific job in industry or in the service area. We have a number of
programs that help particularly the less well off continue in the field of higher
education. I am sure you would agree with me that the better educated minor-
ities are, the better prospects they have for better jobs.
So, we have to get more of them into the mainstream of higher education, and
we are making headway there. Those are the kind of programs that I think,
maybe not tomorrow, but in the relatively long circumstances, will provide bet-
ter jobs and more meaningful jobs than the circumstances are today.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President, but for our minority youth, you know it has
been a long time already.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree, but the quicker we get our economy back on its feet-
and we are making headway—that is the best way to get most of them in those
circumstances taken care of.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
[10.] Q. Mr. President, Tom McFarland, Teamsters Local Union Number
544. We would like to ask, what are the tentative plans of this Administration to
erase or modify the conflict of agency rule between the National Labor Relations
Board and the Equal [Employment] Opportunity Commission as it relates to
organized labor application of the seniority provisions of their contracts?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me just say this: The NLRB is an independent com-
mission or board, and the last thing I think you would want me to do is to tell
them, if I could, what they should do, because the interference in those inde-
pendent boards and commissions by a President should not be tolerated. In fact,
any such direct interference should be condemned.
I must say that if there is a conflict, it ought to be resolved by a commonsense
approach by the NLRB on the one hand and the other agency on the other. We
will look into it.
I frankly confess I am not an expert on this, but we will look into it and see
what we can do to straighten it out without interfering with the independent
status of the NLRB.
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Steve Kampfe, and I am representing the
Nebraska Future Farmers of America. Mr. President, with the demand and need
for well-qualified personnel in agriculture and agribusiness occupations and the
decreased number of farm-reared youth, what role is the Federal Government
going to play in dealing with this issue in a financial way through vocational
education?
1574
