September 12
[552]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. First, I am very grateful for the fine action taken by the
Secret Service, that I was not-I really have not had time to think about it.
Q. Those House documents ยน-how serious a matter is that?
THE PRESIDENT. Which ones are you referring to?
Q. The ones that you have asked the House to obtain, the House committee.
THE PRESIDENT. What we did there was to give these documents to a House
committee on the basis that they would abide by an agreement as to what
would be released and what would not. Unfortunately, the committee took
action that did not coincide with the agreement that we had with the com-
mittee. And as long as we feel that we had a good faith agreement and it was
breached, then I think that we have proper action in requesting a return.
Q. Will Governor Reagan be acceptable as a running mate?
The President. We are all in the Republican Party, and that will be a de-
cision made by the convention.
Q. One question, Mr. President. Your policy on decontrol of oil prices has
caused much concern among area service station dealers, and in fact, they are
afraid big oil is going to run them out of business and are going to picket today.
The President. Not under my plan would that happen. We have requested
the Congress that if there was decontrol, that the Congress pass legislation
which protects the independent dealer as we have requested legislation to pro-
tect the small independent refiner.
The Congress has an obligation to pass such legislation, and in the meantime,
we are working with the various majors to have them in good faith continue
their working relationship that they have with small dealers, and I think they
will.
REPORTER. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:32 p.m. at Lambert Field.
552
Interview With Reporters in St. Louis.
September 12, 1975
JULIUS HUNTER [KMOX-TV]. Welcome to "Newsmakers." I am Julius
Hunter.
My guest today is the most consistent and most recognized newsmaker in
ยน The Select Committee on Intelligence, chaired by Representative Otis G. Pike of New York, had released
a report entitled "The Performance of the Intelligence Community Before the Arab-Israeli War of October
1973" which quoted documents supplied by the White House.
1373
