[597]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
ticipation in the Early Warning System. That System is designed to reduce the
danger of surprise attack, and the parties to the Agreement were able to agree
to entrust the System only to the United States. The special American role was
the only one in which both sides had adequate confidence.
I want to be certain that the leaders of the Congress fully understand the
consequences of further delay in acting on this important matter.
The first step in the implementation of the basic Agreement under the time-
table negotiated and agreed to by Egypt and Israel in Geneva on September 22
is scheduled to be taken October 5. This process will not begin, however, until
the Congress has acted on the proposed United States role in the Early Warning
System. Delay in Congressional action will, therefore, delay implementation
of the basic Agreement. It will risk causing the lengthy and difficult negotia-
tions on the entire five-month implementing timetable to be reopened. It will
prevent a lessening of the risks of war. If for any reason the agreement should
fail, the responsibility would be heavy indeed.
The issue before the Congress now is whether the Congress will approve
acceptance by the United States of the role that has been proposed for it. There
are other issues which the Congress must eventually consider in connection
with our continuing relations, policies, and programs in the Middle East—
particularly our programs of military and economic assistance there. The Con-
gress will want to consider those carefully at the appropriate time, but they
are not integral to the implementation of the Agreement between Egypt and
Israel. Voting in favor of the U.S. role in the Early Warning System will not
commit anyone to take a position one way or another on these issues.
In summary, I met with the leadership three weeks ago to describe what was
involved in the new Agreement between Egypt and Israel and to request urgent
approval of U.S. participation in its implementation. This question has been
under intensive discussion in the Congress for nearly three weeks. All relevant
papers and all U.S. commitments related to the Agreement have been submitted
to the appropriate committees of the Congress. If action is not completed in
the coming week, the United States will be in the position of holding up imple-
mentation of an Agreement which two key Middle Eastern countries have
signed as a significant step towards peace. The Middle East is an area where
American policy has long had broad bipartisan support. The issue presently
before the Congress offers an opportunity to reaffirm that tradition and to
demonstrate how the Executive and Legislative branches can work together on
a foreign policy matter of high importance to the national interest and for the
1544
