[566]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now that the Presidential Clemency Board has completed its consideration
of all its cases, I have signed an Executive order [11878 of September 10, 1975]
terminating operations of the Board and transferring to the Attorney General
whatever administrative duties may remain to be completed.
I want to thank the members of the Board for their personal contribution and
hard work. As a result of their efforts, many deserving young Americans will
have been helped to achieve full reentry into their respective communities.
NOTE: On the same day, the President met with members of the Board at the White House.
567
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the Air Force Association.
September 16, 1975
Members of Congress, members of the Air Force Association, and your guests:
Let me first thank Joe and all of you for making an ex-Navy—[laughter]—a
life member of the Air Force Association. Boy, that's really stretching things,
to be that kind and thoughtful, and I am very appreciative.
I also am grateful for the opportunity to spend some time here and shake
hands with some people I haven't met, get acquainted with those that are here,
and to renew some acquaintances with those that I have known for a good
many years.
I am most appreciative of the actions that have been taken by the Air Force
Association, not because I am a member, because I guess I haven't gotten any
voting privileges. [Laughter] But, nevertheless, I read with interest and admira-
tion what the Air Force Association has done in some of the resolutions that
you have passed, some of the recommendations that you have made.
We have got a tough job. We must be strong enough and we will be strong
enough to make certain that the United States is second to none, period. Of
course, that is, in my opinion, the best way to ensure that we keep the peace
now and in the future.
We have some current problems, and we have some long-range ones. We
have the current problem which this association, or the executive group, or
whatever this distinguished group is called-[laughter]—you have taken some
very forthright and, I think, commendable action in adopting a resolution urg-
ing the Congress to remove the arms embargo limitation as far as Turkey is
concerned. I applaud your support.
1446
