October 10
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that you think could stand some trimming, and would, of necessity, aid to
cities like Detroit be included?
THE PRESIDENT. I had the Office of Management and Budget put together
for me, over a period of several months, areas in the Federal budget where we
might make some reductions, and they submitted to me a book about that
thick. And there are many more options than the $28 billion that I think ought
to be cut out of the growth of Federal spending—and I emphasize “growth,”
because even with a $28 billion reduction, it means that there will be an increase
over the anticipated expenditures for this fiscal year of roughly $23 to $25
billion.
So, it is not a cutback in actuality, it is a cutback in growth. And we have a
number of target areas, and I am going to analyze those and find a sufficient
number to come within the $28 billion reduction so we can have a comparable
tax cut. But let me give you several just as examples.
I believe that the food stamp program can be substantially reduced. There
are many, many illustrations of abuse-many, many illustrations where people
have been paid where they didn't really qualify. The error rate is very high.
I am going to submit as soon as Congress comes back from their fourth or fifth
s—[laughter]-reductions at least that will save a billion dollars in this
area.
Now, in addition, we think that there are some areas in the medical field
again where there have been many, many abuses. Costs have escalated unbe-
lievably in the medical field where the Federal Government makes payments.
We think that there can be a tightening up in this area. Those are two, I think,
very good illustrations where I think there can be a cutback in the growth of
Federal spending.
Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International], how
are you today?
GUN CONTROL
[6.] Q. I think we can both remember a time when this city was not known
for its homicide rate. And recently the head of the Secret Service and several
police chiefs of metropolitan areas have testified that if there was a total ban
on the manufacture, sale, and use of handguns across the board that crime
would be really seriously reduced. At what point do you think you could ever
come to this kind of thinking?
THE PRESIDENT. Helen, as soon as I am convinced that the gun itself is the
1659
