September 25
[587]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford:
The warmth and friendliness of this welcome
does not take us by surprise. It is a reflection of
the nature of the relations between Colombia and
the United States, which, during the last quarter
of this century, have remained untarnished.
Of course, our points of view have occasionally
been different on certain matters of continental in-
terest. But this has only contributed to strengthen
our friendship on the basis of mutual respect. We
have become accustomed to the practice of agreeing
to disagree-abiding by the rules in order to resolve
our conflicts.
Our presence here on the same site so often
visited by prominent statesmen, has a special sig-
nificance on this occasion. The White House is not
a palace. Its fame derives from its occupants, men
who seek to interpret the will of the people they
rule.
We evoke the memory of patricians, soldiers,
statesmen, thinkers, and popular leaders who em-
body the collective aspirations of their times. Despite
their difference in character and background, they
have honored the North American tradition of
democratic government without yielding to au-
thoritarian temptations.
The system they have contributed to create has
proven strong enough to withstand the most serious
crisis. In these troubled times, there is something
both comforting and old-fashioned in your manner
that is reminiscent of your very early predecessors.
Even though you preside over one of the most
powerful nations in the world, making daily de-
cisions which bear on the destiny of mankind, you
continue to be the same straightforward, unas-
suming citizen who, as a Congressman, won the
respect of his colleagues, and who has earned the
affection of the people of the United States, sym-
bolizing today the essence of what the Founding
Fathers of this country wanted their Nation to be.
They wanted their leaders to be model citizens of
a democracy, unencumbered by the false leader of
royalty.
I am witnessing today in this place and surround-
ings that the wishes of the American people have
been fulfilled.
President Ford's human touch greatly contributes
to ensure that this meeting will be patterned as a
sincere exchange between friends. This is the proper
way to deal with common problems. The nature
of the challenge confronting us today and the above-
mentioned circumstances make me look forward to
the conversations we are about to begin and the
confidence that the outcome will be of mutual
benefit for our two countries.
Thank you.
587
Toasts of the President and President Lopez of Colombia.
September 25, 1975
IN PROPOSING a toast to you, Mr. President, and to the great Republic of
Colombia, I think it is fitting to note that your state visit to the United States
coincides with the 150th anniversary year of the first treaty between our two
countries.
Soon after Colombia won its independence in 1819, the great liberator, Simon
Bolívar, sent one of his first diplomatic representatives to this country-Don
Manuel Torres. As head of the Colombian mission, he became the first
accredited envoy of a Spanish-American power in the United States.
As early as 1820, Mr. President, Manuel Torres was instructed to negotiate a
commercial treaty with the United States on the basis, and I quote, of “equality
and reciprocity."
That treaty was proclaimed on May 31, 1825. Thus, Mr. President, the roots
of our friendly relations are long and deep.
This relationship was furthered by an illustrious former President of Colom-
1525
