October 27
[643]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
cans and the lives of our friends in the Middle East and, actually, throughout the
world.
We share your deep belief and conviction that nations can gain much by work-
ing together. Your courage, Mr. President, in taking the first steps toward peace
after almost three decades of warfare assures your place in history in the Middle
East. And we congratulate you for it.
You are the man, Mr. President, who assumed the lead in ending a conflict
that for more than a generation absorbed the lives, the energies, and the sub-
stance of many, many nations. We have been proud to work with you in this
very noble cause, and we will continue to do so.
Mr. President, I know from my conversations with you that we had in Salz-
burg, and from our many other exchanges, that your dedication to peace is for
all the people of the Middle East. I say again tonight, emphatically and cate-
gorically, that we share the view that the process of making peace for all must
continue.
No step we have taken can be an end to itself. There can be no peace until the
legitimate interests of all the peoples of the Middle East are taken fairly into
account in a final peace settlement.
I wish to address a special word, Mr. President, to your charming wife. My
own wife, Betty, is doing much to inform me about the rights and the problems
and the desires of women in the new freedoms of modern society. Sometimes she
thinks I am an apt—and sometimes a less than apt-pupil. [Laughter] But any-
how, I am pleased to observe that Mrs. Sadat has distinguished herself in your
nation by her contributions to both the well-being of all Egyptians and to a new
consciousness of the status of women and the efforts in your country to achieve
equality of opportunity.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you join me in a toast to the President of
Egypt and to our mutual objectives.
To the President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:14 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. President
Sadat responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
First of all, I would like to thank President
Ford for his kind words and express my sincere
appreciation for the warm reception the American
people have accorded to me and my family.
It was a great pleasure to respond to President
Ford's invitation to visit your beautiful country and
meet with its hospitable people. I come here with
a message of friendship and amity from the Egyp-
tian people to every American. I welcome the op-
portunity to pursue with President Ford the talks
we held and the contacts we have maintained over
the past few months on several issues of mutual
interest and common concern.
It is my feeling and sincere hope that this visit
will contribute significantly to furthering American
relations in all domains, and will consolidate the
ties of friendship and understanding between the
American people and the Arab nation.
On the eve of your Bicentennial, I would like you
to know that we share with you the determination
to utilize the legacy of the past to pave the way for
a better future, not only for our two peoples but for
1725
