December 31
[751]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
more-I get up every morning and can't wait to get to this office to get to the
problems. And I never go home at night feeling we haven't made some progress,
not as much, but I look forward to the next day, because I think we will make
more progress in the achievement of these goals and this vision.
May I just say one thing in conclusion. This is the second of these kind of
informal, somewhat restricted get-togethers. I know that some in the press have
felt that everybody should be here. As we move ahead, if you all like this ap-
proach, what I would like to do is to next week or next month, whenever the
time comes, to have a different group, so that everybody feels they get included
and that no one feels they get excluded. So, I say to those who are not here, we
will try to get them in the next time around.
Have a good year.
MISS THOMAS. Thank you, and Happy New Year to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
751
New Year's Day Message.
December 31, 1975
THE YEARS that are special in the lives of nations and individuals are those in
which imagination produces action-action that offers hope, opportunity, a
fresh start, and a vehicle for our optimism.
One of our great national characteristics is optimism. I can't even remember
facing a new year with anything less than anticipation—and a few of those
new years were difficult ones.
Some of us can remember new years in the great depression when the road
to prosperity seemed closed-we can remember other new years spent in the
midst of a world war that threatened our very survival.
But I can also remember new years in the late 1940's and throughout the
1950's when the future sizzled with promise and we led the world back to
stability and greater achievement than it had ever known before. The road to
prosperity was not closed—we had just been on a detour—our resolve, our
determination and our ability had been tested—and we were not found wanting.
The new year we are now entering embodies the 200th anniversary of the
founding of this great Republic. We look back with pride, but all of our national
experience should prove to us that we must also look forward with eagerness
to the unfolding years ahead.
2019
