[529]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
think this is a concept that can be immeasurably helpful in pulling together
geographical areas where you have a high identity of interests and a community
of spirit. And I commend the Republicans in this State for putting together this
2-year plan for the party's activity and its strategy.
One thing that I have noticed in some of the travels that I have made most
recently—last Saturday I was fortunate to attend in the State of Maine a Repub-
lican gathering where we saw the visible evidence of a revitalization of the
Republican Party in that great State. And later in the day I participated in
somewhat comparable activities in the State of Rhode Island on behalf of the
Republican Party.
In both cases we had new, young, vigorous chairmen. In both cases we had
a unification of ideologies where we could honestly say that the party, its people
were going to be pulling together for what is in the best interest primarily of their
State and the country but also in the best interests of the ideologies which we be-
lieve in. And it is my feeling, as I have had the opportunity of being in the State
of Washington earlier today and here in Oregon tonight, that your party or-
ganization, your leadership is doing precisely the same thing. I compliment you
and congratulate you for this effort.
This dinner tonight, I think, exemplifies what can be done as we face some
very crucial issues and tremendous challenges between now and November
of 1976.
The thing that I have noticed in the last 12, 14 hours, that in the West there is
still that tremendous pioneering spirit, a spirit of independence that is in-
vigorating and tremendously refreshing. Two men certainly reflect this tradi-
tion of independence, and I refer specifically to Mark Hatfield, who is not here
now but who has been with me a good share of the day, and Bob Packwood.
Both are a tremendous credit to this great State which they represent so exceed-
ingly well in the United States Senate.
Over the last few years I have had the privilege and pleasure of getting to
know both of them quite well. If I have learned anything in the 25 years in the
House of Representatives, it is the capability of analyzing people who have
quality, dedication, integrity, forthrightness. And those characteristics which I
think are invaluable in serving your State-both Bob and Mark have that to the
overflowing. And I thank Bob, and I will thank Mark later for their con-
tribution, not only to your State but to what, I believe, is in the best interest of
our country. Thank you very much, Bob.
I am a firm believer that party organization, party leadership is highly im-
portant, particularly in a national election year. I made a commitment about a
1324
