September 22
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
some new friends again and, in particular, to visit with my very good friend,
Bob Georgine.
Bob is well-known as a man of outstanding accomplishments, a demonstrated
leader, an exceptional administrator, a concerned citizen, and a celebrated gin
rummy player. [Laughter]
I say a celebrated gin rummy player, but perhaps I'd better explain that term.
Bob doesn't celebrate, his opponents do. [Laughter] As a friend I won't say how
good a gin rummy player Bob Georgine is, but two more games and you could
have a brand new name—the AFL-CIO-IOU. [Laughter]
Last January I went to a testimonial dinner in Washington honoring Bob
Georgine. I asked Bob and the skilled construction trades to help America
achieve energy independence, and Bob has helped. I have just seen a copy of
the September issue of the AFL-CIO American Federationist in which Bob
Georgine again speaks out on the energy crisis. Bob, nothing could make me
happier than your report that unions are still vigorously pressing for energy
growth. I know that construction workers are among those suffering the heavi-
est impact of recession and the energy crisis. When you suffer, America suffers.
The mission of the skilled construction trades represented here is to build
a better America. That is also my goal as your President. Two centuries of con-
struction enabled America to achieve its special status among the nations of the
world. And I salute you as representatives of the millions of men and women
who have been a part of this great building process in our wonderful country.
As America completes 200 years of history, we face some very serious prob-
lems. But we—you and I together—will solve those problems.
If any nation or group of nations in this world in which we live—including
those favored by nature with great oil resources—think America is finished, we
no longer control our destiny and our finances, then they have another think
coming.
The 4 million skilled construction workers you represent and multitudes
of other Americans will show the world that Uncle Sam is not about to say
"uncle."
You and I know we can produce our own energy. You and I know we can
protect ourselves against arbitrary increases in price by foreign nations. You
and I know we can provide more jobs. And you and I know we can bring an
end to the intolerable situation in which America exports more than $25
billion annually to pay for imported oil while plenty of energy is potentially
available right here at home. The money we will pay out this year for foreign
oil would pay the wages for 1 million more American workers.
1493
