[453]
July 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
this improvement, this betterment, has expanded on a year-by-year basis, and
I know that it will get better and better in the future.
Secretary Gierek and myself have fully agreed on the desirability of fur-
thering the progress-this broad progress-for the mutual benefit of American
and Polish peoples in the coming decades.
Your welcome here today in this great historic city and all of the heartwarm-
ing Polish hospitality, of which I have heard so much, are symbolic of the
rapport and the deep affection between our peoples.
I have unlimited faith in a future that will see our relations continue to im-
prove and to grow.
Niech zyje Polska! [Long live Poland!]
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:56 a.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to President of the City
Jerzy Pekala.
Following his visit to the Market Square, the Pres-
ident attended a luncheon at Wawel Castle, hosted
by Chairman of the Council of Ministers Piotr
Jaroszewicz.
454
Joint Communique Following Talks With Polish Leaders.
July 29, 1975
1. The President of the United States of America, Gerald R. Ford, and Mrs.
Ford made an official visit to Poland July 28-29, 1975, at the invitation of
the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers'
Party, Edward Gierek, issued on behalf of the highest authorities of the Polish
People's Republic. The President was accompanied by the Secretary of State
and Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Henry A. Kissinger.
2. During the visit, the President held talks with First Secretary Gierek.
3. Plenary talks were also held with the participation of:
From the American side: The President of the United States of America,
Gerald R. Ford; the Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs, Henry A. Kissinger; Ambassador of the United
States of America in Warsaw Richard T. Davies; Deputy Assistant to the Pres-
ident Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft; Counselor of the Department of State Helmut
Sonnenfeldt; Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs Arthur A.
Hartman; Senior Staff Member of the National Security Council A. Denis
Clift, and Director Nicholas G. Andrews of the Office of Eastern European
Affairs of the Department of State.
1068
