November 5
[660]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
if this information is made available to actual and potential enemies of the
United States.
For the reasons set out above, I appeal to you and your colleagues on the
Senate Select Committee to oppose publication of this report on alleged assas-
sination activity.
I am sure the Select Committee will recognize the enormous responsibility
it has to see to it that serious damage will not result to the United States by
the publication of this report and will recognize also the duty which I have
to emphasize the disastrous consequences which can occur by publication.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to Senators Frank Church, John Tower, Philip A.
Hart, Walter F. Mondale, Walter D. Huddleston,
GERALD R. FORD
Robert Morgan, Gary Hart, Howard H. Baker, Jr.,
Barry Goldwater, Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., and
Richard S. Schweiker.
660
Message to the Congress Transmitting the District of Columbia
Budget for Fiscal Year 1976.
To the Congress of the United States:
November 5, 1975
I am today transmitting for your consideration the budget of the District of
Columbia for fiscal year 1976 and for the transition period July 1, 1976, through
September 30, 1976.
This budget is the first prepared by the city government in full exercise of
its powers under the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental
Reorganization Act. It reflects the results of a constructive city budget process
which included participation by many District citizens. As such, this Home
Rule budget represents a cornerstone of responsible city government and con-
firms the strength of a Federal-local partnership in the administration of
Washington, D.C.
This budget also carries the Nation's Capital and the District community
through the peak of our Nation's Bicentennial observance. I urge the Congress
to review these proposals with the knowledge that Washington will be a focal
point for the national celebration and that the city will be visited by greater
numbers of American and foreign visitors than ever before. At the same time,
residents of Washington, who also take pride in their own community, plan
1807
