August 10
[484]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
success will inspire others to search for more creative and more efficient methods
of providing this care.
The best equipment, the latest technology, the finest medical skills must be
combined with compassion and care if a hospital is to serve all of our individual
needs, all of our fellow citizens.
The motto of St. Edward is “Through our love of God and compassion for our
fellow men we serve." This hospital's beginning in 1905 to today has translated
these words into community outreach. For instance, the sponsorship by the hos-
pital of a Vietnamese family of seven and the employment of two refugees point
up very dramatically that this facility is more than just a fine place to practice
medicine. It is a center which cares.
I am therefore, Sister Marie, deeply honored and very proud to have an oppor-
tunity to participate in this dedication because of St. Edward's proud past and
its bright future.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:54 p.m. In his opening remarks, he referred to Sister Judith Marie Keith,
administrator of the center.
484
Exchange With Reporters Following a Visit to the Fort Chaffee
Refugee Facility in Fort Smith. August 10, 1975
LET ME say with great emphasis how much I have enjoyed being in Fort
Smith, both at the hospital dedication as well as at the Fort Chaffee refugee
facility. One can't help but be most encouraged by the progress of the refugee
program. After all, we've had about 134,000 refugees come into the program,
and we are a little over halfway through.
I want to commend the people who have handled it locally, both in the
Federal Government, and one can't help but be impressed with the fine people
that I see in the refugee camps. We hope to complete the program on schedule,
and I am confident that America will be better off as a result.
Obviously, it is nice to be in Arkansas and be so warmly received, meet so
many nice people. If I am invited, I would love to come back sometime.
REPORTER. When is the refugee program to be completed here at Fort
Chaffee?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the anticipation is that the program will be concluded
sometime late this fall. We are going to make every possible effort to do it, and
1145
