[678]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
one-station training program for soldiers, but this program has run into some
serious trouble in Congress. I want to ask you, do you favor this program, and if
so, what can you do to salvage it?
THE PRESIDENT. That particular recommendation has not come to me from
the Department of Defense. In theory, I think it makes sense. You do run into,
however, various Members of the House and Senate in those States where a base
might be closed or a station eliminated. And so that is the problem. But until the
actual recommendation has come to me--I have not, of course, made a decision.
Q. You have received no recommendation from the Department of the Army
or the Department of Defense?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct, sir.
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK BOARD NOMINEE
[11.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Ketchersid, WSB Radio, Atlanta. What is your
reaction, sir, to the Senate Banking Committee's action just a couple of days ago
refusing to confirm Ben Blackburn to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Ben Blackburn would have been a good Chairman
of the Home Loan Bank Board. I regret the decision by the Senate committee.
I think he could have and would have performed his responsibilities in a most
able way, and I think it is unfortunate that the decision was against him 8 to 5.
Q. Do you have any plans to renominate him or perhaps to name him to
another Government post?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not had that matter before me since the action by
the Senate committee.
UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY VOTE ON ZIONISM
[12.] Q. Diane Tannen, WGAC Radio in Augusta. Some 32 nations
abstained on the United Nations Zionist resolution vote. Are you now reas-
sessing American foreign policy toward these ambivalent countries, and if so,
what specific changes can be expected?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are, of course, very disappointed with the vote
taken in the United Nations.' Ambassador Moynihan made a very, very strong
speech setting forth the policy of this Government, strongly urging that the
United Nations defeat the resolution. I think the United Nations by that resolu-
tion has seriously handicapped, at least to some extent, its usefulness. I hope and
trust, however, that it will realize and understand the ramifications and will not
proceed any further in that direction or anything comparable to it.
ยน Seventy-two nations voted in favor of the resolution, 35 nations voted against approval, and there were
32 abstentions.
1872
