[648]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
and there is no need for it to come in the first place. But if it does, we will help
that group of people to provide those essential services to the 8 million people
in the city of New York. I don't think there is any inconsistency at all.
Q. Granted what you just said, and I will just make a very short question, Mr.
President. There are thousands of people, it is a fact, who are not big banks, who
have New York City bonds, including widows and orphans and little people
who thought that this was a good way to spend much of their life savings in
buying these bonds. What about them? Should they be punished for the sins of
our politicians?
THE PRESIDENT. It is a relatively small proportion of the total amount owed by
the city of New York. I think the city owes in the magnitude of about $12
billion, short-term, long-term obligations. Those obligations can and will be
paid.
There may be a temporary deferral in order to give the city an opportunity to
straighten out its situation so that current bills can be paid. But if the city is
properly led, those small investors will get their money, but there may be some
slight delay.
MR. KLEIN. Mr. Alan Smith, WTTG, Channel 5, Washington.
Q. Mr. President, we have seen for some time now the long stalemate over an
energy policy, an energy program. Now we have New York City, and we sup-
posedly have a time element there of November 30. Now, you have asked Con-
gress to pass bankruptcy legislation. If Congress refuses to do that and you follow
through on vetoing any legislation they may come up with for Federal loan
guarantees, what happens to New York City after November 30?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think I made it extremely clear, Alan, that the eight or
more proposals that have been floating around in the House and the Senate were
totally inadequate. They wouldn't have been any answer or won't be any answer
to the problem, because they just delay, delay; they carry on, perpetuate the
mismanagement we have really had in New York City.
I am not sure, to be honest with you, that any legislation can pass the Congress.
I think the only legislation that will pass the Congress is the proposal that I
made.¹ So, it is not a choice of what others have recommended, eight or more bills
and mine. That is not the choice.
I don't think there is a majority in the Congress to pass any one of those eight
other bills—I know there aren't enough to override a veto—so, the real alter-
native, unless the city and the State do something affirmatively to avoid the
problem in the first place, I think the only choice is my proposal.
See Item 646.
1748
