[497]
August 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
!
of the nature of soybeans, that this particular rain would be significantly help-
ful to them.
Now, we want full production from agriculture. It is good for the farmer. It
is good for the consumer. I think it is good for the country as a whole. It gives
us great flexibility in providing for us, the United States, to help feed a good
many mouths around the world where they need extra food, and at the same
time, it gives us some flexibility in our overall execution of foreign policy.
There has been, and I think properly so, some action taken by the Secretary
of Agriculture until the next crop report, which comes out September 11. It
certainly is anticipated there will be future sales abroad. But I think until we see
just what that September 11 crop report shows, we have to be somewhat discreet
in how we handle the problem.
We want to sell more. We will sell more. But I think in the overall context
of the multitude of problems and the variety of cross-interests, it is in the best
interest to show some restraint until that time.
I can assure you that I am on top of the problem, working with Earl Butz
and John Dunlop and the other people in the Administration. I get virtually
daily reports on the situation, and I can assure you that we will use our best
judgment to try and protect the interests of not only agriculture but others,
not only at home but abroad.
I will be glad to answer any questions.
QUESTIONS
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, we know that you realize the problem, but I would
like to emphasize one thing, that when the present Administration, your Ad-
ministration, asked us to increase production, all of that production has to be
exported, because we were producing more than we needed, and we would
just like to emphasize that we must have access to these world markets.
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure you know that we have sold so far about 9.8
million tons to the Soviet Union. They have had a serious crop failure. The ex-
tent of that crop failure is not known precisely at this time, but I think most
knowledgeable people recognize that they undoubtedly will be in the market
for additional sales.
How much that will be, no one knows at this time. But if we can act, I
think, reasonably and rationally in this situation, the extra production, the full
production that the farmer was asked to undertake earlier this year and late last
year in the winter wheat crop-I am sure that the price of wheat, the price of
1200
