[550]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
children that you have adopted. Their lives are richer for it, and needless to say,
so are all of yours.
I wish to personally congratulate the 20 of you who are here. You are among
the 178 persons to have served the full 10 years since the Foster Grandparents
program began. I know how you react to being senior in a program of foster
grandparents, but if you were, I would be very, very proud.
You are demonstrating and have demonstrated that you older Americans
are a great, great natural resource. Your love, your patience, your wisdom are
desperately needed by the children who have become a very vital part of your
own lives.
And who else could fill that role as well? I don't think there is anybody.
After all, you have two things to give which few other Americans have today—
time and yourselves. That is what all children need and some lack tragically
these days.
It is a very special treat for me to join all of you here and to tell you why. A
good part of my job is trying to bring people together, trying to get them to
agree, trying to reconcile differences in the interests of the Nation.
Here I don't have to bring anybody together, for you are together, and I
congratulate you for it. You are united in one thing—concern for the children
that you serve.
It is my very special pleasure and privilege to present each of you with a 10-
year pin and a special award in the form of a plaque. It is one very
small way
that we can reward you for your wonderful effort, your total dedication, and
the spirit in which you have participated.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. in the State Dining Room at the White House.
551
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at St. Louis, Missouri.
September 12, 1975
[A reporter asked the President if he was wearing a bulletproof vest. The President re-
sponded as follows:]
The President. The security precautions that are taken, it seems to me that
that is something that should not be disclosed.
REPORTER. Do you have any reflections a week after that incident in Sacra-
mento? Did you think about it?
1372
