[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
The argument is that such news, and I quote, is “stimulating to the unstable.”
Now, those who defend detailed coverage of recent such incidents contend that
for the press to do otherwise would be an abuse of the public's right to know and,
in effect, would be an erosion of the free press and a free society. Now, Mr. Presi-
dent, I don't recall your having spoken out on the subject, but I would like to
hear from you.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, Mr. Ray, I believe the press should accurately and
fully report any such incidents. I think they have an obligation to do just that,
and I, under no circumstances, would urge the news media to do otherwise.
THE COAL INDUSTRY
[11.] Q. Mr. President, my name is B. F. Reed, and I am president of the
Turner Elk Horn Mining Company, with headquarters at Cliff in Floyd County,
Kentucky. We are part of Appalachia. The coal industry, of which I am a part,
has great problems in responding to your plans for development of the domestic
coal industry. One of the devastating problems is implementation of the Clean
Air Act, which has already stopped production of utility coal in the Appalachian
region. I am told now that the Senate committee bill, Public Works Committee
bill, will further increase our troubles and make impossible the goals that you
have set for the development of the industry. My question is: What further can
this industry do, what plays can be called to help to resolve the problems brought
about?
THE PRESIDENT. In the energy program that I submitted in January, following
the State of the Union Message, I recommended certain amendments in the
Clean Air Act that would modify-not wipe out, but modify—the existing law
so there could be more flexibility, permitting energy-generating plants to transfer
from oil to coal. Those amendments, as I recollected, were approved by Russ
Train, who represents EPA, as well as Frank Zarb, who represents FEA.
Unfortunately, as I understand it, the Senate, instead of taking our amend-
ments, have come forth with about a half a loaf, and the net result is it really won't
solve the problem, which is greater utilization of coal and a lesser dependence on
foreign oil.
You don't have to convince me. We are in agreement with you. I think what
you have to do is go down there and sit on the doorstep of the United States Senate
and the United States House of Representatives and tell them what the problem
is and convince them that our proposal is right if we are going to be invulnerable
to foreign oil cartel price decisions. That is it.
1628
