December 6
[712]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
712
Toasts of the President and President Ferdinand E. Marcos
of the Philippines at a State Dinner in Manila.
December 6, 1975
President Marcos, Mrs. Marcos, distinguished guests, honored friends:
I come to the Philippines at the end of a strenuous but very exciting journey.
Two nations once regarded as distant but with the modern means of transporta-
tion are now our neighbors in a new and interdependent world.
On the way home, I have stopped here to visit America's old and very dearest
friend and to be exposed to the very gracious and the world-renowned Philippine
hospitality which is not exceeded in any place in the world.
Throughout this trip, we have been most graciously welcomed and warmly
received, but the experience this afternoon, Mr. President, driving from the
airport to the palace was an exhilarating, unbelievable experience. To see the
many, many traditions, the songs, the gowns, the actions of all of your people
was a great experience. It showed a great diversity in your society, but it re-
minded me of something I learned in Sunday school a good many years ago.
My then Sunday school teacher told me that the beauty of Joseph's coat was
its many colors. So, I say to you in the Philippines, the strength of your nation
is its diversity which has been woven into a strength that will forever be a pillar
for your great country.
Mr. President, throughout this trip I have observed an international sense of
community, a shared commitment to peace and a better life for all peoples. I
found a common determination to have the leaders of the world, the leaders of
the nations to chart their own courses, to shape their own character. And I saw
a growing awareness that this determination of individuals and of nations to be
independent and self-reliant is a constructive force in the world in which we
live today.
It encourages the sense of respect for one's self and for others. And that is the
basis of a real community of nations in the world in which we live.
Today in the Philippines I find something far more. Our two nations have a
most unique history of shared experiences and similarity of outlook. We have
both known the pain of war.
President Marcos and myself are only two out of many, many thousands in
both nations who fought together in earlier years, one in the forests and fields
of Luzon and the other on the waters of the Philippine Sea.
1943
