October 10
[621]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM
[14.] Q. Mr. President, your Agriculture Department people had indicated
earlier this week that they would have this week your food stamp proposal.
Well, they didn't. Now there are reports that there is conflict within your
Administration on this, that your people just can't get together. We understand
the proposal won't be ready now until the Congress comes back from its recess.
What is the story?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Congress just left, or is just about to go on a 10-day
recess. And even if we had sent our food stamp control legislation up, there
would not have been any Member of Congress here to consider it. So, we
are going to send it up the day that Congress returns from their recess and
will have done some preliminary work with certain Members of Congress.
We have been working with Senator Buckley and with Congressman Michel,
who are the authors of a very fine food stamp reform bill. So, when we send
ours up the day Congress comes back from recess, there will be ample time for
the House and Senate to consider it.
Q. Sir, can you give us a preview of what is in it and what you are trying
to accomplish?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We are trying to save at least a billion dollars a year
in the present food stamp program. What we are trying to do is to give more
benefits in the food stamp program to those people who need them and to
take away the benefits from people who don't need food stamps. And that
legislation, which I am going to recommend, will save at least a billion dollars.
It will do away with most of the abuses in the food stamp program, and I
certainly hope the Congress does something about it.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press]. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much.
NOTE: President Ford's nineteenth news confer-
ence began at 8:01 p.m. in Room 450 at the Old
621
Executive Office Building. It was broadcast live on
radio and television.
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Legislation To Establish an Energy
Independence Authority. October 10, 1975
THE ARAB oil embargo of 1973 dramatically illustrated our ever-increasing
dependence on foreign oil. Two years have passed since the embargo was
imposed. But our vulnerability has increased. Nearly nine months ago I asked
1655
