[565]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is my recollection that that Supreme Court decision in Brown v. the Board
of Education related to striking separate but equal. Could you elaborate a little
bit on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you are correct, and I don't think I said that decision
in any way ordered court busing. It was the decision in '54 that declared un-
constitutional the long accepted practice in many States of having separate but
equal schools. But as an outgrowth of that court decision there have been the
subsequent decisions that have involved busing.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[9.] Q. Mr. President, as you know, a good many Congressional offices are
receiving mail which runs contrary to your proposal for a Middle East peace
settlement, particularly objecting to the use of American civilian technicians in
the Sinai. I was wondering, sir, if, as you say, that is worth the risk? How long
are those Americans going to be there, and is that not an open-ended
commitment?
THE PRESIDENT. They will be there during the term of the agreement unless
I, or another President, withdraw them because of any danger to their lives.
It is a case of not more than 200 American civilians performing a highly technical
warning station responsibility in a U.N. buffer zone. I think it is a good con-
tribution by the United States to the establishment and permanency of peace
in the Middle East.
Q. I'd like to follow up, sir, if I could, please. May I follow up, please? I'd
like to ask what you would do if in the course of their term in the Sinai, the
PLO moved in and kidnaped some of them, captured them, or if perhaps
they were killed? Would you then use American intervention; the question
being, then, is: Can you flatly rule out there would be no American intervention
to protect those technicians?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to speculate on something that I do not
anticipate will happen. I think I or any other President would use utmost
caution in the protection of the lives of any Americans.
Q. Mr. President, to follow that up: If you are committed to the use of
Americans on the Egyptian front, would you also, later perhaps, be committed
to the principle of using Americans on the Jordanian or the Syrian front?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I should speculate about any negotiations or
agreement that have not yet begun. It is a very valuable contribution to peace
in the present agreement, but I would not want to make any commitment con-
cerning any other.
1440
