[500]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
society in history has done more to encourage invention, innovation, and
initiative.
The explosion of American ideas began 200 years ago with our Declaration
of Independence. A century ago a tide of industrial progress started to sweep
over America.
Sewing machines revolutionized the clothing industry. Electricity made life
brighter and more prosperous. Automobile assembly lines put us on wheels.
The telegraph and telephone, later, movies, radio, and television linked the
people of this vast Nation closer and closer together. In our generation, Amer-
ica has split the atom and conquered space. Americans never shirked from chal-
lenge. Courage, originality, opportunity, and optimism are national traits.
This has been the spirit of America for the past two centuries—a spirit of
ideas and individuality. It was and is the spirit of private enterprise-churning
ahead in a free, competitive system fueled by private savings and investment.
We need to recall these basic facts about America, about ourselves as a people,
and about our way of life.
No nation has invested more than we have in humanity and science. No
nation has taken greater risks or experimented as much for progress. As a
result, no nation has earned such rewards as the United States.
Today, America is again called upon to invest, to risk, to experiment in the
name of progress. But unfortunately, we have reached a watershed. A deci-
sion must be made. The question, put simply, is precisely this: How do we
finance both the investment needed for economic growth and essential pro-
grams needed to solve our human problems?
Today, we are faced with the problem of creating new jobs in numbers
greater than ever before in America. Although unemployment is far too high,
nevertheless we should not forget that 85 million in this great country are at
work, and that is about 1.2 million more than just last March. By 1980, we must
create another 14 million jobs to meet the needs of our expanding population.
This is our objective, and it will require substantial economic progress.
As always, economic progress depends on our ability as a nation to foster
capital investment and increase the productivity of our workers. The share of
our gross national product committed to the private sector investment must
increase significantly over the next few years if we are to reach our economic
potential. Some, for example, estimate that total investment requirements could
reach as high as $4 trillion!
However, as our need for capital grows, the ability of industry to generate
necessary funds is declining. This is essentially because inflation has eroded cor-
1210
