September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
So, that situation proves that this Administration is not going to set artificially
high interest rates and force-not force them-but entice people to buy Govern-
ment securities instead of utilizing the savings capabilities of the savings and
loan.
As far as I know, we have no intention of moving in the direction that you
are concerned about. We want the savings and loans to have lots of money so
they will aggressively go out and try to sell houses with the homebuilders. You
have got a lot of money, get it out there and let's get some homes built.
Q. Thank you, and good for you, Mr. President. [Laughter]
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I am John Hogness of the University of Washing-
ton. What are the chances of the passage of a comprehensive national health
insurance bill this year or next?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said in my remarks or answer to one of the questions, I
decided for the budget year of 1976 that I would not advocate any new programs,
and that, of course, included a comprehensive national health insurance program.
I had, when I was in the Congress, advocated a program that was, I believe, one
that would use the private sector and not a monopolistic Federal Government
program that could be financed and, in effect, would improve our health care
facilities and institutions.
But it would have imposed-let me be very frank-new budget problems on
the Federal Government. In my opinion, because of the deficit that we faced
and the need to control fiscal deficits, that we couldn't—at least for fiscal 1976—
endorse or support what I had supported when I was a Member of the House of
Representatives. That is my view.
Now, what is the Congress going to do? I have noticed of late that there has
been less enthusiasm, apparently, in the Congress for such a program. For
example-this was in the paper, so I am not telling any secrets out of school-
Senator John Tunney, who has long been an advocate of the so-called Kennedy
health insurance program, publicly announced about 2 weeks ago that he was
withdrawing his support because of the fiscal situation.
I believe that there is a feeling that the approach ought to be thought out more
carefully. We have the Kennedy approach, which is pretty much a government
monopoly. We have the approach that I endorse, which is one that uses the
private institutions. You have the American Medical Society that uses what they
call Medicredit. You have the American Hospital Association that has some
1315
