December 7
[715]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
place with feelings overcoming words. Our shipmates who rest in honor here,
our comrades in arms who sleep beneath the waves and on the islands that
surround us need no eulogy beyond the eternal gratitude of the land that they
loved.
On this Sunday morning in December, we remember them. In all the history
of war there is a recurrent question, why do young men have to die? Why not
save, instead of spend, our bravest and our best? Could they not live for their
country, work for their country, achieve for their country? Can't we have living
heroes, patriots of peace, and raise our monuments to lives well lived rather than
memorials to lives snuffed out in the black smoke of battle?
I believe we can and will build a safer and saner world. If I did not believe it,
then I and hundreds of thousands like me learned nothing in the Pacific during
World War II. If I didn't believe it, I would not have supported America's
bipartisan policy of peace through strength for more than a quarter of a century
of severe challenges—trials that are far from finished here today.
If I didn't believe it, I would not have journeyed 27,000 miles around the
Pacific as President to talk peace and mutually beneficial ties with the leaders
of Japan, the Republic of Korea, the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of
China, Indonesia, and the Philippines.
The 1,600 million people of these nations and of the United States make up
more than half of the whole human family. If a majority of people want peace,
why cannot the world have peace? If a majority want to live in friendship, why
cannot we all live in friendship?
There may be uncertainties, but surely it is worth a try. Here in Hawaii, with
its diversity and its harmony, such a goal seems neither impractical nor im-
possible. The crossroads of the Pacific can become the crossroads of old and
new civilizations, the lives of all lands can be preserved and prosper in the
Pacific.
We who remember Pearl Harbor will never drop our guard nor unilaterally
dismantle our defenses. But we Americans must and will use our moral
leadership and our material strength to bring the Pacific community and the
world little by little, year by year, closer and closer to real and reliable peace.
We will hold our course for a peaceful Pacific, remembering that vigilance,
the price of liberty, must be paid and repaid by every generation. We will keep
faith with our past as we work to build a better world for our children and our
grandchildren.
1949
