September 16
[565]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Israel, made by a world power, and goes on to say that the United States would
promptly consult with Israel on support or assistance that it could lend. Now,
does this go forward toward a security treaty, or does it not? And if So, doesn't it
have to be taken to the Congress first to be approved?
THE PRESIDENT. That language does not constitute a treaty. The words speak
for themselves.
DISCIPLINING OF SUBMARINE COMMANDER
[16.] Q. Mr. President, as an old Navy man-
THE PRESIDENT. Old is right. [Laughter]
Q. ———do you think the discipline given the commander of the submarine
on which the go-go dancer performed was perhaps not quite in the tradition of
the Navy that you knew? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I think I ought to refer that to the Navy where the matter
is being, I am sure, thoroughly and properly handled under the procedures in
the Navy code of conduct, or whatever they————
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
[17.] Q. Mr. President, the cost of living keeps going up and up and Chair-
man Burns is now saying once again, as he has before, that monetary policy—
that is, the Fed-just can't carry the burden of trying to curb inflation. Once
again, it is talking again about an incomes policy, starting perhaps with jaw-
boning, voluntary jawboning, and holding down wages and prices and perhaps
the dressing up of the wage and price controls. I know you are against wage and
price controls, but do you think it is fair for Mr. Burns to have to carry this load
by himself?
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to reiterate my firm opposition to wage and
price controls. I don't think it is fair to put all of the burden in the battle against
inflation on the shoulders of the Federal Reserve Board. I have repeatedly indi-
cated that Federal fiscal policy was as important as monetary policy in the battle
against inflation. And that is why I have consistently said we had to hold the
line on Federal spending, and that is precisely why I drew that $60 billion
deficit line in the Oval Office 3 or 4 months ago.
Unfortunately, the Congress hasn't gotten the message, because they have
not only approved a higher deficit-$68.5 billion-but they have already breached
their own $68.5 billion deficit by roughly $5 billion. So, although I feel that
Federal fiscal policy is a useful tool in combating inflation, I see very, very little
cooperation from the Congress in a responsible Federal fiscal policy.
1443
