[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
culprit. In actuality, it is the person who uses the gun that causes the trouble.
What we have to do is to make certain that the people who use the gun are
punished. And if you will recall from the crime message that I submitted to
the Congress several months ago,¹ we provided for stricter legislation so that
a person using a gun in an attempt or in the actual committing of a crime,
that person had a mandatory sentence and went to jail. This is the way, in my
opinion, to prevent the illegal use of guns and not penalize the people who
are collectors or individuals who properly use guns.
I have not yet been convinced that the gun is the culprit. It is the person who
uses the gun that ought to be punished for illegal purposes.
Q. And you don't think that there is an undue proliferation of guns in this
country?
THE PRESIDENT. I did recommend that we ought to make it much more
difficult to obtain what we call "Saturday night specials." There is, under existing
law, a prohibition against the importation of Saturday night specials. Under
the legislation that I recommended, it prohibits within the United States the
assembly or manufacture of Saturday night specials—these are the cheap hand-
guns. If we do that, that will significantly help in the problem that we are
talking about.
JIMMY HOFFA
[7.] Q. Mr. President, more than 3 months ago Jimmy Hoffa 2 disappeared
without much more than a trace by tracking dogs. Are you satisfied with the
investigation by Federal agencies into that case, or would you prefer a special
select Congressional committee to look into that, into Teamster pension funds
and mob connections with unions?
THE PRESIDENT. The Attorney General, who is an outstanding member of the
Cabinet, the Department of Justice, and the FBI are doing a maximum job in
investigating any Federal relationship as far as the disappearance of Mr. Hoffa
is concerned. I have full faith in the Attorney General, Department of Justice,
and in the FBI, and where there is any Federal connection, I can assure you
they will continue tracking every possible lead maximizing their effort.
This is a very strange case. I don't see how any Congressional committee can
undertake any criminal investigation. That is not the function or the responsi-
bility of a Congressional committee, and I think we ought to leave that responsi-
bility with the appropriate agencies in the executive branch of the Government
1
¹ See Item 341.
2 Former president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
1660
