[669]
November 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, will be completely firm in our position. We,
of course, would look at how the situation was handled there and the nations
that vigorously proposed it, but I wouldn't want to make any specific comments
at this time.
Q. You are leaving open the option possibly that you might want to take
specific action at some later date?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't say how I would describe the action, but certainly
I am disappointed with the action that was taken.
Q. Are you concerned, sir, that any action the United States might take in a
punitive form, such as cutting the aid to countries who supported the resolution,
might harm the chances of peace in the Middle East?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to get into the details of that. It doesn't seem
to me that we should make any snap judgments. We did strongly oppose the
U.N. resolution, and we will take whatever the appropriate action is as we move
ahead in the area of trying to achieve peace in the Middle East.
Q. Mr. President, what effect will this have on-
The President. Are you one of the local people, Walt [Walter Rodgers,
Associated Press Radio]?
Q. What effect does this have on the possibility of reaching a Middle East
peace and a further negotiated settlement there?
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, will continue to make our efforts in the Middle
East for a long and fair and stable peace in the Middle East. I wouldn't want
to pass judgment on that question at this time, but our efforts will continue in
that area.
Thank you very, very much. It is nice to see you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:27 p.m. at the
Kanawha County Airport. The General Assembly
resolution, approved on the evening of November 10,
1975, had declared Zionism a form of racism.
670
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner in
Charleston. November 11, 1975
LET ME say with the deepest conviction and greatest appreciation, my wife,
Betty, and I are most grateful for the friendship of Arch and his lovely wife.
The Fords and the Moores over a long period of time have been close personal
friends. Arch and I have fought many a battle on the floor of the House of
Representatives. I, from time to time, tried to be helpful in his greater achieve-
1844
