September 5
[532]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tion at the Federal level puts the obligation to ensure domestic tranquillity in the
same category as providing for the common defense against foreign foes.
The American Revolution was unique in its devotion to the rule of law. We
overthrew our rulers but cherished their rules. The Founding Fathers were
dedicated to John Locke's dictum that "Where there is no law, there is no
freedom." One of them, James Madison, added his own corollary, "If men were
angels, no government would be necessary."
While it is true that not all men-nor all women-are angels, it is also true that
the vast majority of Americans are law-abiding. In one study of 10,000 males
born in 1945, it was shown that only 6 percent of them perpetrated two-thirds
of all crimes committed by the entire sample.
As for serious crimes, most are committed by repeaters. Another study in a
major metropolitan area showed that within a single year, more than 200
burglaries, 60 rapes, and 14 murders were the work of only 10 individual
criminals.
This brings me to my second proposition: If a primary duty of government is
to ensure the domestic tranquillity of the law-abiding majority, should we not
put as much emphasis on the rights of the innocent victims as we do on the
rights of the accused violators?
I am not suggesting that due process should be ignored or the legal rights of
defendants be reduced. I am not urging a vindictive attitude toward convicted
offenders. I am saying that, as a matter of public policy, the time has come to
give equal weight on the scale of justice to the rights of the innocent victims of
crimes of terror and violence.
Victims are my primary concern, and I am sure that is your primary concern.
They should be the concern of all of us who have a role in making or executing or
enforcing or interpreting the criminal law-Federal, State, or local. The vast
majority of victims of violent crime in this country are the poor, the old, the very
young, the disadvantaged minorities, the people who crowd our urban centers,
the most defenseless of our fellow citizens.
Government should deal equally with all citizens. But if it must tilt a little to
protect any element more than any other, surely it should be those who cannot
afford to be robbed of a day's food money, those who lack the strength to resist,
those who even fear the consequences of complaining.
My third proposition is this: If most serious crimes are committed by repeaters,
most violent crimes by criminals carrying guns, if the tiny minority of
habitual lawbreakers can be identified by modern datakeeping methods, then
1343
