[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
expressed interest in foreign affairs, there might be a place in your Administra-
tion for him?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I am delighted to see that former President Nixon is
apparently much better, feeling well. I talked to him when I was in California
several weeks ago on the telephone. He sounded better on the phone at that
time, and I am very happy that his health is apparently much, much better.
I have had no request from him to participate in any way in the handling
of foreign affairs. I have had no request from him to participate in the cam-
paign. As I have said on several occasions, I run my own campaign on my own
record, and I expect to do that in 1976. And as President, I expect to conduct
or handle foreign affairs as a President should, in conjunction with the recom-
mendations of the Secretary of State.
Q. If he should request to serve you in some way, would you entertain that
notion?
The President. I don't think I should speculate on something of that kind.
He hasn't done it, and I have seen no indication that he might.
DETROIT HOUSING
[11.] Q. Terry Murphy, WJBK-TV. Detroit, Mr. President, has more
HUD homes than any other city in the country, yet thousands of them are
abandoned and rotting away. Other than Carla Hills' promised tour of this city,
what else are you going to do to put people into these homes and clean up the
mess?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding that the Secretary of HUD has
worked out an arrangement with the city officials and with the State officials,
under Governor Milliken, to have a joint effort with the Federal Government
committing $5 million to purchase and rehabilitate a thousand of these homes
out of roughly 14,900, as I recollect.
This is a good example of what the Federal Government, in partnership with
State and local units of government, can do with these homes, where the homes
have been foreclosed and the Federal Government has jurisdiction.
If we find that this program, which I understand is to be implemented in the
northwest part of Detroit, works, then I would hope we can expand it in the
months ahead.
Q. The program's still run, though, by the Federal Government, rather than
State and local officials, because I know-
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand it, it is a partnership arrangement. I can't
1662
