July 24
[428]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
428
Telephone Conversation With the Astronauts of the
Apollo-Soyuz Test Project Following Recovery of
Their Spacecraft. July 24, 1975
TOM and Deke and Vance, welcome home. On behalf of your fellow Ameri-
cans—about 214 million of them—congratulations and thanks for a very suc-
cessful and extremely productive flight in space. We are delighted to have you
back safely, and we are very, very proud of the great job that you did.
Your safe return marks the close of the Apollo program. And you and all of
the rest who have been participants should be extremely proud of its success,
from the beginning to the present. And as you know better than all of us, your
particular flight also adds a new dimension, that of international cooperation,
and that is extremely vital now and in the days ahead.
And I understand from the technicians that your new docking system offers
a foundation on which to build future cooperative efforts and in the next decade
could be a very valuable tool for space rescues.
I know, of course, that all three of you are darn glad to get home, or almost
home, and that your wives-Faye, Marge, and Joan—are probably listening to
this conversation—at least I hope so, because I want them to know we are all
proud of their husbands who have done a superb job on behalf of our country.
Tom, if I might add a lighter note, I understand that as soon as you get
checked out, you are going to spend a little time in the next few days helping
Vance with his Russian.
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS P. STAFFORD. Maybe it was an Oklahoma accent, Mr. Presi-
dent. Vance was superb at his Russian.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Tom, since this was your fourth mission, I understand
you have spent more than 500 hours in space. Would you tell us how this
mission compares with your previous one?
GENERAL STAFFORD. Mr. President, it was completely different in one phase,
as far as the international part of it. The other parts were somewhat similar,
but it was just so meaningful to us to have this opportunity to work in both
the diplomatic and the management areas, besides flying the spacecraft—from
all three of us.
Deke?
DONALD K. SLAYTON. Yes, sir, Mr. President, I think it was a great honor to be
1027
