[579]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
579
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the National Association
of Life Underwriters in Anaheim, California.
September 21, 1975
President Levine, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me thank President Norman Levine for that extremely generous and very
kind introduction. And may I also, at this point, offer my personal congratula-
tions to Mr. Lester Rosen, who obviously, by his fine record in your industry,
by his total dedication to the betterment of society, not only in his hometown
but throughout the country-my personal congratulations.
President Levine is a very rare and a very unique gentleman, and there is a
story behind that compliment. A few years ago, I shared a head table at a dinner
in New York City with Norman Levine. A few people were good enough to
ask me to sign their programs, and in so doing, my pen ran out of ink. So, I
borrowed Norm's. Well, a few years went by, and the next time I saw Norm
was in March of this year, when he came to the Oval Office to ask if I would
attend this dinner.
After the meeting was over I asked Norm to accept a pair of cufflinks as a
souvenir of his visit to the Oval Office. Norm was very gracious about it. He
thanked me, he declined the offer, and said, if I didn't mind, he'd just like his
pen back. [Laughter] So, I gave Norm a pen and that is why I say he is a very
rare and unique gentleman. How often do you meet anyone who ever got
something back from Washington? [Laughter]
It is really great to be here in Anaheim, with so many old friends. Carney
Smith, your executive [vice] president, was my neighbor in Alexandria, Vir-
ginia, until I moved into public housing on Pennsylvania Avenue. [Laughter]
I am also delighted to see Jack McDonald here, a friend and former colleague
in the House of Representatives.
In short, some of my very best friends are in the insurance business, and that
is one reason why I am here today and to enjoy your hospitality and the friend-
ship of your wonderful organization. Another is that I want to pay tribute to
you who sell life insurance.
Altogether, I am advised that policies sold total more than $2 trillion. That is
an impressive figure-2 followed by 12 zeros. You typify the free enterprise
system, the men and women who go out on your own, with your initiative, with
your energy and talent working for you.
1488
