[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, in addition to this very welcome White House Conference to provide
meaningful citizen input, are there any other plans or programs as part of your
program of cutting redtape and opening up these activities to the people, to
reduce this and to provide for meaningful and realistic citizen input on federal
funded programs?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you any added ones beyond this kind of approach
plus what the Vice President is undertaking with his meetings in 9 or 10 com-
munities around the country, but it has been my observation with all of this
talent from the Cabinet and top places in the executive branch, and most of
them have been to—three-quarters of them—that they get the message. The
problem is to have them give the message down below and then have it carried
out, but we are trying to do it, and let me give you an illustration.
I made a speech, oh, several month ago, and I said there were 5,200 forms
that people, in toto, in the United States had to fill out-5,200. And it sounded
terrible, and I said we were going to get rid of them or some of them, and
Jim Lynn is in charge of that responsibility. A year from that speech I am going
to ask him how many forms we now have and it darn well better be under 5,000.
[Laughter]
SOCIAL SECURITY
[15.] Q. Mr. President, Jim Cope. I am from the Missouri State Medical
Association. The children born during World War II baby boom will go on
social security in about 2000 to 2025. Children from our present near-zero popu-
lation growth will hit the labor force at about the same time. It has been esti-
mated that there will be three or four people going on to the social security
rolls for each one entering the labor force. Please, sir, could we have your
comments, and what are the long-term plans for meeting this situation?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been several recent studies on the adequacy of
the trust fund, the payment schedule to meet the obligations under social secu-
rity. The picture is not encouraging, to be frank with you. There are a number
of suggested ways to make certain, to make positive that the beneficiaries down
the road are guaranteed enough or are guaranteed what they were led to believe
they would get.
Some alternatives are just to take any deficiency out of the general fund. Others
recommend that the present withholding of both the employer and the employee
be increased. What is it now-about 11 percent for both employer and em-
ployee. One proposal is to increase both contributions. Others say don't worry
about it, it is not as bad as the actuaries or the experts tell you, and don't do it
for political reasons one way or another.
1402
