October 7
[615]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
In the first place, there is no vacancy on the Supreme Court. Number two,
there is a vacancy on the-well, as the General Counsel for the NLRB—and we
are in the process now of looking at a person for that vacancy. But I come back
to what I said initially: A person is prone to nominate somebody that has a
somewhat similar political philosophy or view toward government and the
issues that are related thereto.
CHILD NUTRITION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, predictions are that the House will certainly override
your veto of the $24 billion child nutrition program. Now, in the event that
they allow this veto to stand, where is this going to put the needy child and the
child who is surely going to have to pay more for his school lunch?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me explain why I vetoed the bill. That legislation
passed by Congress, which I vetoed, called the child nutrition bill, provides for
Federal funds to go to pay for school lunches for the children of families that
can well afford to pay for the meal.
And I see no reason whatsoever for a child of a family sufficiently well off
getting a federally financed meal. And it involved for the current fiscal year, as
I recollect, an extra $200-plus million and about $600 or $700 million extra in
the next fiscal year.
I am for the Federal Government helping and providing school lunches,
nutritional lunches for the children of those who are at the poverty level or be-
low. I believe that is a firm responsibility of the Federal Government. But we
should not—and I don't believe the American people want us to-finance free
meals for people who can afford to pay for their children's lunches.
Now, if the House and Senate-if one of them should sustain the veto,
there is adequate statutory law to take care of the needy child. And earlier this
year, I recommended a program that would concentrate more for the needy
child and would eliminate the child of the family that is well off.
I wish the Congress had done that. It makes a lot more sense, particularly with
the kind of financial problems with a $60-plus billion deficit in the Federal
Government.
Q. I was wondering where you draw the line, sir. I mean, how do you
segregate one from the other, which is the needy and which is not the needy?
THE PRESIDENT. There is a poverty family line drawn today by a responsible
agency of the Federal Government. I think it is around $5,500 income. That is
a poverty line used by all agencies of the Federal Government. And so, any
family that has a child in school at that figure or below would get a free lunch,
1613
