November 29
[704]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
All America benefits from your many, many, many achievements. We, as
fellow Americans, are proud, appreciative, and most grateful.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:48 a.m. in the Big
Hangar at Eielson Air Force Base. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Donald E. Giliam, mayor of
Kenai Peninsula Borough, John A. Carlson, mayor
704
of Fairbanks-North Star Borough, and Lt. Gen.
James E. Hill, USAF, Commander, Alaskan Air
Command.
Remarks at a Birthday Party for Senator Ted Stevens in
Anchorage, Alaska. November 29, 1975
IT IS a great privilege and pleasure for me to be here in Anchorage and to par-
ticipate along with Governor Hammond, Congressman Don Young, Secretary
Kissinger, Mayor Sullivan, Betty, Susan, Mr. Tobin, and all of you honored
guests, and of course, my old friend Wally Hickel. It is a very nice kickoff for the
trip that we are making to the Far East.
I have been in Alaska a number of times. I have reminisced as I have traveled
through the audience here with some whom I saw in 1968 when I first had the
privilege.
I understand that this is the time of the year in Anchorage when the sun rises
at 8:40 in the morning, sets at 2:54 in the afternoon, the nights are 18 hours
long. All I can say: What a great place to have a party! And of course, what a
great guy to honor on an occasion and a party such as this. Ted, congratulations.
I can say from personal experience, Ted is one of the most conscientious, one
of the most capable, and one of the most astute legislators in the United States
Congress. I can also say that Ted Stevens is highly respected on both sides of
the aisle, Democratic as well as Republican. And I understand there are a num-
ber of Democrats in the audience here tonight, and by your presence here tonight
you are reflecting the views and attitudes of the Democrats in the United States
Senate and the House, because they respect him. They know he is a person of
ability and fairness.
We are celebrating in America today, or soon will be, I should say, our 200th
birthday, the 16th year of Alaskan statehood, and Ted Stevens' 52d birthday.
You know, that's a young country, and it is a young State, and I happen to
think when you get right down to it, Ted Stevens is a dynamic young United
States Senator.
Whenever I want to get the lowdown on the problems or the issues involving
1929
