November 10
[667]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to preserve in distant countries and on remote battlefields. The United States
Marines for two centuries have heard and heeded the call of our country. They
have created an esprit de corps which is unrivaled in any military service in
the world. The corps has become a living monument to bravery and self-
sacrifice.
Much of the world's history in these past 200 years has been marked by tur-
moil and by violence. We, the American people, have paid a high price not
only for our own freedom but for that of others. And always the Marine Corps
faithfully stands guard when liberty is threatened.
Let me assure you here and now that the American people and your President
stand behind you. You will be supplied with the most modern and advanced
ships, weapons, equipment, and training in the world today. Our aim—my
aim—is not to train America's youth for war, nor to develop weapons to kill.
My aim—and our aim is to develop the military strength which is our might-
iest hope for peace.
The United States must be constant and credible when we speak of American
strength at home and on our seas of the world. You have stated it best to your
recruits: “Nobody likes to fight but somebody has to know how.”
I do not know what events the next two centuries will bring to our country.
But I do know this: It is for us, the living, to raise new monuments, new hopes
and new courage, new ideas and new ideals for our children and for their
children. We must leave a heritage worthy of our inheritance.
Americans will be called on to show great self-discipline and self-sacrifice in
the years ahead. We will be put to many tests around the world. The global
economy must be stabilized. The world's need for energy must be balanced
with the necessity to preserve our global environment. World industrial pro-
duction needs must be met by judicious use of our available global resources.
We must win the race of food against famine. We must assure peace rather
than suffer war. We must preserve the ideals of liberty and freedom against
challenges from hostile ideologies. We must be a people not only of an historic
past but of a heroic present to face squarely the new ideals, the new realities of
today's world. We are only at the dawn of an American future.
The Marine Corps has established a legacy of heroic deeds-not in brass and
stone, but in the courage and in the sacrifice of more than 3 million Marines,
men and women, who served our Nation faithfully.
These deeds are not forgotten. They link the past, present, and future and are
embodied in the American spirit of freedom.
The spirit of freedom is not only in this monument but in our hearts. “Always
1839
