December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that did had good programs and were right. And I think you have to have a
sense of humor about this. You have to be a little thick-skinned, and I think
that comes from some experience.
The main point that I would like to emphasize—and I said it at the outset—
is that I don't think they are accurate. I have complete and total confidence in
my own capabilities, and the record, I think, proves it.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[13.] Q. Mr. President, if you should run into early primary trouble and have
some setbacks in New Hampshire and Florida, do you believe it would be good
for the Republican Party, for other candidates, men who have been mentioned
such as Mr. Richardson, Vice President Rockefeller, some of the others who
are mentioned as possible Presidential material, then get in and challenge
Ronald Reagan? Or do you believe it should be a two-man race straight to the
convention in trying to reach a nomination?
The President. I don't think I ought to judge what others might do. I can
only say what my intentions are, and I reiterate them today. I have said them
consistently, that I intend to be in the ball game right down to the convention.
I intend to win. I like a good struggle, a good fight, if that is necessary. And
any speculation about me quitting in midstream is just inaccurate. And as I
said yesterday, anyone who forecasts that I am going to quit in midstream
doesn't know Jerry Ford.
Q. Mr. President, what is your prediction about New Hampshire and Florida?
I think Mr. Callaway has predicted you will not just do well but will likely win
those primaries.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will do reasonably well and I intend to carry on
the record that we have in order to convince a majority of the people in New
Hampshire that my nomination is a good choice for the Republican Party and
for the country.
Q. Well, are you not flatly predicting that you will win those primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't like to get into a speculative situation there. I am con-
fident that the policies are good. I know we have good people that are executing
them. And I believe that the majority of the people in New Hampshire will
agree with that. But to speculate beyond that I don't think is beneficial.
Q. Mr. President, this will be the first time that any Chief Executive has
taken-first time in modern times-has taken the Presidency into the party
primaries. I wonder if you have been able to sort of see in your own mind how
this can be done in a way that will protect the dignity of the Presidency, protect
2009
