September 12
[552]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
South Korea, that has had its application in to be a member for a good many
years, also ought to be included. You can't be selective on who or what nation
should be a part of the United Nations.
I presume, based on our overall interest in matters involving Southeast Asia,
that it is conceivable under certain circumstances that our relations with North
and South Vietnam will improve, but a lot has to happen.
For example, North Vietnam continues to refuse to give us information con-
cerning the MIA's, and they try to bribe us by saying, "We will give you in-
formation about MIA's if you will let us in the United Nations."
Well, North Vietnam agreed in January of 1973 to give us information, to
give us access to North Vietnam to find the MIA's, and they have not lived up
to it. So, how can we trust them? They have got a lot of things to do before
we are going to be very receptive to their participation.
SCHOOL BUSING
[10.] Q. Mr. President, busing is a subject and a practice that is distasteful
to a large segment of the American population, both black and white. If it is
such a distasteful and wasteful process, why bus? And is there any alternative
that you see?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have to decide in the first place what we are really
trying to do by busing before you discuss whether it is good or bad. All of us—
white, black, every American, in my opinion—wants quality education.
Now, the Court decided in 1954 that separate but equal schools were uncon-
stitutional, and the courts have decided that busing is one way to try and
desegregate on the one hand and perhaps improve education on the other.
Many of those decisions have raised great problems in many, many localities—
Louisville and Boston being the most prominent at the present time.
Discussing those two communities, let me very strongly emphasize the Court
has decided something. That is the law of the land. As far as my Administra-
tion is concerned, the law of the land will be upheld, and we are upholding it.
But then I think I have the right to give what I think is a better answer to
the achievement of quality education, which is what we all seek. And there is
always more than one answer. I think that quality education can be enhanced
by better school facilities, lower pupil-teacher ratios, the improvement of the
neighborhood, as such. Those are better answers, in my judgment, than busing
under a court order.
Quality education can be achieved by more than one method. I was reading
in the Washington Post this morning a column by one of the outstanding black
1381
