September 1
[517]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
PRESIDENT SADAT. I hear you quite well.
PRESIDENT FORD. The efforts of Secretary Kissinger and myself, we feel, were
completely worth what we have done, but our efforts could not have been
successful without the leadership and the statesmanship by you and the equally
fine actions by the Israeli Government and Prime Minister Rabin.
But as you said a moment ago, President Sadat, the momentum is moving in
the right direction, and you have my personal assurance that we will continue
that movement, because it is vital not only in the Middle East but elsewhere
for the benefit of all peoples.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Thank you, Mr. President, very much.
PRESIDENT FORD. We will see you soon, I hope.
PRESIDENT SADAT. We are looking forward to coming, with pleasure, and
convey my good wishes to your family.
PRESIDENT FORD. Thank you, and the best to yours, sir.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Thank you very much.
PRESIDENT FORD. Have a good day, and Henry will be there shortly, I under-
stand.
PRESIDENT SADAT. I am waiting for him.
NOTE: The telephone conversations began at 12
noon. President Ford spoke from Aspen Lodge at
Camp David, Md. Separate calls were placed to Sec-
retary Kissinger and Prime Minister Rabin in Jerusa-
lem, Israel, and President Sadat in Alexandria,
Egypt.
517
Exchange With Reporters on the Egyptian-Israeli Troop
Disengagement Agreement. September 1, 1975
I UNDERSTAND there is a statement to be released from the White House
that points out the strong feelings that I have that this negotiation, culminating
in the agreement, is a great success in not only preventing stagnation and stale-
mate in the Middle East but, more importantly, getting the momentum going
for what all of us hope will be a continued effort to expand the permanent peace
that all hope for that would conform, of course, to the resolutions in the United
Nations, 242 and 338.
I suspect there can be anticipated some criticism, but I respectfully suggest
that if we had not achieved this historic settlement, the alternative would have
been turmoil, increased tension, obviously greater dangers in the Middle East for
a renewal of the kind of tragic conflict that took place in 1973.
1285
