[700]
November 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
I strongly believe that it is in the national interest of the United States to
ratify the proposed amendments. I therefore urge that the Senate give its advice
and consent to ratification by the United States of the Amendment to the Rio
Treaty contained in this Protocol, and that it do so as promptly as possible con-
sistent with its constitutional responsibilities.
The White House,
November 29, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The protocol and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive J (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
701
Veto of a Bill To Provide for the Protection of Foreign
Diplomatic Missions. November 29, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning, without my approval, H.R. 12, a bill to provide for the pro-
tection of foreign diplomatic missions and to increase the size of the Executive
Protective Service.
I am in agreement with the primary objective of H.R. 12-to increase the
size of the Executive Protective Service to enable it to more effectively fulfill
its responsibility under current law. I am also mindful of the need to assure
adequate protection of foreign diplomats and missions. However, I am unable
to sign this bill because it would unwisely extend the purpose and functions of
the Executive Protective Service and would create a precedent that could erode
current and proper distinctions between Federal and local law enforcement
responsibilities.
Protection of foreign diplomatic officials and missions is an established part
of the overall responsibility of local law enforcement agencies to protect in-
dividuals and property within their respective jurisdictions. The conditions
under which EPS personnel could be assigned outside the Washington, D.C.,
area under the enrolled bill are unwarranted and unwise. Although I realize
that the Congress has limited these circumstances to only seven metropolitan
areas and to situations of extraordinary protective need, I am concerned that
this bill would be but a first step toward a permanent and wider expansion of
the role of EPS nationally.
1922
