[750]
December 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be very significant and healthy. And I don't foresee with this combination—
if we can sell the Congress on it—of any need in 1976 for significant increases in
any spending area.
Q. Well, is there a point, though, with these forecasts from time to time being
wrong—is there a point of progress in unemployment which would be so low
that you wouldn't find it tolerable in terms of the progress in the economy and
hardship that you talked about when you started?
The President. That is speculation that I don't think is justified. Our plans
are-and we think we have good advice and good statistics—that unemployment
will continue downward, as it has, from the high of 9.3 several months ago.
On the other hand, if any contingency arises, of course we will meet it. But the
program based on the best advice, a program based on the best statistics, doesn't
anticipate the kind of circumstances that you have indicated.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[11.] Q. Mr. President, could you summarize for us what you believe are
the chief obstacles you face in winning the Republican nomination and being
elected for a full term in office?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't foresee any serious obstacles. It will be a good struggle,
but I think as the public perception of what we have done both at home and
abroad comes across-and I think it will-then I think the nomination will be
successful.
NEWS MEDIA COVERAGE
[12.] Q. If I could just follow up, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Surely.
Q. I am sure you are aware that in the press and other mass media news
there is some perception of you as not quite capable of filling this office. And
I wonder, sir, what your reaction to this is personally? Some of your aides say
it really doesn't bother you at all.
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I don't think that description is accurate.
I think my record in public office disputes it very forthrightly. Some of the
things you read or hear or see, you know, it kind of hurts your pride a little bit
because you know it isn't true. But I have long felt that if you keep a high degree
of composure and don't get rattled and have total confidence in yourself, that
things work out pretty well.
I might add this: I was looking at some cartoons over the past year-years, I
should say-of American political life, and the ones today are not any sharper
than the ones in the past. Presidents have survived that kind of criticism. Those
2008
