[739]
December 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
raised that possibility with you, and whether you think if you do veto the bill
that that might happen? Do you expect him to?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not want to speculate on that aspect. I know that he
feels very strongly about the legislation. I feel very strongly that he is one of the
finest members of my Cabinet. We have had several discussions in depth as to
the merits, the substance of the common situs picketing bill. There has been no
indication to me that he would resign, but since I haven't made a decision on the
legislation yet, I think any discussion is a little academic.
Q. The only other thing I can say is that you will probably like the cover of
Newsweek this week better than last week since it-[laughter]—
THE PRESIDENT. I understand that the better half of the Ford family is going
to be on it with a little more complimentary cover. [Laughter]
Q. That is what I meant.
THE PRESIDENT. I keep telling Betty that I get embarrassed all the time with
her polls and good pictures. When they take a picture of her dancing, it is
beautiful. When they take a picture of me dancing and publish it, it is not very
complimentary. [Laughter]
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's twenty-fourth news conference began at 2:08 p.m. in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
740
Statement on Signing the Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act.
December 20, 1975
I HAVE today signed S. 1800, the Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act.
S. 1800 authorizes the Federal Government, under certain circumstances, to
indemnify certain art, artifacts, and other objects to be exhibited internationally.
One of the conditions which the bill requires to be met is that the Secretary of
State or his designee certify that the proposed exchange would be “in the national
interest.” In approving S. 1800, I note that the legislative history links the deter-
mination of national interest specifically to exhibits and exchanges which would
be in the "foreign policy interests of the United States," and "in the interests
of the people of the United States" so that the indemnification program does
not become simply an insurance relief mechanism. I believe that such linkage
is essential to justify involvement of the Federal Government in this kind of an
indemnification program, and I am therefore directing the Secretary of State
1990
