[488]
August 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is like the question we are faced with right now on whether we should or
shouldn't sell additional grain to the Soviet Union. We have to be cognizant, and
very properly so, of the prices received by the American farmers.
After all, last fall we urged the American farmer to produce everything he
possibly could in wheat, corn, et cetera, and in return, we impliedly promised
that he would get a fair return on his land, his equipment, and his efforts.
On the other hand, we can't be lacking in attention or cognizance of the im-
pact that further grain sales to the Soviet Union will affect the Consumer Price
Index.
So, it is one of those narrow, balanced decisions where you have to take
potentially competing interests and try to be fair and equitable to all.
In the case of coal-energy, in this case, vis-a-vis farmland—we have to
again use our best judgment. We aren't going to tear land up and just turn it
over to coal. On the other hand, we do have, I am sure, sufficient coal land in the
West that can be utilized for coal production under proper environmental re-
strictions and still not seriously undercut our food supply in this country.
I can't give you a percentage figure, but I can assure you we are not lacking in
cognizance of the problem and will use our very best judgment.
POWERPLANT SITING
[6.] Q. Mr. President, judging from some Administration publications and
statements, there may be some Federal plans to abrogate State laws regarding en-
vironmental quality and environmental standards, public service regulation com-
missions, and State energy facility siting laws in pursuit of Project Independence.
Would you care to comment on this?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we did propose some very broad Federal legislation
that was aimed at nuclear powerplant siting, that was aimed at, I think, more
effectively providing incentives for the development of new energy plants.
Some of our State regulatory authorities have been very slow in acting on
requests for sites as well as increases, and the net result is we have had a serious
cutback in the construction of energy-producing plants, which, on the surface
today-those decisions don't seem too bad.
But with the upswing in the economy, in 2 or 3 years, if we don't move, if
our State regulatory agencies don't move ahead, we will not only have brownouts
but we will have blackouts, because we won't have the capability of producing
energy for our economy, which means a loss of jobs, which means the kind of
problems I indicated-brownouts, blackouts.
1156
