[707]
December 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
capped children, the funding levels proposed in this bill will simply not be
possible if Federal expenditures are to be brought under control and a balanced
budget achieved over the next few years.
There are other features in the bill which I believe to be objectionable and
which should be changed. It contains a vast array of detailed, complex, and costly
administrative requirements which would unnecessarily assert Federal control
over traditional State and local government functions. It establishes complex
requirements under which tax dollars would be used to support administrative
paperwork and not educational programs. Unfortunately, these requirements
will remain in effect even though the Congress appropriates far less than the
amounts contemplated in S. 6.
Fortunately, since the provisions of this bill will not become fully effective until
fiscal year 1978, there is time to revise the legislation and come up with a program
that is effective and realistic. I will work with the Congress to use this time to
design a program which will recognize the proper Federal role in helping States
and localities fulfill their responsibilities in educating handicapped children. The
Administration will send amendments to the Congress that will accomplish this
purpose.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 6, approved November 29, 1975, is Public Law 94-142 (89 Stat. 773).
708
Toasts of the President and Vice Premier Teng of the People's
Republic of China at a Banquet in Peking Honoring the
Vice Premier. December 4, 1975
Mr. Vice Premier, Mr. Foreign Minister, and our Chinese friends here this
evening:
On behalf of Mrs. Ford and all the Americans present, I extend to each and
every one of you a very, very warm welcome.
Tomorrow morning we leave China with many regrets. It has been a signifi-
cant visit. The wide-ranging talks that I have held with Chairman Mao and
with Vice Premier Teng have been friendly, candid, substantial, and construc-
tive. We discussed our differences, which are natural in a relationship between
two countries whose ideologies, societies, and circumstances diverge. But we also
confirmed that we have important points in common.
We reviewed our bilateral relationship. The visit confirmed that although
our relations are not yet normalized, they are good. They will be gradually
1936
