[547]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
the people of New Hampshire are strong and independent people, and I respect
both strength and independence.
I also have learned that it is important in our political system if we have a
strong two-party system—whether it is in New Hampshire or any one of the
other 49 States. Obviously, you do have a strong two-party system in this great
State of New Hampshire, and I strongly urge that you maintain that two-party
system so that all of you have an opportunity to make a choice.
I also have learned over the years that the people of New Hampshire believe
in competition, whether it is in the political arena or whether it is in anything
else. You had a little competition last November, and the net result is that you
now have an opportunity in a few days to have the same kind of competition.
The people of New Hampshire, after fighting hard to get the opportunity to
make their choice rather than have the politicians make that choice, your elec-
tion comes, and I strongly urge that everybody who is eligible turn out to par-
ticipate in this very important decision.
It was my pleasure to be here last April to meet the Governor and to speak to
the State legislature. At that time, I urged two things: one, that the people of
New Hampshire, rather than the politicians in Washington, ought to decide who
should be your United States Senator.
Finally, after a great deal of pressure from all of you and from many others—
the politicians decided that the people of New Hampshire have that right to
make a choice, and with that opportunity goes the responsibility on your part
to participate. So, make it a big election.
One of the important ingredients of a two-party system is that the two parties
present good candidates and present a united front.
I am delighted to be in New Hampshire today and to be a part of a unity
movement in my party, the Republican Party. I am delighted that Governor
Reagan was here in New Hampshire last night.
I am here because I want to show a common front, a united party. I am de-
lighted that my dear friend of many years in the Congress, Norris Cotton, Jim
Cleveland, who I served with in the House of Representatives, that all other
elements of the party at the national level and your Governor, Governor Thom-
son, are joining with us together to show that our party is unified, that we can
have diversity, but we can have unity, which I think is important for the
strengthening of the party and beneficial to the people who want a choice.
Now, let me indicate what I believe in and what Louis Wyman believes in,
what our party stands for. We stand, first, for fiscal responsibility in the manage-
ment of the public trust as far as your taxes are concerned and will fight hard
1366
