September 11
[547]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and effectively, I hope, that your money that you pay into the treasury, whether
it is in New Hampshire or in Washington, will be spent wisely and economically.
We believe, also, that the free enterprise system is the best way to have a
healthy nation. We believe that it is better to put young people, old people,
working people not on the public payroll, but on the private payroll. We think
it is more important that people work in a free enterprise system rather than
working for the government as such.
We also believe that the United States must be second to none in national
security. We believe that our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines must be strong.
That is the best way to achieve the peace and to preserve the peace.
We believe that the control of your local community is better when it is in
the hands of locally elected officials. We think the people of Keene and the other
many fine communities in New Hampshire can run their affairs better than
having somebody in Washington tell them how to do it.
We believe that the freedom of the individual is important, that each of you
should not be overcrowded by the Federal Government of certain rights,
whether they are in education, in industry, in your community. The right of each
of you as an individual is a sacred trust to us.
Let me conclude with this observation about my very close and old friend,
Louis Wyman: I had the privilege of serving with Louis in the House of
Representatives for better than 10 years. I know he is an experienced and able
and effective legislator.
He started with a great Senator from your State, Styles Bridges. He served
you more ably as attorney general. His record of public service is outstanding.
And I can say from personal observation that he is a person who will do a good
job for you in the United States Senate.
We have a lot of problems that have to be solved in this country. Louis
Wyman understands some of those problems better than anybody that I know
in Washington, as his record of attorney general speaks for itself. We have too
much crime in America. Louis Wyman knows, as attorney general and as a
Member of the Congress, how to effectively meet the challenge of crime in
America.
Louis Wyman knows that you need jobs in New Hampshire, and Louis
Wyman, while he was a Member of the House of Representatives, worked hard
and, I think, effectively in trying to help the job situation in the State of New
Hampshire.
Louis Wyman will do across the board the kind of a job that you will be
proud of. And I can assure you that my long and personal, close relationship
1367
