[654]
November 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
milestone in the necessary steps toward a broad and permanent and just peace
in the Middle East.
President Sadat and Mrs. Sadat have been warmly welcomed throughout our
country in the 4 or 5 days that they have visited many parts of the United States.
I indicated to President Sadat on Monday when he was in Washington that the
American people were deeply grateful, most appreciative of his courage, his
wisdom, his broad view, and his dedication to what was needed and necessary
in the Middle East.
And I think, as you have traveled, President Sadat, in many parts of our
country-New York, Chicago, Houston, and now in this great State of Florida—
you have found in the American people a great diversity, but a great strength, and
I am convinced that your visit here has been in the best interests of not only the
Middle East but the world itself.
It has been a great and wonderful personal experience for me to know the
President and to work with him over the past many months with the results that
have been achieved. And I commend him for his continuing courage to move
ahead in a momentum that is necessary and essential if we are to achieve the final
peace, just and equitable to all, for the benefit of that area but primarily for the
benefit of the world.
And so, may I ask that all of the guests of Governor Askew join with me in a
toast to the President of Egypt and Mrs. Sadat.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 9:30
p.m. at the San Jose Country Club in response to a
toast proposed by Florida Governor Reubin Askew,
who hosted the dinner. President Sadat then re-
sponded to the President's remarks.
The remarks of President Sadat and Governor
Askew follow:
PRESIDENT SADAT
President Ford, Mrs. Ford, Governor Askew, Mrs.
Askew:
As my visit approaches its happy conclusion, I am
pleased to say that we have been enjoying every
minute of it. We find the American people warm,
hospitable, and open-hearted. The beauty of nature
here is matched and perhaps surpassed by the warm
nature of the people.
One is reminded in many ways of the fact that
Florida and Egypt fall on the same latitude. St.
Johns River together with the Nile are the only
rivers in the world that run north. Looking toward
the horizon, I feel that the ocean and land ahead
should be links of interaction and cooperation rather
than elements of separation.
Mr. President, distinguished guests, it is our in-
tention to strengthen the relations and intensify
contacts with the American people in all fields. We
believe that we both have much to gain from
furthering our cooperation and deepening our
friendship. There is a vast area of common interest.
I believe that we both have much to gain from
furthering and diversifying our relations in all fields.
We will spare no effort to achieve that end.
President Ford, who is a great man with a
genuine commitment to peace and friendship among
nations, has contributed greatly to the promotion of
peace in the Middle East and the stimulation of ever-
growing ties of friendship between our two coun-
tries. I want him to know that the Egyptian people
are very appreciative of his endeavors and deter-
mination to see that normalcy will reign in our area
on the basis of a just and lasting peace so that the
efforts, creative abilities, and talents would be
directed toward the construction and well-being of
its peoples.
I am sure that Mrs. Sadat shares with me that
Egyptian people would warmly welcome President
Ford and Mrs. Ford in their visit to our country in
1778
