September 16
[567]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
All of you know the reasons why that was done. If we don't do it, we are
going to weaken NATO. If we don't do it, we are going to very seriously injure
our intelligence-gathering capability. If we don't do it, we will have no influence
in trying to get an equitable settlement in Cyprus. So, I thank you, and I con-
gratulate you for this help.
Secondly, the fact that the United States was strong and that it is our intention
to remain strong gave us a very important opportunity to participate in keeping
the momentum going for negotiations as far as the Middle East is concerned.
Not that we actually negotiated the settlement, because the parties themselves
did that, but the fact that the United States was respected, the fact that the
United States had a major role in international affairs, gave us an opportunity
to be a helpful participant in the negotiations between Egypt and Israel.
Now, I have scanned the other recommendations or actions taken by the Air
Force Association, by all of you here. They are helpful. I would be less than
honest if I didn't say that we are having trouble in the Congress in getting
enough money to keep us as strong as we ought to be.
I, of course, seldom like to get in confrontations with my former colleagues—
[laughter]—but after spending 12 years on the defense subcommittee on appro-
priations, I have some background on military weaponry, programs, policies,
et cetera. I think without any question of a doubt, the actions that have been
taken by the Congress so far are not good, and we ought to do something
about it.
If you can grab some of your good friends around here-and I see a couple
of good potential victims-[laughter]-whisper in their ears and bolster their
determination, because we cannot afford to be number two. If we don't ade-
quately authorize and appropriate for the Defense Department, we will be.
We have got a crunch coming in the very near future, as far as being able to
convince the Soviet Union that we are negotiating from strength, if the Con-
gress doesn't give us enough money to have adequate army, navy, air force, and
marine programs. It is just that black and white.
We have to be strong enough to convince them that it is in our mutual interest
to have a SALT II agreement. Now, if we are unsuccessful in this negotia-
tion, then I will, under my oath of office, have to request that the Congress
appropriate substantially more funds.
I would prefer having enough to have a mutually agreeable SALT II, but
I have to be very honest and very frank with you that so far we need more
help in the Congress, even for a SALT II agreement. And we will need a
lot more help in the Congress if we don't get a SALT II agreement, because
64-630 O 77 33 (Vol. 2)
-
-
1447
