[421]
July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
development. We hope to find an answer within the next few days, the next
week, so that the Congress and the President can work together, not at odds.
What I am saying to you is that despite political differences—and there are
some-if we are going to continue to be a great country—and I am optimistic
that we will-you have to find a way to disagree without being disagreeable.
You have to find a way to solve a problem with no one losing face and every-
body doing a job for the country. And the experiences you are having right
here at the present time-that is a training ground for the time when all of
you have an opportunity at the local, the State, or the Federal level to come
down and be an active participant.
A long time ago, back when the ball was round, I played a little football for
the University of Michigan—[laughter]—and that is the truth, it was round,
and some of these older fellows can remember it here.
But anyhow, you know in those days we had some other problems. But by
working together, the American people finally found a way to solve most of
them. And somehow I and others my vintage found an inspiration to come here
and to be a part of the Congress-House, Senate-and to be a part of the execu-
tive branch of the Government. And that is what we need from all of you—that
desire, that stimulation to be a part of your Government.
And I am absolutely convinced that, as I look around here, you have got all
the talent, all the enthusiasm. We are not going to solve all the problems-my
generation-but we are building slowly to a better America.
But you, because of your better education, better opportunities, and all the
other things that bless us in this country, can take what we built and make it
the kind of America that we dream about and hope for. And that is the mes-
sage I would like to leave with you from the Rose Garden and the White House.
Thank you very, very much.
JAMES M. WAGONSELLER [national commander, American Legion]. Thank
you very much, Mr. President, for those very inspiring words to these young
people who are here with us this morning.
Mr. President, you will recall a day this past December, at the Alexandria
railroad depot, when you launched the Bicentennial American Freedom Train
on its historic 21-month journey throughout the United States.
Aboard the Freedom Train is the American Legion's Freedom Bell, a bell
twice the size of the revered Liberty Bell. But unlike the Liberty Bell, our bell
has no crack in it and is perfectly capable, Mr. President, of ringing loud and
clear to remind Americans now and in the future of their precious liberties.
To that end, American Legionnaires and their Auxiliary throughout the
1014
