November 28
[697]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Thank you very much for coming to the White House. I understand you are
visiting the White House after this brief meeting here. We welcome you to the
residence and wish you well on your trip throughout the United States.
I might make two other comments: I mentioned earlier that I had noticed
how many basketball courts there were, beginning with smaller ones. I made
the comment to Mrs. Ford that I was certain that out of 800 million people I
was positive there would be developed a Chinese Wilt Chamberlain. I also tried
a little Ping-pong with some of the very able Chinese Ping-pong players, and
I quit after about the first exchange.
Thank you very much, and I look forward to shaking hands and meeting all
of you.
Thank you again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
697
Remarks Announcing Intention To Nominate John Paul
Stevens To Be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.
November 28, 1975
THE NOMINATION of a Justice of the United States Supreme Court is one
of the most important decisions a President has to make. The opinions of the
Court affect the course of our society and the lives of individual citizens for
decades to come. The confidence in which the Court is held is the sum of the
esteem extended to each of its nine Members, and nothing is more essential to
our system of liberty under law than the integrity of the judicial branch of the
Federal Government.
With this burden of responsibility in mind, I have conducted a thorough
search and considered an extensive list of distinguished men and women to
fill the existing vacancy on the Supreme Court. The views of a wide range of
Americans in the legal profession and in both public and private life have been
sought and are appreciated.
I have decided to submit to Congress when it returns the name of the person
I believe to be best qualified to serve as an Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court: United States Judge John Paul Stevens of the Seventh Circuit of the
Court of Appeals in Chicago, Illinois.
Judge Stevens is held in the highest esteem by his colleagues in the legal
profession and the judiciary, and has had an outstanding career in the practice
1917
