[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[1.] MR. MONROE. Mr. President, do you sense a considerable negative public
reaction to the governmental changes of last weekend based on such appear-
ances as a Defense Secretary abruptly fired and a Vice President driven out of
contention by Republican conservatives ?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't find that at all, Mr. Monroe. We have had a minimal
amount of correspondence, either telegram or otherwise certainly nothing
comparable to any other major change in an administration.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[2.] MR. MONROE. You chose Mr. Rockefeller as Vice President, and you
have often praised him. But you apparently were relieved by his withdrawal,
judging by the fact that you did not argue against it. Could you give us your
reasoning on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I was not relieved by the Vice President's withdrawal. On
the other hand, I have nothing but the highest respect and regard for him.
He is an experienced, able public servant and a very close, personal friend of
mine. On the other hand, he is a very mature person and had made his decision
for the reasons that he set forth in his letter which he personally delivered to me.
When a man of that stature and that experience makes a decision, I have to
abide by it.
MR. MONROE. Did the thinking prevalent in Washington to the effect that
his withdrawal could take some of the steam out of the conservative challenge
to you within the Republican Party-did that not enter into your consideration
at all?
THE PRESIDENT. I would go back to the letter that he personally delivered to
me. And we agreed that that set forth, which it did, the reasons for his with-
drawal and I respected his judgment.
MR. MONROE. Is there at least a potential conflict, Mr. President, between the
idea that Mr. Rockefeller will support you next year and his refusal to take
himself out of consideration as a possible candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. In a personal conversation with him, he indicated to me his
continued support for my Presidency. There is a problem in that as he travels
around the country, he has to abide by, as he should, and I want him to, the
rules and regulations under the new Federal election laws. But as far as a per-
sonal endorsement, he told me he would continue to support my Presidency.
1822
