[688]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are assembled here today to swear in as the Secretary of Defense one of
the most dedicated, talented, and capable public servants it has been my privilege
to know in 27 years of public life.
A friend once asked him to give a thumbnail descrpition of Don Rumsfeld's
work pattern, and he said it could be summed up in two very simple statements:
One, Don works at a stand-up desk. And two, his staff does not work at stand-
up desks but they do very little sitting down.
Don Rumsfeld, in a series of challenging legislative and administrative
capacities, has demonstrated beyond question his ability to grasp the complexity
of issues and organizations, to work tirelessly and effectively at whatever task
may engage him, and to serve his country faithfully and well.
As a Member of Congress from Illinois, he demonstrated a unique talent for
staying in tune with the will of the people that he served, for representing their
interests with fidelity and with courage, and for winning the confidence and
respect of his fellow Members of the Congress.
As head of the Office of Economic Opportunity and later as Director of the
Cost of Living Council, he exhibited the organizational and leadership abilities
which have characterized his career in public service.
In these varied posts, he has also shown great awareness of and compassion
for the social and economic needs of our Nation. That awareness and that com-
passion accompany him here.
As the United States Ambassador to NATO, he demonstrated a strong com-
mitment to a strong defense for America and our allies in Western Europe.
His service as Ambassador was distinguished by a strengthening of the com-
mitment to Atlantic security and by his own diplomatic skills, which he suc-
cessfully employed in a very sensitive and a very important post.
As my Assistant at the White House, he has shown that he is a man of near
inexhaustible energy, a man who takes charge of a situation very quickly, force-
fully, and efficiently, and a man with a wide variety of gifts and interests and
expertise.
Don Rumsfeld knows, as I know, that a strong national defense for America
is the surest guardian of our Nation's independence and peace throughout the
world. He knows, as I know, as everyone in this Administration knows, that
it is the certainty of America's military strength that makes possible our nego-
tiations for peaceful cooperation with other great powers of the world. He
knows, as I know, that the price of that strength and security is high, but it is a
price that must be paid, for the price is never greater than the worth of a
strong defense.
1892
