[562]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
all of you. John, of course, has been a close friend of mine in working together
on energy matters and other important defense and foreign policy problems.
John, I thank you for your help and assistance, both in the Congress as well
as since I have been President of the United States.
I might say something about George [Bush], but since he is now a striped
pants diplomat―[laughter]—I don't dare say anything political or nonpolitical
about him. But it is good to see him as well as Harold Runnels and Dick White.
You know, historians say we closed the American frontier back in 1890, but
Midland in 1975 still has the adventurous frontier and is obviously still thriving.
The enterprise and the spirit of hard-working people in west Texas shows to
me the great productivity of this region—the land, the people, the mind, the
physical effort. This area furnishes the Nation cattle and cotton, oil, natural gas,
but also the genius of the people both in effort and in mind.
You have also demonstrated how much Americans can accomplish with the
right incentives. Incentives are the fuel of the free market system, and the energy
west Texas helps to supply is the fuel of our Nation's economy. The Permian
Basin produces 25 percent of the Nation's domestic oil and 20 percent of the
United States natural gas production. How fortunate the rest of us are that this
great region is a part of our country.
To keep this oil and to keep this natural gas flowing from this region, the
Nation must make it economically feasible to search for new production and to
develop methods. This is one of the major reasons that I believe decontrol of
domestic oil prices is so essential to our national security.
The vote in the United States Senate this week sustaining my veto of an
extension of the oil price controls has paved the way for decontrol. I hope—I
must concede I have been disappointed in the last 8 or 9 months on several
occasions-but I hope we are finally on the road to energy independence in
America.
We have got a long way to go, but between January of this year and even this
past week, we had made virtually no progress whatsoever. But we got 39 staunch
and strong people in the United States Senate to stand up and say something
had to be done. If we had lost that vote, I doubt if we could have gotten off
dead center for the next year and a half.
So, the 39 who stood up and were strong and wise probably did a great, great
service to this country and our energy independence. I think we have maybe
turned the corner, but we have got a long way to go.
Since 1971 America's bill for imported oil has been—well, it has climbed from
just over $3 billion annually to $25 billion in the last calendar year-a 700-per-
1430
