[663]
November 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
from a nation virtually alone, America is now allied with many free nations
in common defense. World leadership was thrust upon America and we have
assumed it. In accepting that role, the United States has assumed responsibility
from which it cannot and will not retreat. Free nations need the United States,
and we need free nations.
The national security policy of this country-long a solid, nonpartisan policy
and the policy which I have supported all of my life, some 25 years in the
Congress is that weakness invites war, that strength is the only sure foundation
for peace, and that America, in concert with our allies, must maintain a defense
capability second to none. That policy has not changed and will not change.
I reiterate this policy because there has been some criticism and speculation,
following my announcement on Monday of several new appointments among
my top national security advisers, that such personnel changes signal a policy
change by the United States in this extremely important and sensitive area. I
want to be absolutely sure that these domestic political potshots are not “heard
round the world." Our allies and our adversaries must not be confused and
misled. There will be no change in my lifelong devotion to America's strength
and vigilance as we seek a safer and saner world.
There is not now, there never has been, and there will not be, as long as I am
President, any softness or weakness in the Administration on the subject of
national defense of the United States and its vital security interests both at home
and abroad.
Among the new members of the Administration team are Don Rumsfeld,
whose dedication to a strong defense policy was amply demonstrated in the
Congress and as our Representative in NATO, and George Bush, who was
born in Connecticut and now holds an extremely sensitive post as head of our
mission in Peking. Your own former lieutenant governor and attorney general,
Elliot Richardson, who has served as Secretary of Defense, himself will become
Secretary of Commerce.
Most significantly, when the United States Senate confirmed Ambassadors
Rumsfeld, Bush, and Richardson for key policy posts in the area of foreign
policy at NATO, the United Nations, and the United Kingdom, it was without
a dissent. I look for their early confirmation to their latest posts of duty and
of service to their country. They will be strong, they will be tough, and they
will be true to the highest interest of all the people of the United States.
The policy which this Administration has followed and will follow in the
future is consistent, clear, and unchanged. Let me discuss the elements of this
policy with you.
1812
