[525]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
our form of government were the marvels for the world and the promise of
America that gave hope to millions of oppressed people all around the world.
America's second century was a century of independence devoted to increas-
ing our material wealth, making the most of the industrial revolution, ex-
panding westward to Washington and California and Oregon. Our civilization
advanced during this period at an incredible pace with a host of inventions and
discoveries that made our lives more pleasurable and our work much more
profitable. America's past, like its present, is a mixture of successes and setbacks,
of good and bad.
The future in this sense will be no different. And yet the future must be
different.
We must reclaim our independence from those huge institutions of society
which have come so close to snuffing out the fire of personal initiative and
individual achievement. We must rededicate ourselves to those very great prin-
ciples of freedom and equality which first gave life and purpose to this Nation.
We must demonstrate that far from being in a state of decline, America and its
people are prepared for adventures and achievements far excelling any we have
seen in the past. We must agree that a successful blend of personal initiative,
private enterprise, and public service will come closer to solving our problems
in realizing our potential than will total reliance on massive, musclebound
bureaucracy of government.
Too many Americans have relied too much for too long on the Government
in Washington to meet their demands, grant their wishes, and solve their prob-
lems. I think it is time we look elsewhere, more to Washington State, for ex-
ample, and less to Washington, D.C.
We should look in the offices and shops, the factories, the firms, the labora-
tories, the homes, the schools, and the churches of America. There is where
the real strength and the real promise and the potential of America reside.
There is where to find the creative genius, the knack for problemsolving, the
pioneering spirit, and the Yankee ingenuity for which this country is so well
known on a global basis.
I am convinced that if we shoulder more of life's responsibilities ourselves
and take a more personal stake in the life and success of this Nation, we can
truly make a fresh start in America, even as we celebrate our 200th anniversary.
In our third century we should seek to enhance the individual freedom of
each of our citizens and strive to make America's civilization the wonder of the
world. And we should gauge the progress of our civilization not just by our
standards of living but by the quality of our lives.
1298
