August 8
[480]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Having said that, I want to add a postscript. You have been tremendously
helpful to me in a very tough year, and for that I am most grateful.
But I have come here primarily to swear in David Mathews as the new
Secretary of HEW.
In Sunday's Washington Post, I read an article about David Mathews, and
in this one piece alone he was described as innovative, captivating, exceptional,
persuasive, gifted, and brilliant, and a man of Presidential stature. [Laughter]
Nevertheless-[laughter]—I have still come here today to swear David
Mathews in as the new Secretary of HEW.
In the past, many Cabinet members have come to the White House for
ceremonies similar to this. But I feel very strongly it is important for a Presi-
dent to see as much as he can of the people he serves and of the workers in
Government agencies who serve the people. And that is one of the reasons I
am here today.
Actually, it is my second visit here as President. I was here nearly a year ago—
less than 2 weeks after I was sworn in-to sign the Education Amendments of
1974, in keeping with my personal philosophy favoring appropriate Federal
assistance to education.
As Secretary of HEW, David Mathews will be filling a most important job
and a big pair of shoes. His swearing in will add another first-class officer to a
Cabinet of first-class men and women.
He moves into a big job, one of the most important in Government. HEW
will spend an estimated $150 billion in the fiscal year and through the transi-
tional quarter.
It has a staff of more than 128,000 men and women. The decisions and ac-
tions of this vital department of our Government affect the lives of every man,
woman, and child in the United States. HEW has a major influence on the
education Americans receive, on their health care, and on the entire range of
social services.
I consider David Mathews the right person for this very important job. He
is young, but is an accomplished thinker and leader, a man who understands
both concepts and action, ideas and implementation.
Since 1969 he has served as an outstanding president of the University of
Alabama, one of our Nation's great State universities. And at the same time,
he has been an effective writer and leader in a wide range of civic activities.
Dr. Mathews brings to this new mission the strength of youth, a sense of pur-
pose, the skills of a scholar, and the trusted record of a successful leader and
administrator. That is an impressive inventory by any standard.
1139
