[496]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Despite all the obstacles that well-meaning government has put in the way,
the American system and the American worker continue to provide us with a
living standard that is the envy of the entire world.
I don't think you have to look any further than Peoria for proof of what I am
saying. Thanks to productive, competitive industries and skilled, willing work-
ers, the Peoria area turns out industrial goods that sell not only coast to coast
but all around the globe.
And one blessed result of this productiveness is that you have an unemploy-
ment rate well under the national average. That is a fine record, one to be
proud of. And you have achieved it in spite of, not because of big government.
Let me give you just one example, if I might, before we get to the questions
and answers. I understand there is a serious local concern in this area about the
possibility of future natural gas shortages.
Now, if this is the case, we ought to ask ourselves, what's the reason? Is it
because we don't have enough known sources of natural gas? No. For the
present at least, there is enough to meet all of our needs.
The problem is not one of supply. It is one of regulation—obsolete Federal
regulation that may cost this part of Illinois and other regions of America—in
fact, 10 States, to be frank with you-it will cost jobs, and it will cost economic
growth.
But the basic problem is just this: For 20 years now, the Federal Power Com-
mission has been required by law to set artificially low prices at the wellhead for
natural gas sold in interstate markets. The result has been that gas producers sell
as much of their product as they can inside their respective State borders at free
market prices, creating shortages in nonproducing States of the Union. And
communities like Peoria have and may well suffer.
Believe me, this isn't the first time I have said this, and I say it every time with
greater feeling and determination. I said it as Vice President and I have said it
repeatedly as President. I have consistently urged the Congress to deregulate
natural gas to expand its supply nationwide.
It's amazing, when you talk to Congressional Members from Texas or Loui-
siana or Oklahoma-where they have these abundant supplies of natural gas,
but where they are not going to ship it across State lines to Illinois or to Michigan,
to Indiana or anyplace else—they say we are going to keep it, and then we will get
your factories and your jobs down in our State where we can sell this natural gas
at whatever price we decide.
It's unbelievable to me that the Congress has not responded in this area so that
we in your area or we in my part of the country or elsewhere can't get this great
1190
