[626]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
time, gives us the kind of distribution of tax reductions which, I think, are long
overdue to the middle-income people and, at the same time, holds the people at
the other end of the spectrum-they are held harmless.
Q. When do you plan to make the proposed budget reduction public, Mr.
President? There are already reports that you are circulating a memorandum
among the Cabinet officers with the cuts in them.
THE PRESIDENT. Jim Lynn has gone to the departments, and I can't give you
precisely the—oh, there is Jim over there.
DIRECTOR LYNN. What we have done, Peter, is, in typical OMB fashion, con-
tacted each department with planning ceilings, which is regular budget process,
and we have also shared with them informally some of the alternatives that were
identified in this process that has been going on well over 2 months with the
President-where it should be examined as to the ways they could be used to
achieve this ceiling.
The one thing the President made clear to us in OMB and made clear to the
Cabinet officers was that these are merely suggested alternatives of some ways
of doing it. What we want is each department and agency to use their own
initiatives and their own expertise to come up with the best and most equitable
way of achieving the result we are after.
Q. Mr. President, do you think the American public, let alone Congress,
would be willing to accept substantial reductions in major social programs?
THE PRESIDENT. First, Alan [Alan S. Emory, North American Newspaper
Alliance], you have to understand they are not necessarily substantial reductions.
As I said a few moments ago, it is about a 7-percent increase in the growth of
Federal expenditures. In actual dollars it is a $25 billion increase.
Now, there will have to be some tightening up. There may have to be some
caps, as we proposed in the 1976 budget. I think the American public is very
disturbed about the growth of Federal spending—very disturbed. I think the
mood of the Nation is that something has to be done about it.
Q. Mr. President, you said the other day that you expected to propose a $1
billion cut in the present level of about $6 billion for spending on food stamps in
your new bill. Could you tell us how that would come about?
THE PRESIDENT. That is going to be submitted to the Congress the day they
come back, and I don't think I should preempt it in this gathering this morning.
But we will have a legislative program that will go up to the Congress the day
they return from their recess.
Q. Would this be by having possibly tighter rules on eligibility? Is this the
general idea?
1688
