[442]
July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
As President, speaking here in the presence of our allies, I affirm today that I
will not allow our Armed Forces to be weakened under any circumstances. You
deserve the best. You deserve the very best equipment and you deserve the
strongest support of the citizens that you defend.
Chancellor Schmidt and myself will travel to Helsinki in the next few days to
attend the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. It is not by
accident, let me assure you, that I stopped here first to consult with our allies,
nor that I now affirm our commitment to Berlin.
I assure the people of Berlin from this military base, which you soldiers call
"The Rock," that I stand behind this rock and behind our commitment to the
freedom of Berlin.
Secretary Kissinger spoke for me when he affirmed our policy on his recent
visit to Berlin, and our national unity and determination in this regard were
voiced there earlier this year by Senators Humphrey and [Hugh] Scott.
Soldiers, of course, do not underestimate the importance of your mission and
its meaning for the entire world. You are the defenders of peace, and you have
my full and unqualified support and respect.
I know that you are doing a great, great job. And you, by the demonstrations
that you have given in person and by the equipment, you have boosted my
morale, and let me express a deep personal gratitude.
I thank you very, very much for inviting me on this occasion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:21 p.m. at the Ayers
Caserne. The annual picnic was cosponsored by the
1st Brigade, 3d Armored Division, and the German
13th Panzer Brigade.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
443
to Col. Louis C. Wagner, Jr., Commander, 1st
Brigade, 3d Armored Division; Georg Leber, Ger-
man Minister of Defense; and Gen. Alexander M.
Haig, Jr., Supreme Allied Commander, Europe.
Toasts of the President and President Walter Scheel of the
Federal Republic of Germany During a Dinner Cruise
on the Rhine River. July 27, 1975
President Scheel and distinguished guests:
Mr. President, you have spoken most generously and most farsightedly, as
well as most eloquently, and I am pleased and honored to respond to such a
gracious Rhinelander on this beautiful river, which has witnessed the growth
of German-American cooperation.
I think there is something especially significant that an American President
1050
