[527]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
UNEMPLOYMENT
[3.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Jim Williams. As executive director of
the Seattle Opportunities Industrialization Center, my concern is with the posi-
tion of the national Administration regarding full employment and training
opportunities.
In the transmittal message accompanying your fiscal year 1976 budget recom-
mendation, it indicated that out of the total outlay of some $349 billion, there
will be a deficit of some $60 billion or 52 or more. If the economy were to be as
fully employed in 1976 as it was in 1974, the deficit will be totally eliminated,
because there will be an additional $40 billion in tax receipts and $12.7 billion
or less being paid out in unemployment compensation.
My specific question is, Mr. President, what exactly is the national Adminis-
tration doing to reduce unemployment, at least to the levels of pre-1974?
The President. Well, in the first place, the figures you cite are accurate. If
we had had a healthy economy, we would have paid out far less in unemploy-
ment compensation, public service employment and others, and we would have
had higher revenues. The net result would have been roughly a balance.
Now, unfortunately, when the economic problems started going, with in-
flation at 12 to 14 percent in 1974, followed by precipitous increases in unem-
ployment, you just can't turn a spigot and stop inflation and all of a sudden get
the private sector to do something about increasing employment or reducing
of layoffs.
I suppose, or at least you could try in a dictatorship, a different kind of gov-
ernment, but it doesn't happen that way in our kind of free society.
Now, what we have tried to do is to restore public confidence against infla-
tion by cutting back inflation—I think we have made significant headway—at
the same time, to ameliorate the unemployment of those who, through no cause
of their own, but cutbacks in job opportunities, to cover them during this span
of time.
We are making headway, but it is a slower process than it might look like on
paper, and I have yet to find an economist or an expert in the field of finance
or otherwise who could give me a pat answer to the precise question that you
ask.
It sounds good, but I don't know of anybody who said the President or the
Congress could turn a wheel or turn a spigot and achieve full employment
without inflation after we were in the circumstances of 12- to 14-percent infla-
tion and unemployment of the magnitude that we have.
1308
