[460]
August 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. No, I would not want to go into any specifics.
Henry, would you like to add anything on that?
SECRETARY KISSINGER. We will have to wait. We will see Ambassador Eilts,
who is meeting us in Belgrade, and we will then get a full report of the Egyptian
reaction.
The mere fact that the dialog is going on and is not being broken off gives us
some hope that we can move it forward, but we have not yet had a formal
Egyptian reply, which we will get tomorrow night. And then Eilts is coming
back to Washington with us to wait for the Israeli reply to whatever it is that the
Egyptians have. But we have not seen yet what the Egyptians have.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, in Washington a former Agriculture Department
official testified that another big grain sale to the Soviet Union is going to drive
up food prices by 10 percent next year. I was wondering if that was a topic in
your discussion with Mr. Brezhnev in Helsinki and exactly where the sale of
U.S. grain to the Soviet Union now may stand?
THE PRESIDENT. I noticed that Mr. Schnittker ³ had testified. I believe the sale
of roughly 10 million tons of American agricultural commodities have been
made, and I think this is good for the farmer.
I don't believe there will be any increase in food prices as a result. I think it is
good from our point of view in the balance of trade. I think it is a tribute to the
great productivity of the American farmer.
In the future, we have to be very alert to the weather conditions that happen in
the next month. Every indication is we will have a bountiful harvest in America.
If that happens, we are in very good position: one, to make additional sales;
number two, to protect the consumer; number three, to help our balance of
payments.
But for the next month, I think we have to be very alert, and I will personally
keep my finger on the situation. I will welcome recommendations of other
people in my Administration. This is a matter that involves the farmer, the con-
sumer, our foreign relations, and it is a matter that the President himself must
watch very carefully.
THE FORD FAMILY
[11.] Q. How did Jack and Mrs. Ford enjoy the trip?
THE PRESIDENT. Jack thinks the Finnish people are fantastic. I gave Mrs. Ford
$100 to spend, and she gave me back three Finnish coins. Did you do any better?
3 John A. Schnittker, Under Secretary of Agriculture 1965-69.
1086
