[664]
November 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
very negligent if I didn't say nice things about my former colleagues in the
House of Representatives Sil Conte and Margaret Heckler. And I do appreci-
ate Maria Ryerson's efforts as chairman of this event. I am sure that she and
those associated with her did a wonderful job in seeing to it that all of you came
to help a cause that I believe in, I trust you believe in, we just have to get more
people to believe in, and I think we can.
Before getting into a few other comments, I would like to set the record
straight in two respects. Despite the election results in 1972 in the State of
Massachusetts, your President is not going to abandon Massachusetts to the
other side.
And let me cite some concrete evidence of how I can say that. Number one,
within the last several months I have been to Massachusetts twice, and I will
comment later on what I expect to do in the future as far as Massachusetts is
concerned.
Let me add that as solid evidence that the State of Massachusetts is making
a great contribution to this Administration, we have four members of the
Cabinet from Massachusetts. We have Henry Kissinger, John Dunlop, Pat
Moynihan, and of course, we are getting, very shortly, Elliot Richardson. That
is 4 out of 12. I am not sure I should remind people in other parts of the country
of the near monopoly that Massachusetts has on the Cabinet of the Ford Ad-
ministration. [Laughter]
But let me make one other observation: The Republicans in 1976 can and
will win in Massachusetts and nationally. And let me give you some good
evidence why I think you can in Massachusetts. You do have—there is some
more evidence of the impact of Massachusetts ¹-but in John Sears and Nancy
Sinnott you have darn good, extra fine people taking the Republican Party and
giving it the kind of leadership it ought to have.
Now, having said that the Republicans are going to win in Massachusetts and
in the country in 1976, let me say with quiet emphasis, your President is going
to enter the primary in Massachusetts, he is going to campaign in that primary,
and I think he is going to win in Massachusetts.
And may I add, I am going to be in New Hampshire, in Florida, and we are
going to go right down to the wire in the convention in Kansas City and win
there, too. I never got in a ball game we didn't play until the last minute of the
last quarter.
Now let's talk, if we might, about some of the reasons, in all honesty, I think
1 The President was referring to John A. Volpe, U.S. Ambassador to Italy.
1816
