September 11
[547]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
entered her life, leaving her a widow at a young age and with five children.
Moving to Emmitsburg, Maryland, she turned to the work of her church, took
the vows of a nun and later founded the Sisters of Charity of St. Joseph, an
order of nuns devoted to teaching.
Mother Seton established the first parochial school in America, the founda-
tion for an educational system that has brought the priceless gift of knowledge
to millions of Americans, including a multitude of newly arrived immigrants
whom Mother Seton and her followers instructed in the language and the
ways of their new homeland.
For her devout faith and diligent service in the Kingdom of God, her church
is bestowing its highest honor on Mother Seton on September 14, 1975.
For her service to her country, we, as a Nation, and believers in many faiths,
also have just cause to honor the memory of Mother Seton on that special day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States of
America, in accordance with Senate Joint Resolution 125, do hereby designate
Sunday, September 14, 1975, as National Saint Elizabeth Seton Day, and call
for such memorials and other observances as are appropriate to the occasion.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two-hundredth.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The full text of this proclamation is included
as an example of the proclamations the President
issued. All the proclamations issued by the President
in 1975 are listed in Appendix B.
547
Remarks in Keene, New Hampshire.
September 11, 1975
Louis Wyman, Mayor Jim Maisello, my many, many good friends here in New
Hampshire:
I thank you from the bottom of my heart for this wonderful turnout of young
and old, the people of this great State of New Hampshire and the city of Keene.
It is a great, great experience, and I thank you very, very much.
The truth is that I, over a long period of time, have known many, many
people from the State of New Hampshire. I used to come up skiing here a good
many years ago. I came here in the summertime, and as a result, I learned that
1365
