[666]
November 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
on the New York City problem. Tip O'Neill says on the basis of knowing you
for 24 years that you will sign the kind of bill that the House is preparing. Is
he right or wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. The bill that I have seen, that is only out of a subcommittee,
I think, is not the right kind of legislation to solve the problems of New York
City.
MR. BRODER. Now the House and Senate conferees have finished up a new
version of an energy bill. From what you have seen of that, does it look like the
kind of legislation you can sign?
THE PRESIDENT. The version that I understand they tentatively completed
Friday night puts more and more emphasis on imported foreign oil. If I find
that to be the case, I don't believe that I can approve it. With several changes-
and I hope they will make them—we can probably come to an agreement. But
as it stands now on its tentative basis, I think it presents some problems, because
there is more dependence on foreign oil than I think is right for this country.
MR. BRODER. Now, on the tax bill matter, you have on the table a threat to
veto any tax cut that is not accompanied by a pledge of a spending cut. In view
of the most recent economic statistics showing unemployment up and the eco-
nomic indicators down, can you really afford to veto an extension of the tax cut?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe I can, because it is equally important, Mr. Broder,
to get a handle on the excessive growth of Federal spending. That is as im-
portant as a tax reduction. And I think the two must be coupled. Because if we
don't do something affirmatively about the growth in Federal spending and get
a tax cut at the same time, then I think this country could have worse economic
circumstances than we have at the present time.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[16.] MR. MONROE. Mr. President, you said the other day that you knew a
fellow who was going to enter every primary. Who could that be? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Bill, I think in all honesty I was speaking about myself. I am
going to enter every primary. That doesn't mean I will campaign in every
primary. I firmly believe in the sovereignty of the voters. I think it is an obliga-
tion of candidates to present themselves to the voters. I don't understand those
who enter some primaries and duck others. I believe that if I enter every pri-
mary, then we will get some test of public sentiment. But more importantly,
I want to emphasize that whatever campaigning I do will be secondary to the
responsibilities that I have as President. Being President will override any activity
in the political arena.
1830
