[424]
July 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
ping programs and to propose the necessary reforms so that our resources
may be more effectively applied to help those most in need.
A second study, dealing with the combined impact of all taxes on the elderly,
could also be helpful in determining the burdens and benefits of government
actions as they affect the Nation's elderly.
I look forward to the study reports to help us provide an effective and eco-
nomical delivery of services to our elderly citizens.
The Council specifically recommends "legislative action to develop high
standards of safety and care in nursing homes." The Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare has set high standards of nursing home care and safety
that must be met by nursing homes participating in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. The enforcement of these standards is one of my Administration's
highest priorities. Federal funds pay 100 percent of the costs of inspection to
monitor compliance with these standards. The Federal Government pays its
share of the costs of meeting nursing home standards through health care fi-
nancing programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid. Financial assistance is
also made available by the Department of Housing and Urban Development to
assist nursing homes in meeting selected fire safety standards.
The Council also expressed its concern about the level of funding for programs
to assist the elderly. I sympathize with this concern, but I am determined to re-
duce the burden of inflation on our older citizens, and that effort demands that
government spending be limited. Inflation is one of the cruelest and most per-
vasive problems facing older Americans, so many of whom live on fixed in-
comes. A reduction of inflation, therefore, is in the best interests of all Americans
and would be of particular benefit to the aging.
The perspective and recommendations of this report are limited to a particular
area of interest and advocacy.
The report does not reflect the Administration's policies, which must reflect
a broader range of responsibilities and priorities.
The White House,
July 24, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 13-page report is entitled "Report to the President-Federal Council on the Aging."
1022
