[676]
November 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
very popular track coach, Dr. Leroy T. Walker, who will coach our 1976
Olympic track and field team. Congratulations, Dr. Walker.
At this time, our Nation is also celebrating an anniversary—the American
Bicentennial. As we reflect over these 200 years it is difficult to imagine almost
any American endeavor without acknowledging the great contributions of
blacks to our society-music, art, culture, science, medicine, sports-NCCU
alumni are all there. And I congratulate you.
Despite these burdens, despite the added difficulties, blacks have entered all
types of American competition and have come out national champions, indeed
national heroes.
There is a lesson for all of us in the history of American blacks, and that
lesson is precisely this: to develop our maximum will, the desire to compete, to
excel. That is what life is all about—to achieve, to reach a worthy goal. And
blacks in increasing numbers have attained many, many, many worthy goals
in our American society.
The whole thrust of humanity is one of progress. It has taken thousands of
years, but today we have gained unparalleled mastery over the material world.
At the same time, the nations and the societies of the world are becoming more
and more interdependent. Let me add another word for interdependence—
neighborliness.
We are living in a time when many of the currents of history are coming
together. The world is recognizing slowly but surely the necessity to harmonize
our civilization. I am an optimist. I believe we may yet attain man's greatest
goals and noblest aspirations. You may live to see the day when we are not
merely masters of the material world, but all living together in what we all
want-harmony with it.
We know that competition is the energy of progress. It is a force which
propels the human machine to new heights and to greater distances. And it
brings us together in the same field, whether it is in the stadium or the class-
room of NCCU or in business or in our daily lives.
I believe that competition breeds harmony, not division. It is the lack of
competition which breeds division, because people then feel they do not have
a chance, that society or the world is denying them an opportunity.
Inequality, injustice, lack of competition are gradually being removed from
the American scene. I support the equal rights amendment, just as I supported
a new and broader extension of the Voting Rights Act. But I say emphatically,
much more needs to be done.
I hope and work for the day when competition, opportunity for all Ameri-
1860
