July 25
[433]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
own line at an even higher deficit level of $69 billion. Today, the Congress'
own July 21 budget scorekeeping report estimates a possible deficit this year
of over $83 billion.
I cannot in good conscience support a huge deficit of that magnitude, nor
can the people of this country afford the inflation that would inevitably result
this year, next year, and the year thereafter. Money appropriated by the Con-
gress inevitably is taken from the people—either through higher taxes or by
inflation or both.
This appropriation bill is too much to ask the American people and our
economy to bear. I urge the Members of the House and the Senate to sustain
my veto of this bill, and then we can work together, as we have before, to
achieve a responsible compromise.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
433
Veto of the Education Division and Related Agencies
Appropriation Act, 1976. July 25, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I return without my approval H.R. 5901, the Education Division and Related
Agencies Appropriation Act, 1976.
Throughout my public life, I believed-and still believe that education is
one of the foundation stones of our republic. But that is not the issue in this
appropriation bill.
The real issue is whether we are going to impose fiscal discipline on ourselves
or whether we are going to spend ourselves into fiscal insolvency.
This is the first regular appropriation bill passed by the Congress this year
and it provides $7.9 billion, $1.5 billion more than I requested.
Earlier this year, I drew a line on the budget deficit for fiscal year 1976 at $60
billion. That line is considerably higher than I would like. On May 14, the
Congress drew its own line on the deficit at $69 billion. But now, the Congress'
own July 21 budget scorekeeping report estimates a possible deficit this year of
$83.6 billion.
I cannot, in good conscience, support such a deficit, not only because of what
it means this year, but next year and the year after. In fact, if this bill were to
become law, nearly $1 billion would be added to next year's deficit.
While I do not insist that my original budget recommendation is the only one
1035
