[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
And if I could add a P.S. to that, I believe in those programs—and we recom-
mended a very sizable budget figure for all of them, roughly a billion dollars. I
am very disturbed at the default rate in those programs where young people
borrow from their Government and then fail to repay when they get through
and get a job. That is an obligation to their Government, and it is about a 20-
percent default rate at the present time, and it amounts to $200 million a year,
as I recall. I don' think that is playing fair with the people who loaned them the
money in the first instance.
I am for the program. But young people have as much an obligation to repay
their Government as they do to repay any, and I just think we have got to
instill that spirit in them. If we are going to loan, if the Government is going
to loan, then they ought to undertake a comparable obligation to repay.
CRIME
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I am Ann Slaughter and this is Del McClellan. We
are cochairmen of the Women's Crusade Against Crime, which for 5 years has
been marshaling citizens to seek improvements in the criminal justice system.
Unhappily, our country has witnessed an increase, rather than a decrease, in
crime. Citizens are increasingly frightened by the horrendous acts of criminals.
The time has come to return prime consideration to the victims of crime. This
means swifter justice in the courts through outlawing of unjust delays. This
means effective correctional facilities for those convicted. However, our im-
poverished citizens do not have adequate funds for maintenance of deteriorating
neighborhoods which breed crime. We need more Federal funds to be made
available for our cities. My cochairman, Del McClellan, will ask our question.
Q. Mr. President, improvements in the system are very important, but they
will be useless without good men and women. Paramount is the need for a
return to individual honesty, to respect for personal and property rights.
In this, our Bicentennial year, we ask that you follow the directive of Ben-
jamin Franklin, who in 1780 asked that a moral science be developed to carry
personal morality forward with the amazing scientific and engineering feats he
so accurately predicted.
Fighting crime without the full commitment of the American people to a
return to the moral values which made our Nation great is an expensive and
completely hopeless enterprise. As Mr. Seidman told us at lunch—and I
2 L. William Seidman, Assistant to the President for Economic Affairs.
1392
