[697]
November 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
and teaching of law as well as on the Federal bench. I am confident that he
will bring both professional and personal qualities of the highest order to the
Supreme Court.
Because of the urgency attached to the earliest consideration of this nomina-
tion by the United States Senate, in order that the Court may be at full strength
in considering its current calendar, I am announcing my choice today and will
submit Judge Stevens' name formally on Monday. I believe the best interests
of the Nation will be served by prompt confirmation proceedings in the Senate.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:28 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
698
Statement on Signing the Older Americans Amendments
of 1975. November 28, 1975
I HAVE given my approval today to H.R. 3922, Older Americans Amendments
of 1975.
Ten years ago, as a Member of the House of Representatives, I voted for the
Older Americans Act when it was enacted by the Congress. I also voted for
subsequent amendments to the act. I am pleased now to give my approval to
this bill which amends the act and extends it for 3 years. These latest amend-
ments were the result of 10 years of experiences in administering the act.
Incorporated in the Older Americans Act, as amended, are certain principles
to guide the administration of the act:
-Emphasis will be placed on making services available which will enable
older persons to live at home as long as possible.
-Community leaders who best know the needs of their own areas will deter-
mine the services for older persons to be started or strengthened.
-The needs of low-income, older persons, including minorities, will be
given priority in use of Federal funds.
-Efforts will be made to enlist volunteers from all age groups to assist in
serving older persons.
-The resources now available to meet the needs of older persons will con-
tinue to be coordinated through programs administered by a number of Federal
departments and agencies.
—Emphasis will be placed on opening opportunities for older persons to
continue to participate constructively in the life of our Nation.
1918
