August 11
[487]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Regrettably, this amendment requires the Secretary to submit the proposed
standards to the Congress with the provision that they may be disapproved
by either House within 60 days.
As I indicated when I signed into law the Amtrak Improvement Act of 1975
on May 26, I am seriously concerned about the increasing frequency of passage
by Congress of legislation containing such provisions, which are an unconstitu-
tional exercise of Congressional power. At the same time, I believe it is entirely
proper for the Congress to request information and to be consulted on the op-
eration of Government programs.
I am therefore instructing the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
to treat this provision of H.R. 7710 simply as a request for information about
the proposed standards in advance of their promulgation. Accordingly, I have
asked the Secretary to report to the Congress at least 60 days in advance of the
date he intends to issue such standards to protect individuals' interests in child
support collection efforts.
When I approved the legislation establishing the new child support program
last January, I expressed my strong backing of its objectives. I reaffirm that
support now. However, at that time I also stated that some of the program's
provisions inject the Federal Government too deeply into domestic relations
and that others raise serious privacy and administrative issues. I pointed spe-
cifically to the provisions for use of the Federal courts and the tax collection
procedures of the Internal Revenue Service for the collection of child support,
the provisions imposing excessive audit requirements on the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, and the provisions establishing a parent locator
service with access to all Federal records.
Legislation which would have corrected these problems was recently passed
by the House of Representatives, but these corrective amendments were not
included in the bill I have just signed. I urge the Congress to enact such legis-
lation as soon as possible after the current recess, so the desirable objectives of
the child support program are not undermined by undue intrusion of the
Federal Government into people's personal lives.
NOTE: The statement was released at Vail, Colo. As enacted, H.R. 7710, approved August 9, 1975, is Pub-
lic Law 94-88 (89 Stat. 433).
1149
