September 4
[529]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
year ago—I spoke to the Midwest Republican Party organization in the State of
Illinois. They had all of the people from my part of the country there for one
of these get-togethers over a weekend, and I made a commitment then that in
1976 I thought the Presidential candidate ought to work with and not be sep-
arated from the national Republican organization and the respective State
organizations.
And I felt that such a commitment was not only right on a chart but it was
right if we were going to get and have available the kind of leadership that is
necessary in every State. I happen to think in Dave Green you have that kind of
leadership here in your great State, and therefore, I can assure you that I and
those that work with me will work with you in the State organizations, in the
national organization, in a Republican victory in 1976.
One of the characteristics that I have noticed about Dave is that he has a
feeling that we ought to, as a party, appeal to the independent voter. It is my
impression that this has paid off and will produce greater dividends in the
months ahead.
As a matter of fact, in your State you have sort of a tradition of independence.
If I might, I would like to make a specific appeal to them. I think it is important.
The independent voters, as I look at them and listen to them—they want a
sound and very prosperous national economy without recession or inflation and
so do we as Republicans.
The independent voters want jobs for those who can work and help for
those who cannot. We as Republicans believe precisely the same way.
The independent voter wants his country to achieve energy independence and
an environment of high quality. We as Republicans have that same thrust and
that same belief.
The independent voter wants a good education, good housing, good health
care, and good food for his family at prices that he can afford. We as Repub-
licans have an identical view.
The independent voter—and there are many of them, some in more States
than others—but in most States they are really the margin between victory
and defeat.
The independent voter wants the scales of justice to balance the rights of the
criminal defendant with the rights of a law-abiding society and so do we.
Our friends the independent voter wants America's national defense second
to none. They recognize, as we do, that this is the best way to ensure peace.
If I might say parenthetically at this point, within the last 24 or 48 hours, a
giant step, in my opinion, has been taken for peace with the successful negotia-
1325
