[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. How many here would urge that the Federal Government
bail out New York City? [Laughter] Here is one gentleman.
Well, New York is in terrible shape. Even after the indications that they were
going to straighten out their problems under a 3-year program, they are going
to have a deficit between income and outgo this year of $1 billion.
That is unbelievable. They won't get to a balanced budget even under this
program of austerity until 3 years from now. They are in a fiscal bind caused by
bad management for the last 10 or 12 years.
Now, Mayor Beame is not totally responsible for it. His predecessors were
contributors. They have got a tough problem. There is, at the present time—
and I see no prospect of any change, any Federal bailout.
We, I think, have to be cognizant of what might happen in financial markets.
Not only the banks in New York City but banks all over the country hold bonds
and paper from the city of New York.
But I think there are remedies within existing law that can ameliorate many
of those problems. I don't think that the Federal Government ought to step in
and, in effect, begin to manage the city of New York. I didn't recommend that
the State of New York move in, but they did, and now they may have com-
pounded the problem.
But nevertheless, I find little sentiment in the Congress—and obviously I
found very little here-[laughter]-for the Federal Government to come in and
bail out bad fiscal management over a period of time in the city of New York.
THE THIRD WORLD
[18.] Q. Mr. President, Beverly Evertt, representing the American Asso-
ciation of University Women.
I would like to shift gears, if I may, and get us a little bit into international
economics. I would like to ask, that of the demands, six or seven of them, made
by the Third World countries in regard to the new economic order, which do
you see as being of benefit both to the United States and to those nations? I
am speaking of the release of debt. I am speaking of the sovereignty over natural
resources, and that list of six or seven that has been brought out in the United
Nations of late.
THE PRESIDENT. Well of course, at the Seventh Special Session that took place
a month ago, Secretary Kissinger made a very broad speech in response to the
demands of the underdeveloped nations. They, of course, talk about a new
world order. We don't think their problems, the sale of their natural resources,
necessarily argue for a new world economic order. We would rather talk in
1580
