July 30
[456]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:18 p.m. at Seutula
Airport in response to remarks of welcome by Finn-
ish President Urho Kekkonen.
Later that evening, the President paid a courtesy
call on President Kekkonen at the President's Palace:
456
Exchange With Reporters in Helsinki Following a Meeting
With General Secretary L. I. Brezhnev of the Soviet Union.
July 30, 1975
REPORTER. Mr. Secretary, what were your talks about?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY. Our relations with America. You know, we have
different kinds of relations-commercial, political. We centered our attention on
the questions of strategic disarmament. We had very little time, so we had not
enough time to finish the talks. On the whole, our talks took place in a business-
like, friendly atmosphere.
Q. Mr. President, what were you talking with the General Secretary?
THE PRESIDENT. I felt the bilateral discussions, the discussions concerning
strategic arms limitation, the total atmosphere, was very constructive. It was busi-
nesslike, very friendly, and I am sure that when we meet again on Saturday,
further progress will materialize.
Q. Mr. General Secretary, you seem to be in an unusually good mood. Are
you pleased to see the Security Conference beginning today?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY. What do you think?
Q. What do you think this Conference will accomplish for the world?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY. What would you like it to accomplish, madam?
Q. I asked you the question. It is not fair to turn the question around.
THE GENERAL SECRETARY. I want peace and tranquillity to reign in Europe. I
want all the nations of Europe to live at peace with each other, not to interfere
in each other's domestic affairs where the sovereignty of each nation of Europe is
assured. Is that a little achievement?
Q. You think there will be no interference with borders after this?
THE GENERAL SECRETARY. I think so, yes.
Q. Mr. President, what are you wanting from this Helsinki Conference?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the peace in Europe will be enhanced. I believe
that the overall peace of the world will be encouraged and broadened, and it is
my judgment that progress will be the net result.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
1071
