August 4
[468]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
point is that we are never in doubt about the importance of common goals or
about our deep commitment to the continuity of friendly relations.
At this time, with the aims of the Conference on Security and Cooperation
in Europe so clearly in our thoughts, let us emphasize the mutuality and the
interdependence of our basic concerns for peace, security, and human progress
in the years to come.
In that spirit, I ask you to join me in a toast to President Tito, whose courage,
wisdom, and leadership have meant so much for Yugoslavia and the world, in
which his country has played such an important part.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 p.m. in the Federal Executive Council Building in response to a toast
by President Tito.
468
Remarks in Belgrade Following a Meeting With President
Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia.
Mr. President:
August 4, 1975
The talks that we have had for the last day have been too short, but we have
discussed in great detail some of the very major matters that both of our countries
are equally interested in.
We did discuss the bilateral relations between Yugoslavia and the United
States. That included, of course, our economic relationships. It did, of course,
include our military relationships. And in both instances, I indicated very firmly
that I would give both matters or problems my very personal attention because
of their significance.
We did discuss the results of the CSCE Conference in Helsinki. It was agreed
that this was a step forward, as both of us indicated in our speeches in Helsinki,
but that we had to produce progress if we were to justify the action. And when
we meet here in Belgrade 2 years from now, the success of Helsinki would be
proven by the actions that have been taken in the interim.
We did, of course, discuss the problems of the Middle East. I indicated that
the United States would continue its very vital interest in progress in the Middle
East. I stated very emphatically that a stalemate in the Middle East was unac-
ceptable. I indicated that moderation on the part of all parties was essential.
I also indicated that flexibility was necessary if we were to achieve the kind
of results that would avoid a potential, serious development, a catastrophe from
1103
