[645]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
both in our domestic programs as well as our defense, we are going to be faced
in a relatively short period of time in the history of this country with the same
problem that the city of New York faces today.
We have a different power than New York City has, that we can print
money, in effect, but that is not an honest decision or an honest course of action
for the American people or the country.
MR. BROOM. Mr. President, before we go to the final question, I would like
to give you the traditional gift that we give all of the proper speakers. It is a
National Press Club tie, and it is as close as we could get to the maize and blue
of Ann Arbor, and also with it goes a certificate from us for appreciation,
awarded in recognition of your appearance as guest speaker here today.
And now we have one final question: Do you think you will carry New York
City in the next election? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I will take my chances on New York City, because I think
there is a substantial number of people in New York City who have known
for a long period of time that their great city was being misled, and they are
now ripe for some straight answers, some straight talk. And I am confident
that we can solve the problem, and when we do it, and do it right, I think
I will have a friend or two in New York City.
MR. BROOM. Mr. President, we will get a chance for a reaction to that question
next Wednesday when Mayor Beame speaks to this audience.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:02 p.m. in the
National Press Club Ballroom at the National Press
Building. His remarks were broadcast live over the
Public Broadcasting Service radio network.
646
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Municipal Bankruptcy Legislation.
October 29, 1975
ENCLOSED for your consideration and appropriate reference is a legislative
proposal to amend the Bankruptcy Act to add a new Chapter XVI dealing
with the adjustment of debts of major municipalities.
This legislative recommendation is submitted because of the inadequacies of
Chapter IX of the current Bankruptcy Act in its application to the problems
of major municipalities. The attached draft legislative proposal would provide
a desirable alternative to Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Act.
A major concern of all of us is the need for meaningful action to bring into
1738
