[622]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
to take whatever hard choices they have to make, I think the next step is for a
State to assist, if they have to, in whatever legitimate way there is. I have still
the same reservations I had before that the Federal Government should police
the fiscal management of all of the cities in this country. I don't believe that we
should decide at Washington whether a city has run its fiscal affairs properly.
That is a role for the State governments, not a role for the Federal Government.
Q. You get some pretty big cities, though, that control an awful lot of money
and corporations having their headquarters in these cities. If they die, there is
going to be some problems.
THE PRESIDENT. There is no reason why they should die. Let's take the city of
New York. Their annual budget is roughly $12.2 billion. The Federal Govern-
ment today contributes $3,400 million to New York City's total revenue, roughly
25 percent. It would seem to me that a city with good management could find a
way to supply the rest of the revenue. And we do almost the same thing to most
cities. But in the case of New York, I know precisely what the facts are. And the
city has some responsibility. And if we start managing—what is it, 10,000 cities
throughout the country—I think that is the wrong role and responsibility for
the Federal Government. The people who vote in New York City ought to elect
the kind of people to public office who will handle their local taxes and the
money that comes from the Federal Government properly. And if they don't
elect those people, I don't see why that burden should fall on the other 200-and-
some million people all over the United States.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Barnes [Fred Barnes, Washington Star].
THE CONGRESS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, you have said several times that you don't intend to
make Congress the main target in your campaign for election in 1976, but
today your Press Secretary, Ron Nessen, said you are now referring to Congress
as the "Can't Do Congress," and that sounds very much like a campaign slogan
to me. And I wonder if you have changed your plans and now plan to make
Congress the whipping boy in your campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am just being objective about their record. [Laughter]
And I casually said at our meeting this morning with Mr. Nessen-we were
ticking off the things that Congress hasn't done—and I casually said, “That
sounds like a 'Can't Do Congress.'
What haven't they done? They haven't passed an energy program, and I
recommended it to them in January of 1975-9 months. They first said, "Give
1666
