[648]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
the information given me is accurate, that is the only case in any major pension
program throughout the United States for municipal employees. That is a very,
very generous program. And I think it has contributed significantly, and those
who participated have to be responsible.
Q. Including Mr. Rockefeller?
THE PRESIDENT. Anybody.
MR. KLEIN. Alan Smith.
Q. Mr. President, in response to Larry Moore's question a few moments ago,
you said that New York must practice budget balancing, budget austerity, by
raising taxes, cutting expenses, perhaps halting capital construction projects.
You have said that before.
However, there are those New Yorkers, and one, for example, Teachers Union
President Albert Shanker, who says that cuts imposed already by the State Con-
trol Board would eliminate another 50,000 city jobs in New York, and that over
a 2-year period several billions of dollars would be taken out of the New York
spending economy which could be used to help New York right itself. In
addition, he speaks of further cuts that you suggest, and he says this would be
counterproductive. Mr. Shanker contends that it would be a vicious circle, that
it would not bring New York out of its solvency, that New York does need Fed-
eral aid. What is your response to that?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, let me say the Federal Government does
contribute significantly right now on an annual basis to New York. New York
City's budget on an annual basis is roughly $12.2 billion a year. The Federal
Government contributes approximately 25 percent of it. So, the Federal Govern-
ment has been very generous with New York City. We have paid 25 percent of
the costs of running New York City today.
Now, that is pretty high. I happen to think that that generosity has been, in
many cases, misapplied by the responsible public officials in the city of New
York. A further bailout is not essential, providing the local people do the things
that are necessary.
Now, under the theory that was set forth by one or more of the gentlemen
you mentioned, under that theory, the more you spend over the long run, that
is the quickest way to get out of a problem. I have never known anybody in
private business or any family or any church or any government that followed
that theory that survived very well.
It sounds good, but in practicality each and every one of us know it neve
works. And the only way for New York City to straighten out its problems is
1752
