[668]
November 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
may be affected adversely by its tariff preferences for products of E.E.C.
countries.
For these reasons, Israel qualifies for the GSP under the terms of section
502(b)(3) of the Trade Act of 1974.
ROMANIA
In view of (a) the U.S.-Romanian Trade Relations Agreement, signed on
April 2, 1975, and entered into force on August 3, 1975, which granted non-
discriminatory tariff treatment to Romanian products (b) Romania's status as
a contracting party to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and its
membership in the International Monetary Fund, and (c) the repeated manifes-
tation of Romanian determination to pursue an independent foreign policy,
Romania, although a Communist country, fulfills the requirements for GSP eli-
gibility set forth in section 502(b)(1) of the Trade Act.
SOMALIA
Somalia is now taking steps to discharge its obligations under international
law with respect to an investment dispute which had the effect of a nationaliza-
tion, expropriation, or other seizure of U.S. property by Somalia. My Determi-
nation to this effect is set forth at Tab B. This Determination makes Somalia
eligible for GSP under the terms of section 502(b)(4) of the Trade Act.
TURKEY
Turkey also is taking steps to discharge its obligations under the international
law with respect to property questions in the Turkish-controlled area of Cyprus
which could be considered as nationalizations, expropriations, or seizures of
United States properties. My Determination at Tab B covers Turkey as well as
Somalia, so that Turkey also is eligible for GSP under section 504(b) (4) of the
Trade Act.
In addition, the tariff preferences that Turkey extends to the products of
members of the E.E.C. do not have, and are not likely to have, significant
adverse effects on United States commerce. This conclusion depends upon the
continuance by Turkey of certain key government decrees. The Government
of Turkey understands the importance of the maintenance of those decrees to
Turkey's continued eligibility for GSP, and has acknowledged the desirability of
1842
