September 3
[520]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Amended") be further amended. Opinion among interested persons and asso-
ciations is divided as to the desirability of making the required amendments. So
that this important legislative question may be considered in connection with
the question of ratification, proposed implementing legislation will be for-
warded to the Congress in the near future. Since the Treaty is not self-executing,
the instrument of ratification will not be deposited until the necessary imple-
menting legislation has been enacted.
It is important that a Treaty such as this one have the broadest possible mem-
bership. Since this Treaty was initiated by the United States, the interest of many
countries is contingent on positive United States action. I recommend, there-
fore, that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the Treaty sub-
mitted herewith and give its advice and consent to ratification.
The White House,
September 3, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The treaty and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive H (94th Cong., 1st Sess.).
520
Message to the Congress Transmitting Report on United States
Actions To Strengthen International Safeguards for Nuclear
Materials. September 3, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1974, I am submitting the fol-
lowing report concerning actions to be taken by the United States to strengthen
international procedures of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
to prevent the unauthorized dissemination or use of nuclear materials.
The Act requires that a reasonable amount of the funds authorized for the
IAEA as technical assistance should be used to improve such safeguards. The
$200,000 program outlined in this report in conjunction with other U.S. pro-
grams, will support the task of assessing, influencing and strengthening these
preventive procedures.
The White House,
September 3, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The seven-page report is entitled "Report by the President to the Congress on US Actions To
Strengthen IAEA Safeguards Procedures."
1291
