[540]
September 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
[Laughter] But I will leave that up to your own individual decision. The last
thing I would want to do is seek to influence it. [Laughter]
I recall very vividly the many opportunities I had to speak to the Jaycees in my
home area,
the opportunities from time to time that I had to get together with
the Jaycees at the State level, and of course, probably the greatest experience I
had was the opportunity to attend your meeting in San Diego in 1974. That was
a tremendous convention, and I thank you all for the very warm welcome that
I had on that occasion.
I think you can see from the words that I have said that I have great affection
and admiration for the Jaycees, and I have had it, I have it now, and I wish you
well in the future.
And if you would like, we have got a few extra minutes this morning. If you
would like to come through the Oval Office, we would be very honored if you
would do so, and perhaps we can take individual pictures at that time.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:07 a.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House to a group of
Jaycee State presidents and executive committee
541
chairmen. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Richard L. Robinson, of Lake Orion, Mich., na-
tional president of the United States Jaycees.
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on
Budget Deferrals. September 10, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
three new deferrals totalling $50.3 million in 1976 budget authority. In addition,
I am transmitting two supplementary reports revising information provided in
earlier deferrals. Only one of these supplementary reports reflects an increase—
$19.2 million—to the amount of outlays previously deferred. The five reports in-
volve the Departments of Agriculture, Treasury, and Health, Education, and
Welfare.
All of the items contained in this message are routine in nature and do not
significantly affect program levels. The details of each deferral are contained in
the attached reports.
The White House,
September 10, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of September 15, 1975
(40 FR 42696).
1360
