December 17
[730]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
pensation for your report of the Panel's recommendations. All of you are to be
commended for the tremendous effort you put into this study.
Your assessment of the current Federal Compensation System is very impor-
tant and timely. It provides the Administration with a valuable tool to improve
the Federal pay system so that it is equitable and fair to both Government
employees and the American public.
Once again, thank you for a job well done.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Nelson A. Rockefeller, The Vice President of the United States, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to The Presi-
dent of the President's Panel on Federal Compensa-
tion-December 1975" (Government Printing Office,
44 pp.).
730
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Convention for the
Conservation of Antarctic Seals.
To the Senate of the United States:
December 17, 1975
I am pleased to transmit for the Senate's advice and consent to ratification
the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals, with Annex, done at
London June 1, 1972. I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the
report of the Department of State with respect to the Convention.
Though commercial sealing has not yet started in the water and on the sea
ice in Antarctica, this Convention provides some valuable protection for seals
of that region. It prohibits entirely the commercial taking of three species of
Antarctic seals and sets conservative limits on the taking of three other species.
It prohibits sealing in the water, except in limited quantities for scientific re-
search. It sets aside reserves where no sealing can take place and forbids sealing
entirely during six months of the year. More importantly, it sets up the machin-
ery to give the necessary warning when catch limits are being approached. It
obligates the Parties at that point to prevent further sealing by their nationals
and vessels. Provision is also made for adoption of additional controls, including
an effective system of inspection, if commercial sealing starts in the area. There
is nothing in the Convention to prevent a Party from adopting for its nationals
and vessels more stringent controls than provided in the Convention. The United
States has done this in the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972. While that
legislation is in effect, and until the Parties decide to adopt controls and inspec-
1971
