August 2
[461]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
OIL PRICES
[17.] Q. Mr. President, do you think that with American price controls
running out on oil September 1, should you go ahead and veto the plan, that it
will have any effect on the OPEC's oil-pricing plans for this fall?
The President. My judgment is no. I have been assured by my economic
advisers that the decontrol that Congress is forcing on me because they won't
accept a reasonable compromise—not one but two—that there will be no serious
economic price rise consequences.
Q. Are you talking about petroleum in America, or are you talking about
worldwide oil prices?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we really don't know what OPEC is going to do. They
have got a great oversupply. They had a tremendous increase in price. We hope
that through the IEA and the joint consumer-producer negotiations that there
can be a responsible action both as to the producers as well as the consumers.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began at 2:31 p.m., Helsinki time.
461
Remarks on Arrival at Bucharest, Romania.
August 2, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Ceausescu, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Ford, our son Jack, and I are highly honored and greatly pleased to visit
Romania. We are especially pleased to be in this unique land so rich in history,
with such a great natural beauty and such a proud and independent people.
As you may recall, Mr. President, I met with a splendid group of young
Romanians in the White House several months ago.¹ I found them to be excel-
lent and outstanding ambassadors of friendship between our two countries.
Mr. President, let us assure coming generations a more normal, relaxed, and
peaceful world. We must find ways to increase real and direct cooperation
among all peoples.
Among the principles we both cherish is the right of every nation to independ-
ence and sovereignty. We believe that every nation has the right to its own peace-
¹On March 24, 1975, the President met at the White House with a choral group from Romania. The
group's visit to the United States was sponsored by the Friendship Ambassadors touristic and cultural
exchange program.
1089
