August 6
[475]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Far East and is an indispensable element of the basic international political
structure in Asia, and that the continued maintenance of the Treaty serves the
long-term interests of both countries. Further, they recognized that the United
States nuclear deterrent is an important contributor to the security of Japan. In
this connection, the President reassured the Prime Minister that the United
States would continue to abide by its defense commitment to Japan under the
Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security in the event of armed attack against
Japan, whether by nuclear or conventional forces. The Prime Minister stated
that Japan would continue to carry out its obligations under the Treaty. The
Prime Minister and the President recognized the desirability of still closer con-
sultations for the smooth and effective implementation of the Treaty. They
agreed that the authorities concerned of the two countries would conduct con-
sultations within the framework of the Security Consultative Committee on
measures to be taken in cooperation by the two countries.
5. The Prime Minister and the President discussed various international issues
of common concern. The President noted that the United States would continue
to seek an early conclusion to negotiations of the second agreement between the
United States and the Soviet Union on the limitation of strategic arms. The
Prime Minister and the President expressed their strong hope that prompt
progress be made through current efforts toward a peaceful settlement in the
Middle East.
6. The Prime Minister and the President expressed their concern over the
recent trend toward nuclear proliferation in the world, and agreed that Japan
and the United States should participate positively in international efforts for
the prevention of nuclear proliferation and the development of adequate safe-
guards. They emphasized that all nuclear-weapon states should contribute con-
structively in the areas of nuclear arms limitation, the security of non-nuclear
weapon states, and the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The Prime
Minister expressed his intention to proceed with the necessary steps to bring
about Japan's ratification of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty at the earliest
possible opportunity.
7. In light of the increasing economic interdependence of the nations of the
world, the Prime Minister and the President agreed that Japan and the United
States share a special responsibility toward the development of a stable and
balanced world economy. They agreed that the two countries would work in
close consultation toward the resolution in a manner beneficial to all nations
of problems relating to the general condition of the world economy, interna-
tional finance, trade, energy, and cooperation between developed and developing
1115
