November 11
[670]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
While I am President, the fate and the future of America will not be left to
undependable foreign sources of energy. I promise you that.
In the next 25 to 50 years, oil and gas-constituting more than two-thirds
of the fuel we now use-may be far too costly to burn at any price. But our
national coal reserves have more potential and are more precious to our future
and your children's futures than all the Middle East reserves of fuel and all
the fuel throughout this vast globe.
The United States cannot and will not base its national destiny on energy
that belongs to other nations. That is not our national future. To do so would
be national folly. We can and we must develop our own national energy
resources, without despoiling the environment. Improved mining technology
can ensure safe and environmentally sound production of coal. We can and we
must technologically learn how to burn coal directly without producing en-
vironmental damage.
We do not have a shortage of resources. We do have a shortage of usable
energy and a shortage of determination in the Congress to act because the
development of an energy program involves politically difficult decisions. But
the Congress must carry out its responsibilities in this vitally important area.
I like to put it this way: We can produce American energy with American
money, an American work force, and an American technology for an American
future. And shouldn't that be our aim and objective? That is what we want and
that is what we have to get.
As I said earlier, the world, the whole world is watching to see how we
respond. Economically, we are on the road to recovery. In energy, we are still
at a standstill. The choice is up to Congress-to stand still in energy, to retreat
from responsibility and reality, to threaten our economic recovery, or to move
forward with legislation that will produce energy and economic stability for
America.
I happen to believe that the American people want, as they always have,
responsiblity and reality. We in the Republican Party are prepared to provide it.
And we welcome all comers to our fold who believe, as we do, that we can and
will provide this Nation with strength at home and abroad.
From my travels across America—and I have been in quite a few States;
Arch knows how many States I visited for 10 years when I was the minority
leader, and have done a little in the interim-but from my travels across
America, I am convinced of this: The Republican Party is in tune with the
hopes and the aspirations of the American people, with their desires, with their
wants, and most importantly, their hopes for themselves and their children.
1849
