[587]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
From a Latin American point of view, the new
Trade Act of the United States is not without short-
comings, among other reasons, because of the dis-
criminatory treatment given to Ecuador and Vene-
zuela. Nevertheless, it contains positive provisions
that favor a lowering of tariffs which should benefit
the developing countries. Let's hope that it will be
implemented in the spirit of liberalization of trade
rather than that of narrow-minded protectionism.
Colombia has applied for membership to the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and hopes,
also, that these negotiations will provide a new
scope for our foreign trade. Not in vain did we
treble our sales of goods and services to the world
in the last 5 years through the diversification of our
own exports and widening of markets for Colom-
bian products in Latin America, Europe, and the
United States.
Although I am not here as a spokesman for other
Latin American nations, this is an appropriate oc-
casion to underline some of the conclusions which
we have reached at so-called summit meetings
among neighboring countries and add a few of my
own vintage.
In the past, the relationship between our two
subcontinents has tended to reflect an American
campaign slogan or a unilateral definition of policy
suitable perhaps for domestic political purposes, but
totally unrelated to Latin American aspirations.
Neither "the big stick," nor "the good neighbor,"
nor "the low profile," nor "the benign neglect"
satisfy us because of their one-sided connotation.
What is required is a new relationship between the
United States and Latin America jointly formulated
by both parties according to their needs and
aspirations.
For this we already have a forum at the Organiza-
tion of American States and an organization to pre-
sent coherently our common points of view
through the recently established Latin American
Economic System, SELA.
We are convinced that a nation which, through
the years, has been capable of organizing the
American Union, starting with States so dissimilar in
their origin as were the Thirteen Colonies and late-
comers such as Hawaii and Alaska, must have an
equal capacity to conciliate with the inter-American
system, a community of forces, without disregarding
the particular features of each State and their free-
dom to select their own economic structure.
It would be a tragedy for our continent that
while Europe is creating instruments of economic
cooperation that don't imply political obligations,
such as the Lomé Convention, we should still
stumble on the same difficulties, or perhaps more
1 Signed in Lomé, Togo, February 28, 1975, by
representatives of 56 countries to facilitate economic
cooperation.
serious ones than those we encountered 40 or 60
years ago.
This is the reason why Colombia sponsored the
lifting of the embargo against Cuba, regardless of
our ideological differences. The record of failures
of this type of measure is still fresh in our minds-
Ethiopia, Spain, Rhodesia, and others-while we
cannot recall any example which has been successful.
In the case of Cuba, where the sanctions were not
applied, neither by European nations nor by some
countries of this hemisphere, we would have been
fooling ourselves if we pretended to continue be-
lieving in their effectiveness when the United States
itself was allowing its multinational corporations-
located in countries which were not pledged to
sanctions to supply the Caribbean island with the
capital and the know-how for products which we
ourselves were already producing.
It has been a realistic step on the part of Presi-
dent Ford's Administration to adopt its own line of
conduct towards Cuba, while abstaining from the
attempt to influence the decision of others on this
matter.
A treaty that binds Colombia and the United
States guarantees free passage through the Panama
Canal to the warships and supply vessels of our
Navy. We don't overstep any boundaries when we
raise the issue of the isthmus here or elsewhere.
Colombia has a vital interest in the area based on
geographical as well as historical considerations,
which have been recognized both by the United
States and by Panama.
Taking a long-term view, we consider the canal
question as something of continental and worldwide
interest. The far-reaching policy of understanding
at the hemispheric level cannot survive if perma-
nently jeopardized by transit incidents, military
maneuvers of one side or the other, student protests,
and symbolic gestures that could very well one day
start a bonfire in the continent.
With due respect for the position of the United
States, it is necessary to recognize realistically and
impartially that the considerations that prevailed at
the beginning of this century are irrelevant in 1975.
The preservation of unjust situations can never
be our ideal. We are conscious of the spirit which
moves the American Government to remove causes
of friction. In 1972 we reached an agreement con-
cerning the Roncador and Quita Sueño and Serrana
outcroppings in the Caribbean, thus putting an end
to the modus vivendi established between the
United States and Colombia in 1928.
Recently Under Secretary of State Rogers has
insisted before the United States Senate on the rati-
fication of this treaty. If the intention is to terminate
this modus vivendi-admitting that reason assisted
Colombia, owners of Spanish titles, before the argu-
ment of a so-called exploitation of guano invoked
during the American Civil War-we cannot see the
1528
