[496]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I support the concept of public service for the Postal
Service, I support the concept. When I was in the Congress, we voted to move
the Post Office Department to the Postal Service, and we set up a 10-year—or a
5-year span, as I recollect—for the transition from a non-self-supporting Postal
Department to a self-supporting Postal Service.
And in the interim, the Congress, at the recommendation of the President,
would recommend about, as I recall, $400 million a year for this public service.
Now, the second- and third-class mail users came in-I think it was last year-
and asked for an extension from the 5-year transition period to the 10-year
transition period. And as I recall, I approved that bill. I know I voted for it.
So, we have been understanding of your problem, and Congress this year is
being asked to recommend, as I recall, roughly about $900 million to give public
service support to the Postal Service. And part of this has come because we have
extended the timespan from 5 to 10 years.
I believe in the public service concept, but I cannot in good conscience, without
reading the fine print, endorse that bill you are talking about.
RACE RELATIONS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, my name is John Gwynn, the local and State presi-
dent of NAACP. My concern is the enforcement of the Federal laws that exist
as they relate to race relations. Since race relations remain the single overriding
issue in America, and since we have laws dating back to the 14th amendment,
the 1954 Supreme Court decision, the 1964 Civil Rights Act-these are some of
the laws that exist, with others—we are asking, Mr. President, what are you
going to do to make sure these laws are enforced with all deliberate speed?
Again, I would like to state that we feel that race relations is being pushed under
the rug.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, in the first place, I just appointed an outstanding
person in Lowell Perry to be the head of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Administration (Commission). Lowell Perry is a first-class person to do that
job, and I can assure you that in that position, Lowell Perry will make certain
that the rights of blacks and other minorities are fully protected.
Let me give you another illustration. I respectfully disagree with your view
that race relations are being pushed under the rug by this Administration. I
recommended the extension of the existing voting rights legislation, and
my Administration pushed, in the House as well as in the Senate, to get that
reenacted.
Chuck Percy, sitting here, knows very well how delicate that situation be-
1194
