September 12
[553]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of all—the concept of our spiritual destiny. The world's and this Nation's great-
est problems can be solved only by sincere changes of the will and human heart.
The future of America is not so much based on how much energy and steel
we can produce—although these are, of course, vital to our existence-but the
future of America is based on the rights and responsibilities that we as indi-
vidual citizens are willing to commit to others and accept ourselves.
We speak of the common man and woman in America. This is a great and
noble thought, for it conveys the dignity of the individual citizen. But I offer you
here today a greater and nobler goal for which to strive: the communion of
Americans, the coming together to face a common destiny as one people, one
nation dedicated not only to the preservation but to the extension of that unity.
The American experience has been that competition in all walks of our na-
tional life strengthens our country. As a people, we believe in competition.
Today, as never before, blacks are competing in our society, and America is
better for it. This is the American dream fulfilled.
Many of our problems of modern living cannot be dealt with through legis-
lation, through government money. They can only be solved within the home,
within the community, and within the private enterprise system where compe-
tition is so important. That is where each of you comes in, for you represent the
vast majority of blacks in this country who support your family, educate your
children, pay your taxes, cast your votes, and support your church.
Those of you here are teaching all of us in America a very great lesson; that is,
the problems of human rights are not so much burdens to carry as they are
avenues to achievement. The end of the journey is not so important as the fact
that we are on the right road.
Every citizen has a right to the means necessary for the development of his
material and spiritual life. That same citizen-every citizen-has the responsi-
bility to promote the good of society as a member of it. All Americans-I
repeat, all Americans—must be free, and those who enjoy freedom must give
freedom to others.
No declaration of human rights has ever surpassed the Golden Rule. It is
our job, yours and mine, to live the Golden Rule and thus fortify the declara-
tion of human rights.
The world has many roads to accomplishment. Most of them are neither high
nor low. They are middle roads. I believe the middle road, avoiding the ex-
tremes, is America's surest path to continued achievement.
Let us, therefore, go forward together to build a new and better America.
Let us not look back, because we cannot change the old. Instead, let us look to
1387
