September 4
[530]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But the Revolution and its aftermath could have been a temporary footnote
in the chronicle of its day without the unsung, unnamed Americans who made
it permanent and imprinted its achievements indelibly in history.
Before the Revolution, the first English settlers dreamed of a better life and
more freedom. They matched that glorious dream with a willingness to cross an
ocean and civilize a wilderness.
This beautiful Pacific Northwest was settled by this same brand of courageous
pioneers who carried the concept of self-government and faith in individual
freedom into each new settlement and each new State.
Although today we are the world's oldest republic, we are still a very young
country. Our past truly is close to us. And although we may not recognize the
names of ancestors who made this Nation possible, we can see their deeds and
their legacy everywhere, a firmly established free system of government and
the most productive nation in the history of the world.
In 1876, at the Centennial exposition in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, America
celebrated the wonders of an age just dawning, the shiftover from a rural to an
industrial society.
The first bicycle was on display at the 1876 exposition. We can wonder today
which of our modern inventions will prove historical. In the years before the
end of the 19th century, there was an explosion of ideas and inventions: the
automobile, the electric light, and the telephone.
Just as the American Revolution required followers and believers, so did our
Industrial Revolution. Without the people who invested in the inventions and
put them into use, we would all have arrived here tonight in a horse-drawn
buggy.
The Wright brothers made history at Kitty Hawk, but the first passengers
to ride in a plane made history, too. The believers—the believers who were not
afraid of the new and untried made the age of flight just as surely as did the men
who built those first rickety flying machines.
You are growing up, I say to all of you, with a depth of conviction. You are
growing up in an age of space travel and worldwide communications. And
the world in which your children will live may be as wondrously strange as the
world is to your grandparents today.
As I look over this wonderful audience, at you who will lead America in
the 21st century, I urge you to look to the past for inspiration, but within your-
selves individually for courage, and to the future for challenge.
Many, many years ago, a Sunday school teacher taught me that the beauty
1329
