[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
has developed. Mr. President, will you ask the CEQ to make their findings
known to the public on this and other similar projects?
THE PRESIDENT. I am generally familiar with that project. I will find out the
details from Governor Peterson and his associates at CEQ. I would certainly
consult with him as to whether or not those findings by him should be made
public.
I don't think it is appropriate for me to make a commitment at this time.
Their procedures, I would assume, would call for such documentation being
made public, but I think it is the better judgment for me to consult with him
and his associates before making any categorical commitment.
I can assure you that whether they are made public or not, they will be made
available to the proper authorities within the Government, and they will be
considered by all of those who have a responsibility in making the final
decision.
I think we have to incorporate in any decisionmaking process whatever EPA
or CEQ or the Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior, the Bureau of
Reclamation, the Forest Service, and others ought to have an input, but at some
point somebody has to make a decision.
As long as the flow of information is free and those who have that responsi-
bility analyze it all, there has to be a cutoff point, and once that process has
been concluded—and I think in this case it will-then we either proceed or
don't proceed, dependent upon what a responsible official decides.
DOMESTIC INTERNATIONAL SALES CORPORATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am Roger Guyot, president of the World Trade
Club of St. Louis. We are concerned regarding the trend towards reduction
and elimination of assistance to Midwest business firms engaged in international
trade. Specifically, we believe the case for the Domestic International Sales Cor-
poration, otherwise known as DISC-this as an incentive is as important now
as it was in 1971. U.S. companies need a tax stimulus to compete on equal terms
with the foreign governments who subsidize their producers and their industries.
Would you comment, please?
THE PRESIDENT. I was in the Congress in 1971 and voted for the legislation
that incorporated DISC. I believe DISC is just as important today as it was then.
It helped to expand our trade at that time. I think it can be beneficial in expand-
ing trade at the present time, giving incentives for the expansion of our trade.
I would hope the Congress in its deliberations would not rescind the legislation.
This Administration will not recommend the abolition of the DISC program.
1394
