November 3
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in New York City. And I think the actions of the last 3 or 4 days verify that
correct assumption.
SENATOR HUGH SCOTT
[21.] Q. Mr. President, there are persistent reports that Hugh Scott is under
consideration for appointment to Peking. Can you say if you are thinking about
him?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said a moment ago, we haven't thought about replace-
ments for George Bush and Elliot Richardson. I can say this, that Hugh Scott
is a great student of Chinese culture and history. He has been to China on a
number of occasions. But I have not had an opportunity to focus in on the
replacement for Mr. Bush.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[22.] Q. Mr. President, did Vice President Rockefeller decide to step aside
either because of differing views with you over the New York financial situa-
tion or to give you a greater degree of maneuverability as you move politically
toward the nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. Our differences over the handling of New York City are
minimal, as I said once before. The difference is his interpretation of what
might be the money market reaction if and when New York City defaults.
Those differences are a matter of judgment. Certainly he did not take the action
that he did because of that difference.
I think the letter speaks for itself and I greatly respect his judgment in all
matters. And I have been proud to have him on the team, and he will continue
to do a first-class job in many important responsibilities.
Q. Mr. President, does that mean, sir, that he did decide to step aside in order
to give you a greater degree of maneuverability? The letter does not explain
why he decided to step aside.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that he will have to answer that. I think the letter in
effect answers your question. But if you want to pursue it further, you should
do it with him.
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[23.] Q. Mr. President, we were told this morning after your meeting with
Mr. Rockefeller that you were in an exceptionally good mood. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I have been in a good mood all day.
Q. I suggest perhaps a feeling of relief. I wonder if you could tell us in your
own words what your feelings are now and were then?
1801
