October 30
[649]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
return to the Congress with specific proposals for these programs as soon as
possible.
The review of security assistance programs now has been completed and my
revisions to the draft legislation are being transmitted today. My initial legisla-
tive proposal was printed in the House of Representatives as House Document
No. 94-158 and was introduced in the Senate as S. 1816. The revisions trans-
mitted with this message will supersede sections 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17 and 18
of that proposal.
The world is different and far more complex than the world we knew in the
1950's. So are the problems confronting it. However, the United States Govern-
ment still has a primary responsibility to take the lead in creating conditions
which will insure justice, international cooperation and enduring peace. The
program of security assistance I am transmitting today will contribute sig-
nificantly toward meeting this responsibility.
PEACE IN THE MIDDLE EAST
Nothing so underscores how essential the American peacekeeping role is than
our current efforts in the Middle East. Since the October 1973 War, our Middle
East policy has been based on the following three principles.
—First, a firm resolution to work for a just and lasting settlement of the
Arab-Israeli conflict taking into account the legitimate interests of all states and
peoples in the area, including the Palestinians.
-Second, a commitment to the improvement of our relations with all the
states of the Middle East on a bilateral basis, maintaining our support for
Israel's security while strengthening our relations with the Arab countries.
—Third, continued dedication to avoiding great power confrontation in the
Middle East.
The October 1973 War was the fourth, and most devastating, round of hos-
tilities between Arab and Israeli forces. Moreover, the impact of this last
collision between opposing forces was not confined to the Middle East. The
spectre of armed confrontation between the United States and the Soviet Union
hung over the crisis. Disruption of the economies of Western Europe, Japan and
other nations was an important by-product of the conflict. In addition, the
likelihood existed that the period immediately after October 1973 would merely
represent a pause between the fourth and fifth rounds of conflict.
The quest for peace in the area was of the highest priority. Our most imme-
diate objective was to encourage the disengagement of the contending military
1757
