[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
can tighten up the control and at the same time give to the President and other
people who have an interest the information on foreign intelligence which is so
essential to our national security. You have to balance the two, and that is a very
fine line. And I think we can do it. We are certainly going to try.
MR. DUKE. The Attorney General, Mr. Levi, in reading the material which
you sent over from the White House which has not been released to the public
about CIA activities, said he was appalled by some of the things he read. Were
you appalled?
THE PRESIDENT. I think some of the things were improper, but I must say,
Paul, people can judge what others have done and unfortunately sometimes
don't put themselves in the position of a previous President or put themselves in
the position of a previous Secretary of Defense. I think we can recognize the
areas of mistake, but I don't like to be a Monday-morning quarterback. I think
we ought to deal with the facts and we ought to deal with what we should do
in the future and learn from the past, and I think we can correct these things.
MR. AGRONSKY. What we learned from the past, even despite your dislike of
being a Monday-morning quarterback, is that your predecessors accepted pro-
posals which called for the assassination of a foreign chief of state, for one thing,
and brought about the overturn of a government in Chile, for another thing.
THE PRESIDENT. Martin, I am not going to pass judgment on whether there
was an order or wasn't an order about assassination. I have said categorically
this is an era that is past. I don't want to point a finger at any other President
or Presidents.
I have looked at all of the material. We have given the material to the Church
committee, and it is their obligation to, I think, analyze it but not do any
finger-pointing.
Now, the CIA has two kinds of operations-one covert and the other overt.
Their covert operations, under the procedures we have under this Administra-
tion, are carefully monitored—carefully monitored, and I can assure you that
every one that is done is in the national interest of the United States.
MR. AGRONSKY. But your predecessors might well have thought the same
thing. The concern is the use of the CIA covertly, if you like, as an instrument of
policy and foreign policy by your predecessors.
THE PRESIDENT. Martin, I think we have to understand we live in a real
world. Every nation, either a friend or an adversary, has a comparable intelli-
gence-gathering, intelligence-operating organization in their government. And
they do it for their own national security.
Now, the United States has to compete in this real world. It's a tough world,
1130
