[461]
August 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
ful existence without being threatened by force, and we believe that all states are
equal under law regardless of size, system, or level of development.
Principles such as these are included in the document we signed in Helsinki.
We have both worked hard, Mr. President, and we must continue to devote our
efforts to making all of these principles a reality in international life in this spirit.
I look forward to our discussions on the international problems that concern us
both.
Our bilateral relations are good, Mr. President. I am very pleased that our
Congress has approved the U.S.-Romanian trade agreement. This creates new
opportunities, particularly in the mutually beneficial commercial and economic
field. I am confident that we can continue to improve our relations in many,
many other areas as well.
Mr. President, I know that our discussions will be very productive during my
stay in your country. As during your visit to Washington in June, our goal will
be to seek closer cooperation between Romania and the United States. I look
forward to our talks that we will have in the hours ahead.
On behalf of the American people, I bring to you and your family, and the
Romanian people, warm, warm greetings and the very best wishes for peace and
prosperity.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 4:30
p.m. at Otopeni Airport in response to remarks of
welcome by Romanian President Nicolae Ceausescu.
President Ceausescu spoke in Romanian. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Dear Mr. President of the United States of America,
dear Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen, dear com-
rades, and friends:
It is with great joy that I and my wife, all of us,
have you as our guests, and address to you, Mr.
President, and Mrs. Elizabeth Ford, as well as to
your associates, our warm greetings and to extend to
you our traditional bidding of welcome on the soil
of the Socialist Republic of Romania.
I wish to make a particular note with satisfaction
of the outward course taken by the Romanian-
American relations of the fact that in the last few
years, the economic exchanges have gone up strongly,
that technical-scientific cooperation has been intensi-
fied, as well as the cultural and other exchanges be-
tween our two countries.
The very fact of your visit to Romania is, in my
opinion, an eloquent expression of these relations, of
the desire evinced by the Romanian and the
American peoples to work more and more closely
together in the mutual interest, as well as in the
interests of their course of understanding, cooper-
ation, and peace among all nations.
You are coming to Romania just a day after the
successful conclusion of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. Thus, your visit is a
wonderful part of the spirit which permeates the
documents that we have signed together yesterday
in Helsinki, and whereby we have asserted our com-
mon will on behalf of our peoples to develop co-
operation on the principles of fully equal rights,
respect for the independence, sovereignty of each
nation, noninterference in internal affairs, and the
renunciation of force and threat with the use of
force in the settlement of problems between States.
As we have mentioned in the statement in
Helsinki, in order to convey into real fact whatever
we have agreed in the signed documents, sustained
efforts are required in order to insure our peoples
and the peoples of the world at large a better world
and a world with more justice, in order to proceed
in such a way as to insure that children and man-
kind in general will never know the disasters of war
and would live in peace and friendship.
During your brief visit to this country, you will
have an opportunity, Mr. President, to get to know
the present-day interests and some of the achieve-
ments of the Romanian people on the way of build-
ing a new life of well-being and habit.
You will be able, sir, to understand better the
desire of the people of Romania to cooperate with
the American people and to work together with all
1090
