[581]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
nicians in the U.N. buffer zone plus the prospects of substantial economic and
military aid to the State of Israel and, to some extent, the same to the State of
Egypt.
to get
Let me say that, as we analyze the alternatives-and the alternatives were
simply two—if we did not play a meaningful role in what we have recom-
mended to the Congress, it would be my judgment that the stalemate in the
Middle East would continue with all of the potential volatility, increasing ten-
sions, and the high likelihood of another military conflict. And each one seems
bloodier and bloodier and more costly. That was one alternative.
The other choice was to do what we have recommended to the Congress. I
believe it is a good investment in momentum and a long-range possibility of an
equitable and secure peace in the Middle East. I believe that it is a way in which
we can participate in a fair and proper way to achieve the momentum and to
hopefully avoid a conflict. And in balancing the difficult choices, the decision
by myself, and with Secretary Kissinger, was that this is a better course of action.
And may I say that it is going to be costly, but the general figures used are
somewhere between $2 billion to $2.3 billion for economic and military assist-
ance for the State of Israel.
I only point out that earlier this year at the time that I was conducting the
reassessment of our Mideast policy, I received a letter signed by 76 Senators
asking me to make certain that I recommended $2,600 million for Israel without
any participation by Israel in the negotiations with Egypt.
So, going by what 76 Senators felt was a proposal of some magnitude in
money, I believe the decision to work with Israel and Egypt to achieve peace—
and I think it is a good, solid program—it is a better investment than more
money being spent, as 76 Senators requested us to do, without any program
for momentum of peace in the Middle East. I think it is a good gamble for peace.
The other would be a very difficult potential problem of a high likelihood of
war. So, I think it is the right action, and I hope the Congress promptly and
overwhelmingly approves, number one, the 200 technicians to serve in the U.N.
buffer zone, and also the necessary amount, which, of course, the Congress can
decide. But I think it is a good gamble for peace, and I hope the Congress
responds.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[3.] Q. My name is Robert Gomperts, and I am a member of the trustees
of the World Affairs Council of Northern California. In a few months' time
you are scheduled to travel to Peking, and at the moment there is one over-
1500
