October 4
[612]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Party in the State of New Jersey. And with all the conviction that I can give, I
say it must be done if we are to achieve the principles for which we stand.
I think you have to concentrate on beating Democrats, not discrediting Repub-
licans. That is the way to win elections, and to finish second best in this league
doesn't pay off very much.
What are some of the principles that I think all of us believe in, whether we
are in one part of the Republican spectrum or another? Fortunately, I believe
very sincerely that most Americans—the Independents, certainly, and a good
many discerning Democrats—have the same views that we have. They want
fiscal restraint and responsibility by your Federal Government. They want
unnecessary regulations, limitations removed from our free enterprise system so
that the individual or the collective judgment of people to make our country
better for all of us can move ahead.
The heavy hand and the overwhelming burden of the Federal Government
in too many instances hurts rather than helps. And so we must work together
to lift this unnecessary, uneconomical, inefficient, heavy hand of the Federal
Government.
But let me say, in addition, we have an objective of making Uncle Sam live
within its means. And this requires restraint and responsibility on how your
Federal Government spends your money.
I think most Americans believe that we have wasted too much, we have spent
things in the wrong way, and we have to husband our resources in Washington,
like you try to do it in your home or your church or your school.
If we do, it is my judgment that we can attract many, many others in our
society who have the same reaction to the problems that we face and they face.
You know our basic philosophy can be attributed to a great statesman of another
era. And even though it was better than 100 years ago, those principles espoused
by Abraham Lincoln are equally applicable today.
Let me quote from Abe Lincoln, over 100 years ago. It has a sound and respon-
sible ring today. He said: "The legitimate object of government is to do for a
community of people whatever they need to have done but cannot do at all or
cannot do so well for themselves in their separate and individual capacities."
That is the responsibility of government—to free the individual and to let
government take over if that individual or those associated with him cannot
accomplish it for the common good.
Let me take, for just a moment, a specific issue that we face in this country
today—the problem of energy, which demands Federal action, basically, if we
are to solve the problem.
1597
