August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I, of course, deny that this Administration, the Ford
Administration, is in any way whatsoever connected with Watergate. The Ford
Administration is going to be known, in my judgment, for a successful imple-
mentation of economic policy that will provide jobs in the private sector in the
long run and in foreign policy will expand our efforts for peace throughout the
world. That is what this Administration will stand for. I think those are good
things for an administration to be remembered over the years.
MR. AGRONSKY. If you achieve them.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the record is going to be good, and I think right now
the public, if you look at the polls, is beginning to perceive that.
The polls show that, on a personal basis, I am doing much better. It is not as
high as I would like, but not many people in public life are doing very well
in the polls.
MR. DUKE. But also, Mr. President, the polls show that only 7 of 100 Amer-
icans—by one pollster who happens to be from your home State, Robert Teeter-
that only 7 of 100 Americans today regard themselves as strict Republicans. I
think this relates additionally to the fact that rightly or wrongly, many Mem-
bers of Congress and elsewhere, your critics, detect a negative quality about
your leadership. And doesn't that do damage perhaps to your own Presidency
and to the Republican Party?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me quote, if I might, some other statistics. Most
polls that are taken today indicate that a majority of Americans are in the middle
of the road or conservative. Now they don't label themselves as Democrats or
Republicans. They are talking about a philosophy. And maybe labels today are
not the right way to identify people's views, whether it is Democrat or Repub-
lican. I believe the American people want a healthy economy, a firm and suc-
cessful foreign policy. That is what we are going to give them, and that is what
we are giving them at the present time.
MR. DUKE. When you talk about a healthy economy, Mr. President, there
are other problems as well. What do we do about the rising cost of medical
care, what do we do about the 12 percent of the population which Martin
referred to which is now at the poverty level in this country? What do we do
about the enormous problems of the cities which seem to be accelerating?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let us take the last one first. I think the cities have to
recognize that they have a responsibility in the fiscal area as well. The Federal
Government has done a substantial amount for cities through the general rev-
enue sharing program, through a multitude of categorical grant programs. The
1125
