September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT
[14.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Arthur Stoup. I am the president of
the Missouri Bar. The Bar has noted with growing distress the incursion of
the Federal bureaucracy and, at times, the Congress into matters of property
rights and individual freedoms which by constitutional intent or by custom
the States have in the past determined for their citizens.
Mr. President, could not this Administration use its considerable influence in
directing Federal agencies and requesting the Congress to recede from a policy
of expanding the Federal role in these matters and permit the States and local
communities to decide what is best and what is needed for their citizens?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly think we should, and we are trying to do that. One
of the pieces of legislation which was enacted 3½ years ago fits into that precise
philosophy you are talking about very properly. It is called general revenue
sharing, where roughly $6 billion a year goes from the Federal Treasury, a
third to the States, and two-thirds to the cities and counties, et cetera, without
any strings. And that program carries out precisely what you are talking about.
The money goes from the Federal Treasury, having been taken in the first
instance from the taxpayers of this country, but going back to States and local
units of government without any strings attached for the exercise of local
control in the expenditure of that money.
We are trying to incorporate in many of the programs what we call block
grants. Jim Lynn a year ago, when he was Secretary of HUD, got the Congress
to consolidate six or seven, eight categorical grant programs into one and giving
to the local community much more authority without Federal bureaucracy
analyzing every individual project.
So, we are aiming in that direction. We are trying to do it, and I think we
are making some headway. But with a thousand categorical grant programs,
that is a tough job, and every one of them has their own little constituency.
They want everybody else's program changed, but theirs is different. So, it is
a hard process, but we are working at it.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Robert Cohn, and I am chairman of the
Regional Forum of the East-West Gateway Coordinating Council. I have used
up my time with just the title. We are charged with the responsibility as a
group of private citizens-21 of us-to go over in some detail these 1,000
categorical grant programs that operate in the St. Louis area, and we are just
a group of private citizens. And we find that in more cases than not, we serve
as a mere rubberstamp for some bureaucratic requirement or deadline.
1401
