[426]
July 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
426
Remarks on Greeting the Captain of the SS Mayaguez
and Crewmembers of the U.S.S. Greenville.
July 24, 1975
IT IS great to have you here, and let me thank you very much. You all were
just tremendous.
Believe me, it is of great significance not only to the American people but I
think its significance goes well beyond that to the world as a whole. I want to
congratulate you, Captain Miller, and through you my congratulations to the
crew who were so strong and so resourceful.
The American people are proud of every one of you. You did a wonderful
job in a very difficult situation, and we were sort of watching it as best we could
from afar. I want you to know I am proud of you and the American people are
proud of you.
CAPTAIN CHARLES T. MILLER. I thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I should mention this group of young people over here vol-
unteered, as I understand it, to go from the SS Greenville and to join the board-
ing party that went aboard the Mayaguez at the time that the military went in
and took possession.
So, these fine seamen, when they went aboard, took charge of the ship and
got it underway. We are equally proud of you for the fine job you did. But the
fact that you volunteered—this is in the best spirit, I think, of America. Thank
you very much.
I am just trying to decide where to put this wheel. I think we will have it avail-
able here, at least we are going to keep it right in the Oval Office for a few days
and maybe longer, because it, to me, was a very significant incident that has had
very broad and, I think, tremendous impact not only on our people but people
around the world.
You look pretty healthy. How badly did they treat you?
CAPTAIN MILLER. They didn't treat us badly. They treated us fairly well. We
didn't get much sleep.
The President. Did they do anything to the ship when they made you get off
of it?
CAPTAIN MILLER. Some of the rooms were locked, and they kept them all in
rooms on the ship. They locked the seamen in their quarters. They felt we had
1024
