October 6
[614]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
books. Many of these increased programs were first enacted years ago, and
while individually they might have appeared manageable then, today, taken
together, they are out of control. They are like a freight train whose lights
were first seen far off in the night. That train has been coming closer and
closer, and now it is roaring upon us. If we don't slow it down, Federal spending
next year could easily jump to more than $420 billion—without a single new
Federal program.
Therefore, I propose that we halt this alarming growth by holding spending
in the coming year to $395 billion. That means a cut of $28 billion below what
we will spend if we just stand still and let the train run over us. More impor-
tantly, it means almost a dollar-for-dollar cut in taxes and spending: For every
dollar that we return to the American taxpayer, we must also cut our projected
spending by the same amount.
If we allow "politics as usual" to prevail in the Congress, there will be a
temptation to overwhelmingly approve the tax cuts and do nothing on the
spending cuts. That must not happen. I will go forward with the tax cuts that
I am proposing only if there is a clear, affirmative decision by your representa-
tives in the House and the Senate that they will hold spending next year to
$395 billion. I will not hestitate to veto any legislation passed by the Congress
which violates the spirit of that understanding. I want these actions to be a first
step—and they are a crucial step toward balancing the Federal budget within
3 years.
In January, I will propose to the Congress that many of our current spending
programs be revised, consolidated, and held below their projected levels. When
I do, you will hear loud protests from one group after another contending that
Washington should keep up an endless flow of subsidies. But we have to face
hard reality: Our financial resources are limited. We must learn to live within
our means.
Spending discipline by the Federal Government must be applied across the
board. It cannot be isolated to one area, such as social programs, nor can we
completely insulate any area such as defense. All must be restrained. I believe
that your Congressmen should stop trying so hard to find new programs that
spend your money and get to work figuring out how to make the Government
work better for you. They should get rid of the programs that don't work in
order to make room for those that do. And in the process, we can begin cutting
back the swollen Federal bureaucracy.
I want to work with the Congress and with you, the people, to ensure that
those who deserve the help of our Nation continue receiving that help—the
1607
