[526]
September 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me say with all the sincerity and conviction that I have, it is meetings
like this and the one I was privileged to attend an hour or so ago, and the one
that I attended in Maine last Saturday noon, and the great one I was privileged
to participate in in Rhode Island last Saturday night—I find everywhere that
the enthusiasm that exists in one State is apparently contagious in another. And
the net result is that the views, the people, the attitudes of the Republican Party
are expanding. And I think it is good for the country, and let's keep it going.
Of course you in Washington are extremely fortunate to have Dan Evans as
your Governor. He sets the tone, he sets the spirit, he is substantive in the man-
ner in which he approaches the problems, he is far more skillful than I in getting
a legislature to respond. [Laughter] But I just want to thank Dan for his very
kind remarks and say to you that we who operate on the national scene look
upon Dan as a great Governor, and you are fortunate to have him, and we are
lucky to have him in the Republican Party.
Now, we have Senator Bob Packwood here—he is from Oregon, and I am
not going to say anything about him now, because I am going down to Oregon
tonight. So I will just revise and extend my remarks in the case of Bob at the
moment.
But you do have in Joel Pritchard the kind of a person that I could feel—
the minute he walked into the House of Representatives, and I had an oppor-
tunity to watch and observe-that he was going to stay and represent you. After
you have been in the House and, particularly, in the leadership, you can observe
and, after a relatively short period of time, you can get a feeling that that person
won't be back the next time or this one is just beginning a great, new career.
It was my observation in the time that I served jointly with Joel that he is the
kind that will stay. You have got a good investment in him; he will do a good
job. I certainly hope that you will make certain that he comes back—and a good
many more times than 1976.
I think it is fair to say that no political party can really be strong and effective
over a long period of time if they don't have a sound, well-led State organiza-
tion. And I think from all I have heard and what I am told, particularly from
the people that work for me who have been out here, in Ross Davis and in the
others in your State organization, Washington is in good hands, and I thank
you for making that possible.
It seems to me that there are three very basic issues that we, as a country, not
just as a party, have to face: energy, the economy, and foreign policy.
I have some prepared notes here, but if you will permit me, I will extemporize
rather than read the script.
1300
