[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. We have got about two more, so let's go ahead. I will be the
good guy and let Bill be the bad guy. Go ahead, sir.
REGIONAL COOPERATION
[19.] Q. Mr. President, I am Harold McPheeters, with the Southern Regional
Education Board. I too would like to thank you and all these very impressive
leaders of your Administration for coming to our region, to listen to our ques-
tions and our discussion. I would like to ask a question about interstate regional
cooperation. We have in this region two, I think, successful examples of inter-
state regional cooperation in economic and development programs in the TVA
and the Appalachian Regional Commission, both of which are largely Federal.
Yet there are many other domestic problems which I think lend themselves to
this kind of interstate regional planning and cooperation, such as the training
of rare health and scientific personnel, certain environmental planning, certain
specialized economic programs, and so forth. We have several interstate orga-
nizations—some are interstate organizations of the States themselves, some are
professional organizations and associations that could work in this area.
However, the Federal Government tends to deal with the States State-by-State.
Now, I realize you are President of the United States, but is it likely that the
Federal Government will use more of this kind of regional interstate coopera-
tion and planning and action?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no reason why we should not, and we do have our
Federal Regional Council, which is supposed to coordinate the various depart-
mental programs in the region under their jurisdiction.
Now, that is at the Federal level. It does not have a corresponding group,
necessarily, at the State level, but in those areas where it makes sense geograph-
ically, I would hope that we would not be hidebound by arbitrary State lines,
and to the extent in the areas of health and education where it makes sense, we
would proceed with the establishment of regional or other geographical orga-
nizations to meet a practical problem. I don't think we should be circumscribed
by just arbitrary State lines if another approach is the better one.
NEW YORK CITY
[20.] Q. Mr. President, I am Roger Hibbs, representing the Mid-Appala-
chian Chamber of Commerce. As you are aware, sir, New York City has been
suffering from fiscal irresponsibility, if not gross mismanagement, for many
years. What, sir, in your opinion will be the effect on the United States economy
1636
