November 29
[701]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
When the Congress enacted Public Law 91-217, which established the EPS
in 1970 and authorized the President to assign officers of the Service to areas
outside Washington, D.C., on a case-by-case basis to safeguard foreign missions,
it made its intention clear concerning the wise exercise of that authority. The
House Committee on Public Works in its report on that legislation emphasized
that:
"This authority extends only to situations of extraordinary gravity, where the
local police force is totally incapable of providing a level of protection deemed
essential to the international integrity of the U.S., or where the protection of
the President himself, for example, would be involved. This additional authority
is not, and may not be construed to be, a substitute for the responsibility of local
police forces to provide protection for consulates, the United Nations, and similar
foreign delegations within the U.S." (House Committee on Public Works report
on H.R. 14944, December 8, 1969).
I agree fully with that statement.
H.R. 12 would also authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to reimburse State
and local governments for provision of protective and other services to foreign
missions and visiting officials, in lieu of providing those services directly by the
Executive Protective Service. A maximum of $3.5 million annually would be
authorized to be appropriated for that purpose. This authority, too, would set
an unwise and potentially very expensive precedent. It would inevitably lead
to pressures to reimburse State and local governments for other local services
provided to foreign missions and perhaps even for protection of the President
and Presidential candidates. Moreover, reimbursements to State and local gov-
ernments for protective assistance, which is a historic part of their duty under
our Federal system of government, are contrary to the cooperative nature of
law enforcement in the United States.
The White House,
November 29, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The House of Representatives reconsidered H.R. 12 on January 20, 1976, and the bill was referred
to committee.
1923
