[479]
August 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
cities have to realize that they have a fiscal management problem, too, and
many of them have. Many of our cities are well managed; a few are not.
MR. DUKE. New York, for example?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the record speaks for itself.
WELFARE REFORM
[4.] MR. DUKE. Well, Mr. President, in one area, the welfare area, your out-
going Welfare Secretary Weinberger suggested the other day that we should now
be giving thought to some kind of negative income tax, in effect, a guaranteed
annual income. Is that in the future as far as your Administration is concerned?
THE PRESIDENT. Sometime this fall, there will be conducted under our Domes-
tic Council—and the Vice President is acting Chairman, Vice Chairman, but the
actual acting Chairman of the Domestic Council-and he and his associates are
going to conduct some public hearings around the country where a number of
areas will be examined by that Council, where people in various communities
will have an opportunity to testify, proponents of one approach or another
approach. It won't be an organized effort to direct them any way.
Some people say we should modify the present welfare program. Some say we
should junk it and come in with a new one. There are a number of other
alternatives.
What we are going to do through the Domestic Council is give people
throughout the country, not just the Washington complex, an opportunity to
express themselves, to tell us what they think is the answer to the welfare prob-
lem. There is an awful lot of wisdom out in the country on what's right and
what's wrong about welfare, what we today ought to do about medical care
and the costs and the program. And as a result of those hearings on a nationwide
basis, we will formulate our recommendations in those areas that need change.
MR. DUKE. But the decision does have to be made here, Mr. President. The
decision has to be made ultimately in the Oval Office. And what is your think-
ing? Is it your thinking that the welfare system in this country is now in such
a chaotic mess that some new system must be devised, and it is likely that some
form of guaranteed annual income which was a concept that was put forward
by Richard Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no doubt that the present welfare program either
ought to be junked and a substitute put in its place or the present welfare pro-
gram has to be tightened up very, very greatly. Now, you can get proponents on
either side.
1126
