[645]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
QUESTIONS
WILLIAM W. BROOM [president, National Press Club]. Now we have time
for just a few questions, haven't we, Mr. President? The first one asks, Mr.
President, you say that in the event of a default, the Federal Government is
prepared to work with the courts to assure that the city can continue to main-
tain its essential services, such as police and fire protection. Does this mean the
Federal Government will provide cash or guarantees or Federal troops?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, I don't assume that the city will default,
because I think the capacity in the city and the capacity in the State is there to
avoid default. But in the eventuality that those in control of the city and State
refuse to step up to that responsibility and that capability, then the court will
have to go through the default process.
And I can only say that the Federal Government will work with the court.
I do not want to prescribe precisely the means or methods, but I can say that
in working with the court after the refusal of local and State people to assume
their responsibility, this Federal Government will see to it that essential services
are maintained.
MR. BROOM. If it comes to default, how much do you estimate it will cost the
United States Government at a minimum?
THE PRESIDENT. Again I do not assume that default is absolutely certain for
the reasons that I, a few moments ago, said. It is my judgment that the Federal
court under the default procedure and the jurisdiction that the court has, that
it can issue on behalf of the city and/or the State certificates that will have a
prior lien on any revenue that comes in while other creditors are held off from
getting any benefits in the interim period. So, I foresee no loss to the Federal
Government whatsoever.
MR. BROOM. Mr. President, this next question has been asked in about 15
different ways, and I have chosen this version: The questioner asks, what is
the difference between the Federal Government's bailing out Lockheed and
bailing out New York City?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in retrospect we may have made a mistake in bailing
out Lockheed. And yet I think you can draw a distinction. In the case of Lock-
heed, the Federal Government contributes in defense contracts a very substantial
portion of the revenue that comes to the company-I have forgotten the exact
percentage, but it is 75 or 80 percent or perhaps even more-and the Federal
Government as a result of that tremendous control over funding had a capability
of maintaining control precisely without other public officials being involved.
1736
