September 18
[568]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Beyond this, the whole spirit of science—one that urges us here in the United
States to innovate, to explore the unknown, to answer the unanswered—is the
true spirit of America.
Today, more than ever, we need to maintain, to nourish that spirit and to do it
in every facet of our national life.
The 13 men whom we are privileged to honor today have contributed to the
spectrum of scientific advances in many, many ways. Their work in the physical
and biological sciences and in mathematics and engineering has touched and
enriched the lives of all of us.
Wide-ranging Federal support of scientific research and technology became a
national policy after World War II. Since then, support has grown both in
dollars and the percentage of the Nation's total effort. In the coming year, this
amount and percentage will again grow. Total Federal funds for civilian
research and development will rise to over $7.3 billion, an increase of 12 percent
over 1975.
Throughout all the years of Federal support for research, there has been a
continued debate over the issue of what fields of inquiry should have priority.
As the Nation's needs have changed, the priorities have changed, which is as it
should be and is as it will be.
In recent years, Federal research and development support has been particu-
larly responsive in the fields of energy and environmental conservation. From
1969 to 1976, energy research and development has grown at an average annual
rate of more than 21 percent; environmental support has grown at a rate of 17
percent.
Nonetheless, the Nation's commitment to that most fundamental of all in-
quiries, basic research, has not diminished. We recognize that it is such research
that forms the base upon which all understanding in all fields of human inquiry
must build. This is why we will increase basic research funding in 1976 by
11 percent.
It is impossible to measure accurately the benefits of our research efforts to the
Nation and to the world. We do know, however, that our achievements will be
far-reaching and profound. We can be absolutely certain that new products and
improved productivity will flow from them.
Our Nation's future and that of the world depends on the creativity and the
genius of men and women such as these we honor today.
For your contributions, gentlemen, for what you have given to our country,
to science, and to humanity, we thank you all. We are grateful, and we are proud
to honor you today.
1449
