September 26
[589]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Colombia's rights in the Canal under the Urrutia-Thomson Treaty. He ex-
pressed determination to consult with Colombia at an appropriate point in the
negotiating process regarding the future status of those rights.
The two Presidents and their advisors also discussed the United States Trade
Reform Act of 1974, noted that technical discussions were recently held on the
Act in Washington, and that further high-level conversations will take place in
the near future with regard to the implications of the Act for Colombia and
for Latin America in general. President Lopez stressed the importance to Latin
America of greater access to the United States market.
With regard to ratification of the Quita Sueño Treaty, the two Presidents
noted that the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee has just held public
hearings, and President Ford assured his visitor of continuing Administration
support for early ratification.
Multilateral negotiations looking toward an international coffee agreement
were discussed by the two Presidents and they agreed as to the importance of
continuing efforts in this direction.
The AID program of bilateral assistance to Colombia was also discussed.
The substantive achievements of the collaborative program over prior years
were noted with satisfaction. It was mutually agreed that, as Colombia has be-
come less dependent on concessional external financing, the AID bilateral pro-
gram could be brought to an orderly phase-out, and that appropriate agencies
of the two governments would work out a plan for such an orderly termination
of AID assistance.
The visit provided an opportunity for review of the status of completion of
the Inter-American Highway through construction of the Darien Gap segment
in Colombia. Progress toward related control of hoof-and-mouth disease in
Northern Colombia was examined and attendant problems were reviewed. It
was agreed that a high-level consultative group would meet shortly to consider
questions related to the Inter-American Highway in the region of the Darien.
International narcotics control was also discussed, with both Presidents em-
phasizing their recognition of the menace posed by international trafficking.
The leaders of both countries committed themselves to reinforced joint efforts
to combat and eradicate this evil.
President Ford informed President Lopez that funds have been requested
to reestablish a United States Consulate at Barranquilla on the North Coast of
Colombia and that he would pursue this matter as necessary with the Congress.
President Lopez expressed his agreement and pleasure.
In conclusion, the two Chiefs of State and their advisors noted the increasing
1531
