[523]
September 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
American technicians who will help monitor the agreement will be making a
similar contribution to peace. I trust that the Congress will agree that this very
small contingent is an altogether proper contribution for the United States to
make a stabilizing and secure situation in the Sinai.
Tonight, however, our thoughts are primarily centered on welcoming Sec-
retary Kissinger back home. And welcome you are, Henry. Henry has carried
the flag of peace through weeks and weeks of very difficult negotiations. His
achievements on this occasion, as in the past, have been remarkable.
I am very delighted, Henry, to welcome you back with this successful negotia-
tion. I know from personal experience how long and hard you have worked,
how difficult the task and the problem has been, and I can say from a very
personal point of view that I am most appreciative and deeply grateful. And I
think my words are the words of millions and millions and millions of Ameri-
cans. We thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 p.m. at
Andrews Air Force Base, Md. Secretary Kissinger's
response to the President's remarks is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 11, p. 939).
524
Remarks on Arrival at Seattle, Washington.
September 4, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Governor Dan Evans. Senator Magnuson, Senator
Stevens, Congressman Joel Pritchard, Mayor Uhlman, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
It is really wonderful to be in Seattle, and I do thank you for the beautiful
salmon. We are now the beneficiaries in my State of Michigan, not of salmon
quite as large as that, but salmon. We started developing a few years ago by
transplanting some salmon from this area of the world, and we now have
tremendous supplies in Lake Michigan of Coho salmon. And we are proud of
it. They don't match that salmon in size, but they do remind us of the west
coast and the wonderful opportunities that all of you have who live here.
May I also thank you, Governor, for the beautiful fruit and the Bicentennial
medal.
As I flew in from Washington, I couldn't help but be impressed with the
superb port facilities that you all have here. And that reminded me of the great
significance that foreign trade has, not only for you here in Seattle but the im-
pact that it has in a beneficial way for all of the United States.
1294
