[512]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
had been some discrimination against New England. Let me just talk, if I might,
for a minute, straight from the shoulder.
This country has an energy problem, and those of you in New England are
more seriously affected perhaps than any other part of the country. And I am
not going to get into why that might have happened or what might have
caused it. But America today is getting, on a day-by-day-by-day-by-day basis,
more vulnerable to decisionmaking by countries in the Middle East.
Our domestic production of oil is going down, and we are buying more oil
overseas daily from those countries that could turn off the spigot tomorrow
if they decided to. And the net result is that we have to find an energy answer
in America, and if we do, we will solve it for New England at the same time.
We can do it by stimulating domestic production of oil here, by conserving the
utilization of energy in America, by developing new, exotic energy sources—
solar, geothermal, et cetera.
In January of this year, we tried to put together-and we were successful in
putting together a comprehensive energy program that would have answered
the short-range as well as the long-range problems that we face in America—a
program that would have made us invulnerable to foreign decisionmaking. I
submitted it to the Congress. And do you realize that as of now, not one energy
bill has come down to the White House for approval? Not one, not one piece
of a comprehensive program.
America cannot tolerate this kind of lack of action. We have bent over back-
wards trying to work with the Congress to get a program, to get a policy
enacted into law so America could move ahead and become invulnerable to
decisionmaking by other nations, Middle East or otherwise. We understand
the problem you have in New England, and we made exceptions to recognize
the difficulties that you face here in this part of the country and we will con-
tinue to do so. But I just plead with you, beg with you to get your Members of
the House and the Senate to join in putting together, with compromise and
conciliation if necessary, a program that is good for America. We must have
it for today, tomorrow, and 10 years from now.
We've got some tough decisions in foreign policy. Secretary Kissinger has
been spending the last week or so in the Middle East. We are narrowing the
differences in cooperation, of course, between the principal negotiators, Israel
and Egypt. And it is encouraging that the last decisions by them, of course,
are of maximum importance.
But let me say this as deeply as I can: It is important for the world as a whole
that there be continued progress in the Middle East toward peace, because if it
1274
