November 20
[689]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
You all know where I stand on defense. All of those who say they are for a
strong defense and a strong foreign policy should join with me, the Secretary
of Defense, and the Secretary of State to maintain adequate defense budgets in
the Congress.
As I have said before, a military capability second to none permits us to act
firmly and successfully in foreign policy around the world and in defense of
our national interest.
As Don begins his new duties and assumes this new challenge, he does so with
my personal best wishes and my thanks for accepting a very difficult and
demanding assignment. Don Rumsfeld has my complete confidence and trust.
He will earn that of the Nation and the Department of Defense because he will
do a superb job as our new Secretary of Defense.
It is my pleasure to introduce for swearing in by Mr. Justice Stewart the
13th Secretary of Defense-designate, the Honorable Donald H. Rumsfeld.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. at the
River Entrance of the Department of Defense. Potter
Stewart, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court,
administered the oath of office.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
William P. Clements, Jr., Deputy Secretary of De-
fense, and Gen. George S. Brown, Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Secretary Rumsfeld's response to the President's
remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 1304).
689
Statement Announcing Measures To Respond to Discriminatory
Foreign Boycott Practices. November 20, 1975
I AM today announcing a number of decisions that provide a comprehensive
response to any discrimination against Americans on the basis of race, color,
religion, national origin, or sex that might arise from foreign boycott practices.
The United States Government, under the Constitution and the law, is com-
mitted to the guarantee of the fundamental rights of every American. My
Administration will preserve these rights and work toward the elimination of
all forms of discrimination against individuals on the basis of their race, color,
religion, national origin, or sex.
Earlier this year, I directed the appropriate departments and agencies to
recommend firm, comprehensive, and balanced actions to protect American
citizens from the discriminatory impact that might result from the boycott prac-
tices of other governments. There was wide consultation.
I have now communicated detailed instructions to the Cabinet for new
1893
