December 23
[745]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tion, many of the country's largest retailers are finding it is good business to deal
metrically with their customers.
The truth is that our continued use of the English system of measurement
was making us an island in a metric sea. In 1965, Great Britain renounced its
old system of measurement in favor of metric. It was followed by the Common-
wealth countries. Today, more than 90 percent of the world's people uses metric
measurement in their everyday lives.
A few years ago, the Congress asked the Secretary of Commerce to determine
what impact the increasing worldwide use of the metric system was having on
the United States and whether it was desirable to increase the use of metric
weights and measures here. The National Bureau of Standards, which conducted
that study, urged wider use of the metric measurement language. NBS also
proposed a coordinated national program to bring this about. The legislation
before us today implements that NBS finding.
It is important to stress that the conversion contemplated in this legislation is
to be a completely voluntary one. The Government's function, through a
U.S. Metric Board that I shall appoint, will be to coordinate and synchronize
increasing use of metric measurement in the various sectors of our economy.
I sign the bill with the conviction that it will enable our country to adopt
increasing use of this convenient measurement language-both at home in our
schools and factories and overseas with our trading partners.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8674 is Public Law 94-168 (89 Stat. 1007). The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
745
Statement on the Death of Richard S. Welch.
December 23, 1975
I WAS shocked and horrified by the terrorist murder of Mr. Richard Welch
outside his home in Athens, Greece. Mr. Welch has long been a dedicated
official of the United States Government and the hearts of all Americans go out
to his family in sympathy and in gratitude for a life given in devoted service
to his country.
NOTE: Richard S. Welch was the station chief for the
Central Intelligence Agency in Greece.
The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
1997
