October 28
[644]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
644
Toasts of the President and President Sadat of Egypt at a
Dinner Honoring President Ford. October 28, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Sadat, ladies and gentlemen:
First, may I express on behalf of my wife, Betty, and all the ladies that she
represents in the United States, and on behalf of myself as well as my country-
men, your thoughtfulness for the wonderful recognition that you have given to
us and to those we represent. We in the United States are most grateful for these
wonderful awards, and I can't express deeply enough our personal appreciation
for your thoughtfulness.
Obviously it is very difficult, Mr. President, to match your eloquence in the
circumstances here this evening. I want to express as best I can the appreciation
that all of us have for your visit to the United States. You have in this audience
here this evening many outstanding Members of the legislative branch, Members
of the House and Senate, leaders, individuals who you have met and I hope you
will get better acquainted with, so that they can have an opportunity of getting
to know you as I have from our first meeting in Salzburg. Because I am con-
vinced that they will share with me, once that acquaintanceship begins and
develops, the strength and the statesmanship that you have exhibited in the
Middle East during a most trying and a very difficult time.
So, as you meet my former colleagues, the Members of the legislative branch
of the Government of the United States, I am sure that you will learn of their
importance and their significance in the development of our friendship between
your Government as well as ours.
Your hospitality this evening, Mr. President, is almost overwhelming, not only
for Mrs. Ford and myself but all of our guests—your guests, I should say.
Your historic visit to this country, and it is historic, will lead, I am certain, as
you travel from here to New York, to Chicago, to Houston, to Florida, to a
breadth of understanding between not only yourself and our people but between
your people as well as ours.
I think this opportunity for you to be here and to travel is unique in that they
find in you a leader in the Middle East who has not only had the statesmanship
to strive for peace but the leadership to achieve and accomplish peace, and to
broaden and to deepen it, not only on behalf of your people but all of the Arab
people.
We feel that your presence here in the Capital of the United States is of a
special significance. We were delighted to have you in the White House last
1727
