[602]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I might say Dr. Arthur Burns just recommended that. So,
let me put it this way: It all depends on how you define it. Dr. Burns—and I
talked to him about it the other day-his thought of the Government being an
employer of last resort-and he spelled this out in a speech down in Atlanta—is
that you hire people at less than the minimum wage, but you give them a job on
the theory that if they are working at less than the minimum wage, that is an
incentive for them to go out and find a better job. I don't think that is what you
are thinking of.
Q. No, I am not. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. So, that is why I think you have to define what you are talk-
ing about as the Government being an employer of last resort. I was about to say
earlier I was glad to see the Iowa AFL-CIO and Arthur Burns agreeing.
Q. No, that isn't true.
THE PRESIDENT. But obviously in this case you don't.
I think that the present programs of unemployment insurance with the ex-
tended material we have, which is enough incentive to get people to look for
jobs, is better than a massive program.
Now, I am not saying we don't have massive programs to some extent. We
have public service employment jobs now that cost us about $4 to $5 billion a
year. Now, that employs roughly 350,000 people who are not otherwise em-
ployed, and that is done primarily through your city and State agencies.
For us to undertake a job to hire everybody, I think, is not the right approach.
We want jobs emphasized in the private sector. And if we handle our affairs
properly, we won't have to resort either to extended unemployment compensa-
tion or employment with the Government as that agency of last resort. That is an
easy phrase, but I just think there are enough problems in it that we ought to
find other answers primarily in the private sector.
AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES PRICES
[16.] Q. Mr. President, Wendell Gangwish, one of the farmers that you re-
ferred to a number of times earlier, speaking on behalf of the members of the
Nebraska Farm Bureau Federation. First of all, I want to commend you and
your Cabinet for bringing the conference to Omaha, and Secretary Butz did
more than a commendable job in setting the tone for the conference. Now, in
Nebraska we have a little bit more than above-average football team. We
think-
THE PRESIDENT. We thought we had one at Michigan, too, but they had a
little trouble. But they are going to do all right. [Laughter]
1578
