December 7
[716]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I reaffirmed the determination of the United States to complete the normaliza-
tion of relations with the People's Republic of China on the basis of the
Shanghai communique. Both sides regarded our discussions as significant, use-
ful, and constructive. Our relationship is becoming a permanent feature of the
international political landscape. It benefits not only our two peoples but all
peoples of the region and the entire world.
A fourth principle of our Pacific policy is our continuing stake in stability
and security in Southeast Asia.
After leaving China, I visited Indonesia and the Philippines. Indonesia is a
nation of 140 million people, the fifth largest population in the world today.
It is one of our important new friends and a major country in that area of the
world. The Republic of the Philippines is one of our oldest and dearest allies.
Our friendship demonstrates America's longstanding interest in Asia.
I spent 3 days in Djakarta and Manila. I would have liked to have had time
to visit our friends in Thailand, Singapore, and Malaysia. We share important
political and economic concerns with these five nations who make up the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
I can assure you that Americans will be hearing much more about the
ASEAN organization. All of its members are friends of the United States. Their
total population equals our own. While they are developing countries, they
possess many, many assets-vital peoples, abundant natural resources, and well-
managed agricultures. They have skilled leaders and the determination to
develop themselves and to solve their own problems. Each of these countries
protects its independence by relying on its own national resilience and diplomacy.
We must continue to assist them. I learned during my visit that our friends want
us to remain actively engaged in the affairs of the region. We intend to do so.
We retain close and valuable ties with our old friends and allies in the
Southwest Pacific-Australia on the one hand and New Zealand on the other.
A fifth tenet of our new Pacific policy is our belief that peace in Asia depends
upon a resolution of outstanding political conflicts.
In Korea, tension persists. We have close ties with the Republic of Korea.
And we remain committed to peace and security on the Korean Peninsula, as
the presence of our forces there attests. Responding to the heightened tension
last spring, we reaffirmed our support of the Republic of Korea. Today, the
United States is ready to consider constructive ways of easing tensions on the
peninsula. But we will continue to resist any moves which attempt to exclude
the Republic of Korea from discussion of its own future.
1953
