[600]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
cut down Federal expenditures so that we will have a better fiscal situation for
the Federal Government.
Now, that is one possibility, and hopefully within the next week or so I will
be in a position to submit a specific recommendation to the Congress.
Q. Now, to follow up, how does Alan Greenspan feel about that at this time?
The President. I don't think I ought to reveal his recommendation to me.
Until we finalize this whole package and the timing of it, I don't think I should
indicate how any one of my advisers do feel.
John Dunlop, of course, as Secretary of Labor, was in a position to publicly
state his view because he is Chairman of our labor-management advisory com-
mittee, and that Committee, under his leadership, did recommend that these tax
reductions that were put into law earlier this year should be extended. So, that
is why he was in a position to indicate his personal view.
SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE BUTZ
[3.] Q. Mr. President, on the grain deal, you indicate that if the farmers
will be patient, that they will be happy. They have, to a great degree, been
patient with Secretary of Agriculture Butz, and they have been calling for him
being taken out as Secretary and many times saying he might be, and there has
even been talk of former Nebraskan Clayton Yeutter being put into that office.
Can you give us any indication of whether there is any offing in the future of
replacing the Secretary, and could you also tell us the value of the Secretary in
that position?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me indicate that I selected Clayton Yeutter,' who
I think is an outstanding individual, to be one of our top people in our foreign
trade negotiations. I think that is an indication of my great feeling for Clayton
Yeutter.
I happen to believe that Earl Butz has done an excellent job of defending
the interests of agriculture across the board. He has been a great exponent of
the free marketplace. He has fought Government restrictions so that farmers
can run their farms as they see fit.
I think Earl Butz has done a fine job, and I asked him to stay and he has
agreed to stay until the end of this term. I think most farmers support him. I
fully back him.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, recent disclosures about the Central Intelligence
Agency seemed to have weakened our entire intelligence-gathering and inter-
1 President of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
1554
