[559]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
But if I could give you a view that I have expressed, not just recently but for
10 or more years, there is a better way to achieve quality education in America
than by forced busing. We can and we will find a better way.
We can increase pupil-teacher ratios. We can improve facilities, have more
and better equipment, rely more heavily on the neighborhood school concept.
There is a way, and we must find it.
Our forebears who founded this great Nation were driven by a passion to be
individuals. They created a system of government that gave form and sub-
stance to that revolutionary goal. But then the politicians and the theorists began
to intrude upon this individuality with theories that big government and Federal
spending could cure every social evil.
They began to preach that our free enterprise system needed oppressive gov-
ernment rules and regulations to protect the individual. They started a trend
that now threatens to engulf us as individuals as well as the entire Nation. A
trickle of Federal spending for human needs has become a tidal wave under
Democratic Congressional action.
Some laws needed to promote competition have become a maze of regulations
that are strangling our economic system. Every new dollar appropriated, every
new law that fetters free enterprise erodes personal freedom. We are losing that
freedom that made it possible to build this, a truly great Nation.
The flood of Federal spending covers a wide range of income redistribution
programs—programs enacted by the Congress under which a qualified system
is automatically entitled to specific benefits. Some of these programs are neces-
sary and commendable, but in this fiscal year those laws enacted by the Congress
will total in a 12-month period more than $168 billion. They will eat up more
than 45 percent of total Federal expenditures.
Ever-increasing government spending for all social programs literally threat-
ens our whole economy. If that spending grows at the rate of the last 20 years,
by the year 2000 half of the people in this Nation will be living off the other
half. That will significantly change our form of government. This trend must
be reversed, and it will be reversed.
Everybody here knows my record in the Congress, where I was fortunate
to win five “Watchdog of the Treasury" awards, every year they were issued
while I was a Member of the Congress.
In the White House I have continued to fight the big spenders, but it takes a
little time to undo the damage caused by 25 years of reckless Democratic spend-
ing. And if not stopped, this Democratic Congress will balloon this year's budget
1420
