August 20
[497]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
corn, will be a good price and will return a good net income to the American
farmer.
I think most of you know, I am sure better than I, that in the last month
there has been—maybe a month and a half—there has been an increase in the
price of wheat from around $3 to around $4 a bushel. The price of corn has
gone from roughly $2.50 a bushel up to about $3 a bushel. These price increases
under the market conditions, I think, are fully justified. I don't think we want
to have the kind of total disturbance in the market that took place in some of
the years past.
It is better for the farmer, I think, to have a solid income, a good net income,
and we are going to make sure that that takes place.
LONGSHOREMEN'S STRIKE
[3.] Q. Mr. President, as I am sure you know, producers are very much con-
cerned about the recent action of the longshoremen. In the first 6 months of
this year, the price of wheat went down about one-third to us. The price of
bread did not go down and, in fact, may have increased. My question to you
now is, can you tell us any very recent development in the longshoremen's ac-
tion to not load our grain?
The President. It is my judgment that the best way to solve that problem
is to lower our voices and to try and work out a negotiated settlement.
I expect to be in communication with the Secretary of Labor, who is in con-
tact with the people in the labor movement. But it seems to me, rather than to
accelerate the confrontation, it is better if we more or less lower our voices and
try to negotiate a settlement.
I think it is obvious that if everybody talks loudly, it makes it more difficult
for us to get an answer. People get frozen into positions.
I think the differences are soluble, and I am working on it today to try and
bring the parties together so we can talk in a rational, reasonable way in trying
to protect the interests not only of the farmer but American labor, the con-
sumer, and the country as a whole.
If we just lower our voices a bit, I think we can solve the problem so we will
ship the grain, the farmer will get his product on the world market, where it
ought to be, and the consumers' interests will likewise be protected.
FOREIGN GRAIN SALES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, it is a real pleasure to have you with us. I will thank
you for making most of my speeches, and you did a real good job. You sure did.
He knows something about it, and that is just great.
1201
