November 11
[670]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I was so pleased to find when I was looking through some material, that you
here in West Virginia have a prosperity which now ranks West Virginia fifth
in per capita income growth in our Nation, a prosperity which springs pri-
marily from the rugged self-reliance, the inexhaustible energy, and the fierce
independence which led the first hardy settlers in 1730 to penetrate the wil-
derness.
Tonight I would like to talk with you-after those introductory remarks
which I feel very deeply about—I would like to talk to you about another form
of independence. Ten months ago when I addressed the United States Congress
and the American people, I said the state of the Union was not good. I called
on the Congress and the country to move in a new direction. I pointed out the
world is watching to see how we respond.
This evening, let's look at the state of our economy compared to that very,
very uncertain circumstance that prevailed last January. While the economy is
not my central theme—it is energy—nevertheless the health of our economy is
unalterably linked to a stable and adequate supply of energy.
Last January simultaneous recession and inflation whipsawed the American
people—they were caught in the middle. The money of millions of people was
being eroded by double-digit inflation while recession cut very deeply into our
national production and employment.
Today, although we have a long ways to go, the economy of this great Nation
is well on the road to a healthy recovery and we should be proud of it. We are
making a marked progress. The signs of this progress are clear for all of us
to see. Our gross national product for the third quarter of 1975 increased by more
than 11 percent—the biggest quarterly increase in two decades. That is progress.
Industrial production rose at an annual rate of 20 percent during the same
period-the biggest quarterly increase in more than 10 years. Productivity among
American workers has been steadily improving for months. That is progress.
The number of Americans with jobs went up by nearly 1,600,000 from March
through October of this year, and that is progress. For the last 8 months we
have had a surplus of $1 billion a month in our balance of trade with other
countries, and that is progress, too.
Inflation has been cut almost in half between 1974 and 1975-down from
12-percent range to 6-percent range. That is not good enough. We are not satis-
fied, but it is progress.
These are all encouraging signs of growing economic strength and stability
and vitality in America. Even though we have a way to go, we should be darned
proud of the role that has been played by the American people and the way
1847
