November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ing class to the other people in our society who may be bankers or professional
people. We should open our doors to people in all stratas of our society. We
love people, and we want them in the Republican Party.
Really, it is just great to be in this great Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
I was up here in April and had the opportunity and the pleasure to speak at
the Old North Church ceremony, to speak at Concord and Lexington, and to
feel in that environment and that atmosphere and those historic places a part
of the great history of America. Those people fought early and they fought well
and they left us a great heritage and a great tradition-something that we
should stand for. They stood for something. They stood for freedom. They
stood for what it is all about.
So, our mission in 1976 and in the years ahead is to look forward, not back-
ward, to feel strongly about what is good at home and abroad, economically,
within the realm of our possibility of achieving for the betterment of the young,
the old, and all others.
And one of the things that impresses me about the strength of America and
is what we need to make our party great-when I was very young I had a
Sunday school teacher who said something to me one time that I will never
forget. She said the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many colors. The strength of
the United States of America is its diversity.
We have the heritage of many peoples and many religions and many na-
tionalities in our blood, but that is what made America great. And we in the
Republican Party welcome each and every one of them, young and old and all
other. That is what made our country great, and that is what will make our
party great, and I look forward to the opportunity of representing you and
every one of the 50 States in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:15 p.m. in the International Departure Lounge at Logan International Airport.
666
Interview on NBC News' "Meet the Press."
November 9, 1975
LAWRENCE E. SPIVAK. Today "Meet the Press" is observing its 28th anniversary
on television. Our guest in a full-hour special edition is the President of the
United States, Gerald R. Ford. We will have the first question now from Bill
Monroe of NBC News.
1821
