[580]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
jobs. But obviously, we have much to do. Let's get going, and let's go to work
together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 a.m. in the Plaza Square Ballroom at the Hyatt Hotel.
581
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Luncheon
Meeting of the World Affairs Council in San Francisco.
September 22, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Mersman. Mrs. Feinstein, distinguished guests, and
particularly our guests from the People's Republic, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of join-
ing you on this occasion, and I thank all of you for the honorary membership
in your organization, and I am deeply grateful also for being a transmittal
belt for my long overdue membership card in the Grand Rapids World Affairs
Council.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[1.] This morning I had an opportunity to announce a very important pro-
posal for a $100 billion Government corporation to work through the private
enterprise system to develop energy independence for the United States by 1985.
It is spelled out in a detailed bill which I will send to the Congress next
week. It is my very deep conviction that the United States must not surrender
its destiny to those foreign nations on which we now depend for oil. We must
move very decisively to give foreign nations a new look at what Americans
can do with their great resources when we set out to do it.
The program I envision would enhance America's future at both home and
abroad. It would serve the national interest of the United States and would
safeguard American jobs and the American economy. I envision a dramatic
crash program to develop coal, nuclear, and other sources of energy, such as
geothermal power, which I saw last spring on my visit here to this part of
California, and including oil shale resources, which alone are more vast in their
potential than all the oil resources of the Middle East. Without such an energy
independence authority, which would be a Government corporation, our vast
natural energy resources may be developed too late to bolster America's leader-
ship in the world for the rest of the 20th century.
1498
