[644]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
night with Mrs. Sadat. And I know the Secretary hosted some outstanding
American citizens, including Members of the legislature, with you as his
principal guest today, which gave to them, as I have had the opportunity, to
see and to hear the breadth and strength of your leadership in the Middle East.
I can assure you that we in the United States cherish and will further the same
ideals in the future that we have in the past. And we are pleased to know that
those are likewise the same ideals and aims and ambitions that you have for
your people in your country.
It seems to me that as we work together-and we do have the need and neces-
sity to do that—we can convince others in the Middle East that progress is essen-
tial not only in that area—a stalemate and stagnation cannot be condoned—that
it is in the best interest of Egypt and Israel, the United States, and all Middle
Eastern countries. And I can assure you, Mr. President, that the American people
will work with you and seek to achieve with you the aims of your people and
yourself for the kind of a peace on a broad, firm, equitable, secure basis that is
in the dreams of people in all of the Middle East.
Let me conclude, Mr. President, that Mrs. Ford and I have been delighted to
have the opportunity to get better acquainted. And let me add in closing that
I have instructed our Secretary of State to continue to explore every possibility
to continue the diplomatic successes that were achieved in recent months.
I know that he will continue to work with the Foreign Minister, Foreign
Minister Fahmy. They have been a good team in the step-by-step process that
was essential to keep the momentum going. Both are seasoned, tireless, effective,
dedicated diplomats that have and will contribute to the success in the future.
Let me simply conclude by saying that we are honored to have you in
America, with Mrs. Sadat, and let me say that it is a pleasure and a privilege for
me to offer a toast to you and the people that you represent, the great people
of the Government of Israel-Egypt, excuse me.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 10:35
p.m. at Anderson House in response to a toast pro-
posed by President Sadat. President Sadat spoke as
follows:
President and Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
I hope I have adequately expressed my feeling,
and that of the Egyptian people, towards President
Ford and the people of the United States. What I
would like to add, however, is that the more I meet
with President Ford and pursue with him the stimu-
lating talks and pleasant conversations, the more
confirmed becomes the initial impression I got when
I first met him. His personality conveys to anyone
who gets to know him a sense of confidence,
genuineness, and warmth.
As you know, President Ford and I will meet
again more than once before I leave your beautiful
country. And we will have the chance to solidify
our relations even further. But let me now express
my admiration and deep appreciation of President
Ford's method of dealing with different situations,
and his enlightened approach to people and human
relations. From this standpoint, he can achieve
tremendous progress in various domains, and the
United States, under his leadership, can reach new
horizons commensurate with the challenges of our
time. I have no doubt that he will play a most con-
structive role, both in bringing about peace in the
Middle East and in solving complex international
problems. It is an asset that he has an able and
1728
