[502]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
will natural gas be available to our dairy and food-processing plants? And lastly,
will crude oil be supplied to our farmer-owned cooperative refineries ?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if the Congress doesn't pass my energy program,
which I submitted in a comprehensive way in January, or if they don't come up
with their own program, which they haven't done thus far, our energy vul-
nerability becomes greater and greater to forces outside of our control.
I can't understand why there should be the present stalemate. The Congress
either ought to take what I proposed or come up with their own solution. But to
sit there and do nothing is unforgivable.
Now, the second question—or the third-as I recollect, was whether we, the
Federal Government, would guarantee to farmers crude oil or heating oil or
gasoline or diesel oil. We will do the best we can, but the Congress does have
to give us some tools. And if we don't have the tools, or if we don't have the
crude oil, there is nothing we can do about it.
Now, on the second question involving natural gas, going back better than a
year, I recommended the decontrol of natural gas in the United States. Why?
Because, unless we do, you are not going to have natural gas that is available
in Texas and Louisiana and in Oklahoma, for example, crossing State lines to
States like Wisconsin, Michigan, North Carolina, New Jersey, Virginia, Dela-
ware, Maryland, et cetera.
The people who own that commodity in those three States, or maybe a few
others, are not going to sell that commodity at a price that they don't believe is
fair. And the net result is that the gas in those States will remain there, will
not get to Wisconsin or Michigan or the other States, and the worse aspect of
it is—and it is already happening-those States are enticing Michigan indus-
try—I know for sure-to move from Michigan to Texas where they can sell
them the natural gas at any price they want to charge them.
Now, I don't think that is right, and I think the Congress is negligent in not
deregulating natural gas so that it can continue to come to our State, to your
State, and to the other States. I just hope there is a massive lobby to get
Congress to move.
the
I saw some statistics the other day involving North Carolina and New Jersey.
If we don't get more natural gas moving through interstate pipelines from the
source to those two States, the economic disaster in those States will be serious.
And again, I don't understand why Congress has not acted. You know, you
can say the price might go up, but which is better, to have the gas for jobs, for
homes, for factories, for schools at a price that you will have to pay, or not
1240
