September 4
[530]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in a celebration in the Old North Church, which is a historic facility that was
there when Paul Revere actually saw the lantern and undertook his famous
ride. Nothing commercial about that. I had the opportunity of visiting Lexing-
ton and Concord, where some heroic people made a great stand. Nothing com-
mercial about that.
So, I think overall—overwhelmingly, really—the emphasis that has been given
to the Bicentennial by the White House commission has been at the proper
level, really telling all of us of the historic events that took place some 200 or
more years ago.
A few will commercialize the Bicentennial. You can't prevent that, but if you
follow the step-by-step activities, I am sure you will be convinced that the thrust
of the White House commission, of Mr. John Warner, the head of the Bi-
centennial office, and everybody else is trying to establish the right atmosphere,
the right direction for the Bicentennial celebration. I think it is good.
Q. Where are you going to go next after this?
THE PRESIDENT. Where am I going after Portland? Well, I am leaving, follow-
ing this wonderful evening with all of you, and going to Sacramento, California,
for a 7 o'clock breakfast. And then I am going to speak at a joint session of the
California State Legislature, and then I am going to spend some time with the
Governor of California, who has invited me to talk with him about some
problems. Then I have got several other meetings in Sacramento. Then I am
going back to Washington.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to know what I could do as a 10-year-old girl
to help my country?
The President. Rhonda, simply by asking the question and indicating your
interest in helping your country, you have already made a great contribution.
Q. Mr. President, is it true that Mrs. Ford was once a Campfire Girl in Grand
Rapids, Michigan?
The President. Well, I didn't know her then. [Laughter] I didn't start court-
ing her until she had outgrown her Campfire relationship or activities.
I can tell you this, however, we had three boys and a girl. She was a den
mother for a good many years bringing up three boys, so I guess she learned
to be a den mother by being a good Campfire Girl.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you what your greatest moment in
scouting was.
THE PRESIDENT. My greatest moment of scouting. Well, I suspect the greatest
moment I had as a Boy Scout was when I was selected by Governor Green of
the State of Michigan along with seven other Eagle Scouts to be the first group of
1331
