October 10
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[14.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the apparent success of the negotiations
with the Soviet Union involving their oil and our grain, are you contemplating
or planning similar discussions with the People's Republic of China on their oil
reserves and our grain either here or when you go to Peking?
THE PRESIDENT. The agenda for the prospective trip to the People's Republic
has not yet been established. Secretary Kissinger is leaving for the People's
Republic within the next week or 10 days, as I recall. Until he comes back with
the agenda, I don't think I am in a position to say what it might be.
I caution you—you used one word, Saul [Saul Kohler, Newhouse News
Service], that I think it is going to work, but you were a little overly optimistic
in relationship to grain and oil. All I can say is I am optimistic. But we are dealing
with some tough traders, and I don't want to create the impression that it is all
signed on the dotted line, because we have got some things we want to get and
they, in return, want some things that they want. And until the ink is dry on it,
we're not going to make any announcement.
AID TO CITIES
[15.] Q. You said last night that the Federal Government cannot afford to
bail out the big cities, mainly New York City. Treasury Secretary Simon and
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Burns have suggested that maybe New York
State might impose some taxes for 1-, 2-, or 3-year periods to help out New York
City. Can States really afford to help out these floundering big cities, or can they
afford not to?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hesitate to pass judgment on the fiscal capability of
any State. I don't pretend to be an expert on State financing. But I have watched
with considerable interest what has been happening in New York City and its
relationship to the State of New York.
A month or two ago the State of New York took some action, not raising any
additional taxes to help New York State [City] out, but to rearrange some bor-
rowing. And one of the requirements was that the city of New York had to
present a valid plan showing that they had straightened out their financial mess,
that they had a plan that would lead them out of this terrible fiscal situation they
are in. I was naturally disappointed to find that this State group or board that
they established turned back Mayor Beame's tentative proposal-said it was
insufficient, they hadn't done enough.
I think that is a good role for the State, and a State ought to put responsibility,
and if after the State has made an honest effort to balance their fiscal situation,
1665
