July 29
[454]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
From the Polish side: The First Secretary of the Central Committee of the
Polish United Workers' Party, Edward Gierek; the Chairman of the Council
of State, Henryk Jablonski; the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Piotr
Jaroszewicz; the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Stefan Olszowski, Member of the
Secretariat and Head of the Foreign Department of the Central Committee of
the Polish United Workers' Party Ryszard Frelek; Director of the Chancellery
of the Secretariat of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers'
Party Jerzy Waszczuk; First Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission
of the Council of Ministers Kazimierz Secomski; Undersecretary of State in
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Romuald Spasowski; Undersecretary of State
in the Office of the Council of Ministers and press spokesman of the Govern-
ment Wlodzimierz Janiurek; Ambassador of the Polish People's Republic in
Washington Witold Trampczynski; Director of Department in the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs Jan Kinast.
4. The Secretary of State and Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, Henry A. Kissinger, held talks with Minister of Foreign Affairs Stefan
Olszowski.
5. President Ford and the persons accompanying him viewed Warsaw and
acquainted themselves with its reconstruction and development. The President
of the City, Jerzy Majowski, accompanied them.
6. On the second day of the visit the President of the United States of America
went to Oswiecim (Auschwitz), where he laid a wreath at the International
Monument and signed the Memorial Book.
7. President Ford visited Kraków. He was greeted in the central marketplace
by the President of the City of Kraków, Jerzy Pekala. The President of the
United States made a short speech to the assembled citizens. The President also
visited the American Children's Hospital in Poland, at Prokocim near Kraków,
which was built with the support of American funds.
8. The discussions and meetings which were held between the President and
the First Secretary and their advisers took place in a friendly and constructive
atmosphere and were characterized by mutual striving further to develop and
strengthen relations between the United States and Poland. They reviewed U.S.-
Polish relations and discussed international matters of mutual interest.
9. As a result of their talks, the President of the United States of America,
Gerald R. Ford, and the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Polish
United Workers' Party, Edward Gierek, signed a Joint Statement on July 28.
10. President and Mrs. Ford expressed their gratitude to First Secretary and
1069
