[620]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
I know of no public statement attributed to any one of them where they
officially disagree with my decision.
Q. But isn't Secretary Simon a persistent critic of this plan?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't heard him say anything to me directly in contra-
vention of my decision. And although he did raise some questions during the
consideration of it, as far as I know he has not publicly come out and con-
demned it.
CANCELLATION OF LOUISVILLE TRIP
[5.] Q. Mr. President, there are reports tonight that you have decided not
to go to Louisville, Kentucky, for a Republican dinner next week. Is that a sign
for security reasons that perhaps you are going to be held hostage in the Oval
Office?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was advised by local officials, as well as others, that
under the current circumstances I should cancel the trip to Louisville, and as a
result, it is being canceled. But I would like to add there are some unusual cir-
cumstances in Louisville at the present time.
I am going, however, to several other places-to Detroit tomorrow night and
to Connecticut next week—and under no circumstances does this decision in-
volving Kentucky have any impact on my decision to travel where I think it is
the right thing to do, bearing in mind any security problems that might be
raised.
Q. What are the circumstances in Louisville, and does it have anything to do
with the busing problems they have had there?
THE PRESIDENT. There has been some turmoil in Louisville as a result of court-
ordered forced busing to achieve racial balance in the public schools. And I
think all of you know that I have consistently and vigorously opposed court-
ordered forced busing to achieve racial balance.
I think there is a better answer to quality education. And this problem in
Louisville at the present time has created some local disturbances, and rather
than involve any potential injury to anybody else and for other security reasons,
I have decided to cancel the trip.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[6.] Q. Mr. President, some of your political allies, Lee Nunn ¹ and others,
have criticized Bo Callaway recently about his direction of your election cam-
paign. They say he is too reluctant to spend money and that he has not built
1 Treasurer of the President Ford Committee.
1648
