[459]
August 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
very real differences in values and in aims. But if we deal with them with careful
preparation, if we focus on concrete issues, if we maintain forward movement,
we have the right to expect real progress.
The era of confrontation that has divided Europe since the end of the Second
World War may now be ending. There is a new perception and a shared per-
ception of a change for the better, away from confrontation and toward new pos-
sibilities for secure and mutually beneficial cooperation. That is what we all have
been saying here. I welcome and I share these hopes for the future.
The postwar policy of the United States has been consistently directed toward
the rebuilding of Europe and the rebirth of Europe's historic identity. The na-
tions of the West have worked together for peace and progress throughout
Europe. From the very start, we have taken the initiative by stating clear goals
and areas for negotiation.
We have sought a structure of European relations, tempering rivalry with
restraint, power with moderation, building upon the traditional bonds that link
us with old friends and reaching out to forge new ties with former and po-
tential adversaries.
In recent years, there have been some substantial achievements.
We see the Four-Power Agreement on Berlin of 1971 as the end of a perennial
crisis that on at least three occasions brought the world to the brink of doom.
The agreements between the Federal Republic of Germany and the states
of Eastern Europe and the related intra-German accords enable Central Europe
and the world to breathe easier.
The start of East-West talks on mutual and balanced force reductions demon-
strate a determination to deal with military security problems of the continent.
The 1972 treaty between the United States and the Soviet Union to limit anti-
ballistic missiles and the interim agreement limiting strategic offensive arms
were the first solid breakthroughs in what must be a continuing, long-term
process of limiting strategic nuclear arsenals.
I profoundly hope that this Conference will spur further practical and con-
crete results. It affords a welcome opportunity to widen the circle of those coun-
tries involved in easing tensions between East and West.
Participation in the work of détente and participation in the benefits of détente
must be everybody's business-in Europe and elsewhere. But détente can suc-
ceed only if everybody understands what détente actually is.
First, détente is an evolutionary process, not a static condition. Many formid-
able challenges yet remain.
1076
