[556]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
I happen to feel that in the area of foreign policy we have made significant
headway. We have made a giant step forward for peace in the Middle East.
We have strengthened our alliance in Europe. We are seeking to make a good,
two-way street, negotiated settlement for a strategic arms limitation.
At home we went through a terrible recession, but we are on the way out of it.
We still have inflation that is far too high, but if we can keep the irresponsibles
in Congress from spending too much money, we can win that battle against
inflation.
Let me mention a matter. Some of the columnists have been critical of me
for vetoing a sizable number of bills—I think it's 37 as of the last count. Some
so-called experts have alleged that a veto is a negative action. That is a total
misconception of the veto power.
The Constitution gives to a President the constitutional authority to veto. And
what it amounts to is, by constitutional authority, a President can veto in order
to give the Congress more time to think about whether they made the right
decision or not.
Let me give you two illustrations where a veto in one instance saved almost
$2 billion. Isn't that right, Garner? I recommended $1,900 million. The Con-
gress added $2 billion more. I vetoed it. The House sustained it. And the net
result was that we ended up with about a $2 billion savings. Isn't that con-
structive? Well, I could go through some others and do the same.
I don't like to veto legislation, but I have a responsibility. And fortunately,
with the help of good, strong Members of the House and the Senate, we
have been able to sustain enough so that about $6 billion in unnecessary
expenditures have been saved.
A number of you have mentioned to me, as I have met you, the problem of
energy. In January of this year, I submitted a comprehensive 200-page energy
program that would have conserved energy, produced new sources of energy
in the United States, and taken us on a step toward freeing us from the vulner-
ability of foreign oil cartels.
Most people don't realize that every day that goes by, the United States
becomes more and more vulnerable to foreign oil decisions—not our decisions,
their decisions. And we have been trying to stimulate production at home and
conserve within our own country, but so far we haven't been able to move the
Congress off dead center.
I hope we will get some headway now in this last effort, but I have gone
the last mile—more than halfway. And if we don't get a solution on this
occasion, I think we have no choice but to take a very strong stand and say,
1408
