[650]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
stration of the continuity of our new relationship, on the basis of the principles
of the Shanghai communique.
With the Soviet Union, we will pursue practical agreements where it serves
our mutual interest as a two-way street. In SALT, the strategic arms limitation
area, we will negotiate a balanced and reliable agreement limiting strategic
arms on both sides. It will follow the principles of equality. I want a good
agreement. If it takes a little more time to negotiate a good agreement, I will
spend that time. I will not be rushed by any artificial deadlines.
Earlier this month the United States and the Soviet Union signed a 5-year
agreement for grain purchases. We had gone through previous years, 5 or 6
years, where we had had peaks and valleys. One year they would buy little, the
next year they would buy much. It was not good for the farmer, it was not
good for the consumer, it was not healthy for the Nation as a whole. But
through some hard negotiations, we have achieved a 5-year agreement. This
agreement now ensures that grain purchases by the Soviet Union will add
roughly a billion dollars each year to the American economy over the next 5
years and without disrupting American markets or adding inflation to our
country here at home. It will mean jobs for rail employees, longshoremen, port
workers, and many, many others in our society. Twenty-five privately owned
American ships that were laid up in port because of the recession are now taking
on crews because of this grain agreement. Hundreds of seamen are going back
to work as a result. American farmers, workers, consumers-all of us—are
going to benefit.
In short, we have injected the American spirit of “can do” in our policies at
home as well as abroad. A strong surge of confidence, I detect as I travel around
the country, is moving across the United States. It is a surge of self-confidence
well known to you here in the Bay Area. It is the spirit that rebuilt San Fran-
cisco 70 years ago. It is the spirit that will continue to build America in '75 and
the years ahead.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:10 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the St. Francis Hotel. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Most Rev. Joseph T. Mc-
Gucken, Archbishop of San Francisco, Evelle J.
Younger, State attorney general, Paul Haerle, State
Republican chairman, and Margaret M. Brock,
Republican national committewoman for California.
1768
