[572]
September 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
572
Remarks at a Republican Party Reception in Oklahoma City.
September 19, 1975
Thank you very much, Dewey. Henry, John Jarman, Bill McLean, ladies and
gentlemen:
If I should stop right now and walk off this platform to speak to a very cute,
attractive little girl, I hope you will understand. We have been having a little
affair going on down here. [Laughter]
Let me say at the outset how deeply grateful I am for the warm welcome and
the kind words of Henry Bellmon, Dewey Bartlett, and let me add with
emphasis how great it is to have John Jarman not only vote with us but be
with us.
Obviously, both Betty and I are totally delighted to be here in Oklahoma, and
let me also thank you for the very fine welcome you gave to Vice President
Rockefeller here last week. Nelson tells me that when he went to the football
game last Saturday, he was met with nothing but unremitting kindness, hos-
pitality, and friendship with just one exception—the guy who gave him Oregon
and three points. [Laughter] If we should play Oklahoma, I will have to get
more than that. [Laughter]
What a better time to be in Oklahoma than State Fair Week and the begin-
ning of the football season. It is obviously a great experience of Betty and mine
to be with you, to meet so many enthusiastic and ardent Republicans planning
and working for next year's election.
May I especially thank Bill McLean for his participation and those that he has
brought here on this occasion. Bill, I am very grateful, and if I can get those
strokes on the golf course, I can't wait to play with you. [Laughter] But thank
you very, very much.
As you have heard me say on many occasions when I was here last fall and
elsewhere, the Oklahoma Republican Party has in Dewey Bartlett and Henry
Bellmon two of the most outstanding, finest Members of the United States
Senate that I know. I am not going to embellish what you know better than I,
but it certainly is encouraging for me, whether it's on fiscal matters or defense
matters or anything else that is relevant to the national progress of this Nation,
I can always count on Dewey and on Henry, and I thank you for that help.
I would be negligent if I didn't add a word about John Jarman. He and I
have been friends in the House of Representatives for many, many years. His
1458
