September 5
[532]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
from the States, which quite properly have sole jurisdiction in the exercise of
most police powers.
I said the Federal Government could, however, set an example through reform
of the Federal Criminal Code, which is progressing, and through the Law En-
forcement Assistance Administration and other programs, including general
revenue sharing.
I want to give it to you straight about these programs. They were pushed by
the minority in the Congress during the Johnson administration. And I am
somewhat proud of my association with these innovative Federal measures and
the proof that if an idea is good enough, it can prevail even if the minority
espouses it.
I have asked the Congress to extend general revenue sharing, which expires
at the end of next year. Under it, California has received about 10 percent of the
total Federal funds turned back to the States and to the subdivisions. Cali-
fornia's share now adds up to more than $2 billion and will be closer to $3
billion by the expiration date. This is money that you in California are relatively
free to use where you think California needs it most.
Frankly, the Congress isn't too happy about such liberty on your part and
would rather tell you how they want it spent. I leave it to your good judgment
to help us continue this program for another 5 years. I have recommended that
it be extended for a 5-year period and with added money on an annual basis.
I should say and, in fact, warn you, there are many enemies in the Congress
who don't want it extended, and the consequence is there is an unfortunate
delay. And I detect that there is a feeling of complacency on the part of Gov-
State legislators, mayors, and county officials. I warn you, all of those who
have received these funds and used them effectively—and I think you have—
get moving, because the enemies are working and I don't detect the proponents
are pushing. Don't get caught napping when that expiration date comes up
much more quickly than you suspect it might.
ernors,
As for LEAA, I must say candidly that it hasn't done as much to help curb
the rising crime statistics as we had hoped. But it has encouraged experimenta-
tion and pilot projects in law enforcement and criminal justice which, if they
work, can be adopted by other States. Some of the outstanding ones have been
funded for California's own department of justice dealing with organized
crime and criminal intelligence and to Sacramento and San Diego Counties for
programs on juvenile delinquency, white-collar crime, fraud, drugs, and career
criminals.
The drug problem in America could make several speeches by itself. Here
1345
