[572]
September 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
give the Congress a little more time to reconsider bad legislation. I agree.
[Laughter]
But the veto is not negative; it's an affirmative way to get better legislation.
And that is why we are going to use it more and more.
But in all honesty, there is a better and a more certain way, a surer way to
restore fiscal sanity to the Congress. And I say with emphasis, elect more
Republicans.
If my soundings around the country-and I have traveled in a good many
States and I speak up with pride about it—most Americans want what we in
the Republican Party want. And let me enumerate them, five in number: a free
enterprise system unfettered by obsolete regulations, unfettered by obsolete reg-
ulations stifling private initiative rather than stimulating it; number two, fiscal
restraint and fiscal responsibility in the way their tax money is spent, yours and
everybody else's; number three, a strong national defense which is the best
assurance of peace; number four, local control by local people over local prob-
lems; and last, but not least, more freedom for individuals and greater say in
their own personal affairs.
These are the guideposts which have pointed the way for this Nation for
200 years and directed the efforts of our party for over 100 years. These are the
principles Republicans believe in and most Americans support.
As you here in Oklahoma are well aware, on the eve of a major political
campaign to elect a President, a Congress, Governors, mayors, and State and
local officials all across our 50 States, the air will soon be filled with speeches
of candidates, the rumble of bandwagons and the questions of pollsters, but
the pollsters aren't the only ones who will be asking some questions.
As we prepare for this campaign, I have a couple of questions I would like to
ask you my own self, and I would like your response.
Do you want your President to accept without a fight budget-busting bills
from the Congress which could touch off a new round of inflation ?
Do you want your President to open the United States Treasury to every
city that hasn't or won't responsibly manage its fiscal affairs?
Do you want your President to roll over and play dead while the Congress
passes more and more legislation to strangle free enterprise and the Federal
bureaucracy passes out more and more forms to fill out? [Laughter]
Do you want your President to go along with those who would transfer local
and State responsibility to the massive Federal bureaucracy?
Do you want your President to accept legislation that will continue America's
dependence on unreliable foreign oil? Not in Oklahoma, I am sure. [Laughter]
1460
