[559]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Do you want your President to accept legislation that will continue America's
dependence on unreliable foreign oil?
Do you want your President to accept, without a fight, slashes in our defense
program that would make America number two in a world where only number
one counts?
As Americans concerned about the future of this great Nation, your Repub-
lican answer to every one of those questions has been a resounding no, and I
thank you for it.
I agree with you, and I intend to fight with everything at my command to
make sure that we have fiscal responsibility in government, a vigorous free
enterprise system, a strong national defense, local control over local affairs, and
preservation of personal freedom for the individual.
Today, the Republican Party and the American people are in tune and in
step, and they are an unbeatable combination. With your talent and with your
enthusiasm and with your help, we can make 1976 a year all Republicans and
Independents will remember and Democrats may never forget.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 a.m. at the Dallas
Convention Center. In his remarks, he referred to
Mary Louise Smith, Republican national chairman,
and Anne L. Armstrong, Counsellor to the Presi-
dent 1973-74.
560
Address at a Southern Methodist University Convocation.
September 13, 1975
Chancellor Tate, President Zumberge, Senator Tower, Congressman Steelman,
Secretary Clements, members of the faculty, student body, alumni, and guests:
It is really a very great honor and a very high privilege for me to be here this
afternoon, and I thank you, Chancellor Tate, and those in authority for giving
me this honorary degree.
I couldn't help but think, as you suggested, that I might try out for and
hopefully help the SMU football team. [Laughter] You are extending an invi-
tation that is not justified. I played football at the University of Michigan so
far back it was back when the ball was round. [Laughter] That wouldn't help
you very much against Florida tonight.
Just before I left Washington yesterday morning, I did receive a bit of very
good news. Bill Clements, our Deputy Secretary of Defense as well as the
former chairman of SMU's board of governors, informed me that I had been
1422
