[471]
August 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the President; Ronald H. Nessen, Press Secretary to the President; Lt. General
Brent Scowcroft, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Af-
fairs; Richard B. Cheney, Deputy Assistant to the President; Helmut Sonnen-
feldt, Counselor, Department of State; Arthur Hartman, Assistant Secretary
for European Affairs, Department of State.
The President of the Federal Executive Council, Dzemal Bijedic, called on
President Ford and conducted talks with him on matters concerning bilateral
cooperation.
Presidents Tito and Ford reiterated the particular importance which the
governments of Yugoslavia and the United States of America attach to the
maintenance of peace and stability by the peaceful settlement of disputes, and
by adherence to the principles of independence, mutual respect and full equality
of sovereign states, regardless of differences or similarities in their social, po-
litical and economic systems, and in full accord with the spirit and principles
of the United Nations Charter.
President Ford's visit provided an occasion for a thorough review of bilateral
relations which continue to develop successfully. President Tito and President
Ford confirmed that the principles contained in the joint statement, issued in
Washington in October 1971, represent the continuing basis for relations and
cooperation between Yugoslavia and the United States of America. In conver-
sations between President Ford and President Tito further stimulus was given
to these relations. The two Presidents noted that additional progress has been
achieved in cooperation in the economic area and agreed that possibilities exist
for further mutually beneficial development of trade, investment and other
contemporary forms of economic cooperation. Concrete ways to achieve expan-
sion in this field were discussed.
The two Presidents once again emphasized the significant contribution of
exchanges in the sphere of social and physical sciences, culture, education, in-
formation, etc., to the deepening of mutual understanding and respect and
agreed to make efforts to further develop such exchanges.
President Ford greeted the readiness of the Yugoslav government to con-
tribute to the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the United States of Amer-
ica through various cultural and artistic presentations.
The two Presidents emphasized the deep historical and cultural ties which
exist between their countries, and especially the part which Americans of
Yugoslav origin have long played in strengthening the bonds of friendship
between their new and former homelands and agreed that these ties should
be strengthened.
1108
