November 20
[688]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, Senate.
Minority Leader Hugh Scott, and President pro tem-
pore of the Senate, James O. Eastland. Copies were
also sent to Senate Majority Whip Robert C. Byrd
687
and Senate Minority Whip Robert P. Griffin, and to
Senators Frank Church and John Tower, chairman.
and ranking Republican member of the select com-
mittee.
Message to the Congress Transmitting Quarterly Report of
the Council on Wage and Price Stability. November 20, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 5 of the Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the Congress the fourth quarterly report of
the Council on Wage and Price Stability. This report contains a description of
the Council activities during the past few months in monitoring both prices and
wages in the private sector and various Federal Government activities that
lead to higher costs and prices without creating commensurate benefits. It
discusses in some detail the Council's studies in steel, aluminum, automobiles,
industrial chemicals and tires, as well as its filings before various Federal regula-
tory agencies. In addition, it contains a discussion of wages and prices for the
second quarter of 1975 and the outlook for the remainder of the year.
We are continuing our efforts against inflation and progress is being made.
The Council on Wage and Price Stability plays an important role in supple-
menting fiscal and monetary policies, and will continue to call my attention
to wage and price developments or actions by the Government that could be of
concern.
The White House,
November 20, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report, covering the period May through ber 1975-Council on Wage and Price Stability"
August 1975, is entitled "Quarterly Report: Septem-
(Government Printing Office, 46 pp.).
688
Remarks at the Swearing In of Donald H. Rumsfeld
as Secretary of Defense.
November 20, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Clements. Secretary-designate Rumsfeld, Mrs.
Rumsfeld, Mr. Justice Stewart, the Vice President, General Brown, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
1891
