December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
on the record. And if you want to go back and look at it, kind of just go and see.
I willingly cooperated with the committee. And I think it would be helpful for
all candidates to do it in 1976.
I am healthy. I have never felt better, and I think the public has a legitimate
interest in that. Now, Dr. Lukash has some reservations about that, but as far
as I
Q. He doesn't think that-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he thinks-and I can understand it—that it might
establish a bad precedent. But as far as I am concerned, I would throw what-
ever records are out on the table today. I think it would be a good idea.
Q. Do you think that someone who is not in good health should not run?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is for the American people to decide, not me.
Q. Mr. President, do you plan to release—when you get to campaigning next
year, do you plan to release formally your health records?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding that some publications or some maga-
zine or newspaper, or AP or UPI, are asking that and we have been asked. I
think we should. But I repeat that my medical adviser thinks it is a bad
precedent.
Q. Why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well-
Q. He is a doctor. [Laughter]
Q. I mean, why should it be a bad precedent for the American people to know
the health of their President?
MR. NESSEN. Dr. Lukash, sir, has a problem with the doctor-patient relation-
ship, not only in this case but in Mrs. Ford's case and previous cases. He believes
it violates his medical ethics. But we are still working on the problem. It's the
Medical World News which has requested it.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we can solve the problem, but as far as-in general,
what I did before the Senate committee is the best indication of how I personally
feel.
Q. Mr. President, do you think other candidates should release financial rec-
ords as full as those you released before the committee? And do you plan to
update the ones you released then?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my financial records again are on the record up through,
let's see, 1973, and I hadn't thought about it, but there hasn't been any signifi-
cant change. And I would see no reason why I shouldn't, and I think it would
likewise be constructive for other candidates.
2017
