September 20
[574]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Actually, I have been looking forward to visiting the campus here at Malibu.
Some of you may know I like skiing and swimming, and here in Malibu one
of the big things is surfing, which combines a little of both-skiing when you
do it right and swimming when you do it wrong. [Laughter]
But I never realized how popular surfing really is until just before the pro-
gram when I asked President Bill Banowsky how many minutes he wanted
me to speak, and Bill just said, “Mr. President, hang ten." [Laughter]
Last May, when my wife Betty returned from her trip to this beautiful State,
she gave me a very enthusiastic report on her visit to Pepperdine's inner city Los
Angeles campus. And Pepperdine's rapid growth from a small college in
southwest Los Angeles to a multicampus university has been a success story in
the best Hollywood tradition.
I am impressed with your distinguished faculty, with your dynamic student
body, and with your balanced budget of $35 million. [Laughter] Then again,
coming from Washington, I am impressed with a balanced budget of any size.
[Laughter]
Let me also add a very special word of praise for your president, Dr. Bill
Banowsky. Bill's great, great capacity for leadership has been a guiding force
in Pepperdine's phenomenal progress in pursuit of excellence. He is the man
most responsible for this "Malibu miracle" campus. It represents a testament
to his skill, his diligence, and I congratulate you personally, Bill.
Today, we gather to dedicate this most impressive structure, the Firestone
Fieldhouse, made possible by the generosity and the commitment of two of my
very good friends, Leonard and Nicki Firestone. I join with all of you in salut-
ing these two outstanding Americans, in admiring this proud building, their
fine gift to Pepperdine University.
As Dr. Bill Banowsky was reeling off all of the athletic accomplishments of
Pepperdine's teams on the competitive field of athletics, I thought to myself
there wasn't one single sport where I could qualify for the first time, even
50 years ago. [Laughter]
So, I thank you for the opportunity to participate in this ceremony because of
my personal interest in competitive athletics, but also because Firestone Field-
house stands as a splendid centerpiece for this superb campus. It symbolizes the
vitality, the exuberance, and the strength of Pepperdine students, indeed, the
students throughout this country.
Pepperdine University is a symbol itself. It is an outstanding example of
those voluntarily supported institutions which have contributed so much to
America's greatness and to our country's progress. Such great universities as
1471
