October 1
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
our economic problems. The price of meat goes up, blame the farmer. The
price of milk goes up, blame the farmer. Well, you and I know the farmer is not
to blame for the high prices that we have today.
Fortunately, we are making some substantial progress in the battle against
inflation. The latest figure shows that the cost of living rose only two-tenths of 1
percent, the smallest monthly increase in more than 3 years. Contrary to the
fingerpointing at our farmers, food prices held relatively stable. The small rise
was accounted for by other commodities and other services.
But let me emphasize this, if I might: The good news of 1 month does not
mean that the battle against inflation has been won. It does mean we can and,
more importantly, we will win this fight against inflation if we keep the pres-
sure on.
Let me assure you the victory will not be achieved at the expense of America's
farmers. Nor will farmers suffer on the international grain market from actions
of my Administration.
I know there has been some criticism by some for a temporary halt in grain
sales to the Soviet Union. If I might, I would like to bring you up to date.
Last year, in a visit to Lincoln, Nebraska, I urged farmers of this State, as
well as farmers throughout the country, to plant full crops. I advocated a
policy of agricultural production across the board, full production for the
entire Nation. I am here to tell you that your crops will be sold—and at fair
market prices. But just as important, we must get the farmer off that roller
coaster of up-and-down purchases which has been the Russian pattern for the
last 5 years.
The United States enjoys fruitful and relatively predictable grain-trading re-
lations with Japan and many European countries. Farmers under those ar-
rangements know approximately how much will be sold and can plan for it.
Stable trade helps the farmer as well as the consumer. That is precisely why
we are in the process of negotiating a long-term agreement involving agricul-
ture with the Soviet Union, an agreement along the lines we are now conclud-
ing with Poland. We must and we will bring stability, predictability to the
planning process of the American farmer.
Let me illustrate: Soviet grain purchases from the United States have fluctu-
ated considerably in the last 5 years from a low of about 74 million bushels in
one crop season to a high of 524 million bushels in another.
So far this season, the Soviet Union has purchased 399 million bushels. And I
can say to you that Russian sales will be increased beyond that figure, and I
think it will be a good figure.
1565
