[565]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
PRESIDENTIAL TRAVEL EXPENSES
[13.] Q. Mr. President, regarding the early stage of the campaign, there
has been some suggestion that you are probably deriving an unfair advantage
by not having your political travel expenses charged against your Presidential
campaign amount. Do you feel comfortable with this?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been very, very scrupulous in our bookkeeping to
make certain that we cannot be legitimately criticized. A President has really
three functions: one, being President and attending public affairs or civic affairs;
he has another responsibility as the head of a political party—and in those cases,
of course, the national committee, the Republican National Committee, assumes
the cost-and where I am involved as a candidate, the President Ford Committee
will pick up the tab.
We are keeping very scrupulous books. We are, of course, going to abide by
any decision of the Federal Election Commission, and I hope they will clarify
in the very near future any of the problems that might arise. But our books are
being kept very, very carefully.
Q. Mr. President, do you expect that decision imminently, very soon?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to forecast when they are going to make the
decision, but the sooner the better, I think, so we have a clarification.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[14.] Q. Mr. President, Vice President Rockefeller has been going around
saying that he is not a candidate for the Vice Presidency and he is not seeking
support. This seems to be contrary to what you have specifically recommended,
that he go and line up delegate support. How do you account for this difference
if you and Vice President Rockefeller see eye-to-eye?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is a difference of degree, not of any real substance.
Obviously, if he makes appearances before Republican groups, I am sure he
is going to have a favorable impact on them. And my impression is that he
has made a favorable impact on the various Republican groups where he has
spoken or met with the individuals. Now, whether that can be translated into
getting delegates or not, only time will tell. But the difference you alluded to,
I think, is one of not great substance.
ISRAEL
[15.] Q. Mr. President, in this agreement published in the Post today, it
refers to the United States viewing with particular gravity threats made against
1442
