[573]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
capability, and the intent—and I think the agreement itself—is aimed at that
direction.
Q. Did Jordan regard it as an insult that we suggested it only be defensive?
Is that only because that was made public?
THE PRESIDENT. It is a very technical dispute, and it is my opinion that those
differences have been resolved-and I think constructively so-for the Middle
East as a whole.
Q. Mr. President, another concern regarding the Middle East is those 200
American civilians who may go into the Sinai, concern that they may become
targets or hostages and that that could cause us to make a larger movement of
men. Can you promise that if 200 civilians are sent to the Sinai now, more
Americans will not have to go in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. There is certainly no intention that that technical contribution
be enlarged. I see no reason why it should. As a matter of fact, it is fully under-
stood by the parties that it will not be enlarged.
To compare that to the situation in Vietnam is not an accurate comparison.
In Vietnam, there were two parties at war, and the American initial contribu-
tion back in 1961 was at the request of one party and in opposition to the other
party.
In this case, both Israel and Egypt requested our contribution. So, it is a totally
different situation, and there is no intent on our part to enlarge it. There is no
request by either party to enlarge it. So, I see no possibility of that happening.
Q. Supposing there was some kind of an attack on those people by the
Palestine Liberation Organization? What would this country's response be?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, our effort would be to bring those American
technicians out of the area in case of any forecast of trouble arising in the area.
They are there, will be there in the U.N. buffer zone along with 7,000 or 8,000
U.N. forces, and I think they are thoroughly protected.
It is an area, in my opinion at least, that it is safe for those Americans. I think
it is well to point out that we have now, I think it is, 15 or 20 Americans there
with the U.N. forces at the present time. So, this is a very technical contribution
in a protected area, the U.N. buffer zone. So, I don't think that problem is going
to arise.
THE FEDERAL DEFICIT
[5.] Q. Mr. President, the Congressional Budget Office reported this week
that if the Federal Government would increase the deficit by another $25 bil-
lion, you could put a million people back to work who wouldn't otherwise be
1464
