[501]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
When I say “a very limited number,” I am thinking maybe 100, 150, as I
have read the papers, and they would all be civilians and they would be in a
U.N. zone, not with the Israelis, not with the Egyptians.
So if it happens, I would ask for the concurrence of the House and the Senate
because it is a very important step, and then we will decide whether it is neces-
sary, whether America wants to make that contribution to our security in the
Middle East.
Q. Yes, but they would be American citizens there, and were there a problem
of kidnaping, as the Mayaguez incident, or something like that, American forces
would have to go in to get them out. Is that a proper assumption?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I really don't want to get into those details. You can
always conjure up some very serious situation. But until we get down to the
final signing, I think it is premature for me to make any assumption or con-
jecture concerning that situation developing.
CANDIDACY IN 1976
[7.] Q. Mr. President, let's talk politics for a minute. [Laughter] I know
it is one of your favorite topics. While you obviously will take back some inter-
esting grassroots feedback from a conference like this, a trip like this has to have
some political advantage, too, I suppose. Are you heartened by the Harris poll
which now is out that, I think, shows you with a 55-to-34 edge over Governor
Reagan, or former Governor Reagan? Do you feel good about your political
position right now?
THE PRESIDENT. I do feel encouraged, and that poll this morning that came
out in a number of newspapers was very good news. But that only means that
what we have tried to do does have some appeal, and I can only say that what
we do in the future is more the basic criteria.
Naturally, I do want to get nominated, and I can assure you, if nominated,
then we are going to put on a very hard campaign. So that news is good, but
we've got what, about 14 months to go before the election and about a year before
the convention.
Q. By the time the primaries roll around though, I am assuming we will see
you on the Wisconsin ballot?
THE PRESIDENT. The probability is that I will enter a number of primaries.
Which ones is difficult to forecast right at the moment.
I love a good political campaign. I like to campaign, but I think it is too early
for us to make any categorical commitment as to which primaries or all of the
primaries.
1220
