[615]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
opportunity to make the individual case. But for me to just off-the-cuff give you
an answer, I don't think that is the way a President ought to operate, because if
do it in one case, then you are setting a precedent for another instance where
such an answer might be very, very ill-advised.
you
Q. Then, may I ask this: You support strong belief in atomic power generation,
do you not?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly believe in nuclear power. I believe that in the next
10 years the United States has to build something like 250 more nuclear power-
plants. I think it is the cleanest, I think it is as safe as any other, I believe that it
helps to make the United States invulnerable against the foreign oil cartel. So, I
am strongly in favor of nuclear power.
FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, the Governor of this State has been in contact with
Arab nations about investing moneys in the State of Tennessee and purchasing
products made here in this State. What are your views as far as moves such a
that by other State or perhaps cities in financial trouble that would go to the
Third World nations for aid and assistance?
THE PRESIDENT. We do have to monitor the massive investments, particularly
if those investments from Middle Eastern countries involve, for example, defense
producers-those companies that have a substantial business with the Depart-
ment of Defense. On the other hand, I see offhand no reason why one or more
of these Middle Eastern countries should not buy the bonds of Knoxville or the
State of Tennessee or the city of Detroit. They have to make the judgment as to
whether it is a good investment, and I see no ill coming from the investors from a
foreign country having bonds issued by a local community in Tennessee or
Michigan or elsewhere.
Q. Doy
you think the foreign countries would buy New York bonds right now?
THE PRESIDENT. I will let them make that decision. [Laughter]
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY NOMINATION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, TVA is a household word here in east Tennessee, of
course. Recently you nominated James Hooper, of Mississippi, to fill an existing
vacancy on the TVA Board of Directors. Senator Bill Brock says he will fight
this. Will you stick by that nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. The name has been submitted. The Senate committee is in
the process of completing its investigation on Mr. Hooper. The Senate committee
will make its recommendations to the Senate very shortly. I think it is ill-advised
1610
