October 30
[649]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
year of $50 million. The fund is to be used to reinforce the peace process in the
area and, in particular, to defray the costs of stationing American civilian tech-
nicians in the Sinai area.
All of this aid will contribute to the confidence that Middle Eastern nations
must have in the United States if we are to maintain our momentum toward
peace.
EAST ASIA
The collapse of friendly governments in Indochina has necessitated a thorough
review of the situation and of our policies and objectives throughout East Asia.
The program I am proposing therefore recognizes the new realities as well as
our enduring responsibilities as a leading participant in the affairs of the Asia
Pacific region. For the first time, military sales credits exceed grants in our
proposals for security assistance to Asian countries. These proposals include
Foreign Military Sales credits in the amount of $80 million for the Republic
of China, $126 million for Korea, and $37 million for Thailand, with smaller
but no less significant amounts for Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines.
Grant assistance programs include $19 million for Indonesia, $74 million for
Korea, $20 million for the Philippines, and $28 million for Thailand. This
funding pattern reflects the improved economic circumstances of several of our
allies, their decreasing dependence on grant aid, and a greater ability to pay
for defense purchases on a deferred basis.
EUROPE
The program that I am proposing for Europe is focussed primarily on two
countries with whom the United States shares extraordinary mutual defense
interests: Greece and Turkey. For Greece, I am proposing more than $50 mil-
lion in MAP and $110 million in FMS credits. Over the same period, Turkey
would receive $75 million in MAP and $130 million in FMS credits. These
amounts take into consideration urgent needs for defense articles and services
on the part of these two important NATO allies. Implementation of the respec-
tive programs would allow the United States to resume its traditional coopera-
tive role following the unfortunate disruptions occasioned by the Cyprus crisis.
In this traditional role, the United States can work more effectively to alleviate
regional tensions and rectify recent misunderstandings which have had an
adverse impact on the interests of all our European allies.
1759
