October 3
[610]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: On October 7, 1975, the House of Representa- veto. As enacted, H.R. 4222 is Public Law 94-105
tives and the Senate voted to override the President's (89 Stat. 511).
610
Toasts of the President and Emperor Hirohito of Japan at a
Dinner Honoring the President. October 3, 1975
Your Majesties:
Mrs. Ford and I are deeply honored to be your guests this evening. Japanese
hospitality is always warm and most gracious, as I can testify from my visit
last year to Tokyo and Kyoto.
Your kind and very thoughtful words have made a deep impression upon
Mrs. Ford, myself, and the American people, and it is an honor for me this
evening to have an opportunity to respond.
Your Majesties' visit to Washington has been pleasant, as I have gathered
from our discussions, but all too brief. Tomorrow, you leave for a journey across
America. Many Americans you will meet and the places you will visit have
longstanding and important connections with Japan.
I am very pleased that Your Majesty will see some of our small towns as well
as our great cities. The farm you will visit in Illinois is symbolic of the im-
portance of agriculture as well as trade in American and Japanese relations.
I am particularly happy that Your Majesties will visit the oceanographic
research centers in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, and La Jolla, California, where
some of America's leading marine biologists will have an opportunity to discuss
matters of mutual interest.
Your Majesty's personal role in scientific research symbolizes the contribution
that international scientific exchanges have made to the advancement of knowl-
edge in our two nations and to their mutual benefit.
Mrs. Ford and I are very pleased that time has been found for Your Majesty,
the Empress, to meet Americans who share her artistic interests and humani-
tarian concerns. We are glad that you will also have time to relax and enjoy
other aspects of American life, such as football on Sunday, Disneyland later, and
the tropical beauty of Hawaii.
Your visit, of course, draws attention as well to the place Americans of
Japanese ancestry occupy in our national life. While their numbers are not
large, their contributions to American life have been most significant.
1591
