August 30
[512]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to me with a roughly $5 billion figure, or $3 billion more than I recommended.
They had added, in a Christmas tree fashion, all kinds of extraneous, un-
necessary programs. I vetoed it. We didn't think we could win, but the American
people were wiser than a good many of the Members of the House and the
Senate. And the net result-we sustained the veto. Then the Congress responded
and came back with virtually the recommendation that I had made, saving
roughly $3 billion.
What I am trying to say is that a veto is constructive, not negative. Well, we
could go on with the housing bill and several others.
As a matter of fact, some of the experts in the statistical field have indicated
that over the last year, through vetoes that have been wisely and judiciously
used, we have been able to save the American people roughly $6 billion. I think
that is meaningful, and we are going to keep on doing it until they get the word.
Now, let's be frank. We've got the problem, also, of unemployment. There
are about 535 Members of the House and Senate. Every one of them has got an
idea how you can solve the problem of unemployment. They want quick fixes.
They want some, you know, automatic panacea: We have gone through this
before. I don't like the fact that our unemployment is at the height that it is. I
have great sympathy for those who are, unfortunately, out of work because of
circumstances beyond their control. But it doesn't do them any good to give
them something that in the long run is not good for the country or even for
themselves.
So, what we are doing or trying to do is to constructively rehabilitate an
economy that was in bad shape about a year ago. And we are not going to do
those things that have an apparent—and I say “apparent"—short dividend if in
the long run it is not healthy for the United States of America.
We have about 85 million Americans currently gainfully employed. We have
too many unemployed, but do you realize that in the last 5 months, despite the
high unemployment percentage, we have added to the payrolls in this country,
primarily in the private sector, about 1,200,000? This is encouraging, and we
are going to do better and better.
We must provide jobs in America, not necessarily in the government sector
but, more importantly, in the private sector.
May I say a word about energy. I was on a television show after I got down
here today--I have forgotten the channel, or the station. [Laughter] A very
attractive young lady and two very able interrogators from the same station—
[laughter]—asked me about energy, and the inference was that somehow there
1273
