[623]
October 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Both Betty and I feel it is really great to be back home with all you good
Michiganders. I only wish that both of us could stay over tomorrow and see
that great football game between Michigan and Michigan State. But we decided
against it because of security reasons—political security reasons. [Laughter] No
matter which team I rooted for, there goes half the State. [Laughter]
When I look around the tremendous crowd here tonight, I see so many
responsible for making the Michigan Republican Party one of the very best in
the Nation. And let me tick off State Chairman Bill McLaughlin, our national
committeemen, Ranny Riecker, Pete Fletcher, just to mention a few. And I
could, again, start at the top of the list and inevitably, and unfortunately, forget
so many. But I have long felt—and still believe—that despite the candidates, it
is what is done at the grassroots by all of you in the precinct, in the county, in
the helping and assisting of us to raise the money that really makes the differ-
ence.
So, I thank those of you who don't hold office for the contribution you make
that is so important to the success of the philosophy that we believe in. You are
the real strength of the party.
Now, no State can boast of a finer, finer group of elected Republican officials
than we have here in our great State of Michigan.
Governor Bill Milliken, an outstanding Governor-and I have been to many
gubernatorial conventions all over the United States, and Bill Milliken is a
shining light against any and all, and we are darn proud of him.
I don't mean to be repetitive, but I feel very strongly and very deeply, we in this
State are extremely fortunate to have in Bob Griffin our top United States Sena-
tor. He does a fabulous job on a day-to-day basis. I have seen him work in the
House of Representatives and even more skillfully in the United States Senate.
And, again, I and all of you should be extremely proud of what Bob is doing for
us in Michigan, but just as importantly, for the whole country.
And I would be very remiss if I didn't thank on a personal basis those that I
served with in the House of Representatives who stood tall and strong then as
well as now. Al Cederberg, Bill Broomfield, Eddie Hutchinson, Guy Vander
Jagt, Garry Brown, Marv Esch, and Phil Ruppe—they're the tops in quality in
the House of Representatives. They come from the length and the breadth
of our great State. The only problem is, to go with their quality we need a little
more quantity. So, that is your obligation—to help them with more after this
next election.
But a broad-based political party needs a fine lieutenant governor like John
Damman, your State treasurer, Allison Green, and so many fine members of the
1674
