[649]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
more secure international environment which is worthy of its greatness as a
nation.
The White House,
October 30, 1975.
650
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks in San Francisco at a Republican Party Fundraising
Luncheon. October 30, 1975
Ben, Archbishop McGucken, my former colleagues in the House of Representa-
tives, Don Clausen and Andy Hinshaw, my very good friend Ev Younger, Paul
Haerle, Margaret Brock, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of
participating in this really unbelievable luncheon.
I think most of you know that I have always enjoyed coming back to Cali-
fornia, particularly when it is so close to October 31—[laughter]—a very special
time when we observe the mysterious and supernatural, when people tell strange
tales about big, empty houses where rooms lay ghostly silent, where lights are
never seen, and where mortals never tread. In most places it is called Halloween.
In California it is called the Governor's Mansion. [Laughter]
But may I say most seriously that I can't thank Ben Biaggini sufficiently for his
chairmanship of this superlative luncheon. Ben, I am most grateful, and I say it
on behalf of all of us who are on the firing line trying to achieve and accomplish
what you and all of these fine people represent.
But may I express to all of you who are here, who have contributed, who are
not only here in your presence but with your contributions, we can do the job
better with this kind of support, and I thank you very, very much.
I think it would be appropriate to make one observation. We have a lady in
this audience this afternoon who has really reached a milestone in 1975—her
100th birthday anniversary, Mrs. Alma Walker, Table 25. We should give her a
great big hand.
A visit to San Francisco never fails to bolster my optimism, and what I see
here today verifies it without any question. When I returned from the Pacific in
1945 and saw the Golden Gate, I realized that I, too, had left my heart in San
Francisco.
Next year marks the 70th anniversary of the San Francisco fire. San Francisco
1762
