[426]
July 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it will be made public, but there is a book being
written¹ that I gather will be very complete.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House where Captain Miller
presented him with the wheel from the SS
Mayaguez.
427
Statement on House Action Refusing To Modify the Embargo on
United States Military Assistance to Turkey. July 24, 1975
I AM deeply disappointed by the refusal of the House of Representatives to
partially lift the embargo on the shipment of arms to Turkey. It is my strong
conviction that this negative vote can only do the most serious and irreparable
damage to the vital national security interests of the United States, including
our normally excellent relations with the Government of Turkey, U.S. security
interests in the Atlantic Alliance and the Eastern Mediterranean, and U.S.
efforts to assist the governments of Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus to reach a just
and equitable Cyprus settlement. It will also seriously affect important interests
elsewhere.
I and members of my Administration worked hard to persuade Members
of the House of Representatives that vital, national defense interests are at stake
in this issue. I am very proud of those 206 Members of Congress of both parties,
as well as the Members of the Senate who supported a similar measure, for
casting their votes in the national interest. I deeply appreciate the efforts of the
bipartisan leadership of the Congress and the members of the House and Senate
Committees on International Relations and Foreign Affairs who supported the
legislation. I will continue to make every effort to assist in achieving an equita-
ble settlement of the Cyprus dispute. I will work to reassure our allies, Turkey
and Greece, of our continuing desire to maintain strong and effective relation-
ships with them despite this setback. I hope the House of Representatives will
reconsider its failure to act affirmatively.
1 "The Four Days of the Mayaguez" by Roy Rowan.
1026
