[555]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Office and looking at opinion polls. Only by going
around the country to meetings like this, by meeting
people face to face and listening to what they have
to say, can you really learn how people feel and
what they think.
"Doing this is an important part of my job. I
have no intention of abdicating that responsibility.
I have no intention of allowing the Government
of the people to be held hostage at the point of a
gun."
556
Remarks to Members of the Capitol Club in Overland Park,
Kansas. September 12, 1975
Thank you very much, Jack. Governor Bob Bennett and Mrs. Bennett, Jim
Pearson, Larry Winn, Garner Shriver-I think I have covered all the Con-
gressional delegation. If I haven't I will hear about it, although the others, Keith
and Joe and Bob Dole, they are very close and dear friends of mine:
I do appreciate very much all of you being here.
First, let me congratulate the Republican Parties of Kansas and Missouri for
your success in working together to bring the Republican Convention to Kansas
City next August. I never let my feelings be involved in that, but I will say to
you I couldn't have been happier. Betty and I and, I think, most of our family
will be here, and we look forward very greatly to the convention in 1976.
Since Governor Bennett and I have worked very closely together in the past
on a number of matters, tonight I am going to make him an offer which I
honestly don't think Bob can resist. Bob, I will give you a bedspread for the
Governor's mansion if you get me a room for the convention in 1976. [Laughter]
As I said, the opportunity for us as a party to come out to Kansas in 1976 is
wonderful for our party. And it is, I hope, going to be a shot in the arm for
the Middle West, and Kansas, particularly.
I was told that yesterday on the floor of the House, the Democratic majority
leader of the House, Tip O'Neill of Massachusetts, got up and said in one of
his tirades about how unwise it was for the Republicans to go to Kansas City,
because the last time that they had a convention here, Herbert Hoover was
nominated. [Laughter]
Well, John Rhodes, who is a good Kansan, the Republican minority leader
of the House of Representatives, then got up and said he thought it was much
wiser for us to go to Kansas City than for the Democrats to go to "Debt City”—
New York City. [Laughter]
I happen to agree that we have made a good choice, and I am looking forward
to it, as well as Betty.
You in Kansas have a great heritage and a tradition of fine people, a wonder-
1406
