September 19
[571]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
grain purchases from the United States have fluctuated wildly in the last 5
years-peaks and valleys.
In 1971-72, the United States sold 2.8 million metric tons of grain to the So-
viet Union. In 1972-73, the figure soared to 13.8 million metric tons. In 1973–74,
it dropped to 6.8 million metric tons and then plummeted to 2.2 million metric
tons in 1974 and 1975.
In this crop year we have already sold 10.2 million metric tons, and the So-
viets want to buy still more. These wide fluctuations, these peaks and valleys,
have brought about serious repercussions in price and in marketing both here at
home and around the world. They have caused serious international shipping
complications. The United States wants a solid agreement from the Soviet Union
on the future grain purchases. The American farmer would benefit tremen-
dously from such an agreement.
It would enable him to plan ahead and produce for a much more reliable
market. It would strengthen this Nation's reputation as a dependable supplier
and increase our long-term sales. At the same time, full production would assure
American consumers of plentiful supplies at reasonable prices.
Also, we must be in a position to deliver the grain that we sell. That too deter-
mines whether we are dependable suppliers. Once grain starts moving from the
wheatfields of Oklahoma to the Russian docks, or to any other nation, it must
continue to move or the total sale is jeopardized. This would cause unfavorable
repercussions on markets and jobs here at home.
The purpose and the result of my discussions with labor representatives was to
keep the grain moving that had already been sold while we negotiated for a
long-term contractual agreement with the Soviet Union.
I am glad to report that encouraging progress is being made on an agreement
which will enable us to make additional sales this year and substantial sales on
a regular basis over the next 5 years.
Neither our Government nor the Soviet Union, its Government, would set
the price. The Soviets would pay the full amount, the full market price through-
out the length of this agreement.
I am optimistic that the United States and the Soviet Union will reach this
agreement, which will benefit American Farmers and the American consumers,
an agreement that will benefit both our countries so that the temporary halt
in grain sales can be lifted.
There is still another very urgent challenge facing the United States and the
people of this great State-to make certain that we produce enough energy for
our growing needs and produce it here at home.
1455
