[497]
August 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. You know a lot more about it than I do. I am learning, though.
Q. Well, I think you just did great. He was quoting facts and figures that we
have been talking about here for the last few days.
As you know, Mr. President, two out of every three bushels of wheat we
produced this year must find a home overseas if our wheat farmers are to have
this solid income that you speak about. And I was so glad to hear your remarks.
But our farmers, our wheat farmers are really concerned that the gate is not
wide open now. And we just hope that it can be opened, the export gate can be
opened wide soon, because they are concerned.
We can export 1.3 billion bushels of wheat and still have more wheat than we
had last year, in fact, enough for all of our domestic food uses for another year
in 1975.
THE PRESIDENT. As I indicated, production is up about 19 percent, and 90
percent of the total wheat crop of winter and spring wheat is in already. And
the rest will be in the next month or so.
Wheat is one of the very important products we want to sell overseas. Corn
is another one. The corn crop-it won't be as firm by September as the wheat
crop will be, but at least we will have a better fix on where we are. I am con-
vinced that when we get those facts together and get the parties down to seeing
what we can do, we want the grain shipped overseas.
As I said in my speech in Des Moines the other day, last year the total
American agricultural shipment overseas was about $22 billion. We shipped
in, in other agricultural commodities, as I recall, about $10 billion. So we had a
net surplus of roughly $12 billion.
If we had not had that surplus in our balance of trade from our tremendous
agricultural production, this country would be in serious straits right now, par-
ticularly with the impact of the foreign oil that has risen in price very sub-
stantially. So, we need this overseas sale of American agriculture, and we are
going to find a way to make it certain.
But I think if we all just cool it a bit, it will be in the best interests of every-
body until we can sit down and refine the issues in the first place, the issues of
the consumer, from the point of view of one part of our society.
The maritime industry feels they have been shortchanged, because instead of
getting a third of the grain shipment as they were promised, they have ended
up with about 21 percent or less. And we are in the process right now of negoti-
ating with the Soviet Union to try and get a better freight rate for American
bottoms. This is another aspect of the problem.
It is my recollection that on Monday of this week, the Department of Com-
1202
