August 18
[490]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
489
Statement Announcing a Trip by Secretary of State Kissinger
to the Middle East. August 17, 1975
I HAVE worked many hours with the Secretary of State analyzing and assessing
the situation in the Middle East, and I have now directed him to return to that
region in an effort to bring the discussions to a successful conclusion.
I am hopeful that the parties will successfully conclude an interim agreement
which not only would be in the best interest of the parties involved but also in
the best interest of the entire Middle East region and, indeed, of the whole world.
I am sure all Americans join me in wishing the Secretary of State success on this
critically important mission.
NOTE: Secretary Kissinger left Washington, D.C.,
August 20, 1975, for discussions in Israel, Egypt,
Syria, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia.
The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
490
Remarks at the Iowa State Fair in Des Moines.
August 18, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Governor Bob Ray. Senator John Culver, Repre-
sentative Grassley and Representative Smith, Mayor Olson, Mr. Kleve, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
The first thing that I would like to do is to ask the secretary of the fair, Ken
Falk, to come forward.
First, I'd like to congratulate Ken for the fine job that he has done with the
arrangements for the fair. Since I don't qualify for kid's day, free admission, I
will gladly give Ken my $2 to pay my way in. [Laughter]
MR. FALK. Thank you, Mr. President. You are a great sport, and you are
setting a fine example for people everywhere, both young and old. Thank you
very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Bob Ray, I am deeply grateful for your more than
kind and very generous introduction, and I can assure you that I will, to the
very utmost, seek to live up to the high principles that you have set and the high
principles that you indicated. I thank you very, very much, Bob.
Let me reassure you, however, that I will make these remarks very short and
1163
