August 7
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and our national security on many occasions involves doing things in a covert
way.
I can only assure you that if and when we undertake them under this Admin-
istration, they will be carefully monitored and they will be directly related to
the national security of this country. I am not going to pass judgment on what
other Presidents did. They were good men, whether they were Democrats or
Republicans. They thought they were doing right. I can only pass judgment on
what I want us to do, and those are the guidelines that we will follow.
CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE
[7.] MR. DUKE. Speaking of national security and foreign policy, Mr. Presi-
dent—and I must say parenthetically that you look very fit and relaxed for a
man who just came back from Europe—nonetheless, your trip to Helsinki has
encountered a substantial degree of hostility in this country, as you perhaps well
know, and, rightly or wrongly, some people are suggesting that the Russians
were the winners at Helsinki and we were the losers. What is your response to
that criticism?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a completely inaccurate interpretation con-
cerning the CSCE Conference in Helsinki. I think it is a judgment some people
make, but I thoroughly disagree with it.
Let me just put this in perspective, if I might. We predicated many of the
decisions involving borders on what? Peace treaties signed by all of the countries
in the 1940's and in subsequent years. No border was agreed to in Helsinki that
wasn't previously agreed to by previous American Presidents or by previous
governments in other countries.
We provided in that Helsinki agreement for peaceful change of borders. We
made it far less likely that there will be military intervention by one country
against another.
What we have really done is to make it possible for people in the East as well
as in the West in Europe to communicate, to reestablish family relationships.
We made it possible, if the agreement is lived up to.
MR. AGRONSKY. If the agreement is lived up to?
THE PRESIDENT. I will come to that in a minute, Martin.
We have made it possible for the news media to have greater freedom in all
of the 35 countries.
Now, the question you ask is a very good one. Will the agreement be main-
tained? In my speech before the Conference, I said, on paper this is good. We
1131
