September 4
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
527
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the
White House Conference on Domestic and Economic
Affairs in Seattle. September 4, 1975
Dan, members of the Cabinet, members of the executive branch of the Govern-
ment, all of you from the States in the Northwest:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have an opportunity of par-
ticipating in this White House Conference. I thank your great Governor for his
warm welcome on this and other occasions here today. And I can only reiterate
that it has been always a great honor for me to work with him on governmental,
political, substantive matters, and I think you are very fortunate in this State to
have Dan Evans as your Governor.
Obviously, I am very pleased to be in the Pacific Northwest and particularly
in the great city of Seattle in the State of Washington. I know you have had a
full day of White House Conference, so I will try to keep my remarks brief.
I might say parenthetically, I know you have interrogated people from the
executive branch, from the Cabinet. I hope that you have used all your venom—
[laughter]—if you had any, on them and will be kind and considerate to me.
THE NATION'S GOALS
[1.] As you know, many of you, I am sure, I have been a part of the Federal
Government for 26 years, and I am very concerned about the ever-widening
communications gap between Washington on our east coast and our fellow
Americans in all other parts of the United States. Too many Americans have
difficulty making their views and their wishes known to the people with whom
they must communicate in Washington. This difficulty was probably best sum-
med up in a letter, or an envelope that I received quite recently. It was plaintively
addressed as follows: To President Gerald R. Ford, or Vice President Nelson
Rockefeller, or Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, or just plain anybody who
will listen. [Laughter]
As you have seen here today, I, along with other key members of the Cabinet
and the staff, have come to listen and to learn. I hope we have kept the speeches
to a minimum and, hopefully, our responses to a maximum.
I do look forward to your questions, your concerns, your ideas about the future
of our country, about the directions that you believe we should take. But first, let
1305
