[615]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
and any family with children above that poverty line would have to pay for
the lunch.
Now, the bill that I vetoed provided that there could be free lunches for a
family that had children that had an income of about $9,500. I honestly don't
think that the taxpayer as a whole should subsidize with free lunches the chil-
dren of a family that have an income of $9,500 a year.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, Dr. Kissinger has been certainly successful in gaining
peace in the Middle East. Let's swing to Latin America now. I know we have a
problem with fishing rights with Ecuador-they claim a 200-mile limit. But
coming a little north, the Panama Canal seems to be a troubled area. Are you
prepared to make a statement on our negotiations going on as far as the owner-
ship of that canal? How do you intend to resolve that problem there?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me give a little background, if I might. For three admin-
istrations—President Johnson, President Nixon, and myself—negotiations have
been going on with the Government of Panama concerning that problem. If
you will refresh your memory, you will recall there were serious riots in Panama,
I think in 1965. Around 30 people were killed, including some Americans.
Now, these negotiations are going on. I have taken the position that we will not
accept—and I would not recommend to the Senate-any proposal that interfered
with the national security of the canal, that would interfere with the operations
of the canal.
Now, I would not, under any circumstances, do anything in the negotiations
or submitting proposals to the Senate that undercut our national security. Now,
within those confines, these negotiations are going on. And I think it would be
not wise for me to go into any of the details, because we have an outstanding
negotiator down there who has instructions within those broad guidelines.
STRIP MINING
[10.] Q. Mr. President, recently you vetoed two strip mining bills, I think
they were H.R. 25 and S. 7. And Deputy Administrator John Quarles of the
EPA said strip mining bills are too weak. Exactly what type of strip mining
bill would you sign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I vetoed the one in 1974 and again vetoed the one in
1975.¹ But in each case I recommended through the Secretary of the Interior the
kind of a strip mining bill that I would sign, one that would have a good balance
1 See Item 270, and in the 1974 volume, Item 326.
1614
