October 14
[626]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the issue at this time, rather than to have the probability of the wrong kind of
a tax reduction going into effect January 1. And it seems to me it was better
to fight for what I really believe in at this time rather than to delay it until
sometime in 1976.
Q. Mr. President, following that, if Congress were to extend the present
reduction at the $12 billion level and say they are willing to talk about a
budget reduction of $12 billion, what would your reaction to that be?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I ought to speculate on that. I feel very strongly,
as I have indicated, about the kind of a tax reduction, and that is as crucial as
the spending reduction. And I think we have to stand firm on the combination
that we have proposed. I haven't seen any indication on their part that they
would do it. So, I think it is too speculative to really make any judgment.
Q. Mr. President, are you saying that there is no room for compromise any-
where on this issue, that it has got to be your program or no program?
THE PRESIDENT. We are all realistic enough to know that at some time you
may have to. But our position is firm, and I think it is soundly based. And to
indicate there is any major area of compromise, I think, just erodes our position,
which is firm.
Q. Mr. President, do you fear that if there is an extension on these tax cuts,
as Senator Long has indicated, without any reduction in the rate of growth,
that you will go back to more inflation, possibly more double-digit inflation ?
THE PRESIDENT. If my recollection is accurate, if we have a $12 billion tax
reduction with no limitation on spending, the deficit for fiscal 1977 will be
$70 billion. And with the prospect of a deficit for fiscal 1976 somewhere between
$60 and $70 billion, you will have back-to-back deficits that will total $140
billion. I think that is an inevitable invitation to reigniting of inflation.
Q. Mr. President, you have said that the people would make an issue of this
in 1976. Will you yield to the clamor of the public on this and take up the
cudgels?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I always respect the judgment of the American people,
and if they want to make it an issue, I will respond.
Q. You won't resist it? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. NO.
Q. I am a little confused, Mr. President, as to where these fiscal guidelines
leave your welfare reform. There have been many signs of the Administration's
moving in that direction. Everything you can learn from HEW suggests that
it would cost more to go the negative income route.
THE PRESIDENT. The Vice President is having some hearings which will cover
1693
