October 14
[626]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. There will be a number of significant recommendations.
Q. Mr. President, can I come back to the question of the economic impact of
the program, because as you know, one of the most persistent criticisms on
Capitol Hill is that the tax cuts will take effect at one time and the spending
cuts will take place at a point in time 9 months later. The criticism is that you
have the tax cuts feeding into the economy, and that will stimulate the economy,
and therefore might be too inflationary. Could we get some further guidance
on how you respond to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been assured by Alan and his associates that that will
not take place. I don't have the details.
SECRETARY SIMON. Can I just say something in addition to what Alan said
before, which is a little sophisticated, Joe, I agree with you. You get to a point,
when we talk about stimulus, whether or not a budget deficit of a particular size
in excess of that is indeed stimulative or just the opposite, and what are the
financial implications that you have heard me speak of so often-the crowding
out that indeed has already occurred, which is going to hurt as far as a broad-
based expansion if it were allowed to continue.
So, one can argue, as in the case of other countries who have adopted stimula-
tive measures in the past which did nothing but exacerbate inflation and
unemployment, that indeed, at a certain level—which can't be quantified, ad-
mittedly, this is a matter of one's judgment—that in the short run it is not
necessarily stimulative.
And certainly, if we begin to look, which economic policymakers should look,
not at short-run considerations—we are always looking at what the immediate
impact of our policies is going to produce, what it is going to be between now
and the next election. The purpose of this is once and for all, as the President
said, to get the control over the growth in Federal spending, to move toward
a balanced budget, and it is our only hope to move toward a balanced budget
before the end of this decade. We have to begin by controlling the growth.
Q. Bill, aren't you nevertheless going to have to borrow more money in the
first 6 months of calendar 1976?
SECRETARY SIMON. Sure. You have what I call a partial—a partial only, Bart—
Hobson's choice, and let me explain why I say it is only partial. I would rather,
knowing what my druthers are, finance an additional $5 billion or $6 billion
budget deficit during the first period of 1976, calendar year 1976, during the
period of obvious economic slack, than I would the very large deficit that we
were threatened with during 1977, when the economy will be moving back to
high economic activity, we believe.
1689
