September 1
[516]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
516
Telephone Conversations With Secretary of State Kissinger,
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, and President
Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt on the Egyptian-Israeli
Agreement. September 1, 1975
SECRETARY KISSINGER. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Henry, how are you?
SECRETARY KISSINGER. I am fine. How nice to hear from you.
The President. The same to you. I have just been warned by Ron [Nessen]
that I have to tell you—and later when I talk to the Prime Minister and to the
President-that WHCA [White House Communications Agency] is recording
this conversation. You don't have any objections, I trust?
SECRETARY KISSINGER. No, I don't have any objection.
THE PRESIDENT. I think they wanted it for historical purposes.
SECRETARY KISSINGER. Right.
The President. Let me say very, very deeply how very grateful I am for the
tremendous effort that you have made in this last round of negotiations, but I
know how long and how hard and devotedly you have spent many, many hours,
not only with me but with Prime Minister Rabin and President Sadat.
I think this is a great achievement, one of the most historic, certainly of this
decade and perhaps in this century. And I know that the American people will
be most grateful for the successful efforts that you made. I just want to express
it very strongly and very deeply for myself.
Secretary KISSINGER. I appreciate this very much, Mr. President, and of course,
we have spent more time on the Middle East-you and I—than on almost any
other problem.
THE PRESIDENT. I think if we added up the hours, it would be a good many
days, and the fact that we finally made a successful conclusion, I know, gives
you as well as myself and many, many others a great deal of satisfaction. It is in
the best interests of not only the two countries ourselves but, in my judgment,
Henry, one of the great achievements for the world at this time.
Secretary KissingER. I think it gives peace a chance in this area, and the con-
sequences, as the U.S. pointed out repeatedly, of stalemate were simply unac-
ceptable.
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure there will be some critics, but I think in all honesty
they have to understand what the alternatives would have been.
1279
