October 4
[611]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
611
Remarks at Elkins, West Virginia.
October 4, 1975
Thank you very much, Harley. Senator Randolph, Senator Byrd, Congressman
Slack, Congressman Hechler, Mayor Herron, all of you wonderful people from
the State of West Virginia:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to be in Elkins and in Randolph
County.
Let me say it was a special privilege to fly from Washington with your two
able Senators and my very good friends, Jennings Randolph and Bob Byrd, and
it was also delightful to have in the plane with me--or in the helicopter-my
former colleagues in the House, John Slack and Ken Hechler.
Let me add, if I might, Harley Staggers, your Congressman, and I—he and I
came to the Congress together in January of 1949. We served together until a
year or two ago, but our friendship has existed for a good many years. And
although we have had some differences-and those are understandable—our
friendship has transcended any partisan differences that we might have had.
If I might add just a note on that point, one of the great, great strengths of our
political system is the fact that we can have differences. And as a former great
Speaker of the House of Representatives once said, "We can disagree without
being disagreeable.” In America we can make our system better by competition
in the political arena, as we make our system better by competition, whether it
is on an athletic field, whether it is in business or in the professions or in
education.
Back in 1936, the late Franklin D. Roosevelt came to Elkins. And at that time
in his remarks he emphasized the need and necessity for conservation. In a State
like West Virginia where you have roughly 75 percent of your State covered by
beautiful forests, as we saw in the flight from Washington, conservation is an
extremely important project and program that we must carry out.
We are making substantial headway in the better utilization of our resources,
the management of those resources which are so essential to a better America
for the young people that I see here.
But as history moves along, we run into other problems. And at the present
time in the United States, we have a serious energy problem.
But again, West Virginia can play and does play a tremendous role. You have
great coal resources here in West Virginia. You have natural gas, and as we
1593
