[532]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
again we have a very small number of deliberate criminals who destroy the
domestic tranquillity of millions and millions of decent citizens. What is par-
ticularly outrageous is the tragedy they bring to young people who should be
learning to face life, not run from it.
Here in California, according to the latest figures I have seen, less than
one out of every five convicted hard drug pushers ever served time in prison.
One way to keep a convicted murderer from killing anybody else, and one way
to keep a hard drug pusher from ruining any more lives is to lock them up for a
reasonable but certain term of imprisonment.
Loss of liberty is both a deterrent to crime and a prevention of repeated
crime, at least while the offender is behind bars. Prisoners should be treated
humanely, and we cannot expect judges, Mr. Chief Justice, and juries to con-
vict and sentence the guilty to places of confinement that are cruel and de-
grading.
But I consider it essential that we reduce delay in bringing arrested persons to
trial, sharply limit the prevailing practice of plea bargaining caused by con-
gested prosecutor and court calendars, and significantly increase the proportion
of those convicted of violent crimes and repeated crimes who actually serve
time in prison.
I commend the State of California for its ongoing efforts in these areas as well
as for your program, or programs to prevent juvenile crime and to rehabilitate
youthful first-time offenders.
One of the worst aspects of the current rise in crime rates has been that al-
most half of all arrests are persons under 18 years of age. While imprisonment is
clearly the way to put hardened criminals out of business for a period of time,
it is obviously not the best way to deal with the very young. Yet, simply sending
them home has not proved a very satisfactory solution, either.
We do not have all the answers, but we must spare no effort to find them
quickly. The Federal Department of Justice has embarked on an urgent pilot
program to divert first offenders and, in appropriate cases, prevent them acquir-
ing the lifelong stigma of a criminal record.
Another aspect of the crime program that I have submitted-I asked the Con-
gress to write into the revised Federal Criminal Code the stronger provisions
to allow Federal action against organized crime wherever it rears its ugly head.
The leaders of organized crime do not recognize State or, for that matter, na-
tional boundaries. It will take all of our law enforcement resources to fight this
giant conspiracy against domestic tranquillity and prevent its spread.
2 Donald R. Wright, chief justice of the California State Supreme Court.
1346
