[630]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
only lighten your tax load but I think they will also help tremendously in
battling the ravages of inflation, the cruelest and perhaps the most pervasive
tax of all.
As I have indicated, they will give our economy the necessary, sustained
push so that we can expand and meet the challenges from abroad, which are
serious—a problem that has to be met if we are to provide for job growth.
What we have to do is convince the Congress that the American people want
this kind of an answer. We cannot let the growth of the Federal budget go as it
has for the last 13 years.
And let me tell you what the consequence will be: If we let the growth of
Federal spending proceed as it has for the last 10-plus years, by the year 2000
half of the people in this Nation will be living off the other half, totally changing
the kind of a government, the kind of a society in which we live.
Let me illustrate by a couple of quick statistics. In 1962 the budget climbed
over the $100 billion mark for the first time. By 1971 it went over $200 billion.
By 1975 it had topped $300 billion. And without some serious trimming, it
will go over $400 billion in the next fiscal year. That is a 300-percent increase
in the short span of 13 years. And if we permit that growth to continue without
some restriction and some limitation, the consequences I described will be upon
us by the year 2000.
To meet this problem head on, I propose that we halt this alarming growth
by holding spending to $395 billion in the coming fiscal year. That represents
a $28 billion cut from the spending level currently projected, if all existing
Federal programs are allowed to grow as they have in the recent past. I recog-
nize that special interest groups throughout America may complain. They will
be down on the doorsteps of the House as well as the Senate when funds are
cut as a part of this economy drive. But my concern and your concern is not
that of special interests. It is the people's interest, the taxpayers' interest, and
more importantly than anything, the national interest.
The Congress has to look at this package in that light. The temptation of
Representatives in the Congress to accept the tax cut, but reject the spending
cuts, will be tremendous. It is an old story-everybody wants to go to heaven,
but nobody wants to die. [Laughter] I served in the Congress long enough to
know that from personal experience. But if we are really serious about getting
both our economy and the Federal Government under control, the Congress
must commit itself, not halfheartedly but wholeheartedly, to a policy of strict
fiscal responsibility. Instead of throwing up its hands and saying it can't be done,
as some of the Democratic leaders have indicated, I suggest to the Democratic-
1704
