December 12
[725]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
If a merchant offers consumers a discount price on a fair trade item, he is
subject to criminal action in those States with fair trade laws. As a result, these
laws prevent the American people from receiving the benefit of lower prices
on cameras, watches, sporting goods, small appliances, auto supplies, and many
other brand name products. In today's economy, these restraints on competition
no longer make sense.
When this new legislation takes effect 90 days from now, retailers will again
be able to set prices on a more competitive basis, thereby enabling consumers in
all 50 States to shop for the best products at the lowest possible prices.
Many States already have recognized the unfairness of these laws. Since Janu-
ary of this year, 15 State legislatures have repealed their fair trade laws. I com-
mend the actions of these States.
I commend the Congress as well for its bipartisan recognition that price com-
petition is important to American consumers and for its timely consideration
of this legislation. Now that H.R. 6971 is law, I hope that the Congress and the
Administration will continue to work together to achieve the much needed
reform of other Government laws and regulations which impose hidden and
unnecessary costs on American consumers. In particular, I hope that the Con-
gress will support my program of regulatory reform in such important areas
as air transportation, trucking, and financial institutions.
As I have been saying since taking office, the best way we can protect the
consumer is to identify and eliminate costly, inefficient, and obsolete laws and
regulations. Thus, I take particular pleasure in signing this bill for the benefit
of the American consumer.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 6971 is Public Law 94-145 (89 Stat. 801).
725
Memorandum to Secretary of Transportation Coleman on
Airline Safety. December 12, 1975
[Dated December 10, 1975. Released December 12, 1975]
Memorandum for: Honorable William T. Coleman, Jr., Secretary, Department
of Transportation
Subject: Airline Safety
I have read with considerable concern news reports on the recent “near miss”
incidents involving large passenger jets. It is of great importance that we main-
1967
