[617]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
But if Congress will face up to a limitation, we can control it, and that is what
they ought to do.
We ought to get rid of the words "uncontrollable Federal expenditures.”
You can control them, I can control them, if Congress will change the law,
period.
And let me point out one thing, if I might. This fiscal year which begins,
or ends I should say, next June 30, will have a deficit of somewhere between
$62 and $70 billion-deficit. That is more money we have to borrow to pay our
current obligations in 12 months.
If what I have recommended, that we get a $28 billion tax cut and a $28
billion limitation on the growth of Federal expenditures, we can just about cut
in half for the next fiscal year the deficit. It will be somewhere around $40
billion.
Now, that's bad, but let me tell you what will happen if we don't cut the
growth—and I underline “the growth”—in Federal expenditures. We will end
up with a deficit next fiscal year of $70-plus billion. So, you will have back-to-
back deficits of around $140-well, total $140 billion. That is the cold, hard,
statistical fact of life.
So, what is our choice? In order to get the Congress to put a limitation on
growth of Federal spending, we have to convince the Congress that it is wise
to put a tax reduction in at the same time. I think a good many Members of
Congress even today agree with that, and more and more will agree with it if
you go out and sell it.
What kind of tax package are we trying to sell? We are trying to sell a tax
package that gives to the hard-working, industrious, middle-income group a
better break. They have been shortchanged if you look at the tax packages over
the last 10 or 20 years. And we are talking about the people in the range of
$8,000 to $25,000 to $30,000.
They have been getting shortchanged. You can look at the statistics. They
are very accurate. What we are trying to do is to give to them the kind of a
break so they can send their kids to school, buy a home, do some of the things
that they worked for and sought to achieve.
What are the specifics? The specifics are to increase the personal exemption
from $750 per person to $1,000. Number two, for a single person, the regular
deduction-standard deduction they call it--for a single person, a flat rate of
$1,800; for a family, $2,500.
In addition, we revise the rate schedules. The net result is you are going to
1640
