[554]
September 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
year and $800 million next year over and above what I recommended, and I
recommended more for this year than was made available last year.
So, we didn't cut anything back. But as long as they keep sending appropria-
tion and spending bills above a reasonable figure, I am going to veto them. And
I hope the Congress will finally awaken and find that they are the principal
contributors to inflation in this country.
ADVERTISING BY UTILITIES
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am Bob Kelly, the president of the Advertising
Club of Greater St. Louis. And we applaud and support in principle the Gov-
ernment guidelines which set forth certain things to be followed concerning
taste and truth and accuracy in advertising. However, before the Congress today
there is a bill which would prohibit the utilities of the Nation from continuing
to advertise their services to the public. We feel this is a very clear and serious
infringement on their right of free speech to communicate with their customers
and potential customers. If a bill of this sort did reach your desk, what would
your position be?
THE PRESIDENT. I am often asked that question by Members of Congress as
they go down the line in the legislative process. And I don't think I should treat
you any differently from them. [Laughter]
My answer to them is, I will give you an answer to that legislation when it
is placed on my desk, because there is a long, hard row between the introduction
of a bill and its consideration by a committee, its consideration on the floor of
the House and Senate, et cetera.
Oftentimes, about all that is left in a bill is its original number. [Laughter]
So, I learned a long time ago never to endorse or say you will vote against or
veto a bill just by number. I got caught on that the first year or two I was in
Congress.
What I am saying is, basically, I don't think there should be any prohibition
against people or organizations exercising their right of free speech, and that
is a very fundamental issue in this country, and it ought to be true of individuals
or cooperatives or partnerships or any other organization, but I don't think I
ought to say to you I am going to veto that bill, not having read it, including
the fine print, which is often most important.
Q. I understand. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Bill just reminded me, one, I am taking too long to answer
the questions, and therefore, we ought to cut it off, but as far as I am concerned,
we will finish, so go ahead.
1400
