August 25
[501]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am not the best judge of that. [Laughter] I just like
to meet with people like yourselves and try to explain my views, our policies,
and I enjoy the opportunity to have a give-and-take with top newsmen in a
region like Milwaukee.
WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON DOMESTIC AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
[12.] Q. We have been addressing ourselves mostly to the "give" here during
our meeting. I wonder if you could give us an idea, Mr. President, of what
you hope to take back to Washington with you from Wisconsin?
The President. Well, this White House Conference, as I understand it, has
17 [19] cosponsoring organizations. I hope to answer a question from each one
of the 19. If I do, I will get a flavor of what these organizations feel about our
policies or what we are trying to do.
I am sure I will get, as I have in the past, written reports from all the other
conferences. So, I am not going to prejudge until I have participated, until I
have seen the written reports from those that have participated.
FOOD PRICES
[13.] Q. One of the groups that you are likely to hear from will be the con-
sumers. And your Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Butz, this morning assured us
the farmer was doing his part to hold food prices down, but that there are almost
uncontrollable costs in terms of labor and transportation and middleman costs.
Do you plan any kind of direct action, legislative action to try to control that
kind of price pressure?
THE PRESIDENT. I think competition is the best way to solve that. The farmers
have contributed magnificently. With their full production program, we are
going to have the biggest wheat year in the history of the United States, the
largest corn year, and I think soybeans will also be a record crop.
So, the farmers have contributed. I hope that others that take the farm
product from the farm to the home will equally contribute to make good food
in America, delivered as cheaply as possible.
MICHIGAN-WISCONSIN FOOTBALL GAME
[14.] Q. Mr. President, your Michigan Wolverines are coming here to Wis-
consin. They are opening our season with the Badgers. Do you want to predict
the outcome of that game? We would like to win the first one and start it off
right.
THE PRESIDENT. I know that Wisconsin, the Badgers, would love to win. It
brings back a game, the only game I played against Wisconsin-1934-and they
1223
