[532]
September 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
is it not mandatory that such offenders, duly tried and convicted, be removed
from society for a definite period of time rather than returning to the streets to
continue to prey on the innocent and the law-abiding majority?
Although only a very limited number of violent crimes fall under Federal
jurisdiction, I have urged the Congress to set an example by providing for man-
datory prison terms for convicted offenders in such extraordinarily serious
crimes as aircraft hijacking, kidnaping, and trafficking in hard drugs. I also
advocate mandatory sentences for persons found guilty of crimes involving use
of dangerous weapons and for repeat offenders, with or without a weapon, whose
crimes show a potential or actual cause of physical injury. There will, of course,
be sensible exceptions, but they must be minimal.
I hope all 50 States will follow suit. Far too many violent and repetitive crimi-
nals never spend a day in prison after conviction. Mandatory sentences need not
be severe. It is the certainty of confinement that is presently lacking. We will
never deter crime nor reduce its growth if potential lawbreakers feel they have
favorable odds of escaping punishment. The more experienced in crime they
get, the better their odds of not suffering the consequences. That is wrong, and it
must be reversed, and the quicker, the better.
The temptation to politicians—and I trust we are all politicians here and
proud of it—I am—is to call for a massive crackdown on crime and to advocate
throwing every convicted felon in jail and throwing the key away.
We have heard such cries for years, and crime continues to gain on us. The
problem is infinitely more complex than any updated vigilante mentality can
cope with. We have to confess, you and I, that we do not know all of the
answers. But as with other stubborn national problems, my philosophy is that
we must take one sure step at a time. It is simply intolerable to stand still or slip
backwards. It is simply impossible to devise a swift cure-all or a quick fix.
In a talk to my alma mater and to yours, Mr. Governor, the Yale Law School,
last April, and again in a detailed message to the Congress in June, I outlined
the first steps which I believe must be taken to get a handle on the rising crime
rates. I will not rehash these points today, except to thank the California Legis-
lature for moving somewhat faster than Congress has on some of my recom-
mendations, such as mandatory prison sentences for crimes involving firearms
and hard drug pushing.
I told the Congress, not as a cop-out, but as a constitutional fact of life, that the
Federal effort in the fight against crime really depends on the massive support
1344
