[500]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Too often in the past, our Government has stifled that competition in the
name of economic regulation to the detriment of the consumer. For that rea-
son, my Administration-with strong support of the Congress in this instance—
is seeking fundamental reform of economic regulation in the United States.
The problem is simply this: In many industries—transportation, energy,
communications, as well as others—Federal regulatory commissions have ac-
tually thwarted competition. The bureaucratic monopolies have tangled busi-
ness in conflicting policies and redtape far, far too long. The record is clear:
They have burdened the consumer with the costs of misdirected regulation.
Although I am greatly encouraged by widespread backing for regulatory
reform, I also recognize we still have a long, long way to go to achieve it.
But with the continued public support, which is very evident, with the sup-
port of you as well as your industry, we will reverse the trend of the last few
decades. We will establish as national policy this basic fact of economic life,
that Government regulation is not an effective substitute for vigorous American
competition in the marketplace.
Having said this, let me add that some—and I qualify it by saying "some”—
regulations are necessary and appropriate, for instance, involving health, safety,
the environment. But the reforms that we seek would eliminate the impractical,
the unnecessary, and the obsolete.
As part of this effort to ensure that we have a strong economic system, we must
maintain an antitrust policy which validates our commitment to competitive
markets. If we reduce Government regulation of business, we must make cer-
tain and positive that our antitrust laws are vigorously enforced.
Competition, when freed of Government regulation and supported by anti-
trust laws, is the driving force of our economy. It will drive costs down to their
minimum and assure prices based on these legitimate costs.
Yet, such steps cover only a part of the overall problem. It is much more
difficult to deal with areas that antitrust laws do not touch. These are the
regulated and legal monopolies and the Government-sanctioned cartels.
For instance, various industry rate bureaus and self-regulatory agencies-
transportation rate bureaus, shipping conferences, stock exchanges, and pro-
fessional associations-now seem to operate in a congenial cost-plus environ-
ment. This is simply because government once decided they need not or cannot
compete. They are allowed to fix prices and divide markets under the regulatory
cloak, free from antitrust enforcement.
An essential element of regulatory reform legislation I have already sent or
1212
