September 16
[566]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MARIJUANA
[19.] Q. Do you favor the decriminalization of the private use of marijuana?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not believe we have sufficient evidence at the present
time to warrant any recommendation in that regard.
Q. Have you read the Shafer Commission report? 2 Your predecessor did not.
I am wondering if you would-
THE PRESIDENT. I have read summaries of a number of studies in this area,
and there is no consensus. And therefore, until more information is available, I
would not make any such recommendation.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Ford's eighteenth news conference began at 11:40 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White
House.
566
Statement Announcing Termination of the Presidential Clemency
Board. September 16, 1975
WHEN I took office 13 months ago, the status of persons who had evaded
military service or had deserted the Armed Forces during the Vietnam conflict
remained unresolved. In furtherance of our national commitment to justice
and mercy, I established on September 16, 1974, a Program for the Return of
Vietnam Era Draft Evaders and Military Deserters, because I believed these
young Americans should have the opportunity to contribute a share in the
rebuilding of peace among ourselves and with all nations.
As part of this program, I established the Presidential Clemency Board to
review the cases of evaders and deserters who had been convicted of these
offenses. In addition, other parts of the program were administered by the
Department of Justice and by the Department of Defense.
The Clemency Board, under the chairmanship of Charles E. Goodell, has
considered approximately 15,500 applications on a case-by-case basis for the
purpose of making recommendations to me. As I had intended, the Board gave
careful attention to each individual case and did not simply recommend blanket
amnesty for whole categories of applicants. The Board has worked diligently
to fulfill its very important assignment.
2 The Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse, chaired by former Gov. Raymond P. Shafer, presented
its report to President Nixon on March 21, 1972.
1445
