August 30
[511]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
there is a lot of nonessential spending in it. Now, having vetoed that bill, there
was nothing in there, in that proposal Congress passed, to do anything more in
desegregation cases than I recommended. So, that is a moot issue as far as the
Boston case is concerned.
LAW OF THE SEA CONFERENCE
[8.] Q. Can I move you along to another area completely, and that is fishing,
which is of some importance to the New England States. Our fishing industry
is dying, and it would appear that foreign fleets, modern fleets, are perhaps
wiping out fish for a long time, perhaps forever. The Senate has passed the 200-
mile-limit bill. The House probably will, too. Will you sign it?
THE PRESIDENT. If my recollection is accurate, in this session of the Congress,
the Senate has not acted. I think they acted last year.
Q. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. The House committee has acted, and it will be on the House
agenda shortly. What we are trying to do, through the Law of the Sea Con-
ference, is to settle all of the controversies on a worldwide basis involving fish-
ing, the 200-mile zone, et cetera.
I am for the concept of a 200-mile zone. I think it is better to settle it on a
worldwide basis rather than to do it unilaterally just for the United States.
Q. The problem, Mr. President, is that while we are waiting for the interna-
tional treaty, our fish supplies are being depleted.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we had the second meeting of this Law of the Sea Con-
ference ending earlier this year.
They've got a draft proposal at the present time. They are going back to
negotiations early next year. It is my hope that we can do it on a worldwide
basis, and the United States, at my direction, is going to fight for a 200-mile
zone. I think that is a better way to solve it than to do it on a unilateral basis,
just the United States.
Q. But how long are you willing to wait?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we hope that the Law of the Sea Conference will be
completed early next year. As I recollect, the conferees are getting together in
January. We have made a lot of progress, and if we can get it on a worldwide
basis in 1976, that is far preferable to unilateral action just by the United States.
SENATE ELECTION IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
[9.] Q. One quick question for New Hampshire. New Hampshire would
like to know if you are planning to come up sometime before September 16 and
campaign for Louie Wyman?
1267
