August 15
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
increases the vulnerability of our economy to disruption and reduces our options
to meet the energy needs of the future.
Economists and environmentalists have been telling us that there is no free
lunch in the world. And they are right. The price for control of our own eco-
nomic energy and environmental destiny is small in dollars, but very, very
high in reward—if we make the tough decisions today that are demanded of us.
So, I thank you for listening, and let's get down to those tough questions
that all of you have.
Thank you very much. Cathy [Vail Councilwoman Cathy Klug].
QUESTIONS
ENERGY DEVELOPMENT
[2.] Q. Mr. President, the future of the energy development industry in the
Rocky Mountain West depends in part on Federal risk-sharing programs de-
signed to insure the future of such developments. Do you feel that similar Fed-
eral risk-sharing programs should be considered to insure the future for impacted
communities and to minimize the socio-economic effect on those communities,
or do you feel that the energy development industry should assume that responsi-
bility?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a very important question in this area. And on Mon-
day, I am going to visit Rifle, Colorado, which is an area that is potentially badly
affected by a great upsurge in people with all the things that follow from a big
plant, lots of people, and so forth.
I am meeting with the local public officials as well as the people that are de-
veloping the process in Rifle. It is my judgment, first, that we have to recog-
nize the impact on a relatively small community from the development that is
needed for the country as a whole.
Therefore, the Federal Government does have a responsibility to participate.
We have people in various departments of the Federal Government that are
working on this—the Department of Interior, the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, the Office of Management and Budget—and I am con-
fident that we can work out a way in which the Federal Government can help to
provide water, housing, and so forth.
Now, I am not saying the Federal Government has the sole responsibility, but
we will take some leadership, working with the State and the local people, to
make sure that the impact on the local community, the environment is not
neglected.
1153
