July 25
[430]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
There are those who fear the Conference will put a seal of approval on the
political division of Europe that has existed since the Soviet Union incorporated
the Baltic nations and set new boundaries elsewhere in Europe by military action
in World War II. These critics contend that participation by the United States
in the Helsinki understandings amounts to tacit recognition of a status quo
which favors the Soviet Union and perpetuates its control over countries allied
with it.
On the other extreme, there are critics who say the meeting is a meaningless
exercise because the Helsinki declarations are merely statements of principles
and good intentions which are neither legally binding nor enforceable and
cannot be depended upon. They express concern, however, that the result will
be to make the free governments of Western Europe and North America less
wary and lead to a letting down of NATO's political guard and military
defenses.
If I seriously shared these reservations, I would not be going, but I certainly
understand the historical reasons for them and, especially, the anxiety of Ameri-
cans whose ancestral homelands, families, and friends have been and still are
profoundly affected by East-West political developments in Europe.
I would emphasize that the document I will sign is neither a treaty nor is it
legally binding on any participating State. The Helsinki documents involve
political and moral commitments aimed at lessening tensions and opening fur-
ther the lines of communication between the peoples of East and West.
It is the policy of the United States, and it has been my policy ever since I
entered public life, to support the aspirations for freedom and national independ-
ence of the peoples of Eastern Europe-with whom we have close ties of culture
and blood-by every proper and peaceful means. I believe the outcome of this
European Security Conference will be a step-how long a step remains to be
tested—in that direction. I hope my visits to Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia
will again demonstrate our continuing friendship and interest in the welfare and
progress of the fine people of Eastern Europe.
To keep the Helsinki Conference in perspective, we must remember that it is
not simply another summit between the super powers. On the contrary, it is
primarily a political dialog among the Europeans-East, West, and neutral-
with primary emphasis on European relationships rather than global differ-
ences. The United States has taken part, along with Canada, to maintain the
solidarity of the Atlantic Alliance and because our absence would have caused a
serious imbalance for the West.
We have acted in concert with our free and democratic partners to preserve
1031
