[650]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
adopted at the end of that session by the world community. This was an
extraordinary example of reasoned deliberation, consensus, and practical action.
There have been other encouraging developments. The U.N. Security Council
recently renewed the mandate of the U.N. emergency force in the Sinai, with
a minimum of debate and acrimony. This force is vital to the maintenance of
peace and of our efforts for further diplomatic progress in that turbulent area
of the world.
The original peacekeeping role of the U.N. is more important now than
perhaps at any time in the history of the United Nations. That is why we are
disturbed by signs of contrary trends and actions in that world body.
We have seen bloc voting, one-sided resolutions, and violations of fair proce-
dures and principles of the United Nations Charter. We have seen attempts to
interfere, for example, in the affairs of Puerto Rico, flouting the clearly expressed
will of the Puerto Rican people. And we have seen a committee of the United
Nations vote to characterize Zionism as a form of racism.
The United States, through Secretary Kissinger and Ambassador Moynihan,
has made it clear that this resolution undermines the United Nations' necessary
and valuable campaign against racial discrimination and threatens the U.N.'s
crucial role as a mediator in the Middle East. I take grave exception to any action
that weakens the United Nations as an effective forum for peaceful settlement
of disputes. The United States deplores this resolution in the strongest possible
terms and will work for its defeat if it comes before the General Assembly.
The U.N. Charter sets a standard in the basic truth that diversity of principles
and beliefs must be respected. We believe in this truth and will defend our values
and our principles in the U.N. without any apology whatsoever. We will par-
ticipate constructively in U.N. deliberations and actions, and we expect to be
met in the very same spirit by others. That is my position, and I believe it
represents the views and the attitudes of 214 million Americans.
In my Administration, America will hold its head high in the world. We are
proud of the contribution this country has made for peace. And I promise you
our efforts and our determination in this area will never, never falter.
Earlier this week I had several very important meetings with President Sadat
of Egypt. His visit—the first time a President of Egypt has ever come to the
United States—is one of the most significant new developments in international
affairs.
American concern for the Middle East is not a matter of choice, but a matter
of vital necessity. It is a strategic part of the world and the source of a significant
and growing portion of our energy resources and those of Western Europe and
1766
