September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that are leaders in the Administration talking to you, but more importantly,
listening and learning from you. We think this is the best way to establish com-
munication between people throughout the United States and the people who
have some decisionmaking responsibilities in the Federal Government.
I have been President now about 13 months, and we have had our share of
problems. We have made headway in most of them; we admittedly haven't
solved all.
Some of the most difficult problems involve the economy and energy. In the
area of the economy, it is my judgment that we have moved out of the bottom
and are starting upward. There are some very encouraging signs. In the last
4 or 5 months, about 1,500,000 more people are gainfully employed, even though
the unemployment rate is far too high.
In the area of retail sales, industrial production, and other significant signs
in the area of the economy, there is encouragement, but we are not going to
rest in this area until everybody who wants a job and seeks a job gets a job. That
is our definition of how we should handle the unemployment problem.
Number two, in the area of energy, we will not be satisfied until the Congress
enacts either my program, which I think is the best solution, or their program,
which I haven't seen yet―[laughter]—and until some program is enacted that
gets the United States free of the vulnerability of actions against our interests
by foreign oil cartels.
So, with those basic observations and comments, I will be glad to turn to
the questioning, and as I understand it, the first is Mr. Barksdale.
QUESTIONS
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SALES
[2.] Q. Yes, sir, Mr. President, I am Clarence Barksdale, and I am president
of the St. Louis Regional Growth Association. St. Louis, as you know, is in the
heart of the breadbasket of the world, and consequently, we are concerned with
the international commerce as far as agricultural products are concerned. Ac-
cordingly, is there any consideration being given by your Administration about
using our agricultural production and pricing as a leverage in the international
marketplace, such as has been done by us, by the OPEC cartels?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me emphasize that I consider the sale of our agricultural
products overseas vitally important. Last year we sold $23 billion worth, as I
recollect. We bought about $10 billion worth of foreign agricultural products
1389
