October 6
[614]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
months. You know what it means to pay more and more of your income just
to feed and clothe your family, to get to work, and to maintain a decent home.
You know the fear that strikes the human heart when a friend or a member
of your family is laid off work. And you know the anxiety that comes when
these forces seem beyond your control.
None of us wants to repeat the experiences of the past year. We want steady
prices. We want steady jobs. And above all, we want a chance to get ahead
again, to know that our destiny lies in our own hands and not in Washington
or some other faraway place.
Fortunately, there are encouraging signs that we have weathered the worst
of this economic storm. The recovery that began this spring is now gathering
momentum. If we act wisely, it will continue on an upward path, with more
jobs and more stable prices.
Yet we should not be deceived. All of us must recognize that just beneath
the surface there are still deep-seated problems in our economy—problems that
have been building up over the years and will not quickly or easily disappear.
We must attack the underlying causes of our economic problems. We must
get at the roots of our difficulties. We must find answers that serve us not only
this year but for the years to come.
The President and the Congress working together have the power to help.
I know that, because in Washington much of America's vitality and prosperity
have been drained away. It is here that one big spending program after another
has been piled on the Federal pyramid, taking a larger share of your personal
income and creating record budget deficits and inflation. Here a massive, often
too zealous bureaucracy has been erected that has become too involved in trying
to run too much of your daily life.
Over the years, these excesses have played a major role in driving up prices,
driving up interest rates, and holding down jobs. We do not have to look far
for our underlying problems. Much of our inflation should bear a label "Made
in Washington, D.C.”
As we emerge from this recession, we face the basic choice: Shall we continue
these patterns in Washington, or shall we set off in a new direction? We can-
not do both. We cannot go down both roads at the same time. We must choose.
Tonight, I propose permanent tax reductions totaling $28 billion-the big-
gest single tax cut in our history. Earlier this year the Congress passed and I
signed a temporary tax cut covering calendar year 1975. That temporary law
will expire at the end of this year, and unless we act now, your taxes will go up
again in January. I am proposing that we sweep away that temporary law and
1605
