August 15
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But the development of the technique of generating energy from solar sources
is not the only one. If we could have the sun shining 24 hours a day, it would be
relatively, or I would say, much simpler. But the sun doesn't shine that much
per day. So, the problem is one of storage of the energy that is gotten from
the sun when the sun is shining, and then having it stored and available for
use when the sun isn't shining.
So, it is not just taking everything from the sun and sending it to your home or
to your factory. It is a very complicated problem of getting the energy, storing
it, and then transmitting it. And I can assure you we are working very hard
on it.
Now, by inference, I guess, you have raised the question of strip mining. I
happen to believe that there could be-could be a responsible national strip
mining piece of legislation.
Last fall we recommended to the Congress, I think, 10 amendments that,
if the Congress had approved it, it would have provided a responsible and rea-
sonable strip mining law.
Congress did not do it. They came back with the same bad piece of legislation,
even though we had recommended our own strip mining proposal. And now
we have none and, unfortunately, have to rely exclusively on State legislation.
Maybe we can work out something that will give a good piece of Federal
strip mining legislation. But as we do have strip mining under State law or a
sound Federal law, certainly there will be recontouring, there will be rehabilita-
tion. And what that land is used for, I think, is up to the local landowner or
the respective State or the Federal Government, if the Federal Government
owns the land.
NEW TOWNS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, in that there will be inevitably some fairly substan-
tial placements of energy industrial complexes in the Rocky Mountain States,
what are your thoughts of integrating these complexes with new town develop-
ments?
THE PRESIDENT. New town developments?
Q. Yes, new town developments.
THE PRESIDENT. As I indicated to, I believe, the first questioner, where you
go out into the remote areas for the development of energy production of one
kind or another and where there is a scarcity of population and you are going
to have a great input of new and large numbers of people, I think a new town
concept may be the answer. But I think that is up to the Department of HUD
1159
