August 25
[501]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Let's take the shackles off American businessmen. That's the only kind of
hardware I don't approve of.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:37 a.m. in the Arie
Crown Theatre at McCormick Place. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Robert C. Hudson, Jr., presi-
dent of the American Hardware Manufacturers Asso-
ciation, John Cardinal Cody, Archbishop of Chicago,
and Charles R. Spencer, chairman of the executive
committee for Hardware Industry Week. Hardware
Industry Week was held August 24-28, 1975, in
Chicago.
501
Interview in Milwaukee With Television Reporters.
August 25, 1975
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
RON SCOTT (WISN-TV). [1.] Mr. President, first of all, once again, wel-
come to Milwaukee for this, the seventh of the White House Conferences. I
know the economy is on the minds of just about everybody in the country right
and since we are a little bit in advance of your appearance this afternoon,
could you give us any kind of a preview of the message of hope you will bring
to the people?
now,
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, Ron, that overall we have made very substantial
headway in cutting inflation from last year's rate of about 14 percent down to an
annual rate today of between 6 and 7 percent. This is a lot of progress, and we
are going to continue making progress, in my judgment, despite the last an-
nouncement which was a little disappointing.¹ But I think that was for various
reasons a unique report in the overall approach to solving the problem of
inflation.
In the area of unemployment, we, of course, are very much against any un-
employment rate of about 8.5, 8.6-too much—but I think we have to be also
fair to say that in the last 4 months the total number of people gainfully em-
ployed has gone up about 1,200,000.
As long as we keep the number of employed going up, we are going to be
able to gradually reduce the number of people unemployed. Now, as we look
at the overall indicators—the gross national product, industrial purchases, hous-
ing starts, and other indicators-I am convinced that we have bottomed out and
we are starting an uphill approach to a better economic system, a better eco-
nomic environment, and some encouraging news for all people.
1 The President was referring to the July increase in the Consumer Price Index.
1
1215
