[716]
December 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
The preservation of the sovereignty and the independence of our Asian friends
and allies remain a paramount objective of American policy.
We recognize that force alone is insufficient to assure security. Popular legiti-
macy and social justice are vital prerequisites of resistance against subversion
or aggression. Nevertheless, we owe it to ourselves and to those whose inde-
pendence depends upon our continued support to preserve a flexible and bal-
anced position of strength throughout the Pacific.
The second basic premise of a new Pacific Doctrine is that partnership with
Japan is a pillar of our strategy. There is no relationship to which I have devoted
more attention, nor is there any greater success story in the history of American
efforts to relate to distant cultures and to people. The Japanese-American rela-
tionship can be a source of great, great pride to every American and to every
Japanese. Our bilateral relations have never been better. The recent exchange of
visits symbolized a basic political partnership. We have begun to develop with
the Japanese and other advanced industrial democracies better means of har-
monizing our economic policy. We are joining with Japan, our European
friends, and representatives of the developing nations this month to begin shap-
ing a more efficient and more equitable pattern of North-South economic
relations.
The third premise of a new Pacific Doctrine is the normalization of relations
with the People's Republic of China, the strengthening of our new ties with
this great nation representing nearly one-quarter of mankind. This is another
recent achievement of American foreign policy. It transcends 25 years of hostility.
I visited China to build on the dialog started nearly 4 years ago. My wide-
ranging exchanges with the leaders of the People's Republic of China—with
Chairman Mao Tse-tung and Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-ping—enhanced our
understanding of each other's views and each other's policies.
There were, as expected, differences of perspective. Our societies, our philoso-
phies, our varying positions in the world give us differing perceptions of our
respective national interests. But we did find a common ground. We reaffirmed
that we share very important areas of concern and agreement. They say and
we say that the countries of Asia should be free to develop in a world where there
is mutual respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states; where
people are free from the threat of foreign aggression; where there is noninter-
ference in the internal affairs of others; and where the principles of equality,
mutual benefit, and coexistence shape the development of peaceful international
order. We share opposition to any form of hegemony in Asia or in any other
part of the world.
1952
