September 4
[529]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
529
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner in Portland.
September 4, 1975
Dave, Bob Packwood, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am sure it is very, very obvious that it is a great privilege and pleasure for
me to be here tonight in Portland for this tremendous gathering of many, many
Republicans—and, I add, a few that I know of, very special friends—and your
most warm welcome is greatly appreciated. Your enthusiasm and commitment
is most encouraging.
I added in the previous sentence some very close and very dear friends of
mine who are here. I was delighted to see one of my former colleagues. She was
on the other side of the aisle. We had a few differences, but we had infinitely
more agreements. And, Edith Green, I thank you for coming, and I am most
grateful for your presence.
In Edith Green's area of outstanding expertise—education—I don't think
there was a Member of the House or Senate, Democrat or Republican, who was
more knowledgeable and more articulate than she with ideas and, I think,
thoughts, programs that would have been so important for education. And I
thank you again for being here, Edith.
I do want to make a donation, if it is proper. Last year when I was here and
had a very full day, I participated in an auction for the Oregon Museum of
Science and Industry. I donated a pair of cufflinks, and I am told they went for
a reasonably high price—obviously, for a good cause. But unfortunately, I will
not be able to be here for that occasion when the meeting is held in 1975. But if
I might, I would like to give to Dave Green for transmittal to Don Ellis a pair of
cufflinks, and I wish you well and hope you do as well in 1975. [Laughter]
I appreciated Jack Faust's comments about our golden retriever, Liberty.
[Laughter] I had a confidential talk with Liberty when she returned from
Oregon. I can only say we are anticipating on or about September 14-16 a
wholesome litter of golden retriever puppies. I feel somewhat obligated to let the
Republican Party of Oregon suggest a name for the one out of the litter that we
keep. So, it is up to you to make some determination in that regard. [Laughter]
I was pleased that Dave Green mentioned something that I wanted to speak
about, which is the historic meeting of the Northwest Compact, which, as I
have perceived it from Washington, has effectively coordinated the work and
enhanced the influence of Republicans of Oregon, Washington, and Alaska. I
1323
