December 31
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I have instructed Secretary of Transportation William Coleman and the FAA
to investigate immediately and to give me a complete report on the tragedy as
soon as possible. The Justice Department and the FBI have been directed to
provide whatever assistance they can to the FAA and local law enforcement
agencies.
NOTE: Eleven persons were killed by the explosion
from a bomb placed in the baggage-claim area at
the airport.
The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
On the following day, the President met in the
Cabinet Room at the White House with Secretary of
Transportation William T. Coleman, Jr., Federal
750
Aviation Administrator John L. McLucas, Deputy
Attorney General Harold Tyler, and Deputy Direc-
tor James Adams of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation to discuss the progress of the investigation
of the bombing incident. They also considered
measures to be taken to reinforce airport and air-
plane security.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters.
December 31, 1975
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Let me just start out by saying that we will primarily
talk about 1975, but I think you have to add to that and put it in proper context
the few months that I was President in 1974.
Let me talk about personnel for just a moment. I think we have put together
a very good team, both in the White House and in the Administration. And
probably one of the best examples of the quality is the nomination of John Paul
Stevens to the Supreme Court. I can't positively say that his nomination and
confirmation was a record, but it is pretty close to it. We did a good job in check-
ing all of the potentials, and the net result was in a very, very short period of time
we ended up with a man who was confirmed 98 to nothing. That is a pretty good
batting average by any criteria. I am certain he will do a superb job as a member
of the Court.
But if you look at the Cabinet, I think they are quality people. If you look at
the individuals we have selected for the various regulatory agencies, I think
they are top people who will follow a constructive line in trying to update some
of the procedures and concepts in the various agencies. I think all of the regu-
latory agencies have been strengthened, not in aiming toward more regulation,
but in taking the line that I think is important—of deregulating where there has
been overregulation.
If you look at the problems that we had when I became President-inflation,
the disastrous unemployment that developed—I think we have made significant
2001
