November 29
[703]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
703
Remarks on Arrival at Fairbanks, Alaska.
November 29, 1975
Senator Ted Stevens, Governor Hammond, Senator Gravel, Congressman
Young, Secretary Kissinger, Mayor Giliam, Mayor Carlson, General Hill, hon-
ored guests, ladies and gentlemen:
On behalf of Betty and myself, let me thank you all for your very generous
and very enthusiastic greeting. I can assure you it is a moment that we will both
long remember. I don't care what the temperature is outside, your welcome has
brought us all the warmth we need. And I thank you very, very much.
Let me also thank the men and women of Eielson Air Force Base for their
very gracious hospitality. Frankly, we are just a little awed by the sheer size
of this building. I always knew Alaska was big, but up until now I never realized
how much of it was inside. [Laughter]
But I found in my various trips to Alaska that your State and all of its people
are very impressive. America will soon get a lot of its oil from Alaska's North
Slope, and as everybody in this audience knows, when it comes to baseball,
America gets a lot of its great players right here in Fairbanks. What is the name
of that team—the Alaska Gold Panners? [Laughter]
I visited Alaska just a little over a year ago on a previous trip to the Pacific
region. This obviously doesn't make me a “sourdough," but I am no newcomer
to the knowledge that this great land, a part of another great land, the United
States of America, is an inspiring and shining northern star in our constellation
of stars.
This visit gives us all a great farewell boost on our way to the People's Repub-
lic of China, Indonesia, and the Philippines. It was just last November when
Alaska gave us a grand sendoff for a very successful trip to Japan, to the Repub-
lic of Korea, and the Soviet Union.
That visit did much to advance the cause of peace. In the year that followed,
we have come a long way as a nation. The United States has moved forward to
stabilize our domestic economy and our national self-confidence as well as our
international relations.
Your State, determined to help America become self-sufficient in energy, is in
the forefront of our national revival. I commend Alaska for its determination to
help achieve energy independence for all of us in the United States. And we
thank you for it.
1925.
