[616]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
STRIP MINING
[16.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Jim Somerville, and I am representing
the Commission on Religion in Appalachia. The basic stance of the Commis-
sion on Religion, which is a cooperative mission enterprise of 18 separate
Christian unions, is expressed in its purpose, which is that of taking a position
of advocacy with respect to the people of this region in the name of Jesus Christ.
To be an advocate in Jesus' name seems to us to command advocacy in that style,
the style of the Nazarene. The Gospel teaches that this means giving up the
prestige of the rich and the powerful and taking on that condition of the dis-
enfranchised. In some feeble way, very feeble way, this is where we stand and
intend to stand.
And from that posture—and I feel entirely inadequate of trying to stand
there-but from that posture we see that no issue in our region has come up
from the grassroots more consistently and more dramatically than that of strip
mining. I know of no citizens group anywhere in this land we call Appalachia
that has said, “Let's keep on strip mining coal." I do know of lots of coal com-
pany interests that have seemed to say stripping is good for America.
Mr. President, you have vetoed two strip mining bills. Would you, in this
moment, show us how your veto of those bills has been good for the people of
the Appalachian Mountains? And if you can do that, sir, will you tell us how
this Administration, your Administration, will compensate this people for the
devastation of strip mining?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me assure you, I don't condone irresponsible strip
mining-under no circumstances—and the best evidence of that is the fact that
after the veto in 1974 and after the veto of 1975 we submitted to the House and
the Senate specific amendments that would make a strip mining bill acceptable.
It would have been a well-balanced strip mining bill if the Congress had re-
sponded and considered and approved the amendments that we recommended.
And I would hope even today that the Congress would take their bill and add
to it the amendments that we believe are good.
Now, you know, the Federal Government is not the only governmental
agency that can meet the problem of strip mining. And I know of at least two
States in Appalachia that have excellent strip mining laws. Ohio-is Jim
Rhodes here? I think Jim would say that Ohio has a first-class strip mining bill
and it works extremely well. I have heard about it a number of times from one
of my former colleagues, Wayne Hays, who says that is the standard. Well, in
Appalachia, the Ohio legislation in effect takes care of the problem. In the State
of Pennsylvania, they have a good strip mining bill, and maybe other States in
1632
