[421]
July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
sent you with another gift, and then we have a special song for you, Mr.
President.
MR. FRANK. Mr. President, on behalf of the American Legion, for taking time
to come see Boys Nation, I would like to present you with a Boys Nation pin for
participating in our program.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Let me thank you again for the thoughtfulness, for the gifts, and I will prob-
ably wear the shirt and also the pin, but I am not going to be under any illu-
sions. I am not as young as all of you who would also wear it, but I thank you
very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House. The American Legion
sponsored the annual Boys Nation convention.
422
Letter to the Senate Minority Leader Urging Extension
of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. July 23, 1975
Dear Hugh:
[Dated July 18, 1975. Released July 23, 1975]
As I said to you during our discussion yesterday, it is most important that
Congress extend the temporary provisions of the Voting Rights Act before the
August recess.
These provisions expire August 6, 1975, and they must not be allowed to
lapse.
My first priority is to extend the Voting Rights Act. With time so short, it
may be best as a practical matter to extend the Voting Rights Act as it is for five
more years; or, as an alternative, the Senate might accept the House bill (H.R.
6219), which includes the important step of extending the provisions of the
Act to Spanish-speaking citizens and others. To make certain that the Voting
Rights Act is continued, I can support either approach.
However, the issue of broadening the Act further has arisen; and it is my
view that it would now be appropriate to expand the protection of the Act to all
citizens of the United States.
I strongly believe that the right to vote is the foundation of freedom, and that
this right must be protected.
That is why, when this issue was first being considered in 1965, I co-sponsored
with Representative William McCulloch of Ohio a voting rights bill which
1016
