September 12
[553]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MRS. FORD
[12.] Q. Mr. President, a cartoon in the newspaper recently mentioned that
your wife's comments on the CBS program "Face the Nation" ["60 Minutes"]
would only hurt your campaign if she ran against you. [Laughter] How do
you feel about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am very proud of her, and we have had a wonderful
marriage. We have in our family the right of Betty, as well as the children,
to speak their minds. I think she was misunderstood to some extent, but I repeat,
I am proud of her and we have had a very happy marriage.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for being with us today in St. Louis.
Welcome, again.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:04 p.m. in the studios of KMOX-TV at the Gateway Tower Building. It
was taped for broadcast that evening.
553
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the National Baptist
Convention in St. Louis. September 12, 1975
Thank you, Dr. Jackson. Dr. Burson, distinguished guests, ladies and gentle-
men:
At the outset, let me congratulate Dr. Jackson on his birthday yesterday and
the fact that he was reelected president for the 22d time. I have got a long way
to go, Doctor. [Laughter]
It is a very great privilege and pleasure for me to be here today before one of
the strongest and most important institutions in our society—the church.
As you know, it was freedom-religious freedom-that inspired many of our
early settlers to come to these faraway shores to found our Nation. All of us
can be very proud, despite the imperfections of our country, that we have never
reversed the goals of our Founding Fathers. Dr. Martin Luther King was able
to stand before this Nation and this world, despite our country's travail, and
still say, "I have a dream."
The dream of blacks in America actually began long before our Declaration
of Independence. History tells us that blacks were American pilgrims as well
as pioneers. As many as 20 blacks came ashore at Jamestown in 1619, just 12
years after the first settlers arrived.
In Boston today, the Crispus Attucks monument stands proudly as a tribute
1383
