[511]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, what I have tried to do is to make exceptions for New England and at
the same time get the Congress moving to enact an energy program that would
solve the problem, not only in the short haul but the long pull. Now, in the
interim, while we have this unfortunate unemployment—and we do have more
unemployment, not only in New England but elsewhere, than I certainly want—
we have done a number of things. For example, we have extended the unem-
ployment payments from 39 weeks to 65 weeks. We have broadened the cov-.
erage so that 12 million more people are covered under unemployment. I
recommended and the Congress approved about $450 million for the summer
youth program so that young people this past summer would be gainfully
employed.
We have done a great deal with what they call public service employment. I
recommended about $2 billion for that program. And I was talking to the
mayor of Providence today, and he says it has been a very helpful program in
that city. We have also tried to expedite some public works projects. I made
available a $2 billion allocation for highway construction, which has been used
in many, many States and, I presume, here in Rhode Island.
We have, for example, been trying to get some local projects going. I talked
to the mayor of Providence today coming down here about a $32 million Fed-
eral building in the city of Providence. I am going to give it some personal
attention when I get back to Washington. I think that kind of a project could
be very helpful.
So, as we try to push forward for an energy program, which is what we need
over the long haul, we are trying to take care of individual geographical
problems.
Q. And yet, while we are working on it, the unemployment rate in this State
here is about 16 percent, 12 percent in Massachusetts, 11 percent throughout
New England. Is it possible for the Federal Government to redirect some of its
major installations, relocate them, transfer them here, create new ones here?
After 1972, when military bases were closed in New Hampshire, in Massa-
chusetts, and Rhode Island, the economies were hit very, very hard.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course I am deeply concerned about the unemploy-
ment problem, not only in Rhode Island but Massachusetts and the 48 other
States. But we have to try and rebuild the economy from an inflation-ridden
economy of a year ago to one that is solidly based, so that over the next few
months when we get better employment-as we are at the present time, over-
all-we are not going to have a reigniting of inflation like we had a year ago.
So, we will do all we can through public works, through unemployment in-
1262
