September 13
[561]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Let us encourage human growth, which can transcend from despair to
dynamism, from confusion to clarity, from hopelessness to hope unlimited.
America is going through an unprecedented period of technological and
economic change and dislocation. We have been jolted by shock after shock,
but this Nation is not disintegrating. It is going through a period of transition.
It may not be easy. It is experiencing the growing pains of a mighty nation of
over 214 million with the world's greatest record of achievement in the short
span of two centuries. We will transcend this period of trial. I believe in
America, as I am sure all of you do.
I am convinced, as I am certain each of you are, that all we have in America
is far more right than wrong, and we should be proud of the progress we have
made despite the difficulties over a period of time.
I am proud to have been in this office some 13 months and to have helped to
create a new climate of peace abroad while striving for solutions to some of
our most complex problems here at home. In the finest American tradition, we
have served as peacemaker in the Middle East. I am confident that the Congress
will take quick action to ratify agreements involving Egypt and Israel. All
Americans can take the unifying pride in our initiative in making peace, not
war.
I have the deepest confidence in America's future and our educational re-
sources. The schools of this Nation—private as well as public—can help to in-
spire the lives of Americans with new meaning and with new quality. Both
private and public educators must combine their genius in preparing men and
women for our challenges of the third century.
I urge you in the words of Thomas Jefferson to “enlighten the public gen-
erally, and tyranny and oppressions of body and mind will vanish like evil
spirits at the dawn of day."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:50 p.m. in Moody
Coliseum. Prior to speaking, he received an honorary
doctor of laws degree from University Chancellor
Willis Tate.
561
Remarks on Arrival at Midland, Texas.
September 13, 1975
IT IS a great privilege and pleasure for me to come and see so many of Con-
gressman Mahon's supporters of so many, many years. You are lucky, and I am
grateful for the fact that you supported him, my good friend, for so long.
1427
