September 12
[552]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Rockefeller continues to go this way that he won't be your running mate the
next time around?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, you recognize the final decision as for myself as
the Republican candidate and the Vice-Presidential candidate will be made by
the delegates to the Republican Convention.
I am, of course, interested in the polls, both personally as well as concerning
any other individual for President or Vice President, but I don't think that
should be the sole criteria.
I believe that a candidate for President or Vice President must be either ap-
proved or disapproved on the job that is done. If a President does a good job,
even though the immediate public opinion polls may not be favorable, I think
the delegates ought to approve him, and the same for Vice President.
Now, in the case of Nelson Rockefeller, I picked him because he had done
a fine job in New York State. He has done far better as Vice President than I
could possibly have expected. He is a hard worker. He is a good team player.
He has got a vast amount of experience. I think those attributes will be watched,
and the delegates will respond to them at the Republican Convention. So, based
on performance and expectations, I would assume that the delegates would
probably nominate him.
Q. If I may interpret, as we so-called political experts do, that sounds sort of
like an endorsement for the Vice President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I certainly have to endorse the job he has done, no
question about it.
BLACK AMERICANS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, in your speech to the National Baptist Convention,ยน
you promise that economic and social equality will become a reality for black
Americans. That is a rather easy surface promise to make to a group that repre-
sents some 5.5 million potential votes. How do you plan to make that a reality,
your promise?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, we are going to get the economy as a whole
out of the recession, and we are on our way now to, I think, a substantially
improved economic picture. In the process of that, the black American will also
benefit, as all other Americans will.
If we look back on the last 5 years, Julius, we find that more blacks have gone
to college, more blacks are entering better paying jobs. We are doing our utmost
to improve living conditions for all disadvantaged people, including blacks.
1 See Item 553.
1377
