[611]
October 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
move along to try and find the keys to preserve these beautiful forests and to
properly utilize your coal and natural gas, we have to find the balance that will
give to America the strength in the future that it had in the past.
It is my firm conviction and belief that in your State under Governor Arch
Moore, that in your National Capital under the Congress as well as the Presi-
dent, we can find that very important narrow line that permits us to save
America's resources and at the same time to use them to keep our economy
moving forward, that will keep us strong and invulnerable against any outside
forces.
I am confident in the days ahead what we have seen in the past can be out-
done, can be outshone, that we can keep America beautiful and strong at the
same time.
When I first came to the Congress back in 1949, Harley Staggers asked me
to come up to a town in West Virginia. I was flattered he asked me to come
and make a commencement address at a local high school. And, Harley, I look
back at that experience in Berkeley Springs with great nostalgia. It gave me an
opportunity for the first time to meet some of the people from West Virginia,
to see firsthand on the ground these natural resources and the beauty of your
great State.
Lots of history has passed since that June of 1949. We have had problems
both at home and abroad. But the goodness of your people and the tremendous
resources that you have are still the strengths of West Virginia. And I am told
that you in West Virginia say that your great State is almost heaven. I think it
is a very good description of your people and of your country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:58 p.m. at the Elkins High School football field prior to participating in the
Mountain State Forest Festival parade.
612
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner in Newark,
New Jersey. October 4, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Ed Forsythe.
May I reciprocate by thanking you for the many times that you were helpful
and cooperative and for the fine leadership that you have given in the House
of Representatives as the senior delegate in the New Jersey delegation.
May I also express my deep appreciation to Senator Cliff Case, who I have
1594
