[685]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
Affairs, and he was neither named in the subpoenas nor were they served upon
him. Thus there is no basis for the resolutions addressed to Secretary Kissinger
on these subpoenas.
In summary, I believe that if the Committee were to reconsider the three
resolutions of November 14, it would conclude that my claim of Executive
privilege is a proper exercise of my Constitutional right and responsibility. Ast
to the two subpoenas directed to the Assistant for National Security Affairs, they
do not involve Secretary Kissinger, and there has been a substantial effort by the
NSC staff to provide these documents. Furthermore, they will continue to work
with you and your Committee to resolve any remaining problems.
It is my hope that the Select Committee will permit Executive Branch offi-
cials to appear at tomorrow's hearing to discuss the points I have raised in
this letter.
It is my desire that we continue forward, working together on the foreign
intelligence investigation. I believe that the national interest is best served
through our cooperation and adoption of a spirit of mutual trust and respect.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Otis G. Pike, Chairman, House Select Committee on Intelligence, House of Representatives,
Washington, D.C. 20515]
686
Letter to Senate Leaders Concerning the Report of the
Senate Select Committee To Study Governmental Operations
With Respect to Intelligence Activities. November 20, 1975
AS YOU will recall, I previously advised Members of the Senate Select Com-
mittee of my concern about publication of their Assassination Report. Attached
is a copy of my October 31st letter.ยน
It is my understanding that the Senate will, this morning, consider the
question of publication of the Committee Report. The purpose of my writing is
to indicate to you that my earlier position has not changed. For the reasons
assigned previously, I do not feel this publication is in the national interest.
It is my hope that after reviewing the Report, the Senate will concur with that
view and, therefore, not authorize this publication.
Sincerely,
1 See Item 659.
GERALD R. FORD
1890
