[509]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
lican Party in Maine as well as the United States as a whole, and you can lead
the pack.
Because Maine has been traditionally a bellwether State as far as national
politics is concerned, the Republican Party here has not only a great oppor-
tunity but, in my judgment, a great responsibility to field the best candidates,
to raise the required funds, to develop winning issues, and to convince the
voters that their interests and the interests of the Republican Party are identical.
If you achieve these objectives here in Maine, the Pinetree State, I predict that
the old saying, “As Maine goes, so goes the Nation," will once again take its
rightful place in the language of politics as the accurate barometer of America's
election contest.
Now, what makes the 1976 election so vitally important? For one thing it
will provide the Republican Party with an opportunity to again demonstrate that
it has the strength to survive setbacks, the resolution to rouse this Nation to
its greatness, and the will to win elections. With your help in this bellwether
State, we can and we will do it in 1976.
Even more important, the 1976 election will enable the people of this great
country to send us, to Washington, more Republican Congressmen like Bill
Cohen and Dave Emery, who I think typify the dedicated, hard-working, in-
telligent legislators that we need in Washington. They are a part of a relatively
small minority. They are outnumbered better than 2 to 1, and that's a hard job.
I like to think that despite the fact we are outnumbered quantitatively, we
have the quality. And we need not only the quality we have but we have to add
to the quantity.
Now, you can't do much to change that in Maine, except in case Bill might
like to be a candidate for another office. [Laughter]
But let me add a thought parenthetically, if I might. Bill and Dave don't
always vote the way I would necessarily like them to. There is something I
believe ingrained in people in Maine of some independence-[laughter]—and I
respect it. But their prime responsibility is to represent the people that they have
the honor to represent in the State of Maine. And even though I think it is of
maximum importance that we have a national energy program, I understand,
I respect their somewhat differing view as to how we should implement it as
far as Maine and New England is concerned.
They recognize, as I do, that we have an energy problem and it is getting
more and more like an energy crisis. And if we don't get a settlement in the
Middle East—hopefully we will—we could have an energy crisis of severe
magnitude as we did in 1973.
1256
