[418]
July 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion controls enacted during the embargo. I urge Congress not to disapprove my
administrative plan of gradual decontrol. If it is accepted, I will accept a simple
extension of price and allocation authorities. If decontrol is not accepted, I will
have no choice but to veto the simple six-month extension of these authorities
now being considered by Congress.
For too long, the Nation has been without an energy policy, and I cannot
approve a drift into greater energy dependence.
The White House,
July 21, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The House of Representatives reconsidered H.R. 4035 on July 24, 1975, and the bill was referred to
committee.
419
Remarks on Greeting Members of the Future Farmers
of America. July 22, 1975
Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, and all of you from the Future Farmers of
America:
It's just nice to see you in the White House, in the Rose Garden particularly,
and I know that you look forward to the opportunity of actually going through
the White House and having a tour of that wonderful building.
Let me thank you for the opportunity of meeting with a number of you about
a year or so ago, when I was over in the EOB [Old Executive Office Building]
as Vice President. And thank you very, very much for the warm welcome that
you all gave me out in Kansas City when some 17,000 of you future farmers
gave me a wonderful welcome on that occasion.
The 100 of you here represent almost 500,000 fine young farmers who believe
in a great profession and who can contribute significantly to a better America.
I would also like to welcome the representatives from, as I understand it,
Wales, Scotland, Italy, and Colombia. We are delighted to have all of you here.
As I travel around the country and see people from all walks of life, and as I
meet with many, many young people such as the Future Farmers of America,
I believe that the American people have great hopes, wonderful expectations
for a better America in the future. And each and every one of you can contribute
1008
