August 25
[500]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
porate balance sheets and because our national tax laws fail to stimulate such
investment.
In short, our financial ability to increase production is declining. This decline
is curtailing needed growth in jobs and income and undermining our ability
to compete internationally.
I am very confident, once this becomes clear to the American people, they will
understand America's need for tax policies that will help to channel sufficient
resources into the expansion of productive capacity.
At today's level of economic activity, no shortage of industrial facilities exists.
But our Nation's economic machine is not now running at top speed. In the
future, we have every reason to expect it will. But we must now not permit
bottlenecks and shortages to reappear as the economy gains momentum. We
must not condemn our fellow citizens to unemployment because the modern
tools needed to compete in world markets are lacking.
Capital, as all of you know, is vital to all segments of our economy to expand
agricultural production, to develop domestic resources of energy and raw mate-
rial, reducing our dependence on oil imports, and to preserve and to improve
our economy.
This Administration has proposed reforms to the Congress to stimulate
what some call capital formation through tax incentives. But I prefer to use
the term “job creation," because that is what the proposals would do as a prac-
tical matter. If adopted, they would provide the funds to expand America's
industry capability to create jobs, for one thing, by reducing the “double taxa-
tion" on dividends.
As expected, these proposals have raised an outcry from some Members of
Congress who oppose them, and as a person who was in the Congress for a
number of years, I understand these voices.
But the Congress in this case, as in others, has come up with no alternatives.
We've got to push them to action' here as well as elsewhere. America cannot
put its faith in wishing wells. We must do something about expanding our
sources of capital to create jobs—and we must do it right now. I ask the Con-
gress to join with me in this commitment to our Nation's future—to increased
jobs, income, and full economic recovery.
Let us expand the size of our economic pie rather than simply redistributing
the pieces of a much smaller piece of pie.
By itself, however, additional capital cannot revitalize the American economy
and our free market system. We must also take steps to help restore the vitality
of the marketplace, and effective competition is the way to do it.
1211
