[582]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
can get an energy program on line, it is my opinion that any further price rise
will be minimal.
As a matter of fact, if the Congress had approved my phased decontrol pro-
gram over a 39-month period, in the first 12 months of that phased decontrol
program, energy prices related to oil would have gone down.
Unfortunately, the Congress wasn't wise enough to understand it or to take
action to approve it. So, now that they have rejected a phased decontrol pro-
gram, we are pretty much faced with total decontrol, which is not the best
alternative. But even with total decontrol, I don't think you are going to have
any significant increases in fuel costs.
Q. Wouldn't that, though, if it did happen, really hit at the poor, the work-
ing class more than anybody else, because they would be the ones who could
not afford to pay the prices?
THE PRESIDENT. It would affect everybody, but I urge you to go back to what
I said in January when I offered a comprehensive energy program. I said, if
there are any energy cost increases, we would rebate to the American people
$12 billion for added energy costs by a reduction in income tax payments. We
would give $80 a person to the poor who had no income to compensate them
for the added energy costs.
Again Congress has not acted on the rebate program that I recommended.
I wish they had. We wouldn't be faced with a problem of, to some extent,
adding energy burdens to the American people.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[10.] Q. Mr. President, in your travels around the country, you have per-
sistently launched an attack against the Federal Government and big govern-
ment and the Federal bureaucracy, and at one point promised to get the Gov-
ernment off people's back and out of their pockets. Yet today here in San Fran-
cisco, you are proposing a $100 billion Government corporation to be established
subject to the approval of Congress to help find ways to develop our energy
resources. This would include massive amounts of Federal money.
How do you square that with your comments about less government? Are
we admitting that we cannot solve our energy problems in the private sector?
THE PRESIDENT. Most of our energy problems can and will be solved in the
private sector, but there are some programs where we are in the process of
exotic research and development—solar energy for example—where once the
scientists and technicians have developed the capability for expansion of that
1516
