November 7
[664]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
we can prevail. I believe that the Republican Party has a unique opportunity.
And let me illustrate by just taking some statistics in your State, the Common-
wealth of Massachusetts. As I understand the figures, and I hope I am quite
right, you have, out of 240 members of your lower house, you have 188 Demo-
crats, and out of 40 members of the State senate, you have 33 Democrats. Do
you think they are doing a good job? Whatever happens, it is their fault, and
we welcome them to have the blame. [Laughter]
But we can't just rest on the faults and mistakes and errors they make. We
have to look beyond that. We have to have some affirmative programs, whether
at home or abroad, and I think we will.
We have had a tough 12 months, really tough, both at home and abroad, but
we had a steady course to take, we haven't panicked, and we have kept moving
forward, and the net result is—although the results are not totally satisfactory,
and I don't want to kid anybody—we are on the way up. The economy is getting
better and it is going to get progressively better. We are going to do for New
England everything we possibly can, and in Ed and Margaret and Silvio you
have got some people down there fighting for New England and Massachusetts
on a daily basis. But the main thing is we should be optimistic about the future
of this country, both at home as well as abroad.
I happen to believe that this country is still the leader of the free world, and
what it does makes a difference as far as peace and security on a worldwide
basis. We have had a setback or two, but if you look at the balance on the scales,
we have had a lot more success overseas than we have had disappointments.
And I happen to believe that in the months ahead, whether it is NATO, the
Middle East, Southeast Asia, Latin America, or otherwise, we are going to be
moving ahead and ensuring the prospects for a longer and more secure peace
than at any time in this generation.
What really bothers me is that a lot of people are writing off America, and
I don't believe in that attitude. This country has gone through the peaks and
valleys, the disappointments and the optimism in the years before us, even
recently. But the people who fought at Concord and Lexington—they didn't
quit, they stood up and fought. Every generation that followed them had the
hope, the aspiration, the feeling that there was something different about
America. And that is why we have such a cosmopolitan population in this great
country. Somebody told me one time that the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many
colors, and the strength of America comes from the diversity of our back-
grounds.
But the point that we have to make is that the Republican Party is not a rich
1817
