[614]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
replace it, effective January 1, with a permanent Federal income tax cut that
will be both larger and more equitable.
Three-quarters of this permanent reduction will be for individual taxpayers.
And the chief benefits will be concentrated where they belong-among working
people. The industrious working men and women of this country are the back-
bone of America. We cannot continuously ask them to bear an unfair tax bur-
den. I propose that we lighten the tax load for them and for all other Americans
in three ways: by raising everyone's personal tax exemption from $750 to $1,000;
by making the standard deduction for single taxpayers a flat $1,800 and for
every married couple $2,500; and by lowering our basic personal income tax
rates.
Together these measures will not only decrease everyone's taxes but they will
also help to make up for the ravages of inflation. They will simplify the tax
returns for millions of Americans. The total package represents a substantial
reduction below the rates that will otherwise take effect this January. Under
my proposal, a typical family of four, earning a total of $14,000 a year, would
get a permanent tax cut of $412 a year-a 27-percent reduction.
The other quarter of the tax reduction will be directed at business in a way
that creates more jobs. If companies and plants are to regain their footing and
to hire more employees in the future, they must have greater incentives for
investment. In order to create jobs—and good jobs—this country must build
new plants and new equipment and we must have a growing economy. The
tax cuts that I propose—including a permanent increase in the investment tax
credit and a 2-percent reduction in the corporate tax rate—are specifically de-
signed to increase employment.
We must recognize that cutting taxes is only half the answer. If we cut only
taxes but do not cut the growth of Government spending, budget deficits will
continue to climb, the Federal Government will continue to borrow too much
money from the private sector, we will have more inflation, and ultimately we
will have more unemployment. Substantial cuts in your taxes must be tied to
substantial cuts in the growth of Government spending.
Anyone who has followed the upward leap in Federal spending can only
shake his head in astonishment. Back in 1962, the Federal budget for the first
time in our history ran over $100 billion. In only 8 years, the budget doubled in
size. In the coming fiscal year, unless we act, it will double again to over $400
billion.
One of the reasons for this horrendous spending growth is that much of the
increase in each year's budget is required by programs already on the statute
1606
