September 22
[581]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
riding issue and I would say at least two major issues outstanding between
ourselves and the PRC. The overriding issue is the question of recognition. The
major issues are the frozen assets and an end to discriminatory tariffs on goods
coming from the PRC. Do you feel that these issues will be solved during your
trip to Peking, and if not, do you feel that your trip to Peking is in the national
interest, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't go if I didn't think it was in the national interest.
[Laughter] The precise agenda for the visit by myself to the People's Republic
has not been laid out. Preliminary work has been done, and it will probably
be finalized in a prospective earlier trip by Secretary Kissinger to Peking.
There has been no final determination as to the items that will be on the
agenda. Of course, all that has taken place since the reestablishment of a rela-
tionship has followed the Shanghai announcement, and I believe that we are
proceeding—the two countries within the confines of the Shanghai
communique.
I would expect that the progress we have made would continue within those
constraints, but I am not in a position at this time to give you the details of
what the agenda will be, except I expect—and I am sure that the People's
Republic expects-headway and progress and the furtherance of better
relations.
FOREIGN POLICY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am Alexander Dallin. I teach at Stanford Univer-
sity. Mr. President, you have been quoted as saying that there may be circum-
stances under which it may be proper to intervene in the affairs of other
countries.
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me, I didn't hear that. Involve ourselves in what?
Q. In the affairs of other countries. Since the statement—if in fact you are
quoted correctly—may provoke some controversy, I wonder whether you might
care to specify some circumstances or principles involved that you have in mind?
The President. It has been traditional in this country, certainly since prior
to World War II, during World War II, and subsequent to World War II, for
the United States to, in one way or another, involve itself directly or indirectly
in the affairs of other countries.
In each case, regardless of the individual who was President, it was deter-
mined by responsible people that such action involved our national interest. I
know there has been controversy about what has been done in one or more
countries, but it is my judgment that if properly handled, and with a correct
1501
