September 20
[573]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. Are you making an independent effort to find out if it is right?
THE PRESIDENT. That is one person's testimony, a former employee. To get a
balanced appraisal, I honestly think the committee ought to call other witnesses.
And that brings up a basic decision that I have made. Under no circumstances
will we in the executive branch hold back any information that might involve
a criminal activity or a mistake that was made. As a matter of fact, I have
ordered the people who have the immediate jurisdiction to make any and all
information available. I think it is important that the record be laid out, with
this exception: We should not, in the process of making this information avail-
able, reveal sources of intelligence information—either by individuals or by
mechanical means.
Yes, if people made mistakes, the public ought to know about it. Yes, if there
is any criminal activity involved, that ought to be made available and action
ought to be taken. But I do not think we should just throw open our intelligence
sources. That is a serious problem.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, public confidence is established in people and in in-
stitutions. We are told public confidence was established in you by your firm
handling of the Mayaguez affair. I think we can suggest that in recent days
public confidence has been reestablished in the FBI by the capture of Patty
Hearst. What is it going to take to reestablish public confidence in the Central
Intelligence Agency, or are they such a secret agency they can never boast about
their victories?
THE PRESIDENT. I think your last comment is one of the problems. The com-
mittee investigations in the House and the Senate, if conducted properly, can,
I believe, illustrate that mistakes were made, but overall, some great accomplish-
ments were achieved.
1
I have the benefit of the Rockefeller Commission recommendations and the
Murphy Commission ¹ recommendations, and in a relatively short period of time,
I will make some administrative decisions that will improve the working opera-
tions of the intelligence community, including the CIA, and I will propose to
the Congress some legislative recommendations which will likewise, in my
opinion, improve our intelligence-gathering community. But you are never
going to have the intelligence community where it will have the opportunity to
brag about its accomplishments, because it is so important that we not involve
sources, and therefore, they have got a tough PR problem.
1 The Commission on the Organization of the Government for the Conduct of Foreign Policy, chaired
by former Ambassador Robert Murphy.
1467
