September 25
[587]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Constitution of Philadelphia, which has been so
often imitated over the last two centuries.
The space feat, repeated later by other nations, is
a source of controversy surrounded by ever-
diminishing admiration. Few would disagree, how-
ever, that the Constitution of Philadelphia has been
one of the key elements in the spiritual and material
progress of this great Nation.
In the view of the distinguished English his-
torian, James Bryce, the two outstanding achieve-
ments of the human spirit in the field of political
organization are the written Constitution of the
United States and the unwritten set of rules known
as the British Constitution. Both have withstood
the test of time.
In an era when people's imagination tends to be
easily captivated by material accomplishments and
much emphasis given to the gap between the pace
of technological progress and the slow pace of
social and human science, it is worth noting the
foresight of the Founding Fathers. With profound
insight into the legal matters of their day, they
created the framework for the development of a
different world which could not have been foreseen.
Those of us who believe in freedom and equality
will be with you in spirit during the commemora-
tion of the Declaration of Independence. A rendez-
vous to be present on that historical occasion-
would be perhaps out of order. The opportunity
given to us by the encounter should transcend the
formalities of protocol.
We should reflect upon the achievements of the
past and meditate upon freedom in general and
the state of freedom in our continent in particular.
The future of humanity is intimately linked to
the question of freedom. The history of civilization
as we have known it is one of continuous ascent
toward attainment of that freedom: religious free-
dom, freedom of dissent, freedom to assemble,
freedom to claim for better working conditions, and
in recent years, freedom from fear, freedom from
want, freedom from unemployment.
These values, which have become commonplace,
have ceased to be commonplace at a time when
liberty suffers an eclipse within our own continent.
By just listing them, we can see how difficult it is
to disentangle the knot of very often contradictory
rights. For economic freedom is not always com-
patible with the freedom from poverty or from
unemployment, and an unlimited freedom to em-
ploy will tend to hinder labor's conquests.
Very often other economic systems lead people,
particularly the young, to believe that freedom, as
a value, must give way to the demands of economic
life. Without forgetting the obvious difficulties, we
must double our efforts to see that the next genera-
tion will not have to barter freedom of spirit for
shelter from economic hardship.
This is at least the case of my country. Although
it is true that we don't cling to any specific form
of social system, and even less to any foreign model,
and that we are ready to seek a better redistribution
of our income through the implementation of pro-
grams such as tax, agrarian, and educational reform,
there is nonetheless something upon which we can-
not compromise. That is the quality of our life
and, therefore, the right to think our own thoughts
and dream our own dreams.
I am confident, Mr. President, that this meeting
will bring about a better understanding which I
already anticipate between our two countries; also,
that we will find a sense of partnership within a
legal system based on impersonal and abstract rules,
within which there will always be the right to
dissent.
I have spoken on other questions about our own
joint duties and responsibilities in this hemisphere.
Going further now, I bring to your attention some-
thing that has been outlined in the past but which
has recently acquired growing importance. Namely,
that the responsibility for maintaining a world of
spiritual freedom is a task which demands economic
sacrifices. The sacrifices concern every one equally,
but mainly those who can make them.
Colombia has recognized this not only with words
but with deeds. We have given, for example,
preferential treatment to Bolivia and Ecuador,
relatively less-developed countries within the sub-
regional Andean Pact. We have promptly approved
the increase in our share of the capital subscriptions
for the World Bank and the Inter-American De-
velopment Bank. We have also made a contribution
to the Caribbean Development Bank in order to
provide financial support for the former European
possessions in the area.
In every international forum we have sought an
understanding between producers and consumers,
trading off sometimes, as in the case of coffee and
sugar, windfall gains for permanent stability.
As of the next United States fiscal year, we will
forgo any further loans from the Agency for Inter-
national Development. Considering the fact that our
export earnings are sufficient for our balance of
payment requirements, we feel that the resources
released thereby can be more useful to needier
countries.
This contribution, however modest, is in accord-
ance with our means. It is, nonetheless, tangible
evidence that Colombia is ready and willing to bear
its share of its humanitarian obligations, following
thus the example set by the United States in the
postwar era when, for the first time in the history
of mankind, massive resources from one nation
were destined to benefit nonnationals.
The Marshall Plan turned the defeated into victors
with the help of the country which, having suf-
fered less material damages, was in a position, if so
desired, to impose its will upon the rest of the world.
1527
