[613]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
merit the support of the Congress, of the States and communities, of industry
and of a citizenry increasingly aware that their lives may well be at stake.
The White House,
October 6, 1975.
NOTE: The reports are entitled:
"Traffic Safety '74: U.S. Department of Trans-
portation, National Highway Traffic Safety Adminis-
tration, Federal Highway Administration-A Re-
port on Activities Under the Highway Safety Act of
1966" (Government Printing Office, 64 pp. plus ap-
pendixes).
GERALD R. FORD
"Traffic Safety '74: U.S. Department of Trans-
portation, National Highway Traffic Safety Ad-
ministration-A Report on Activities Under the
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of
1966 and the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost
Savings Act of 1972" (Government Printing Office,
64 pp. plus appendixes).
614
Address to the Nation on Federal Tax and Spending Reductions.
October 6, 1975
Good evening.
I have asked for this opportunity to talk with you tonight, because it is im-
portant that all of us begin facing up to a fundamental decision about our
Nation's future. For several years, America has been approaching a crossroads in
our history. Today we are there.
To put it simply, we must decide whether we shall continue in the direction
of recent years—the path toward bigger government, higher taxes, and higher
inflation—or whether we shall now take a new direction, bringing to a halt the
momentous growth of government, restoring our prosperity, and allowing each
of you a greater voice in your own future.
Tonight I will set forth two proposals that, taken together as they must be,
represent the answer I believe we must choose. First, I propose that we make
a substantial and permanent reduction in our Federal taxes, and second, I pro-
pose that we make a substantial reduction in the growth of Federal spending.
Let me emphasize at the outset that these proposals must be tied together in
one package. It would be dangerous and irresponsible to adopt one without
the other. I will not accept that as an answer for our future. I want these pro-
posals acted upon together by the Congress. Together, they represent one central
and fundamental decision: that America belongs to you, the people, and not
to the Government.
Each of you knows from experience about your economic problems of recent
1604
