[593]
September 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all. And I appreciate, Mike, your doing it on
the Senate side. I know it will be successful there, and John Anderson will do
equally well in the House. And with Frank and everybody else, I am certain
the executive branch will do its full share.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Frank G. Zarb,
Administrator of the Federal Energy Administra-
tion, was Chairman of the 1976 Combined Federal
Campaign for the National Capital area.
In his remarks, the President referred to Senator
Mike Mansfield, Representative John B. Anderson,
Alan Greenspan, Chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers, and Lewis A. Engman, Chair-
man of the Federal Trade Commission, four of the
eight Cochairmen of the Campaign.
594
Remarks Upon Signing the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act
of 1975. September 29, 1975
I AM today signing H.R. 9524, a bill extending until November 15 the Emer-
gency Petroleum Allocation Act, which expired on August 31.
This extension of controls on domestic petroleum for 47 days carries out my
part of an understanding with the leaders of the House and Senate and will
provide more time for the Congress to act on a sound and mutually acceptable
plan for phased decontrol or, alternatively, to pass the emergency legislation
necessary to cushion the effect of immediate decontrol on certain elements of
our domestic economy.
Last week's decision by the OPEC foreign oil cartel to raise their prices to
American consumers by 10 percent provides beyond any further argument
the urgent need for the United States to reduce its growing dependence on
imported fuel at prices arbitrarily set by others.
Since my State of the Union Message last January, I have been constantly
urging the Congress to move rapidly on a comprehensive energy independence
program for this country's future security and prosperity. I have offered to
compromise again and again.
A majority of the Members of this Congress thus far have refused to do
anything that will increase domestic energy production. Price controls on
domestic oil production have been in effect for 4 years. During that time, our
domestic oil production has declined and our expenditures for foreign oil have
increased more than 700 percent.
We are now sending more than $25 billion a year out of the United States
1538
