October 4
[612]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
If our domestic source or supply continues to diminish as it is and our depend-
ence on high-priced foreign oil increases, there will be fewer and fewer and
fewer jobs and higher and higher unemployment in America.
To put it very practically, we must stop exporting American dollars and
American jobs. We must keep those jobs in America, in New Jersey, in Michi-
gan, and we must create more and more jobs in this country.
Let's talk about specifics, if we might. This State—and it is a great State—is
one that faces a potentially serious problem in getting enough natural gas sup-
plies for this very winter, particularly if we should happen to have a cold winter,
an abnormally difficult winter.
New Jersey gets 90 percent of its natural gas deliveries from two major pipe-
lines. One of these pipelines will curtail supplies to southern New Jersey by 52
percent. The other will curtail supplies to northern New Jersey by more than
20 percent. What do these curtailments mean for some industries? The answer is
very simple. They could mean cutbacks in production or worse. And that could
mean many, many of your fellow citizens out of jobs.
Yes, I admit that because of advance planning New Jersey does have some
alternative sources of energy to fall back on, like synthetic gas. Yes, with a
mild winter, New Jersey could probably pull through. But we have been very
lucky for the last two winters. It wasn't as cold; the snow wasn't as bad.
But can we gamble in the future for the security of jobs in New Jersey and in
the eastern seaboard and in the United States on the variables of the winter? I
don't think so. We have to have a program, a source of energy. We can't tolerate
a lack of effective action, affirmative action in the Congress of the United States,
in legislative means and methods.
I hope and trust that the Congress will respond to give us deregulation so we
can get more energy, more gas from the States that have it to the States that
need it. A dependable source of natural gas is vital for this energy source, is
crucial to you here in New Jersey.
Why is there a shortage? Let me be quite practical: because the Federal
Power Commission, under existing legislation, has artificially set very low
prices at the wellhead for natural gas sold in interstate markets.
The net result has been that gas producers sell as much of their product as
they can locally or inside their own borders-within their own State borders-
to the extent they can. They can get a better price within their State than they
can by selling it to Michigan or New Jersey.
My State and your State are going to have less and less natural gas unless we
deregulate the price at the wellhead and for transmission. I have listened to all
1599
