[511]
August 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. It is my expectation that I will. We are working on a date.
Louie Wyman is a very good friend of mine. I served with him in the House.
I think he'd make a fine Senator. I certainly expect to go up sometime between
now and September 16 to help him if I can.
OFFSHORE OIL RIGHTS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, why can't the northeast New England States share
in the profits from the leasing of offshore oil rights off the coast?
THE PRESIDENT. Under the legislation that we are working on-and there are
about 10 different alternative proposals—I think that the coastal areas ought to
get some help.
There is a bill in the Senate that goes, I think, further than it should. Of
course, there are many inland States who say, well, this is a United States
resource. Why can't we share equally with the coastal States? So, we've got
these competing interests.
I believe, without any question of a doubt, that coastal States ought to get a
high priority, the highest priority, and then we will have to work out some
formula where I think we can equitably take care of any other interests that
are involved.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[11.] Q. Mr. President, two quick ones on politics. We presume you will be
back in New Hampshire next winter-
THE PRESIDENT. I am looking forward to it.
Q.
-and that between now and then, there will be a lot of pressure on you
from the Reagan forces-some people call them the Connally forces-to dump
Mr. Rockefeller. If is it necessary to do that to get the nomination, will you
do it?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't put it that way. I picked Nelson Rockefeller for
Vice President because I thought he was an outstanding public servant. He has
exceeded any expectations that I have had. He has done a superb job. He has
been a good teammate. I don't dump good teammates.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, in 1972 when the Soviets bought 15 million tons of
grain, food prices went up. Now, they would like to buy 21 million tons. Will
they get it all? Will they get part of it? Will food prices go up?
THE PRESIDENT. You've got more information than I have. They bought about
1268
