August 2
[463]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
contributions to world understanding. I am confident that Romania will con-
tribute constructively in helping to find practical and durable solutions to the
problems of today as well as for tomorrow.
Mr. President, on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself, I thank you and your very
gracious wife for your warm hospitality. I raise my glass to you, Mr. President,
and to the building of a more secure and prosperous international community
in which both of our peoples will find peace and progress in the future.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 11:30
p.m. in the Marble Dining Room at the Palace of
the Republic in response to President Ceausescu's
toast.
President Ceausescu spoke in Romanian. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Elizabeth Ford, ladies and
gentlemen, friends and comrades:
I should like once again to express our joy, our
joy which we share, all of us, for having the
President of the United States with us, and Mrs.
Ford, too, and his associates, as our guests in
Romania, and with the fact that this visit is part
of the continuous development of the friendly
relations and cooperation between our two peoples.
I think I shall not be mistaken if I say that
in this very place, 6 years ago, day for day, we
welcomed the first President of the United States
ever to visit Romania. By sheer coincidence, be-
cause it was not programed to be so, you are coming
to Romania precisely 6 years after.
At that time, that visit was regarded as a some-
what exceptional thing by some people. Changes of
particular importance have occurred in the world.
since.
But in the first place, I would like to mention.
with deep satisfaction the fact that relations be-
tween Romania and the United States have seen
very strong progress. Besides many agreements in
these years, these various years, among which the
last agreement regards our trade relations which,
I have to say, was today ratified unanimously by
the Council of State, while a few days ago it was
adopted by the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives of the United States.
I can say that once this agreement has come
into force, an agreement whereby our two coun-
tries mutually grant each other the most-favored-
nation treatment, although I will have to recog-
nize that Romania stands to gain significantly as
a result of this, larger, broader prospects are opening
up for the development of economic relations.
between our two countries.
In order not to have people believe that Romania
will have I don't know what kind of advantages
as a result, I have to say that this simply means
that Romanian products are going to enjoy the
same status as the produce of other countries on
the United States market.
It now follows, of course, for our goods to prove
competitive both in terms of price, quality, and
technically. In the last few years, our trade exchanges
have gone up almost four times over. I am convinced.
that after this trade agreement has come into force
in the forthcoming years, we can achieve a substan-
tial increase in our economic exchanges and coopera-
tive adventures, although fulfilling the target of $1
billion per annum in the next 3 to 4 years.
As you see, Mr. President, we are also practical
people and we talk primarily of material things,
things of economic exchanges. But I should not
fail to mention the fact that during these years we
also concluded agreements in technology, science,
culture, and there has been an intensive exchange
of people in various walks of life between our two
countries.
Only in the last few years, more than 5,000
American young people spent several weeks in
Romania, and starting last year, groups of Ro-
manian young people also visited the United States,
within the program appropriately called Ambassa-
dors for Friendship. Indeed, they are good ambassa-
dors for peace and cooperation.
We attach special attention to such activities, not
only or necessarily in connection with humanitarian
problems, as described in the documents we signed
together yesterday, but mainly with the need we
feel for the people of our two countries-for the
young people all over the world-to meet together
to strengthen their cooperation, so that in the future
they can be at peace and work together with each
other with no threat of force or war.
Bearing all this in mind, I wish to express my
hope-more, indeed, my conviction-that your visit
to Romania is going to mark a moment of particular
and new importance for the further extension of
many-sided cooperation in all fields between our two
countries.
I think I am not going to disclose a special secret
if I simply mention that during our talks tonight we
agreed to work in this direction with a conviction
that this responds fully to the interests of our two
1093
