December 8
[717]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
If we can remain steadfast, historians will look back and view the 1970's as
the beginning of a period of peaceful cooperation and progress, a time of grow-
ing community for all the nations touched by this great ocean.
Here in the Pacific crossroads of Hawaii, we envision hope for a wider com-
munity of man. We see the promise of a unique republic which includes all the
world's races. No other country has been so truly a free, multiracial society.
Hawaii is a splendid example, a splendid showcase of America and exemplifies
our destiny as a Pacific nation.
America's Pacific heritage emerged from this remarkable State. I am proud to
visit Hawaii-the island star in the American firmament which radiates the
universal magic of aloha.
Let there flow from Hawaii-and from all of the States in our Union-to all
peoples, East and West, a new spirit of interchange to build human brotherhood.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. at the
East-West Center. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Everett Kleinjans, president of the center,
and Fujio Matsuda, president of the University of
Hawaii.
717
Exchange With Reporters on Board Air Force One en Route
to Washington, D.C. December 8, 1975
BARBARA WALTERS [NBC News]. Mr. President, at the end of this trip, as you
look back, what were the highlights for you? What do you think was the most
important thing that came out of it?
THE PRESIDENT. Barbara, every stop we made, whether it was Alaska, which
was significant in seeing what the pipeline was doing or how it was progressing;
and China, of course, where we had very extensive substantive meetings which
I thought were extremely beneficial; or whether it was Indonesia, where I had
an opportunity to talk in some detail and depth with President Suharto; whether
it was the Philippines, where we had not only a meaningful meeting, but we
had a very pleasant time; or whether it was Hawaii, where the opportunity to
go to the Arizona and subsequently to the East-West Center-it seemed to me
that everything fitted in extremely well. There were no minuses and many, many
pluses.
Q. There will inevitably, Mr. President, be some criticism-those who will say
that you wasted time and energy and that a lot of this could have been accom-
1955
