[685]
November 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
recur as long as I am President. I have also endeavored to make available relevant
information in a responsible manner to the appropriate committees of Congress.
I have given great weight to my responsibility to maintain the integrity of
our intelligence community and the ability of this Nation to develop and use
foreign intelligence. This is one reason why I have insisted that much of the
information I have made available to Congress be kept secret, so that current
foreign intelligence operations, which are critical for the national security, can
continue effectively. In accordance with these principles, your Committee and
the Senate Select Committee have received unprecedented access to Executive
Branch documents and information.
Your Committee's November 6th votes on seven subpoenas for additional
Executive Branch documents came in the context of several months of working
together on this very difficult subject and a record of cooperation on both sides.
They were served on November 7. The documents were due on the morning
of November 11, and the appropriate Administration officials immediately went
to work collecting the information. Four of the subpoenas were complied with
fully. However, problems arose as to the remaining three issued to:
-“Henry A. Kissinger, Secretary of State, or any subordinate officer, official
or employee with custody or control of... all documents relating to State
Department recommending covert action made to the National Security
Council and its predecessor committees from January 30, 1961 to present.”
-"the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, or any sub-
ordinate officer, official or employee with custody or control of . . . all 40
Committee and predecessor Committee records of decisions taken since
January 20, 1965 reflecting approvals of covert action projects. [separate
subpoena] . . . All documents furnished by the Arms Control and Disarm-
ament Agency's Standing Consultative Commission, and the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the Department of Defense,
and the Intelligence Community staff, since May, 1972 relating to adherence
to the provisions of the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty of 1972 and the
Vladivostok agreement of 1972."
These three subpoenas are the basis of the Committee resolutions of Novem-
ber 14.
The subpoena directed to the Secretary of State requests documents containing
the recommendation of State Department officials to former Presidents concern-
ing highly sensitive matters involving foreign intelligence activities of the United
States. The appropriate State Department officials identified and referred to the
1888
