September 12
[554]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Now, what can be a better way to do it? I believe that you can improve the
facilities in many of the disadvantaged areas. Too often school boards have
neglected some of the plant and equipment in those areas. We should increase
the pupil-teacher ratio. I think that would be helpful in upgrading the educa-
tional opportunities of young people so they can achieve a quality education.
I believe that the emergency school aid program which Congress approved
roughly 5 or 6 years ago—it is about a billion and a half a year; no, it is not
quite that much but it is a sizable amount-can be focused in on places like
Boston, as Secretary Mathews has done, or in Louisville, where we are having
our current problems, to try and get better faculty, better facilities, better equip-
ment. In my honest opinion, that is a preferable way to achieve the objective
of quality education without tearing apart some of the social fabric in some of
these communities.
HIGHER EDUCATION
[4.] Q. Frank Gamelin of the Higher Education Council in St. Louis. Mr.
President, those of us who profited from the GI bill after World War II and
are grateful to America for what it made possible for us have long hoped, I think,
that it would be possible for every man and woman to obtain from their fellow
citizens, through government, the support necessary to supplement family help
to the extent that they could attend the postsecondary school of their choice in
the program for which they are eligible. Do you see any possibility of further
implementation of this principle in planning for future spending in higher
education?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a number of higher education programs. The GI
bill that was originated after World War II is in full operation now and is
continuing even though those who are in the military today are not in combat.
And that was the general basis upon which the GI bill was initially passed at the
time of World War II and at the time of Korea. We spend roughly $1 billion
to $1.5 billion a year on that program at the present time.
In addition, we have a number of educational programs that are aimed at
helping young people who want to go to college and do not have the financial
means to do so. We have a loan guarantee program with any loaning institu-
tion. We have Basic Educational Opportunities—it's BEOG, or whatever the
combination is. And there is another one—I can't recall the name-but the total
amount available in these several programs is about a billion dollars a year.
So, there is really no reason today why no young person who wants to go to
college can't get Federal financial assistance of a substantial amount. It won't
cover the whole thing, but it will cover a very substantial amount.
1391
