November 4
[659]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
In January we intend to hold public meetings in at least 10 cities across the
country to explain how these plans work for the benefit of consumers and to
seek suggestions and ideas for ways to make the departments and agencies of
the Federal Government more effective and responsive to public concerns.
I am convinced we can resolve by better administration what Congress is
attempting to accomplish by new laws and a costly new Government agency.
The steps we have taken will prove to be responsive to the needs of the American
consumer and the concerns of the American public.
NOTE: The statement was released following the
President's meeting at 10:15 a.m. in the Cabinet
Room at the White House with the heads of Federal
departments and agencies. Virginia H. Knauer,
659
Special Assistant to the President for Consumer
Affairs, and James T. Lynn, Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, also participated in the
meeting.
Letter to the Chairman and Members of the Senate Select
Committee To Study Governmental Operations With Respect
to Intelligence Activities. November 4, 1975
[Dated October 31, 1975. Released November 4, 1975]
I AM writing to urge the Select Committee not to make public the report on
the subject of assassinations which I understand is currently in preparation.
Reviews of the Select Committee's draft assassination report by officials of the
Departments of State and Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency, who
examined it at the request of your Committee, have been submitted to me by the
heads of those departments and the agency. Under separate cover, I am provid-
ing these classified reviews for your consideration. Their substance was previ-
ously communicated to the Select Committee staff by the reviewing officials.
I also want to offer my views on this matter and appeal to the Committee not
to release this report publicly.
It is my opinion that public disclosure now of information I provided to the
Senate Select Committee concerning allegations of political assassination activi-
ties of the United States Government will result in serious harm to the national
interest and may endanger individuals.
As I stated publicly when the allegations were published, the very idea that
any person or organization within the United States Government could con-
sider assassination as an acceptable act is abhorrent. I know you share this view
and a determination to make certain that such deeds will not take place in the
future.
1805
