August 11
[486]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
partment of Justice and what my White House Counsel will recommend. But
sometime this afternoon, I can give you a decision.
Q. Was there a thought of taking that off anyway when decontrols lapsed?
THE PRESIDENT. That, of course, is an option that exists, and I have indicated
on several occasions that we had a number of administrative options, and that
is in the group that we will have to look at if and when we decontrol, which we
probably will.
REPORTER. Have a nice game, Mr. President. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:12 a.m. at the
Vail Golf Course, Vail, Colo. The decision by the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit held that the President had no
constitutional authority to impose a fee on oil
imports.
On August 14, 1975, Solicitor General Robert H.
Bork announced that the Government would request
that the Supreme Court review the decision of the
Court of Appeals.
486
Statement on Signing the Council on Wage and Price
Stability Act Amendments of 1975.
August 11, 1975
I HAVE signed into law S. 409, the bill which extends the life of the Council on
Wage and Price Stability to September 30, 1977. It also clarifies the Council's au-
thority to participate in agency rulemaking and other proceedings where the
inflationary impact of a possible action could be significant and authorizes the
Council to require periodic reports of information from the private sector.
Nearly a year ago, one of my first acts as President was to request legislation
establishing the Council on Wage and Price Stability. I was pleased then that
Congress acted in a swift and constructive way on this legislation, and I am
equally pleased that Congress has extended the tenure of the Council to help in
our battle against inflation. This law continues the Council in the role for which
it was established: an alert watchdog against inflation.
The Council has sought both to inform and represent the public. It has
spotlighted unjustifiable price increases in industry and has brought needed
attention to the potentially inflationary consequences of Government actions.
In the most serious cases, it has intervened on behalf of the public as a participant
in Government rulemaking.
I believe the Council performs an important role in assisting Government
agencies to analyze and understand the important and often overlooked impact
of their rules and regulations. Every major Government action adds new costs to
some part of the economy. I am convinced that, through judicious use of its
1147
