October 9
[620]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
They have got a terrible program. Their government expenditures are out of
control. Unless they come in with a balanced budget, unless they get some State
aid from the State of New York by some means or other, I just am very reluctant
to say anything other than "no" until I see the fine print, until I see what New
York City has done. And it is interesting to note that the "Big Mac" committee *
has turned down Mayor Beame's program as being not sufficient. So, it hasn't
gotten by the State yet, much less come back down to Washington.
Mr. Beckman [Aldo Beckman, Chicago Tribune].
CONGRESSIONAL SALARIES
4
[10.] Q. Mr. President, we hear you make lots of speeches about your deter-
mination to hold inflation down. I wonder if you could tell us why you signed
a bill that gives Congress a vested interest in inflation and ties their salaries to
the cost-of-living index?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you know, Mr. Beckman, that instead of rec-
ommending that their salaries be increased to 8.66, I recommended that their
salary increases be limited to 5 percent. I think that is responsible action on
my part.
Q. You don't find any problem with their salaries being tied to the cost of
living?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that judges, I believe that top officials in the executive
branch and Members of Congress who haven't had a pay increase for 6½ years
ought to get a cost-of-living pay increase. But I decided to make it 5 percent
rather than 8.66 percent.
SCHOOL LUNCH LEGISLATION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, were you surprised by the Congressional vote to
override your veto of the school lunch bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, because it had a very fine label and the facts
were not sufficiently exposed to the public to get the public interested in writ-
ing the Congress that they ought not to override. And as you well know, my
proposal took as good care of the children who need free lunches, if not better,
than the bill that was passed by the Congress. The only difference between the
Congress and myself was the Congress said that free lunches could be paid by
the Federal Government for families that had an income of $9,770. I don't
think the taxpayers as a whole ought to subsidize with free lunches families
who have that kind of income.
The Municipal Assistance Corporation was created by the State of New York and was empowered to
issue bonds. Funds from the bond sales were intended for the assistance of New York City.
1653
