December 1
[706]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
reception. It is symbolized by this gracious banquet that you have accorded us
tonight.
Although this is the second visit by me to the People's Republic of China, it
is the first time that I have been in your country as President of the United
States. In 1972, I had the opportunity to meet a number of your leaders, including
Premier Chou En-lai. I learned something of their views and saw the impressive
work of the people of China in developing their country. And I recall your
hospitality with great pleasure.
It is now more than 4 years since our two countries started discussing how to
build a more constructive relationship. Reality and common necessities brought
us together in a bold and farsighted move.
In the Shanghai communique, our two Governments recognized that there
are essential differences between China and the United States in their social
systems and foreign policies. But more importantly, we also agreed that the
normalization of relations would be in the mutual interests of our peoples and
would contribute to the development of a more secure international order. We
therefore established certain principles to guide the growth of our relations and
our approach to the international scene.
The moves that were taken in 1971 and 1972 by the leaders of China and the
United States were of historic significance. And I take this occasion to reaffirm
my commitment to the objectives and to the principles that emerged from those
first steps, and specifically to the normalization of our relations.
Developments since 1972 verify the wisdom of the Shanghai communique.
We still differ on certain issues, but we have progressed toward a more normal
relationship. Our many authoritative discussions have enabled our two nations
to explore areas of mutual interest and to understand each other's views on the
issues on which we disagree.
The two liaison offices which we established in our respective capitals facil-
itate our contact and understanding. The development of cultural and scientific
exchanges, as well as trade, strengthens the ties between the Chinese and the
American people.
In the international field, we have a mutual interest in seeing that the world is
not dominated by military force or pressure, what in our joint statements we
have called hegemony. In pursuing our objectives, each of us will, of course,
determine our policy and methods according to our differing positions in the
world and our perceptions of our respective national interests.
In the past 4 years, there have been many changes in the international situa-
tion. The world confronts us all with dangers, but it also offers opportunities.
1933
