October 7
[616]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Mine Workers of America Health and Retirement Fund, and I am a coal miner
myself. If the coal miners are to maintain the production of this essential energy
source, we need just a few basic things. We need good education for our chil-
dren, we need medical care for our families, and we need safe working con-
ditions.
My question, Mr. President, is this: What is being done to make sure that
one part of the Government works with the other? When we try to get a doctor
to move into our community, we hear that he won't come because of the prob-
lems of housing and education. Teachers will not come because of the problems
of housing and health care. Who is going to help us put together the answers to
these different parts of the same problem?
The President. In the case of doctors, we have several programs. One of them
is where the Federal Government gives a scholarship or grant or other financial
assistance during their period of training in return for them to spend several
years—I don't recall the precise number—in a rural area. This program has been
in effect 3 or 4 years, as I recall, perhaps longer. This, I believe, is a good way
to get general practitioners out in rural areas. It is my recollection-I was read-
ing, as I came down today, of a program that you have in Tennessee under the
auspices of HEW, as I recall, to have sort of a circuit rider doctor that would help
very tremendously in meeting the problem you are talking about.
There was a program in education-I think it is still in effect-that gives
loans or grants to those seeking to teach, providing they spend x number of
years in the educational field, and they would get a forgiveness for the loan or
grant that was given to them. I think that is still in effect, is it not, John or
Bill?—the Teacher Corps program, which is aimed at meeting that particular
problem. I recognize fully that you need doctors and teachers, and I believe
those two programs at least in part can be helpful.
NEWS MEDIA
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am Ed Ray of Memphis Press-Scimitar, representing
the Tennessee Press Association. You look well, hale, hardy, and we are all glad
you do, very vigorous.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. That prompts what I am going to say. Vice President Rockefeller and Treas-
ury Secretary Simon, among many others, have suggested that editors and other
news media representatives downplay in their presentation to the public of
incidents dealing with attempts upon your life.
1627
