[641]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
!
I ask all Americans to pause today in tribute to the priceless contribution of all
veterans and, in particular, those who gave their lives so this Nation might live.
I urge your private and public expression of gratitude for the heritage of
liberty and freedom which they have secured for all Americans.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:03 p.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White House. His remarks were
recorded for later use on radio and television.
642
Remarks of Welcome to President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt.
October 27, 1975
Mr. President:
It is really a great honor for me to personally—as well as President of the
United States-welcome you to our country. We established in Salzburg a warm,
personal friendship, which I look forward to expanding during your visit to
the United States.
I am particularly pleased that Mrs. Sadat and other members of your family
are with you on this historic first state visit to the United States by an Egyptian
leader.
The United States Government respects your farsighted statesmanship and
wisdom and your unswerving dedication to the well-being of the Egyptian
people and to all of the Arab people.
You, Mr. President, have helped to bring about historic new developments
in the Middle East. It is our fervent hope that these developments will lead to a
durable peace for all peoples of that region.
The overriding purpose of our discussions will be to assure that progress
toward peace will not stop. The process of peaceful negotiations between the
Arab States and Israel must move to new fronts and to new issues.
United States policy in the Middle East has two primary objectives. First
we seek peace. We have made extraordinary efforts in the last 2 years to help
the nations of the Middle East find peace. Much has been achieved.
The world has seen that it is possible to negotiate in the Middle East and
that agreements can be reached, despite a legacy of bitter conflict and mutual
distrust. The process of peace has only begun. We are committed to continue it.
The efforts of the United States will continue until the nations directly con-
cerned achieve a peace just to all the peoples of the Middle East.
Second, we desire a strong and mutually beneficial relationship with every
1722
