November 26
[695]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Schieffer [Bob Schieffer, CBS News], I think you mis-
understood. They will have to pay the same interest rate that the Federal
Government pays when it borrows money, plus up to 1 percent extra. So they
are in effect reimbursing us over and above what the Federal Government has
to pay to borrow its money.
Q. That is still a good deal.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if the Federal Government is paying 6 percent, then
the city of New York will have to pay whatever the difference is. Now other
cities, we hope, won't have to be in that situation.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
[5.] Q. Mr. President, have the Soviets offered any kind of proposal that
could be considered enough of a breakthrough in the SALT talks to justify a
visit to Moscow by Dr. Kissinger after the China trip?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are, of course, in communication with the Soviet
officials, trying to narrow the differences between our last proposal and their
last proposal. I can't say this evening that the differences have yet been suffi-
ciently narrowed to justify that the Secretary go to Moscow, but I think it is
worthwhile to continue the process. And if we decide that it looks reasonably
optimistic, the prospects are that the Secretary will go to Moscow.
Q. Then if he goes to Moscow, it will signal a breakthrough, is that correct,
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. It will signify there has been significant progress.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[6.] Q. Mr. President, you do leave for China on Saturday. Do you foresee
making any progress on any substantive matters there, and if so, in what areas?
The President. I believe that it is always advantageous for the heads of
government of two nations, our Nation with 214 million people and the Chinese
leaders of a country with 800-plus million people, to sit down and talk about our
areas of agreement and to discuss how we can eliminate any areas of disagree-
ment. It is vitally important that we consult rather than confront. And I can't
tell you particularly what the outcome will be on a substantive basis-it will
depend on how the talks go-but I think it is very worthwhile for those meetings
to be held.
Q. Would you say it is worthwhile from a symbolic standpoint because—that
you have set a meeting and must follow through with it, or can it amount to
more than that?
1907
