[581]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
and a very certain relationship to our national security, we should not rule out
responsible action in this area.
But for me to write a prescription here with the great variety of circum-
stances that prevail, that have prevailed, and undoubtedly would prevail, I
think it would be unwise.
This is a critical and crucial area where on some occasions what we have
done, we have been very successful and it has been to the benefit of the United
States, and unfortunately in some instances we have had some disappointments.
But to categorically rule it out or even to prescribe a specific limitation here, I
think, would not be proper for the President of the United States. I am not
ruling it out. I am not saying what we are going to do, except there have been
some benefits, and if there are, related to our national security, I think we
ought to do it.
Q. President Ford, my name is Neil Joeck. I have no formal affiliation. I
would like to ask a question following up what you just said, I think. Do you
plan to take positive steps to discourage those American allies that use torture
as a means of political oppression?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't help but ask myself this question: What precise au-
thority do I have as President or we as a nation to interfere directly with the
internal and domestic actions of other nations? We have been criticized on
many occasions for being too involved with the internal or domestic operations
of one nation or another. I deplore it, I condemn it, but I hesitate to say that
the United States should take an affirmative action every time torture, as we
understand it, is inflicted upon a citizen or a group of citizens of 140 other
nations.
We don't like it. We would hope it doesn't continue, but for us to be that
precise a policeman in every one of 140-some nations of the world, I think,
would not be approved by a majority of the American people.
THE THIRD WORLD
[5.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Donald Davis. I am president of the
Santa Clara Valley World Trade Club. You, in your opening remarks, have
alluded to the problems concerning energy independence. Perhaps related to
this issue of energy independence are the Sinai accords, and a much broader
picture for the coming years is to attract the leadership role which the United
States intends to assume, vis-a-vis the Third World countries, in connection with
their aspirations for redistribution of the world's wealth.
I know that you have spoken at the United Nations and other places on this
1502
