November 9
[666]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the budget I submitted in January was a good budget that is needed and neces-
sary for the national security of the United States. And I will work with the
new Secretary and his associates to try and restore as much as I can of that
budget cut that so far-roughly $7 billion.
MR. SPIVAK. Mr. Broder [David S. Broder, Washington Post].
PERSONNEL CHANGES
[7.] MR. BRODER. Mr. President, accepting as the premise your statement
that your explanation of the changes in the Administration were the simple
truth, I am still puzzled as to why that situation changed for you apparently
during the month of October or early November. I noted, for example, that
when you were asked about possible differences between Mr. Schlesinger and
Mr. Kissinger in an interview in Omaha on October 1, you said: “I have two
fine Secretaries, and if there are any differences, I make the choice. And some-
times it is healthy to have a different viewpoint as long as somebody can make
a decision." Did you decide it was unhealthy?
The President. I found, Mr. Broder, in the last month or so that there was
not as comfortable a feeling in the situation that I desired and that it was creat-
ing some problems. This doesn't mean that either of those individuals was not
performing his job in a very effective way. But for me to do the job as well as
I possibly can, I need a feeling of comfort within an organization—no tension,
complete cohesion—and it doesn't necessarily mean that those individuals agreed
in every precise detail. It does mean that on two, at least, major issues—the
Vladivostok agreement that I made for SALT II and the Sinai agreement
where we sent the advisers—they totally agreed. But there was a growing ten-
sion. And I felt very strongly that I needed to have a comfortable feeling even
though people might disagree.
MR. BRODER. Was that tension involving both men, because I noticed that on
the next day, after that comment you made about the two Secretaries, you also
said in reference to Dr. Kissinger's two jobs, "That is no problem, in my opin-
ion." Was the problem that you saw with both Kissinger and Schlesinger in
their relationship with you?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say that it was an overall problem, and I felt that
the best way to remedy it was to take the actions that I did. Now, that doesn't
mean that Secretary Kissinger and Don Rumsfeld will agree. They probably
won't in some areas. But I think the atmosphere will be infinitely better and
permit me as President to do a better job.
1825
