July 28
[449]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
scientists, industrial and mining specialists, and agricultural experts, and the
educational and cultural program which each year enable more Poles and more
Americans to know each other and to exchange ideas.
The United States recently presented the World of Franklin and Jefferson
Bicentennial exhibition in Warsaw. It vividly depicted America's past and
Poland's long and close association with us.
You may remember one of Benjamin Franklin's remarks featured in the
exhibition. According to Benjamin Franklin, human felicity is produced not so
much by great pieces of good fortune that seldom happen, as by little advantages
that occur every day.
We have men and women of great vision in Poland and in America, but we
realize that real progress in the relations between countries really comes from the
millions who give form as well as substance to the aspirations of their Govern-
ments.
Distinguished host, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to all
Polish and American citizens, scholars, scientists, workers, farmers, writers,
musicians, and others, who day-by-day are striving to develop the little advan-
tages so important to the growing friendship between our countries.
At this time, may I offer a toast to you, Mr. Secretary, and to the Polish people.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 3:30
p.m. at the Palace of the Council of Ministers in
response to a toast by the First Secretary.
First Secretary Gierek spoke in Polish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, and ladies and
gentlemen:
Ten months ago when taking leave of you, Mr.
President, in the Capital of the United States, I said
that while retaining in my grateful memory our
Washington meeting and talks, I would be looking
forward to having your visit to Warsaw.
Today, I am both honored and pleased to receive
you in my country. Our people regard your visit,
Mr. President, as a confirmation of the traditional
friendly attitude of the American people toward
Poland and the inaugural of further development of
cooperation between our two countries.
The people of Poland see in it, also, an evidence
of your personal involvement in the strengthening
of Polish-American ties. Poles do appreciate it-of
which they have given an expression in the welcome
accorded to you.
It is with utmost pleasure that we are receiving
Mrs. Ford in Poland. We are happy to have you
here, Mr. Secretary of State, Dr. Kissinger. Your out-
standing role in the American foreign policy is well
known to us. We are glad, Mr. President, to be able
to play host to all your collaborators who have come
on this visit.
Mr. President, you are paying your visit to Poland
just before a great event in the life of Europe-
before the final decisive phase of the Conference on
Security and Cooperation. Indeed, it is of symptoma-
tic significance.
It was Poland that some years ago put forward the
idea of such a meeting and, jointly with her allies
in the political and defensive Warsaw treaty,
launched an initiative to convene it.
These days, we are about to leave for Helsinki to
approve and sign the decisions of the Conference
which is the common achievement and success of
all the participating states of our continent, of the
United States, and Canada. The decisions of the
Conference shall be of paramount importance for the
consolidation of peace in Europe, which rests on the
foundation of the inviolability of the political and
territorial order established as a result of the victory
of nations over Nazism, of the historic Potsdam deci-
sions, and postwar development.
The guiding idea of those decisions is strengthen-
ing of the feeling of security and development of
international cooperation embracing all fields of life.
Europe has had a long and stormy history in
which peaceful development interwove with acute
conflicts and conquests of other continents. The two
World Wars were unleashed on its territory. Today,
1059
