November 2
[1012]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Carter's approach shifts with the wind, leaving me with the feeling that we,
the American people, could be left high and dry.
To stay on our steady and dependable course, I need your help; I need your
vote. To me it is more than a choice between different approaches to govern-
ment; it is the test of our political system, a test of the qualities we Americans
seek in our leadership.
For these past 2 years I have been careful never to promise what I could not
deliver. It has been my goal to inspire your confidence in America through
solid performance rather than through mere words. And in these past 2 years
I think America has come a long way back: We're at peace in our world, we
have peace of mind here at home, inflation has been cut in half, we've set a
peacetime record of 4 million new jobs in 17 months, and honor has been re-
stored to the White House. I'm proud of that extraordinary comeback, and I
think America should be too. You all did it. And I think we can be proud.
So now that our comeback has brought us to the threshold of a better quality
of life, the choice is yours to make. I hope you will choose continued leadership.
This is my fondest hope: to continue to serve the people of this country that
has blessed me in so many ways.
The White House has affected every person ever to serve in it. Many have
added to its wisdom. Some have succumbed to its power. Most have risen to its
challenge. In my own case perhaps it is the unique conditions of my service
that have most influenced my thoughts. Perhaps only one who came to the
Presidency without being elected can care as deeply as I do to use that power
without ever abusing your trust. Perhaps only one who has served as your
President without your mandate can desire as strongly as I do to serve as your
President with your mandate.
This election comes at the end of our second century and also at the begin-
ning of what can be a new generation of freedom where individual Americans
can know the blessings of freedom without the intrusions of a government
trying to be all things to all people.
NOTE: The address was broadcast over the Mutual Radio Network. The text of the remarks was released
at Grand Rapids, Mich.
2841
