[763]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
your decision to grant political asylum will injure progress in our relations with
the Soviet Union and specifically on SALT and matters of that kind?
The President. I am not familiar with any inquiry by the Soviet Union. They
may have, but I am just not informed as to that.
Number two, we have decided to grant asylum if the Soviet pilot asks for it.
This is a tradition in the United States, and as long as he wants such asylum
he will be granted it in the United States. I don't think that granting him
asylum will interfere with our relations with the Soviet Union.
FBI DIRECTOR KELLEY
[23.] Q. Mr. President, going back to the Kelley matter for a moment.
Governor Carter said yesterday also that the FBI Director should be as pure as
Caesar's wife. Do you agree with that statement, and in light of the allegations
against Mr. Kelley, do you think he is?
THE PRESIDENT. On the basis of a thorough investigation by the Attorney
General, an outstanding lawyer, and I think an outstanding Attorney General,
he recommended that I take the action which I did, which was to keep the FBI
Director. And I have full faith in the analysis and the recommendations of the
Attorney General, and therefore I think I made the right decision.
NOTE: President Ford's thirty-sixth news conference began at 12:43 p.m. on the South Lawn at the White
House.
764
Message to the Congress Transmitting Quarterly Report
of the Council on Wage and Price Stability.
September 8, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 5 of the Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the Congress the seventh quarterly report of
the Council on Wage and Price Stability. This report contains a description of
the Council activities during the second quarter of 1976 in monitoring both
prices and wages and the private sector and various Federal Government
activities that lead to higher costs and prices without creating commensurate
benefits. It discusses in some detail the Council's study of collective bargaining
negotiations for 1976 health costs, steel products, and chemicals as well as its
filings before various Federal regulatory agencies.
2220
