[977]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
war in Vietnam. We're making headway out of the recession. It's a record that
I'm proud to run on, a record the people of Pennsylvania and concerned citizens
all across this land—Independents, Democrats, Republicans—will support this
record on November 2.
Give me your mandate, and we'll reduce the rate of growth of the Federal
Government. Give me your mandate, and we'll ensure the integrity of the
social security system; we will improve medicare so that our older citizens can
enjoy the health and happiness that they have so richly earned. There is no reason
why they should have to go broke just to get well. And they won't under a Ford
administration.
Give me your mandate, and we will create a tax structure that is fair to all,
that will preserve the family in America, the family business, the family farm,
that will give business the tax incentives to build new plants, to modernize old
ones, and to create more jobs in America.
Give me your mandate, and I will lead this Nation on the path of peace
through strength, and we will live in peace, in freedom in the United States.
I have no fear for the future of America. The future is a friend of America.
And as you and I go forward together, I promise you once more—as I promised
you before-to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me to
see the right, and to do the very best that I can for America. God helping me, I
won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. at Plymouth
Meeting Mall. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Robert Butera, Pennsylvania State House Minority
Leader.
978
Remarks in Devon, Pennsylvania. October 27, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Faith. Thank all of you wonderful, dedicated, loyal
Delaware County Republican workers and the tremendous senior citizens from
this area.
It's a high honor and a very rare privilege for me to have an opportunity
to say a few words tonight. Of course, I'm here to urge all of you to elect John
Heinz your next United States Senator. And of course, I strongly urge you
to make darn sure that John Kenney goes down to the House of Representa-
2738
