October 16
[909]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
6. Do you agree with your chief economic adviser who, according to the New
York Times of Monday, said that a Carter administration would not cut
taxes?
I, and the American people, look forward to your answers and clarifications.
GERALD R. FORD
[Mr. James Earl Carter, Jr., Plains, Georgia]
NOTE: The text of the telegram was released at Lincoln, Ill.
909
Remarks in St. Louis, Missouri.
October 16, 1976
Governor Bond, Lieutenant Governor Phelps, Gene McNary, distinguished
guests, all of you wonderful people from Missouri:
I love you, and I won't let you down.
This is a tremendous gathering, and it's a wonderful experience to come to
Missouri after a super day. We started early, and to have this kind of a turnout
in this great State really gives us the kind of a lift and will continue the kind
of momentum that will give us the victory in Missouri and in the United States
on November 2.
You have been introduced to all of these real superstars on the platform with
me. They have been out working just as I have from Joliet to Alton to St. Louis,
and let me express to each and every one of them my deep gratitude and great
appreciation. It's the kind of inspiration to me that makes this job ever so much
easier. They are wonderful people, and I thank them very, very much.
You know, it's great to be in St. Louis, the "Show Me State" of Missouri. In
case you hadn't noticed, this is what my opponent calls “hiding out in the
White House." [Laughter] In the last 10 days, I have “hidden out” in Cali-
fornia, in Oklahoma, in Texas, in New York, New Jersey, Iowa, Illinois, and
now to come to Missouri. It's a great, great week, and I love you.
We are not only going to win in Missouri, we are going to win that election
November 2. But that not only goes for the Ford-Dole ticket but also for your
great Governor, Kit Bond. Kit Bond is the kind of a Governor that you should
be very, very proud of.
What has he done for the State of Missouri? He's restored honesty and
integrity, he has balanced your budget without any new taxes, and he has
increased jobs in the State of Missouri. Boy, if I was in Missouri, I'd be proud
of him, and I'd want him to be your Governor again, and so should you.
2567
