[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Those are the kind of specifics that I think we have to discuss on these debates,
and these are the kind of programs that I will talk about on my time.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Gannon, your question to President Ford.
MR. GANNON. Mr. President, I would like to continue for a moment on this
question of taxes which you have just raised. You have said that you favor more
tax cuts for middle-income Americans, even those earning up to $30,000 a year.
That presumably would cost the Treasury quite a bit of money in lost revenue.
In view of the very large budget deficits that you have accumulated and
that are still in prospect, how is it possible to promise further tax cuts and to
reach your goal of balancing the budget?
THE PRESIDENT. At the time, Mr. Gannon, that I made the recommendation
for a $28 billion tax cut-three-quarters of it to go to individual taxpayers and
25 percent to American business-I said at the same time that we had to hold
the lid on Federal spending; that for every dollar of a tax reduction, we had
to have an equal reduction in Federal expenditures—a one-for-one proposition.
And I recommended that to the Congress with a budget ceiling of $395 billion,
and that would have permitted us to have a $28 billion tax reduction.
In my tax reduction program for middle-income taxpayers, I recommended
that the Congress increase personal exemptions from $750 per person to $1,000
per person. That would mean, of course, that for a family of four that that
family would have $1,000 more personal exemption, money that they could
spend for their own purposes, money that the Government wouldn't have to
spend. But if we keep the lid on Federal spending, which I think we can with
the help of the Congress, we can justify fully a $28 billion tax reduction.
In the budget that I submitted to the Congress in January of this year, I
recommended a 50-percent cutback in the rate of growth of Federal spending.
For the last 10 years the budget of the United States has grown from about 11
percent per year. We can't afford that kind of growth in Federal spending.
And in the budget that I recommended, we cut it in half-a growth rate of
5 to 5½ percent. With that kind of limitation on Federal spending, we can
fully justify the tax reductions that I have proposed. And it seems to me, with
the stimulant of more money in the hands of the taxpayer and with more
money in the hands of business to expand, to modernize, to provide more jobs,
our economy will be stimulated so that we will get more revenue, and we will
have a more prosperous economy.
MR. GANNON. Mr. President, to follow up a moment, the Congress has passed
a tax bill which is before you now which did not meet exactly the sort of out-
2286
