[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
tional council we are lucky to get 20 percent of the other nations to vote with us.
Our allies feel that we've neglected them. The so-called Nixon shocks against
Japan have weakened our relationships there. Under this administration we have
also had an inclination to keep separate the European countries, thinking that if
they are separate, then we can dominate them and proceed with our secret Lone
Ranger-type diplomatic efforts.
I would also like to point out that we in this country have let our economy go
down the drain-the worst inflation since the Great Depression, the highest un-
employment of any developed nation of the world. We have a higher unemploy-
ment rate in this country than Great Britain, than West Germany; our unem-
ployment rate is twice as high as it is in Italy; it's three or four times as high as
it is in Japan. And that terrible circumstance in this country is exported over-
seas. We comprise about 30 percent of the world's economic trade power influ-
ence. And when we are weak at home, weaker than all our allies, that weakness
weakens the whole free world. So, strong economy is very important.
Another thing that we need to do is to reestablish the good relationships that
we ought to have between the United States and our natural allies and friends—
they have felt neglected. And using that base of strength, and using the ideal-
ism, the honesty, the predictability, the commitment, the integrity of our own
country-that's where our strength lies. And that would permit us to deal with
the developing nations in a position of strength.
Under this administration, we've had a continuation of a so-called "balance of
power politics" where everything is looked on as a struggle between us on the one
side and the Soviet Union on the other. Our allies, the smaller countries, get
trampled in the rush.
What we need is to try to seek individualized, bilateral relationships with
countries regardless of their size and to establish world order politics, which
means we want to preserve peace through strength. We also want to revert back
to the stature and the respect that our country had in previous administrations.
Now, I can't say when this can come, but I can guarantee it will not come if
Gerald Ford is reelected and this present policy is continued. It will come if I
am elected.
MR. FRANKEL. If I hear you right, sir, you are saying guns and butter both,
but President Johnson also had trouble keeping up both Vietnam and his domes-
tic programs. I was really asking, when do the needs of the cities and our own
needs and those of other backward and even more needy countries and societies
around the world take precedence over some of our military spending? Ever?
MR. CARTER. Let me say very quickly that under President Johnson, in spite
2422
