[1068]
January 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
The last increase occurred in 1969. Quadrennial adjustments proposed by the
President in 1974 were denied by the Senate. Except for a 5% adjustment en-
acted in 1975, salaries of senior officials in the Executive, Legislative and Judicial
Branches have been frozen for nearly eight years. This year's Quadrennial Com-
mission, chaired by former Commerce Secretary Peter G. Peterson, has docu-
mented the serious problems in keeping and recruiting qualified officials.
There is also a related problem of salary compression for some Civil Service
employees. Most grades of the General Schedule have continued to rise annually
as a result of the upward pressure of private salary rates. But under current law
no Civil Service employee can be paid more than the statutory pay rate for
Executive Level V. Consequently, all senior Civil Service employees in grades
GS-16 through 18 and many at the upper levels of GS-15 have reached this
ceiling, so that five different levels of officials in the Executive Branch now are
paid at much the same rate.
Many of the same problems apply to the Judicial and Legislative Branches.
As a result of frozen compensation schedules, a number of Federal Judges have
left the bench to return to private law practice, and the Chief Justice has reported
to me that others are planning to do so. This represents an alarming loss of talent
and experience.
The Quadrennial Commission determined that a 50% increase in Executive,
Legislative, and Judicial pay would have been justified by economic indicators.
However, the Commission members concluded that direct pay comparisons
with the private sector are neither feasible nor appropriate for most of the posi-
tions covered by their report, and they recommend what they believe to be the
minimum increases necessary to attract and retain the best qualified individuals
for these positions. Nevertheless, I have somewhat reduced the amount of salary
increases recommended by the Commission. I believe the levels contained in the
Budget I am submitting to the Congress today, represents the proper balance
between the need for higher levels of compensation and my determination that
not one cent of the taxpayer's money should be spent unnecessarily.
The Commission's proposals for salary increases were coupled with recom-
mendations for new "Codes of Public Conduct" in the three separate branches
of Government. These would provide full public disclosure of each official's
financial affairs, place tight restrictions on other earned income, apply strict
conflict of interest provisions upon investments, tighten up expense allowances,
place reasonable restrictions on post-service employment and provide vigorous
and consistent auditing. In effect, the Commission thus recommends providing
2944
