October 15
[904]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
crop. By this arrangement the private marketing system has not only been pre-
served but it has been strengthened.
We are moving in the right direction toward greater prosperity for the
American farmer, and we will keep moving in that direction in the next 4
years. These good sales, good prospects, are the fruits of free trade. They are
also the benefits of peace and aggressive, successful negotiations. They are the
just rewards of the Iowa farmers' hard work, and we appreciate it.
In Kansas City last August, I said that we would never use the bounty of
America's farmers as a pawn in international diplomacy. Today, I repeat that
statement. I also said in Kansas City there will be no embargoes, and repeat that
statement here in Ames today.
There is a fundamental difference between Mr. Carter and me on that ques-
tion. In an interview published on August 8, 1976, Mr. Carter was asked, would
you favor using our economic leverage to get the Russians to cease and desist
from aggressive actions? Mr. Carter replied, "Yes, I would." In our second debate,
he told 90 million Americans that a new Arab oil embargo would amount to
an economic declaration of war and that he would instantly respond with a total
embargo against the offending country, shipping them nothing, including food.
Those are the things he said about his plans for your products in the future.
But more important is what Mr. Carter didn't say. When he made his ac-
ceptance speech at the Democratic Convention in New York City there was no
mention of farm policy, not once in 40 minutes. At the Republican Convention,
I said, “We will carry out a farm policy that assures a fair market price for
the farmer, encourages full production, leads to record exports and eases the
hunger within the human family." I think you like my comments better than
his. That is a pledge that I was proud to make, a pledge that I will proudly
carry out for the next 4 years.
Despite the good overall record I mentioned earlier, some farmers—yes, too
many—are having a hard time of it right now. Cattle prices are way too low.
Wheat prices are too low. The weather has not been a very good friend to a
lot of farmers in Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota, Minnesota, and other parts of
our great country. I've already done something about the cattle situation. I tried
earlier this year to halt the importation of foreign beef through a free trade
zone in Puerto Rico. Diplomatic, administrative, and legal roadblocks pre-
vented us from carrying out what I wanted to do to help the cattle producer.
I then went to the Congress, which failed to act on my request to curb these
imports.
Therefore, last week in Dallas, Texas, I signed a Presidential proclamation
2541
