[852]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress, and it was when Watergate was just beginning to surface, and the
democratically controlled House and the Senate were certainly looking at
everything that Jerry Ford had ever done.
It went to the Judiciary Committee in the House. They investigated again. He
came through with flying colors, and in a democratically controlled House and
Senate. As I recall, the vote was somewhere around 400 to 30, or at least there
were about 30 of the Democrats who would not support him, but the big ma-
jority-10 to 1 of Democrats and Republicans-voted for him because they did
trust him and knew that he had been a decent and honorable guy.
Q. How are you setting up the national committee? Are you going to have
groups in every city?
MRS. GREEN. We will try to reach as many people as possible. We are going to
talk about that this afternoon, and certainly we want to appeal to as many—not
only the Republicans but also the Independents and the Democrats.
Q. Mr. President, how do you think you will do on the debates tonight on
foreign policy and defense?
THE PRESIDENT. Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International], I am
looking forward to it. I would like to wait and see how it comes out, but I am
optimistic and I am looking forward to it.
Q. Mr. President, does the formation of this group at this time, a month before
the election, indicate that your campaign is in a little trouble with Democrats
and Independents?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I think it is a reflection that there are many, many
Independents and Democrats who are uncomfortable with my opponent and
who believe that the record that I had, both as a Member of Congress and as
Vice President and as President, is one that they can wholeheartedly support.
We find there is a ground swell of Independents and Democrats-and this is
reflected in the increase of the Ford margin in the polls-so Dom and Edith and
George are going to be the heads of that group to stimulate an even greater
movement toward the Ford candidacy.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
The President. It is nice to see you all. See you tonight.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:28 a.m. outside the residence of Mr. and Mrs. John Sutro, where he stayed
during his visit to San Francisco.
2406
