[818]
September 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the number of federally funded, career criminal jurisdictions will be more than
doubled. I urge States and local governments to expand this effective program
with your own resources as well.
The national trend is that less than 10 percent of those convicted spend any
time in jail. This is intolerable and indefensible. Our Constitution reserves
jurisdiction over most crimes to State and local authorities, but in offenses
where the Constitution gives jurisdiction to the Federal Government and,
therefore, gives the President some say in the matter—kidnapping, hijacking,
trafficking in hard drugs, and Federal crimes involving use of dangerous weap-
ons—I have proposed mandatory sentences. If convicted, they go to jail. We
are going to stop letting convicted criminals go free. That's the way to deter
crime and protect the victims of crime.
Law enforcement officers have the primary responsibility for fighting violent
crime, but crime is so pervasive it can be brought under control only by con-
certed actions at all levels of government—Federal, State, and local—and by
the cooperation of law-abiding citizens and police volunteer groups.
I am greatly encouraged by the revival of public cooperation with the police
and the confidence you have instilled in every neighborhood of your communi-
ties. The police officer has become a catalyst for responsible government, and
I commend you and I congratulate you. I have heard of individuals, especially in
rural and suburban areas, who use CB radios in their cars to assist the police.
This is a lot better use of CB than frustrating highway patrol cars. I commend
this new breed of CB cooperators for recognizing "Smokey Bear" as the real
friend of law-abiding citizens.
Two years ago I made a solemn pledge to you, the police chiefs, that a high
priority of my administration would be the control of crime, especially violent
crime. Since 1974 we have been making real progress. In 1974 the crime rate
had increased by a staggering 18 percent over the previous year. By 1975 we had
cut the rate of increase in half, to 9 percent. Statistics for the first 6 months of
this year show the increase in the rate of crime reduced to about 3 percent. Even
better, the new figures reveal that the rate of violent crime has actually decreased
for the first time in many, many years. The violent crimes of murder, forcible
rape, robbery, and aggravated assault decreased 6 percent in the first 6 months
of 1976. I congratulate you, but we're going to do better in the future.
There is a new and wonderful attitude in America. Americans who have rev-
erence for the law are fighting back. We must not stop until we tear away the
shroud of fear from every corner of America to control rural and suburban
crime, as well as that in the big cities.
2346
