October 14
[898]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
fered with the judgment or the decision of the Special Prosecutor, and I wouldn't
in this case.
FEDERAL SPENDING AND THE ECONOMY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, you've been going up and down the country—
and most recently in New York and New Jersey-saying that things are
getting better and things are being improved and there is a definite difference
between you and the other candidate, Mr. Carter.
There is a 7.8-percent unemployment rate. The Commerce Department today
announced that retail sales fell by 1.1 percent. The stock market took a nose-
dive. Mr. Friedman, a conservative economist, says nothing that neither you
nor Mr. Carter offers will cause a change in the rise of Federal spending. And
finally, Mr. Greenspan, your own adviser, predicted today a continued 6-percent
inflation rate.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me set the record-
Q. I don't understand how things are getting better.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me set the record straight. There is a very distinct differ-
ence between Federal spending proposals by President Ford and those of Gov-
ernor Carter. Governor Carter has endorsed, embraced, sponsored 60-some
new programs that will cost $100 billion a year at a minimum and $200 billion,
probably, on an annual basis. So there is a distinct difference between Governor
Carter on the one hand and myself. He wants to spend more, and I want to
hold the lid on Federal spending.
Now, let's talk about the status of the economy. In the first quarter of this
calendar year, the rate of growth of GNP was 9.2 percent. It fell in the second
quarter to 4.5 percent. It looks like the third quarter will be in the range of
about 4 percent. I have checked with the responsible advisers to me in this area,
and they expect a resumption of the rate of growth of GNP in October,
November, and December of over 5 percent and probably closer to 6 percent.
And they expect that same rate of growth in 1977.
We've had a pause. But we could not sustain the rate of growth of the first
quarter of 1976, when it was 9.2 or .3. We are now coming out of the dip or
the pause that we had, and I believe that all, or practically all economists
recognize that the economy is continuing to improve and will get better in
this quarter and in 1977.
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR METROPOLITAN AREAS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, in keeping the lid on Federal spending, are you
willing to accept the continued physical and social deterioration of the big cities
2525
