October 26
[967]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
policy. As citizens and as voters, you are being asked to decide whether you wish
to build on the great traditions of American foreign policy, the policies that kept
us strong and at peace, or whether you wish to break from these traditions,
venturing into the unknown with a doctrine that is untested, untried and, in
my view, potentially dangerous.
This doctrine deviates—deviates substantially—from the solid principles of
bipartisan foreign and defense policies of the last 30 years. It has a strong flavor
of isolationism. If it is applied in practice the same way that it is described in
campaign oratory, there is a significant risk it could lead to major international
crises.
Let us look for a few minutes at the most significant differences between the
policies of my administration and those that are offered as an alternative. During
the 2½ years of my Presidency, I have fought hard to strengthen our national
defense. When I took office defense spending was a smaller share of the national
budget than at any time since before the Korean war. We were at the razor's
edge in defense strength. If the Congress had continued cutting our defense
budget, we would assuredly have drifted into a position of military inferiority.
One of the most significant achievements of this administration is that we
have now reversed that slide. And as long as I am President we are going to
have an Army, a Navy, an Air Force, and a Marine Corps that are unsurpassed
in military capability.
I know it is very costly. As President Eisenhower once said, and I quote, “A
good defense is never a cheap defense,” end quote. But for the sake of peace and
freedom we must be willing to make the sacrifices that maintain America's
military might.
Now consider the alternative that is being offered to the American people in
this election. Instead of maintaining our military strength, the alternative
proposed is to slash billions from our defense budget, stripping us not of waste
but of military muscle. The B-1 bomber is a prime example. I believe it is
essential to our security to go forward with the production of this new aircraft,
which has met and surpassed every test to date. It would replace the aging B-52
so that our pilots can defend America in an aircraft that gives us a reliable capa-
bility for penetrating improved air defense systems of our potential adversaries.
So, the differences in defense spending are clear. I want to continue a course
which I believe will keep us strong and free. The alternative is to head down a
road which could raise doubts about our strength, our determination, on the
part of our friends as well as potential adversaries.
A second basic principle of America's policy is to maintain strong, durable
2699
