October 29
[989]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
bureaucrat in Washington, would decide how this money would best be spent to
help their students and their teachers do a better job.
It was interesting in this past year since that proposal was made, that all or
most of the State educational heads, or whatever their precise title might be,
agreed with the proposal, because they felt that was a far more effective way—
with infinitely less redtape—to get that money for elementary and secondary
education from the Federal Government right at the local level.
I am optimistic that with the year that we will have had to educate people
who want the job done, that we can convince the next Congress that this is the
way to take whatever the funds are that the Federal Government makes avail-
able and get it to the source where we want the job done as quickly, as econom-
ically, and as effectively as possible.
Now, in spite of my conviction that Federal spending must be held in check—
and just about a year ago that was a tough decision that I had to make—I have,
because of my strong personal dedication to America's schools, urged that Fed-
eral assistance be increased for the current fiscal year. The block grant program
that I mentioned a moment ago calls for the increase in spending in each of the
3 fiscal years after its enactment.
As I said a moment ago, I am optimistic that that consolidation program will
be accepted by the Congress with the kind of increases that I think can be justi-
fied, and will be extremely helpful in solving some of the local and even the
State financial problems involving schools.
When I spoke at Ohio State-and you know, somebody from Michigan who
gets invited to speak at a commencement at Ohio State, you never forget the ex-
perience—[laughter]—and they treated me better as a commencement speaker
than they treat the Michigan football teams from time to time-[laughter]—but
when I was at Ohio State 2 years ago, I urged that the transition from the world
of education to the world of work, a very crucial juncture in the life of every
individual, be explored by the most knowledgeable people in the field of
education.
I said at that time, the Nation needs new ways to bring the world of work and
institutions of education closer together. The response from the education and
business communities has been more than heartening. The U.S. Office of Educa-
tion, the Departments of Labor and Commerce, private business and industry
have responded to my challenge in a very encouraging way. In the past 2 years,
scores of programs have been developed to help high school students prepare for
worthwhile occupations while completing their education. These developments
are new and really exciting. They are innovative, and they are a fine example of
2783
