[778]
September 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, Cassie Mackin has a question.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Cassie.
SOUTHERN AFRICA
[4.] CATHERINE MACKIN. Good morning, Mr. President. I was wondering
about whether you plan any foreign travel at all before the election?
THE PRESIDENT. We don't foresee any at the present time, Cassie, no.
MR. BROKAW. I wonder if it will be necessary-Secretary Kissinger is now
en route, of course, to a sensitive mission in Africa, trying to arrange negotia-
tions in South Africa, specifically. What do you see as the next step for the
United States there? Will we have to support clandestine activity if Rhodesia
continues to resist black nationalist activity and the rise of black nationalism
in Rhodesia?
The President. Tom, there are two problems that we are trying to work on
in cooperation with the several parties that are involved: one, Namibia and, two,
Rhodesia. We are more optimistic that we can work with the others in getting
some progress in the case of Namibia. It is a tough problem, but the prospects
for success in that area are better than in the case of Rhodesia.
Now, in either case, the odds are really against us. But we feel that it's of maxi-
mum importance, not only from the point of view of ourselves but certainly
from the point of view of southern Africa and certainly from the point of view
of the world as a whole, that somebody take the lead. And the United States
is doing so with Secretary Kissinger's trip there.
It's so tenuous at the present time and the difficulties are so great, that it would
be unwise for me to be specific in just what the outcome might be. But despite
these odds, I decided that it was in the best interest of all concerned that Secretary
Kissinger go on this trip, and I inwardly feel that because we have done the
right thing, it will turn out okay.
RONALD REAGAN
[5.] MISS MACKIN. Mr. President, have there been any more conversations
with Ronald Reagan? Do you expect him to be out campaigning for you?
THE PRESIDENT. I have talked to Governor Reagan, as I recall, three times.
I have people on my staff that are talking to comparable people on his staff. We
are well along and in total accord on what he will be doing not only for my can-
didacy but for the Republican Party. He was down in Mexico for several days'
2244
