[732]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
732
Remarks in Kansas City Announcing Senator Robert Dole of
Kansas as the President's Selection for the Vice-Presidential
Nomination. August 19, 1976
IT IS a very great occasion for me, it is a very proud moment for me, to have
the opportunity of introducing my running mate for this campaign in 1976.
I am really thrilled with the opportunity of having Bob Dole as my running
mate. I am enthusiastic for a number of reasons. I have known Bob Dole a good
many years. I served with him in the House of Representatives for 8 years. He
served with great distinction not only in the House but in the Senate of the
United States, representing the great State of Kansas. Bob Dole, of course, had
an outstanding record in the military service in World War II. Bob Dole has
been a team player. Bob Dole's philosophy and mine coincide almost identically.
Bob Dole is a good campaigner. Bob Dole will help to heal any divisiveness
within the party.
I have talked to Governor Reagan and told him of my selection. Governor
Reagan has endorsed my selection of Bob Dole as my running mate. I have
consulted with others who were very, very strong as potential candidates as my
running mate, and all of them have indicated their support, their endorsement,
of Bob Dole.
So, it is a great pleasure, privilege, and I am extremely proud to introduce
to you Senator Bob Dole of the great State of Kansas as my running mate for
victory in 1976.
Bob.
SENATOR DOLE. Thank you, Mr. President.
Mrs. Ford, Mr. Vice President, let me first introduce my wife, Elizabeth, from
the State of North Carolina. And that will be part of our Southern strategy.
[Laughter]
Let me also indicate that I did not expect to receive a phone call this morning,
but I am very pleased that we were in. [Laughter]
I have known, of course, President Ford at a time when I could call him Jerry.
As he has indicated, we served in the House together. He has been in many
places in Kansas on my behalf. And I remember in 1974 when the going was
tough and I was trying to be reelected, one of the President's-I think the
President's last-campaign stops was in Wichita, Kansas, in the rain. And he
came there to help me, and I won by a very narrow margin after trailing some
1
2154
