October 7
[860]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But let me assure you that things are better in the United States of America
today, and they are going to get better in the future.
In August 9, 1974, as I said on taking the oath of office as President, our
long national nightmare is over. In the last 2 years, the United States of America
has made an amazing comeback and as I said a moment ago, we are not
through yet. In the last 2 years trust has been restored to the White House. We
have turned the economy around. We are at peace, and I will keep it that way.
We have entered an era of good feeling. We have given the American people
a fresh start for the future.
On July 4 of this year, we celebrated the biggest birthday party in our Nation's
history. America was 200 years old and growing strong in the future. We found
ourselves healed and united as never before. We found that we were looking
at the future with faith instead of fear. For all our faults, for all of the troubles
that we have had in recent years, we felt proud to be Americans, proud of this
great country that we live in and work for and will do our best for in the future.
We still have our share of serious problems. We still have goals that have not
been reached. But we have found a strength in ourselves and in our national
character that is more powerful than all of our armaments, more precious than
all of our wealth, and as enduring as the United States Constitution.
As we look back to the days of the American Revolution, we felt the same
strong spirit which guided the courageous men and women who founded this
Nation. We realize more vividly than ever before that we are the heirs of the
greatest, the most constructive, the most enduring revolution in the history of
mankind. And as we move forward into the third century of America's inde-
pendence, we know that the challenges of the future will be greater than those
we faced in the past.
Here at home our greatest challenge is to ensure that every American who
wants a job can find a job, a job that gives a person pride as well as a paycheck,
a job with an opportunity for advancement, a job generated by the demands of
a healthy economy, not manufactured by a Big Brother government.
We must make it easier for people to buy a home, a home of their own, while
they are still young enough to enjoy it. We must make sure that our older people
don't have to go broke just to get well. We must make it possible for every
young American to get an education of the highest quality, an education that
you can use when you get out of school-USC, Michigan, Yale, or any other of
the outstanding educational institutions in this country today.
We must make sure that our streets and campuses are free from the threat
of violent crime. We must try harder to protect our environment, to purify the
2443
