October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now we have a very wide-ranging group of advisers who help me prepare for
these debates and who teach me about international economics and foreign
affairs, defense matters, health, education, welfare, government reorganization—
I'd say several hundred of them, and they are very fine and very highly qualified.
The one major decision that I have made since acquiring the nomination—
and I share this with President Ford-is the choice of the Vice President. I think
this would be indicative of the kind of leaders that I would choose to help me if
I am elected.
I chose Senator Walter Mondale. And the only criterion that I have put for-
ward in my own mind was, who among the several million people in this coun-
try would be the best person qualified to be President if something should hap-
pen to me and to join me in being Vice President if I should serve out my term?
And I'm convinced now, more than I was when I got the nomination, that
Walter Mondale was the right choice. And I believe this is a good indication of
the kind of people that I would choose in the future.
Mr. Ford has had that same choice to make. I don't want to say anything
critical of Senator Dole, but I have never heard Mr. Ford say that that was his
primary consideration—who is the best person I could choose in this country to
be President of the United States.
I feel completely at ease knowing that some day Senator Mondale might very
well be President. In the last five Vice-Presidential nominees, incumbents, three
of them have become President. But I think this is indicative of what I would do.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, your response please.
THE PRESIDENT. The Governor may not have heard my established criteria for
the selection of a Vice President, but it was a well-established criteria that the
person I selected would be fully qualified to be President of the United States.
And Senator Bob Dole is so qualified—16 years in the House of Representatives
and in the Senate, very high responsibilities on important committees.
I don't mean to be critical of Senator Mondale, but I was very, very surprised
when I read that Senator Mondale made a very derogatory, very personal com-
ment about General Brown after the news story that broke about General
Brown. If my recollection is correct, he indicated that General Brown was not
qualified to be a sewer commissioner. I don't think that's a proper way to describe
a Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who has fought for his country for 35
years. And I'm sure the Governor would agree with me on that. I think Senator
Dole would show more good judgment and discretion than to so describe a
heroic and brave and very outstanding leader of the military.
So, I think our selection of Bob Dole as Vice President is based on merit. And
2631
