[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
and purpose that God has given us in the greatest nation on Earth, the United
States.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. As we have seen tonight, foreign policy and defense policy are
difficult and complex issues. We can debate methods; we can debate one deci-
sion or another. But there are two things which cannot be debated-experience
and results.
In the last 2 years I have made policy decisions involving long-range difficul-
ties and policies and made day-to-day judgments, not only as President of the
United States but as the leader of the free world.
What is the result of that leadership? America is strong, America is free,
America is respected. Not a single young American today is fighting or dying
on any foreign battlefield. America is at peace, with freedom.
Thank you, and good night.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, President Ford. Thank you, Governor Carter.
I also want to thank our questioners and the audience here this evening.
The third and final debate between President Ford and Governor Carter
will take place on October the 22d at 9:30 p.m., eastern daylight time, on the
campus of the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia. The
subject matter will cover all issues.
These debates are sponsored by the League of Women Voters Education Fund
to help voters become better informed on the issues and to generate greater
voter turnout in the November election.
Now from the Palace of Fine Arts Theatre in San Francisco, good night.
NOTE: The debate began at 6:30 p.m. at the Palace of Fine Arts Theatre in San Francisco, Calif. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
855
Exchange With Reporters Following the Presidential
Campaign Debate in San Francisco. October 6, 1976
REPORTER. Mr. President, you have said tonight that these issues were compli-
cated and difficult to discuss. Do you think that you did a good enough job of
discussing Eastern Europe, or do you think you left some confusion?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I answered all the questions; I set forth our policies.
And the final note, of course, is that we are at peace, and we are going to keep
the peace.
2436
