[962]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
was reported by the news media, I think, with great enthusiasm because it
showed a change-America was healed, America was on the move, and we all
look forward to a great opportunity to do the things in the next 4 and the next
100 years that must be done to make that vision of our forefathers a reality.
So, I thank Edith. She has taken on the leadership with two others, George
Feldman and Dom DiMaggio, to get all the Independents and Democrats who
feel, as I do, that this country does have an opportunity to do those wonderful
things that our forefathers gave us the opportunity to do. I just couldn't come
to Oregon and get a finer display of the kind of support that I want, and I thank
each and every one of them from the bottom of my heart.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:21 p.m. at the
Portland International Airport. In his remarks, he
referred to Representative Edith Green of Oregon
1955-75, George J. Feldman and Dominic DiMaggio,
cochairmen of the Citizens for Ford Committee, and
Mrs. Tom McCall, wife of Governor Tom McCall of
Oregon 1967-75, and Representative Wendell Wyatt
of Oregon 1965-75.
963
Remarks in Portland, Oregon. October 25, 1976
THANK YOU all very, very much for coming out here. I know that this is
a special effort on your part, but it is a wonderful welcome for me to come to
Oregon, to Portland, and to have the fine support of people like Bob Packwood,
Mark Hatfield, and of course, my very good friend, Edith Green, and Mrs. Tom
McCall, and to have the demonstration of friendship and support from so many
of you.
2
Let me say that in the remaining 8 days between now and November 2, I
will be campaigning on the programs that have been successful. In the last
years-you know how tough it was 2 years ago when I became the President
on August 9, 1974. We had lost trust in the White House; we were on the brink
of the worst recession in 40 years; inflation was over 12 percent; and we were
still involved in the war in Vietnam.
The American people, working with me, have been able to turn this situa-
tion around, and we have made incredible progress. We are on the way to a
healthy economy. Inflation is less than 6 percent; we have 4 million new jobs;
88 million people are working in America—the highest in the history of the
United States.
We are out of the war in Vietnam, and we have the capability to stay at peace.
And I am proud to say to you, as I say to your fellow Americans, not a single
2684
