[850]
October 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
work of the UN peacekeeping Force and the UN resolutions calling for a just
and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem, respect for the sovereignty and
territorial integrity of that island, and withdrawal of all foreign military forces
not authorized by agreements. While I strongly endorse all of these precepts, the
last is of special importance since the cause of peace can only be poorly served
when men confront each other with arms. I was therefore gratified to hear of the
withdrawal last month of a further portion of the Turkish armed forces from
Cyprus.
In summary, during the past sixty days we have increased our efforts to bring
the two sides together once more for discussions in any area which might
contribute to a more secure and normal life for the people of Cyprus. We have
reaffirmed our determination to continue direct bilateral assistance on a large
scale. We have worked with other members of the international community to
bring about the best possible set of conditions for resumption of the Cyprus
talks at an early date.
My Administration will further intensify its efforts to bring both sides together
again with the hope, based on their meetings in New York last month, that
some further significant advances may occur.
The people of the United States remain keenly interested in promoting an
equitable and lasting settlement on Cyprus. My Administration has been active
at every opportunity in encouraging such a settlement. We believe the people
of both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities share equally a
desire for peaceful, productive and secure lives. We will continue to use every
opportunity further to encourage the leaders of both sides toward a common
solution which will achieve these goals.
The White House,
October 4, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
851
Statement on the Performance of the 94th Congress.
October 5, 1976
FEW Congresses have been presented with such a clear challenge to deal
forthrightly with the Nation's problems than the Congress that has just
adjourned and few Congresses have fallen so short of meeting the challenge.
Over the past 2 years I have placed before the Congress a wide variety of pro-
1
2402
