[661]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Significantly, this act will combat inflation because the funding for these
airport and airway improvements will come from the users of the airways and
the airport facilities—the users of aviation. Moreover, for the first time since
1971, maintenance of the air navigation systems will be funded in part out of
the airport trust fund. In a sense, this is a "pay-as-you-fly" program.
Appropriately, the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1976 coincides
with the 50th anniversary of scheduled air transportation in the United States.
Secretary of Transportation Coleman and Federal Aviation Administrator
McLucas, working closely with Members of the House and Senate and with
the participation of the entire aviation community, have brought forward a
measure which will assure continued U.S. leadership in technology, efficiency,
and safety of air transportation.
This farsighted and cooperative effort will assure that our country continues
to benefit from the world's best aviation system. And I congratulate all the
parties that had a part in this significant progress in the field of aviation. So, it
is with great pleasure that I do sign this bill and again congratulate all who had
a part in it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. at a
ceremony in the East Garden at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 9771) is Public Law
94-353 (90 Stat. 871).
662
Statement on Signing the Airport and Airway Development
Act Amendments of 1976. July 12, 1976
I AM signing today a bill, H.R. 9771, which authorizes funds over a 5-year period
for the extension of the Airport Development Aid Program and for the con-
tinuation of Federal programs pertaining to the operation and improvement of
the Nation's airway system. This bill, although falling short of my recommenda-
tions in several respects, will provide the basis for a number of important
improvements in the operation of the airport and airway system.
First, the long-term extension of funding authorizations, while more than
this administration recommended, is funded from user taxes and will permit us
to achieve substantial progress in the development of our Nation's public air-
ports. In addition to supporting projects which will provide greater efficiency
and safety in the operation of aircraft at these airports, the bill will permit the
application of Federal assistance to projects which will enhance the ability of air-
port terminals to provide a smooth flow of traffic.
2004
