[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
2 years with the constantly increasing threat of atomic weapons throughout the
world. We now have five nations that have atomic bombs that we know about.
If we continue under Mr. Ford's policy, by 1985 or '90 we will have 20 nations
that have the capability of exploding atomic weapons. This has got to be
stopped. That is one of the major challenges and major undertakings that I will
assume as the next President.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Valeriani, a question for Governor Carter.
MR. VALERIANI. Governor Carter, earlier tonight you said America is not
strong anymore, America is not respected anymore. And I feel I must ask you,
do you really believe that the United States is not the strongest country in the
world? Do you really believe that the United States is not the most respected
country in the world, or is that just campaign rhetoric?
MR. CARTER. No, it's not just campaign rhetoric. I think that militarily we
are as strong as any nation on Earth. I think we've got to stay that way and
continue to increase our capabilities to meet any potential threat. But as far as
strength derived from commitment to principles; as far as strength derived from
the unity within our country; as far as strength derived from the people, the
Congress, the Secretary of State, the President, sharing in the evolution and
carrying out of a foreign policy; as far as strength derived from the respect
of our own allies and friends, their assurance that we will be staunch in our
commitment, that we will not deviate, and we will give them adequate atten-
tion; as far as strength derived from doing what is right, caring for the poor,
providing food, becoming the breadbasket of the world instead of the arms
merchant of the world-in those respects we are not strong. Also, we will never
be strong again overseas unless we are strong at home. And with our economy
in such terrible disarray, and getting worse by the month—we have got 500,000
more Americans unemployed today than we had 3 months ago; we have got 2½
million more Americans out of work now than we had when Mr. Ford took
office—this kind of deterioration in our economic strength is bound to weaken
us around the world.
And we not only have problems at home but we export those problems over-
seas. So, as far as the respect of our own people toward our own Government,
as far as participation in the shaping of concepts and commitments, as far as
a trust of our country among the nations of the world, as far as dependence of
our country in meeting the needs and obligations that we've expressed to our
allies, as far as the respect of our country, even among our potential adversaries,
we are weak. Potentially, we are strong. Under this administration that strength
has not been realized.
2426
