October 12
[887]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
something that we can do, have done, and will do in the months ahead beyond
these 11,000.
My 60 vetoes saved the American taxpayer $9½ billion. Mr. Carter constantly
criticizes those vetoes, and yet he castigates us for having too big a deficit. I'm
not sure how you can have it both ways. If his party's Congress, I might add par-
enthetically, had not overriden 12 of the vetoes that I made, we would have saved
an additional $16 billion more.
When I say that I stand for smaller government, and my performance proves
it-on the other hand, Mr. Carter says he is for reforming and reorganizing
the bureaucracy, but his performance tells a far different story. And I respect-
fully suggest you ask the taxpayers of Georgia. They don't tell the same story.
What do you think you will get from a Democratic President and another 2 to
1 Democratic Congress? One thing you will certainly get is more spending and
bigger deficits. Another thing you will get is more runaway inflation. One
thing you won't get is lower Federal taxes. Another thing you won't get is less
Federal Government.
So, the choice before our country is very clear. You know where I stand, and
I am proud of it. I have campaigned here ever since 1948 on the principle that a
government big enough to give us everything we want is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have.
About 10 days ago, early in the morning in Washington, I got a call from a
very courageous leader of Government, one of our dear and respected allies.
Prime Minister Callaghan called and said—and I quote from a speech that he
made because, as many of you know, they have had serious difficulties, not only
more recently but over the years—and I read some of the excerpts from a speech
that Jim Callaghan gave that I think are worth repeating here on this occasion.
Jim Callaghan courageously said, and I quote, “We have lived for too long on
borrowed time, borrowed money and even borrowed ideas, nor will we succeed
if we use confetti money to pay ourselves more than we produce." Then the
Prime Minister continued in his speech before his Labor convention of his own
political party. He went on to say, "Each time we did this, the twin evils of un-
employment and inflation have hit hardest those least able to stand them-the
poor, the old and the sick."
I think that all Americans should learn a lesson from this courageous public
leader in Great Britain and his very plain and straightforward talk to his fel-
low Members of the Parliament. I think the current crisis in Great Britain tells
us more than any words can about the danger of too much government, too
much spending on borrowed money. The British pound has sunk to its lowest
2499
