[958]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
that the proper role of the Federal Government is to help regions and com-
munities work out solutions on their own problems.
Thank you very much. We've enjoyed it here-wonderful part of California—
and, of course, we love California.
Thank you very much. Nice to see you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:32 a.m. prior to his departure from Lindbergh Field.
959
Remarks on Arrival at Seattle, Washington.
October 25, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Dan. It's wonderful to be in Seattle, the great
State of Washington, and we're delighted to come in on one of those great
planes made right here in the Boeing plant. It's good, safe, very comfortable;
we thank you for it very, very much.
But I'd also like to express my appreciation for Joel Pritchard being here and
the other fine State officials who have participated in this warm welcome. And
I, of course, am deeply grateful for Mr. Wilson being here and have the oppor-
tunity to see so many of the Boeing employees.
I can recall vividly, on several occasions in past years, I came out and had
a chance to go through your plant, meet many of your fellow employees per-
sonally. You should be proud of what you do. We're very proud of your
contributions.
I have a couple of special guests that I would like to introduce to you. First,
former Congresswoman Edith Green, who is well-known all throughout the
Northwest, formerly from Oregon as an outstanding representative in the
House of Representatives. Edith. Edith and I served together for 19 years in the
House of Representatives. She was, I think, the most knowledgeable person in
education and labor management legislation. She was on the other side of the
aisle. She's heading up the Citizens for Ford Committee as a loyal Democrat. Let
me say without hesitation, when she was on your side, we usually won. When
she was against you, it was tough. But thank you very much for being with us.
And then there's somebody else I think all of you know, my good friend Joe
Garagiola. Joe is working with us to do a few good television programs around
the country. We did one in California last night. He's terrific, not only in
those sporting events but he does a great job helping our cause. Then another
2676
