January 18
[1075]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Action should be taken to restore the position of Chairman of the Federal
Reserve Board to a Level I and the members of the Board should be raised to
Level II.
With regard to the Director of OMB, the issue is simply whether all Cabinet
officers subject to Senate confirmation should receive the same pay. I believe the
answer to this question is unequivocally and categorically in the affirmative. The
Congressional hearings on PL 93-250 of 1974 indicate that the Congress, when
it required Senate confirmation for the Director and Deputy Director of OMB,
considered the position of Director to be comparable in importance to other
members of the Cabinet whose appointments are subject to Senate confirmation.
I would urge that immediate action be taken on making the Director of OMB
Level I and the Deputy Director Level II.
I trust you will accept these recommendations in the spirit in which they are
made.
With warm regards.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Abraham Ribicoff, Chairman, Sen-
ate Committee on Government Operations; the
Honorable Jack Brooks, Chairman, House Commit-
tce on Government Operations; the Honorable Wil-
GERALD R. FORD
liam Proxmire, Chairman, Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs; and the
Honorable Henry S. Reuss, Chairman, House Com-
mittee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs.
1075
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the National
Defense University. January 18, 1977
Thank you very much, Admiral Bayne, Secretary Rumsfeld, Secretary Clements,
distinguished Service Secretaries, members of the Joint Chiefs, members of the
military, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It's a very high honor and a very rare privilege for me to be on this campus for
the dedication of the National Defense University, and I thank you for the in-
vitation and for this opportunity.
I was reminiscing a bit on the way over, and I recalled very vividly the number
of opportunities that I've had in the past to come and enjoy an exchange with
members of the faculty and members of the student body. I had the feeling all
the time of a creative atmosphere, both at the War College and the Industrial
College of the Armed Forces. I enjoyed the opportunity to say a few words and,
2963
