[1051]
January 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
1051
Message to the Congress Reporting on Administration
Efforts to Settle the Cyprus Conflict. January 10, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
This report is the seventh in a series of messages pursuant to Public Law 94–
104 through which I have informed the Congress of my Administration's efforts
to encourage progress toward a resolution of the problems of Cyprus. In addi-
tion to reviewing those efforts, this report will offer several conclusions with
regard to the role the United States can and should play in settlement of the
Cyprus dispute.
I know the Congress shares my views that a just and early settlement of the
Cyprus issue is essential both for humanitarian reasons and to preserve peace
in an area of great importance to the United States. For more than two years
my Administration has actively sought to help the Cypriot communities find
the basis for substantive and sustained negotiations. We have given the UN
Secretary General our full and active support in the negotiations conducted
under his auspices, negotiations which I believe continue to offer the best
possible forum for progress.
I also know the Congress shares my deep regret that progress in the negotia-
tions has been extremely slow. Inconclusive procedural disputes have diverted
the parties from pressing issues of substance. Domestic pressures and interna-
tional rivalries have detracted from the will and commitment that are essential
to progress.
In an effort to break this impasse, my Administration has sought over the past
several months to develop a set of basic principles that might provide a frame-
work for continued and fruitful intercommunal negotiation. These principles
are based on the concepts which I set forth in my sixth report to the Congress
and which Secretary of State Kissinger expressed in his September 1976 UN
General Assembly address. These concepts rest on a fundamental premise which
I believe all concerned parties continue to share-that any settlement must pre-
serve the independence, sovereignty, and the territorial integrity of Cyprus.
These concepts emphasize the importance of territorial adjustments to reduce
the area controlled by the Turkish side, while taking into account the economic
requirements and humanitarian concerns of the two Cypriot communities, in-
cluding the plight of those who remain refugees. Constitutional arrangements
are of equal importance in providing conditions under which the two com-
2906
