[975]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
We must also find, and find as quickly and effectively as possible, ways
through the tax system of actually easing the burden of families whose sons
and daughters attend nonpublic schools and to help families cope with the
expenses of a college education.
Although I am a product of public education through the University of
Michigan, I was the beneficiary of a law school education at Yale Law School.
But I believe very deeply that the competition of nonpublic schools to the
public school system is helpful in upgrading and maintaining the level of the
public schools. Competition in education is just as important as competition
on the athletic field, in business, or elsewhere, and we must maintain our non-
public school systems throughout the United States.
Let me tell you something else that I haven't forgotten. Two years ago, in
October of 1974, when I visited Philadelphia, some of your fellow students
thoughtfully gave me a Villanova football jersey. [Laughter] After a year
or about a year after that, I understand that some of you saw photographs of
my daughter, Susan, wearing it. [Laughter] Well, Susan couldn't be here today,
but I think you will recognize this jersey.
As you obviously saw, that jersey had number 76 on it, and it is on there, as
I understood it, because some of you were encouraging me to run in 1976. I
took your advice. [Laughter] And with your help, we are going to win
November 2.
I have come to this great university to share with you some views that I have
of America in 1976 and my hopes for America in the next 4 years and beyond.
During the last 2 years, in the aftermath of a very difficult war and a painful
ordeal of economic adversity and political crisis, we reached a very critical
turning point in America's history.
Throughout most of your lives, as I look around this wonderful audience,
America has been in turmoil. Some of our most beloved leaders have been as-
sassinated; there was a war that seemed to have no end; there were destructive
riots on our streets and on some of our college campuses; we suffered runaway
inflation and the worst recession in 40 years; we were betrayed by corruption at
the highest levels of our Government. Fortunately, the skies are much brighter
this October. And I think we can say that the administration has had something
to do in turning the economy around.
We are in the midst of growing prosperity. More Americans were on the job
in 1976 than ever before in the history of the United States, some 88 million
people gainfully employed. Many, or I should say too many people are still out
of work, but we are on the move, and I will not be satisfied until every Ameri-
2730
