January 4
[1044]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
renewing my proposal to integrate corporate and personal income taxes gradu-
ally over a period of years beginning in 1978. All of these changes in the tax
laws will increase the funds available, directly and indirectly, for new and
better plants, machinery, stores and equipment.
I am again recommending accelerated depreciation for new plants and equip-
ment installed in rural and urban labor market areas where unemployment is
7 percent or higher. I am firmly convinced that this is a far better way to help
create jobs in those areas that have lagged behind in the economic recovery
than adding layer upon layer of new hastily conceived spending programs.
A year ago, in my 1977 Budget, I noted that the old age, survivors and
disability trust funds would be depleted in the early 1980's unless some action
was taken. Therefore, much as I didn't like doing it, I felt compelled to recom-
mend payroll tax rate increases beginning January 1, 1977. The employee
share of this increase would have amounted to less than one dollar per week
for taxpayers at the top end of the pay scale and a few cents per week for those
at the bottom. Congress failed to act on this proposal. Partly because of the
delay, a higher tax increase is now necessary if the social security system is to
remain intact. Because current law already prescribes a four-tenths of one
percent increase in the tax rate in 1978, I do not believe that a very large addi-
tional increase is appropriate in that year. I am therefore proposing an addi-
tional two-tenths of one percent rate increase in 1978 supplemented by a
six-tenths of one percent rate increase in 1979 and a three-tenths of one percent
rate increase in 1980. These increases will restore the fiscal integrity of the
Social Security Trust Funds in the short run and, together with my proposals
for correcting the inflation adjustment for future benefits for currently
employed workers, will greatly reduce the long-run deficit faced by the social
security system.
I have in the past urged several other changes in our tax laws which are both
necessary and desirable. These will be proposed again in my budget, but need
not be discussed in detail at this time. These include a tax credit for home
insulation, exempting charitable contributions from the burden of the mini-
mum tax, increasing the railroad retirement tax in a manner consistent with the
recommended Social Security tax increases, and providing State and local
governments with an option to issue taxable bonds subsidized in part by the
Federal government.
I am also recommending repeal of the earned income credit and the provision
for funding Employee Stock Ownership Plans through additional investment
tax credits. The earned income credit is not integrated with the rest of our
2885
