[700]
July 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Parties agree, on the basis of information provided, that such observers would
be appropriate for the confirmation of the yield of the explosion.
The TTB Treaty and the PNE Treaty, taken together as integrated and com-
plementary components of this important limitation on nuclear explosions,
provide that very large yield nuclear explosions will no longer be carried out
by the Parties. This is one more useful step in our continuing efforts to develop
comprehensive and balanced limitations on nuclear weapons. We will continue
our efforts to reach an adequately verifiable agreement banning all nuclear
weapon testing, but in so doing we must ensure that controls on peaceful
nuclear explosions are consistent with such a ban. These Treaties are in the
national interest, and I respectfully recommend that the Senate give its advice
and consent to ratification.
The White House,
July 29, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The treaty and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive N (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
701
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the United States Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency. July 29, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
As we celebrate our Bicentennial year, we are thankful that America is at
peace. For the first time in many years, no American is engaged in combat any-
where in defense of our freedom. But we know that there are in the world
forces hostile to freedom, and that to protect our security and the values we
prize we must maintain our strength, our resolve, and our endeavors to safe-
guard peace.
To meet our responsibilities today we must deal with the problems of secu-
rity in ways never dreamed of by our founding fathers. We must influence the
policies of possible adversaries in two ways: by keeping our military forces
strong, and by pursuing negotiations to create stability rather than a spiraling
arms race in weapons of incalculable destructiveness.
In both these endeavors, there are grounds for confidence. We have and will
2104
