September 15
[784]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
-Americans want physical security, safety against war and crime, safety
against pollution in the water we drink and in the air we breathe.
-We want medical and hospital care when we are sick at costs that will not
wipe out our savings.
-We want the time and opportunity to enlarge our experience through
recreation and travel.
We Americans are proud people. We cherish our inalienable rights: the right
to speak our minds; the right to choose the men and women who enact and
enforce our laws; the right to stand equal before the law regardless of sex, age,
race, or religion; the right of a farmer, businessman or worker, and consumer
to bargain freely in the economic marketplace; the right to worship as we choose.
It all adds up to the great American dream.
These are the goals which every politician and every citizen has for America.
They are not some mystic vision of the future. They are the continuing agenda
for action.
And, so, the question in this campaign of 1976 is not who has the better vision
of America. The question is: Who will act to make that vision a reality?
The American people are ready for the truth, simply spoken, about what gov-
ernment can do for them and what it cannot and what it should not do. They
will demand performance, not promises; specifics, not smiles.
There are some in this political year who claim that more government, more
spending, more taxes, and more control on our lives will solve our problems.
More government is not the solution, better government is. It is time we thought
of new ways to make government a capable servant and not a meddling master.
Let's get down to cases; Let's talk about jobs.
Today, 88 million Americans are gainfully employed—more than ever before
in American history. But that is not good enough. My immediate goal is 2½
million new jobs every year with emphasis on youth, especially the minorities.
And I don't mean demeaning, dead end jobs paid for out of the Federal treasury,
but permanent jobs with a future generated by the demands of a healthy
economy.
Can we do it? We have done it. We proved once and for all that you can cut
inflation in half and add 4 million new jobs in just 17 months. We did it with
tax cuts that allowed Americans to spend more of their own money. We did it
with tax incentives that encouraged job production. We did it by letting our
free economic system do what it does better than any other system in the world—
produce.
But I won't be satisfied until every American who wants a job can find a job.
2253
