January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I believe that Federal funding is necessary and appropriate for the develop-
ment of new energy technologies which show promise of providing a signifi-
cant and economical way of producing or conserving energy—but only when
such technologies would not be developed by the private sector. During the
past two years, I have requested major increases in funding for energy R&D
to carry out this policy.
However, continued vigilance is needed to prevent the use of Federal funds
to duplicate or displace funds which industry would otherwise spend, and to
insure that the Federal Government does not fund efforts which industry has
rejected for lack of merit.
In addition, new energy technologies must find acceptance and application
in the private sector—unlike the situation in military and space exploration pro-
grams where the Federal Government is the only customer. This presents a
special challenge because those responsible for managing Federal funds for
energy R&D often are not in a good position to determine which technologies
are likely to meet success in the private sector.
The Federal Government is not well equipped to carry out commercializa-
tion, marketing, promotional and technical assistance for particular energy tech-
nologies, products and services. Such activities should be left to private industry.
At present, the Federal activities that would contribute most to the resolu-
tion of our energy problem are:
-Adopting changes in laws, policies and programs that will lead to a frame-
work within which individuals and organizations outside the Federal Gov-
ernment can make efficient, effective and equitable decisions about energy.
Laws and policies which discourage energy production or energy conserva-
tion should be modified.
-Providing carefully targeted support for energy R&D.
-Providing incentives and assistance where necessary-such as tax relief—
in order to encourage energy conservation and aid low-income people in ad-
justing to higher energy prices which are necessary to generate new, ade-
quate supplies.
INTERDEPENDENCE OF THE U.S. AND OTHER CONSUMER NATIONS
The 1973-74 embargo, and the impact of sharply increased prices for OPEC
oil, demonstrated clearly that the interests of the United States are tied closely to
those of other nations which are net importers of energy. Events in the last three
years have demonstrated further that the economies of all nations are interre-
2895
