October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and downtrodden and who were elderly or who were ill or who were in minor-
ity groups. That time has been gone.
I think the greatest thing that ever happened to the South was the passage
of the civil rights acts and the opening up of opportunities to black people, to
have a chance to vote, to hold a job, to buy a house, to go to school, and to partici-
pate in public affairs. It not only liberated black people but it also liberated the
whites.
We have seen in many instances in recent years a minority affairs section of
a small loan administration, Small Business Administration, lend a black entre-
preneur just enough money to get started, and then to go bankrupt. The bank-
ruptcies have gone up an extraordinary degree.
The FHA [Federal Housing Administration], which used to be a very re-
sponsible agency that everyone looked to to help own a home, lost $600 million
last year. There have been over 1,300 indictments in HUD, over 800 convictions
relating just to home loans. And now the Federal Government has become the
world's greatest slum landlord.
We've got a 30-percent or 40-percent unemployment rate among minority
young people. And there has been no concerted effort given to the needs of those
who are both poor and black, or poor and who speak a foreign language. And
that's where there has been a great generation of despair and ill-health and lack
of education and lack of purposefulness and a lack of hope for the future.
But it doesn't take just a quiet, dormant, minimum enforcement of the law.
It requires an aggressive searching out and reaching out to help people who
especially need it. And that's been lacking in the last 8 years.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Kraft, to Governor Carter.
MR. KRAFT. Governor Carter, in the nearly 200-year history of the Constitution,
there have been only, I think it is, 25 amendments, most of them on issues of the
very broadest principle. Now we have proposed amendments in many highly
specialized causes like gun control, school busing, balanced budget, school
prayer, abortion, things like that. Do you think it's appropriate to the dignity
of the Constitution to tack on amendments in a wholesale fashion, and which
of the ones I listed—that is, balanced budget, school busing, school prayer,
abortion, gun control-which of those would you really work hard to support
if you were President?
MR. CARTER. I would not work hard to support any of those. We have always
had, I think, a lot of constitutional amendments proposed but the passage of
them has been fairly slow and few and far between. In the 200-year history,
there has been a very cautious approach to this. Quite often we have a transient
2637
