[976]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
tary strength and the diplomatic skill to keep it that way in the next 4 years, and
we will.
It would be tragic if the military strength that we have was in any way eroded
by suggestions by some that we should slash $5 to $7 billion away from those
necessary funds from the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, because I can tell
you, as one who has negotiated with our allies to strengthen our relationship, as
one who has sat across the table negotiating with the leaders of adversary nations,
it is so reassuring to know that when I say America is strong, America is united,
we have the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines standing ready
to do a job. We can depend on them, and we are going to keep them number
one.
As I travel in many, many States, another overriding concern of the American
people is that their tax burden is rising, locally and statewide. I can say—and look
them right in the eye—and say to taxpayers in Oregon or California, New York
or Pennsylvania, that President Ford recommended in January of last year a
$28 billion tax reduction with a $28 billion restraint on Federal spending.
Congress gave us half of both. They didn't cut the rate of growth in Federal
spending as much as they should have, as much as I proposed. They only gave
the American people half of the tax reduction that I recommended.
But let me say this: We laid it on the line. We recommended the best way to
help the shortchanged middle-income taxpayer—and he has been given short
shrift in the last 10 years-we recommended—and Bill Simon, I can recall very
vividly saying, “Mr. President, this is the way to do it"—we proposed that we
increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. Congress didn't respond.
I can't understand it, but nevertheless they didn't.
But let's take an example. This is what you can tell people as you campaign
in Philadelphia or the surrounding suburbs or anyplace else—that if Congress
had done its job, a man who has a wife and three children, when he would make
out his income tax returns next April, under President Ford's plan he could have
had for his five that he is accountable for-he would have had $1,250 more in
personal exemption. And that would have made a difference to that taxpayer.
Now I make a pledge to you. Congress didn't do the job. It is going to be on
their shelf next January. When I submit the budget, the economic plan, we are
going to recommend the same thing. And if they fail the American people
again, we will put it on their platter in January of 1978. And if they fail again
in the Congress, then we are going to the American people in that next election
in 1978, and we are going to beat those individuals in the Congress that don't
respond with the right kind of tax reduction.
1
2734
