[909]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
i
peace for the United States. They keep the peace, and we're respected by
the
our adversaries as well as our allies.
What does Jimmy Carter want to do about the Defense Department? He
wants to gut it. He wants to cut it by $15 billion a year. Jimmy Carter talks about
being strong, and then wants to destroy the capability of our military forces to
meet the challenge, to keep the peace, to deter aggression.
There is a great, great American President, Teddy Roosevelt. You know
what Teddy Roosevelt one time said: "Speak softly and carry a big stick."
Jimmy Carter, who wants to gut the Defense Department, he talks loudly and
carries a flyswatter. [Laughter]
Last week, Jimmy Carter said that America is not respected any more. In the
first place, it's not true. The United States of America, your country and my
country, we are respected; we are loved by people all over this world. The
leaders of one country after another say that the United States today is the most
trusted ally and the most respected adversary. I don't like a candidate for the
Presidency saying that your country and my country is not respected. That's
slander as far as the United States of America is concerned.
And so I say to you, we should be proud of America. We should look with
faith and trust in a government that's given freedom to so many people for
so long a time, a country that has given so much opportunity, a country we love,
we respect and admire.
And I would love the opportunity to be your President for the next 4 years.
We want to carry Missouri. We are going to win the election.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:06 p.m. at the
Northwest Plaza. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Lt. Gov. William C. Phelps of Missouri and Gene
McNary, chairman of the Missouri President Ford
Committee.
910
Statement on Signing the Whale Conservation and
Protection Study Act.
October 18, 1976
I AM pleased to sign H.R. 15445, the Whale Conservation and Protection Study
Act.
This bill authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to conduct comprehensive
studies of all whales found in waters subject to United States jurisdiction, and
to report to Congress the results of these studies by January 1, 1980. The bill
2570
