[848]
October 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
in our tax structure. We must continue to reform our tax system in three
important ways.
First, the best tax reform is tax reduction. Americans currently pay excessive
taxes, particularly middle- and low-income Americans. This act does tempo-
rarily continue the tax reductions enacted last year, but it fails to include my pro-
posals for permanent, deepened tax cuts. In particular, I am disappointed that
the Congress did not reduce individual income taxes by the additional $10 billion
I recommended. If Congress had adopted this measure together with an equal
reduction in Federal spending, the American people, rather than the Congress,
could decide how that extra $10 billion should be spent. Accordingly, I will again
urge Congress next year to further reduce the tax burden on Americans by in-
creasing permanently the personal income tax exemption from $750 to $1,000.
Second, increased investment through appropriate tax incentives is absolutely
essential if we are to succeed in creating productive jobs for our growing labor
force. Such tax incentives can help focus investment in those areas where new
jobs are needed most. I will again propose that Congress grant special tax bene-
fits in the form of accelerated depreciation for new plants and equipment in
areas of high unemployment. I will also strongly recommend enactment of sev-
eral other tax measures to aid in capital formation including: enacting a broad-
ened stock ownership plan to increase participation of low- and middle-income
Americans in the ownership of our free enterprise system; and adopting the
proposal I made over a year ago to integrate the corporate and personal income
taxes, thereby eliminating the present burden of double taxation of dividends
which presently inhibits savings and investment and places our Nation at a
disadvantage in competing for world markets with other industrialized
countries.
Third, we must move toward a simplified and more equitable tax code. Last
January, I requested the Secretary of the Treasury to study the potential for re-
structuring and simplifying the present tax code. The Treasury study is well
underway. It involves an examination of our present tax code aimed at making
it more simple, more fair, and more economically efficient. The Treasury is
scheduled to report to me on the project in December. I will carefully review
this study as an important part of my administration's effort to make our tax
system fair and equitable for all Americans.
2398
