December 31
[1043]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Federal Government imposes many hidden and inflationary costs on our econ-
omy. I announced then that I would take steps to assure that the effect on the
economy of major executive branch proposals would be carefully weighed. Ac-
cordingly, on November 27, 1974, I signed Executive Order 11821 which for-
mally initiated the Inflation Impact Statement (IIS) program. Its objective is to
improve decisionmaking by requiring agencies to consider the economic im-
pact of their regulatory and legislative proposals. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget was given oversight responsibility for the IIS pro-
gram. He delegated monitoring responsibility for proposed rules and regula-
tions to the Council on Wage and Price Stability, while retaining the legislative
review responsibilities.
Since the IIS requirements constitute a rather novel mechanism, an expira-
tion date of December 31, 1976, was specified in the original Executive Order
11821. This served to emphasize the importance of carefully monitoring the pro-
gram's impact during the initial period. Based on my review of a just-com-
pleted, thorough evaluation of our initial 2-year experience with the IIS pro-
gram, I have concluded that it has improved decisionmaking by facilitating
more thorough and rational review of proposals whose impact on the economy
is substantial. Accordingly, I am extending the Executive order establishing
this program. As noted in the new Executive order [11949], I also am chang-
ing the name of the program from Inflation Impact Statement to Economic
Impact Statement to better reflect the nature of the required analysis. I am
asking the Director of OMB to consider making certain other administrative
improvements suggested in the evaluation report as well.
Actions taken to secure one desired result often have many side effects which
are overlooked initially. Regulations and legislation frequently can be designed
to produce their intended effects in several different ways. Economic analysis,
objectively applied, can help decisionmakers and the public see more clearly
a proposal's benefits and costs. I believe that the IIS program is a useful ap-
proach to encouraging more rationality in the Federal Government's decision-
making.
NOTE: The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
2883
