[1044]
January 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
welfare system and makes future reform of that system even more difficult.
The Employee Stock Ownership Plan provides a very large taxpayer subsidy
to employers who wish to purchase stock in their firm for their employees. I
do not believe that this is an equitable approach to the encouragement of stock
ownership.
I urge that the Congress take prompt action on all of the above tax proposals.
The White House,
January 4, 1977.
1045
Special Message to the Congress on Energy.
January 7, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
GERALD R. FORD
Three years have now passed since the Arab oil embargo demonstrated that
the Nation had become overly dependent on other countries for our energy
supplies. We have made progress in dealing with our energy problems but
much more must be done if we are to achieve our objective of assuring an ade-
quate and secure supply of energy at reasonable prices.
Action by the Congress is vitally important in the coming year on a number
of matters affecting energy supply and demand. The outcome of that action
will affect the Nation's security, economic strength and role in world affairs.
Decisions made during this critical period will affect the health, welfare, qual-
ity of life and freedom of choice of our people for years to come.
A new Congress and change in Administration provide an appropriate oc-
casion to review our energy situation, to summarize and share the knowledge
that has been gained from analysis and debate over the past two years, and to
outline the remaining need for action.
I am pleased that we have made a good start towards a comprehensive na-
tional energy policy; that we have taken major steps forward on programs to
conserve energy, increase domestic energy production, develop strategic pe-
troleum reserves, and develop new technology; and that our imports are less
today than they would have been had we not begun taking the steps I outlined
in my State of the Union address two years ago.
But our imports are higher today than they were three years ago, and we
2886
