[1028]
December 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Concurrently with acceptance of this offer of deposit, I convey to the United
States of America all my rights, title and interest in the materials accepted for
deposit, including my literary property rights in the unpublished portions of
such materials, which deposit and conveyance are subject, however, to:
(i) the exclusions and reservations in Annex A and to the terms and restric-
tions that are stated in Annex B, and
(ii) the condition that in the event the United States does not abide by the
aforesaid terms and restrictions, as determined by a court of competent juris-
diction, possession of the materials shall be transferred to, and all my rights,
title and interest conveyed hereunder shall vest in, the University, subject to the
same terms and restrictions.
This conveyance to the United States is made for acceptance pursuant to the
following pertinent provisions of Chapter 21 of title 44, United States Code:
“... The Administrator, in negotiating for the deposit of Presidential his-
torical materials, shall take steps to secure to the Government, as far as
possible, the right to have continuous and permanent possession of the mate-
rials. Papers, documents, or other historical materials accepted and deposited
under section 2107 of this title and this section are subject to restrictions as
to their availability and use stated in writing by the donors or depositors,
including the restriction that they shall be kept in a Presidential archival
depository. The restrictions shall be respected for the period stated, or until
revoked or terminated by the donors or depositors or by persons legally
qualified to act on their behalf. Subject to the restrictions, the Administrator
may dispose by sale, exchange, or otherwise, of papers, documents, or other
materials which the Archivist determines to have no permanent value or
historical interest or to be surplus to the needs of a Presidential archival
depository."
"(d) When the Administrator considers it to be in the public interest, he
may cooperate with and assist a university institution of higher learning,
institute, foundation, or other organization or qualified individual to further
or to conduct study or research in historical materials deposited in a Presiden-
tial archival depository." (44 U.S.C. § 2108 (c) and (d) as amended by P.L.
94-575 on October 21, 1976).
Also, this conveyance is made on terms that will allow for additional coopera-
tion with and reliance on the University or other appropriate organization by
the Government as may be permitted by law.
This conveyance does not affect the rights or obligations that I may have as
President or former President or as former Vice President, or that a President
2864
