August 23
[736]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Budget
Authority
($ billions)
Adjustments in this Message:
(a) Resubmission of Congressional authorization reductions.
(b) Deletion of programs added by Congress
(c) Congressional inaction on Defense Management economies.
(d) Additional recruiting requirements ($39 million) . . . .
Revised National Defense estimate..
Resubmission of Congressional Authorization Reductions
+2.4
-.6
+1.4
116.3
I am having resubmitted authorization requests for $2.4 billion in program
reductions imposed by the Congress.
Shipbuilding. Congress has not thus far authorized $1.7 billion requested for
new ship programs that are needed to strengthen our maritime capabilities and
assure freedom of the seas. In particular, funds have been denied for the lead
ships for two essential production programs- the nuclear strike cruiser and the
conventionally-powered Aegis destroyer-and for four modern frigates. The
1977 program was proposed as the first step of a sustained effort to assure that
the United States, along with our allies, can maintain maritime defense, deter-
rence, and freedom of the seas. Therefore, I am submitting a supplemental
authorization request for 1977 to provide for these ships as well as for the re-
search and development to upgrade U.S. ship capabilities in the near-term
and to create longer-term alternatives to conventional surface forces.
Other Programs. The Congress has also failed to authorize over $900 million
requested for other Defense procurement and research and development pro-
grams. While some of these adjustments can be accepted due to fact-of-life pro-
gram developments, I must request a supplemental authorization of $759 million
for programs which are urgently needed. In particular, I reaffirm the need for
the following programs, and request restoration of the indicated amounts to
the Authorization Act:
• $19 million for the Defense Agencies research and development appropria-
tion, principally to provide the needed resources for the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency.
• $20 million for civil aircraft modifications, clearly the most cost-effective
option for enhancing our airlift capability. These modifications should be a part
of any airlift improvement program, and the needed funds should not be denied
while other airlift improvements are under consideration.
• $171 million for the Air Force research and development appropriation.
Our most urgent needs here include funds for the Maverick missile needed to
start engineering development for advanced warhead and single rail launches
2169
