July 16
[672]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of progress
effective in order to maintain the peace in the future. This is 2 years
despite a Democratic Congress that fought us every step of the way.
Two years ago the people's confidence in their Government, especially in
the White House, had been shattered. What has happened since August of 1974?
The Ford administration has been open, candid, forthright. In my adminis-
tration, ability is not enough; experience is not enough; dedication is not enough.
In all that we do, in everything we undertake, I require integrity, decency, and
honesty. Private morality and public service can and must go hand in hand.
In the past 2 years we have passed from war to peace, from recession to
recovery, from tragedy to trust, from fear to faith in America. This is
formance, not promise. This is a record that will be supported by the American
people-Democrats, Independents, and Republicans. It will lead us to victory
in 1976.
per-
What about the future? What challenges will be demand of ourselves as
we enter the third century of this great American adventure?
First of all, we must create a better balance in our society. We must introduce
a new balance in the relationship between the individual and the government,
a balance that favors a greater individual freedom and self-reliance. We can
achieve this better balance by my tax proposals in several areas that will create
greater equity and fairness in our Internal Revenue Code. For example, we
must increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000 per person. We must
increase the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. Our middle-income
taxpayers need a better break. They have been shortchanged in the past.
We must strike a new balance in our system of federalism, a balance that fa-
vors greater responsibility and freedom of action for the leaders of our State and
local units of government. We must introduce a new balance between spending
on domestic programs and spending on defense, a balance that ensures we will
fully meet our obligations and our compassion for the needy while also protect-
ing our security in a world hostile to freedom.
In all that we do, we must be honest with the American people, promising
them no more than we can deliver and delivering all that we promise. Above
all, we must face the future together as a party and as a people. It is as true today
as it was in Lincoln's day that a house divided against itself cannot stand. For
our party, that means joining ranks in a common struggle.
The Republican Party this year has demonstrated throughout America the
vigor, vitality, and competitive spirit on which a dynamic political organization
thrives. Now we must resolve to stop fighting each other and start helping each
other. We must resolve to strengthen our party with November victories at every
2027
