October 24
[954]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
putting aside our old problems, we are healing our wounds. There is an old
saying that used to be common in the House of Representatives. I think it is
apropos: "We can disagree in America without being disagreeable." That is the
kind of healing, that is the kind of feeling that we want in this country so that
we can march together for a better America for ourselves but, more importantly,
for our children and our grandchildren.
This record of 2 years is a record that I am proud of, a record the people of
California and the concerned citizens throughout America Democrats,
Independents, and Republicans—will support on November 2.
Give me your mandate, and we will reduce the growth of government still
more. Give me your mandate, and we will ensure the integrity of the social
security system; we will improve medicare so that our older citizens can enjoy
the health and happiness that they have earned. There is no reason why our
older citizens should have to go broke just to get well.
Give me your mandate, and we will make sure that this rich Nation does
not neglect its citizens who are less fortunate than ourselves but provides for
their needs with compassion and with dignity. Give me your mandate, and
we will create a tax structure that is fair to all, that will preserve the family, the
family business, the family farm, that will give business in America the tax
incentives that build new plants, to modernize the old ones, and to create
millions and millions of more jobs for the American working man.
Give me your mandate, and we will expand the recreational opportunities
and restore the healthy environment of this country as our legacy for those
generations to follow. Give me your mandate, and I will lead this Nation on
the path of peace through strength, and we will live in peace and in freedom in
the United States of America.
I have no fear whatsoever for this country, for America the future is a friend.
And as we go forward together, I promise you once more—as I have promised
you before—to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right, as God gives me
to see the right, and to do the very best that I can for America. God helping
me, I won't let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:20 p.m. at the
Fountain Valley Recreation Center. In his remarks,
he referred to actors John (Duke) Wayne, Glenn
Ford, and Ed Nelson, and professional baseball play-
ers Steve Garvey and Don Sutton of the Los Angeles
Dodgers and Andy Etchebarren of the California
Angels.
2669
