[695]
July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
695
Statement on the Settlement of the Cannery Strike in
California.
July 27, 1976
I AM pleased that an agreement has been reached between the 29 canners of
California's fruits and vegetables and the Council of Cannery and Food Process-
ing Unions, ending the 8-day strike.
This dispute has been the most costly, in terms of crops lost, in the history of
the California food processing industry. Each passing day is critical. I am hope-
ful that workers will return to their jobs as soon as possible.
I appreciate the efforts of all of those who contributed to the successful con-
clusion of this dispute. Secretary Usery, Secretary Butz, and James Scearce,
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, have again demon-
strated exemplary public service.
696
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister J. Malcolm
Fraser of Australia. July 27, 1976
Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Fraser, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very special pleasure for me to welcome you tonight, the Prime Minister
of one of America's closest friends, one of our closest allies, Australia.
Americans and Australians have traditionally enjoyed a very special and a
very natural rapport, but this year the Government and the people of Australia
have gone to extraordinary lengths to demonstrate their friendship in helping
us celebrate in America our Bicentennial. Let me say without hesitation or
qualification, we, as Americans, are most appreciative of your many gestures
of good will and generosity toward us.
Mr. Prime Minister, though the United States is 200 years old this year, it is
still a new country in spirit, in outlook, in aspirations. And it would be my ob-
servation, so is Australia. Both Australia and the United States were frontier
countries with vast open spaces, abundant natural resources. These factors in-
fluenced the way our nations developed and the way we moved in similar
directions.
We also share important values and vital institutions. The British traditions of
individual civil liberties and the rule of law were ingrained in both your people
2094
