[659]
July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
you. You will be competing against the best from many, many lands. It will be
a personal thrill, and I think that is something that will stimulate you to an even
greater effort.
And I have had the experience of talking to two very good friends of mine
when I was in the Congress-Ralph Metcalfe, who finished second in the 1932
100 (meter), finished third in 1932 in the 200 meter, and Bob Mathias, who won
the decathalon in 1948 and 1952. And they, on many occasions on the floor of the
House, talked about what a thrill it was personally to be a winner. But each
and every one of them in their expressions to me said they felt they had a special
mission, and I think this is a broader opportunity.
As you represent the United States, you have a unique responsibility to cre-
ate a better understanding between the people of America and our neighbors
around the world. You have a wonderful opportunity, as you compete, to get
better acquainted with your opposition. And I can say to you, you have a tre-
mendous responsibility to serve the cause of peace and hold high the lamp of
liberty which is represented by the United States of America.
All the wonderful people of Plattsburgh and your fellow Americans know
that you will bring to the Olympics the same dignity, the same dedication, the
same magic blend of hope and talent, humility and pride, which has character-
ized American Olympians and made them so successful and so respected over the
years.
Good luck, God bless you, and as the Olympic motto suggests, may all of you
be swifter, higher, and stronger. The very best from all of us.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:48 p.m. outside
the New York State University College of Arts
and Sciences Field House in Plattsburgh, NY. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Phillip Krumm,
president, and Col. Don Miller, executive director,
United States Olympic Committee, Rev. Roland
St. Pierre, mayor of Plattsburgh, and Willie Daven-
port, U.S. Olympic Team track and field coach.
660
Memorandum on the Annual Report on Federal Executive
Boards. July 12, 1976
[Dated July 9, 1976. Released July 12, 1976]
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
In 1975, Federal Executive Boards again proved their ability to strengthen
communication and facilitate coordination within the Federal community and
with citizens in the 25 major metropolitan areas they serve. The attached An-
2002
