August 3
[709]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Today, I am transmitting to the Congress my specific proposal for a Foreign
Payments Disclosure Act. This proposal will contribute significantly to the deter-
rence of future improper practices and to the restoration of confidence in Ameri-
can business standards.
This legislation represents a measured but effective approach to the problem
of questionable corporate payments abroad:
-It will help deter improper payments in international commerce by Ameri-
can corporations and their officers.
-It will help reverse the trend toward allegations or assumptions of guilt-by-
association impugning the integrity of American business generally.
-It will help deter would-be foreign extorters from seeking improper pay-
ments from American businessmen.
-It will allow the United States to set a forceful example to our trading part-
ners and competitors regarding the imperative need to end improper business
practices.
-It does not attempt to apply directly United States criminal statutes in
foreign states and thus does not promise more than can be enforced.
—Finally, it will help restore the confidence of the American people and our
trading partners in the ethical standards of the American business community.
The legislation will require reporting to the Secretary of Commerce of certain
classes of payments made by U.S. businesses and their foreign subsidiaries and
affiliates in relation to business with foreign governments. The reporting re-
quirement covers a broad range of payments relative to government transactions
as well as political contributions and payments made directly to foreign public
officials. By requiring reporting of all significant payments, whether proper or
improper, made in connection with business with foreign governments, the leg-
islation will avoid the difficult problems of definition and proof that arise in the
context of enforcement of legislation that seeks to deal specifically with bribery
or extortion abroad.
The Secretary of Commerce will, by regulation, further define the scope of re-
porting required. Small or routine payments will be excluded, as will certain
clearly bona fide payments such as taxes. Reports will include the names of
recipients.
Reports will be made available to the Departments of State and Justice as well
as to the Internal Revenue Service and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Department of Justice and the State Department will, in appropriate in-
stances, relay reported information to authorities in foreign jurisdictions to assist
them in the enforcement of their own laws.
2119
