[1052]
January 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
JOE DIMAGGIO
Joe DiMaggio, represented by his brother, Dominick DiMaggio. “Superb
athlete, coach, author and businessman, Joe DiMaggio stands tall among the
ranks of genuine American heroes. Known and revered around the world as
the 'Yankee Clipper,' he contributed many years of style and splendid ability
to the sport which has come to be known as our national pastime. His charac-
ter and grace both on and off the playing field have been a continuing source
of inspiration to Americans of all ages."
ARIEL DURANT
"Writer, historian and philosopher, Ariel Durant has combined a sensitive
and sweeping vision with unique literary talents. Her lifelong collaboration
with her husband, Will, has helped make history accessible, popularizing but
never cheapening its lessons. The style and substance of her writing have made
the past more vivid and enriched our lives in the present."
WILL DURANT
"Writer, historian and philosopher, Will Durant has provided an open win-
dow into the lives and thoughts of past ages. With the collaboration of his wife,
Ariel, he has helped lead us through the past to the meaning of the present.
An eloquent apostle of social order and individual freedom, he is an enemy of
chaos, a friend and an invaluable guide to the millions of grateful readers."
JUDGE HENRY J. FRIENDLY
"Honored student and servant of the law, man of intellect and wisdom, he
brought a brilliance and a sense of precision to American jurisprudence, sharpen-
ing its focus and strengthening its commitment to the high goal of equal and
exact justice for every American citizen."
LADY BIRD JOHNSON
"One of America's great First Ladies, she claimed her own place in the hearts
and history of the American people. In councils of power or in homes of the poor,
she made government human with her unique compassion and her grace,
warmth and wisdom. Her leadership transformed the American landscape and
preserved its natural beauty as a national treasure.”
2910
