January 12
[1057]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tion has branched out into new fields such as energy, economic policy, and
relations with the Third World. We have used many avenues for cooperation,
including summit meetings held among major allied countries. The friendship
of the democracies is deeper, warmer, and more effective than at any time in
30 years.
We are maintaining stability in the strategic nuclear balance and pushing
back the specter of nuclear war. A decisive step forward was taken in the
Vladivostok Accord which I negotiated with General Secretary Brezhnev―
joint recognition that an equal ceiling should be placed on the number of stra-
tegic weapons on each side. With resolve and wisdom on the part of both nations,
a good agreement is well within reach this year.
The framework for peace in the Middle East has been built. Hopes for future
progress in the Middle East were stirred by the historic agreements we reached
and the trust and confidence that we formed. Thanks to American leadership,
the prospects for peace in the Middle East are brighter than they have been in
three decades. The Arab states and Israel continue to look to us to lead them
from confrontation and war to a new era of accommodation and peace. We have
no alternative but to persevere, and I am sure we will. The opportunities for a
final settlement are great, and the price of failure is a return to the bloodshed
and hatred that for too long have brought tragedy to all of the peoples of this
area and repeatedly edged the world to the brink of war.
Our relationship with the People's Republic of China is proving its im-
portance and its durability. We are finding more and more common ground
between our two countries on basic questions of international affairs.
In my two trips to Asia as President, we have reaffirmed America's continuing
vital interest in the peace and security of Asia and the Pacific Basin, established
a new partnership with Japan, confirmed our dedication to the security of Korea,
and reinforced our ties with the free nations of Southeast Asia.
An historic dialog has begun between industrial nations and developing na-
tions. Most proposals on the table are the initiatives of the United States, in-
cluding those on food, energy, technology, trade, investment, and commodities.
We are well launched on this process of shaping positive and reliable economic
relations between rich nations and poor nations over the long term.
We have made progress in trade negotiations and avoided protectionism dur-
ing recession. We strengthened the international monetary system. During the
past 2 years the free world's most important economic powers have already
brought about important changes that serve both developed and developing
2919
