September 27
[818]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The criminal justice system cannot, by itself, control crime. Further reduction
of the crime rate requires involvement of all of our fellow Americans. The
family and the neighborhood are our best defenses against crime. Family re-
sponsibility, not government programs, is the best way to make sure children
are properly nurtured, the elderly are cared for, our cultural and spiritual heri-
tage preserved, and our laws respected. The police can do little to curb juvenile
delinquency without the family's full cooperation.
We hear more about the rights of juvenile defenders or offenders than about
the rights of their victims. Forty-five percent of all violent crime is now perpe-
trated by juveniles. If they are big enough to commit vicious crimes against soci-
ety, they are big enough to be punished by society. Too many violent and street-
wise juveniles are using their age as a cloak of immunity. Detention may not
help the juvenile, but it will certainly help his potential victims.
Genuine job opportunities for young people provide a constructive alternative
to crime. We're making progress in this area, and we'll do better as our economy
continues to improve. If rehabilitation is to become a reality instead of the pre-
tense that it is today, the private sector must do more to provide jobs for those
who have paid their debt to society.
In my crime message to Congress, I called for a comprehensive Federal
Criminal Code to serve as a model for State and local governments. I called for
mandatory minimum sentences for certain Federal crimes and for violent, re-
peat offenders. I called for legislation increasing the number of Federal judges.
I called for the compensation of the victims of Federal crime. The Congress
has done nothing.
Too many politicians today are underestimating the public concern about
crime. Just as the police identify career criminals, American voters will exam-
ine their ballots in November and identify those candidates who have demon-
strated indifference or permissiveness toward crime, and they should.
I serve notice today, that a top priority of the first 100 days, beginning with In-
auguration Day for the Ford administration next January, will be the rallying
of America behind Federal anticrime legislation. I ask every police chief in
America and every citizen to join in that crusade. I recommend strict controls
and more stringent penalties to stamp out the threat of political terrorism
which is totally alien to American ideals.
In addition, I ask all athletes, amateur and professional, to help our young
people. Our athletes in America can score high by providing youth with alter-
natives to crime. Kids who are playing football, baseball, basketball, and tennis
are not kids committing crimes against society. Heroes of sports, instead of
2347
