[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
gains. We call upon all nations to recognize that their individual and collective
interests are best served by internationally assured and safeguarded nuclear fuel
supply, services, and storage. We ask them to turn aside from pursuing nuclear
capabilities which are of doubtful economic value and have ominous implications
for nuclear proliferation and instability in the world.
The growing international consensus against the proliferation of nuclear
weapons is a source of encouragement. But it is certainly not a basis for
complacency.
Success in meeting the challenge now before us depends on an extraordinary
coordination of the policies of all nations toward the common good. The United
States is prepared to lead, but we cannot succeed alone. If nations can work
together constructively and cooperatively to manage our common nuclear prob-
lems, we will enhance our collective security. And we will be better able to
concentrate our energies and our resources on the great tasks of construction
rather than consume them in increasingly dangerous rivalry.
988
Radio Address on Crime.
October 29, 1976
I WANT to talk with you this morning about one of the greatest concerns of
this campaign. The issue is crime.
For too long, the fear of crime has cast its ominous shadow on the streets of
America. For too long, the conscientious efforts of law enforcement officers
throughout America have been compromised by a system of “revolving-door”
justice and by a lack of adequate community involvement in crime prevention.
For too long the rights of the victims of crime have not had the same protection
as the rights of the criminal defendants.
During the past 2 years we have begun to make headway against crime in
America. In 1974 the crime rate increased by 18 percent. Last year the increase
was down to 9 percent. And for the first 6 months of this year, the increase in
the overall crime rate was only 3 percent. The incidence of violent crime-mur-
der, rape, robbery, and aggravated assault-actually went down.
This is real progress, not just because of the statistics but because Americans
are beginning to feel safer in their own neighborhoods and on the streets of our
cities.
The role of the Federal Government in law enforcement is limited. We do
not have a national police force, and we don't want one. But the Federal Gov-
2778
