[742]
August 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
President that I felt, in my travels around the country, that we could close
this gap even more. I think the next poll will show a greater closure. Part of
it stems from the fact that people, frankly, know this President. They know
what he is. They know his concern for the people of this country. They know
what his policies are. They know his commitment to peace. They know his
commitment to bettering the quality of life in this country.
Then, on the other side, frankly, everywhere I have gone throughout the
country, in every strata of society, I have detected a note of fear about Governor
Carter and an uncertainty about Governor Carter. I think we have a campaign
that we can win. I think it is in the interest of the country that we win it. I
think if you consider what this President has done and how he has been
thwarted by a Democrat Congress, that it ought to be clear to the American
people that probably the worst thing that could happen would be to have a
Democrat President and a Democrat-controlled Congress. And I, for one, am
going to do everything I can to see that, hopefully, we don't have either.
[Laughter] Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a great speech, John, and I'm all for that.
I asked Rog Morton to join us here because Rog is going to have a very
important role. I want to make it very categorical that Rog's responsibility, as
chairman of our Steering Committee, is vital. He will announce the member-
ship of that group early next week, but he will be the funnel for the ideas that
come from the Vice President, from Governor Connally, and from others, so
that we get a political impact with specific recommendations that are important
as we not only move into the campaign but we move and prepare for the next
administration.
Rog, would you like to say a word?
MR. MORTON. I think you said it all, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Rog is going to play a vital role in this campaign. He
will work not in the administrative side, but in the policy and the promotion
side.
Jim Baker, of course, will be handling the administrative side as actual chair-
man of the operations of the President Ford Committee.
We have agreed, after making a few comments, to respond to some of your
questions.
QUESTIONS
REPORTER. Mr. President, I have a question for Governor Connally.
THE PRESIDENT. Could you speak a little louder, Aldo [Aldo B. Beckman,
2184
