October 2
[846]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the private sector without risking a new round of inflation. Congress rejected
my veto.
This Congress has not recognized the fallacy of having the American tax-
payer finance pork-barrel projects and make-work jobs. Congress refuses to
recognize the inflationary risk in this public works appropriation. However,
another confrontation with Congress on this bill is pointless.
We must, nevertheless, continue to challenge the Congress on the underlying
principle of this pork-barrel, make-work legislation.
I am therefore signing H.R. 15194 and directing the appropriate departments
of this administration to make, over the next year, a careful month-by-month
audit of expenditures under this appropriation to determine just how many jobs
are created, how much it costs the taxpayer to create each job, and just what
impact there is on inflation.
In accepting this appropriation, I call upon the Congress to request the Gen-
eral Accounting Office to conduct a parallel audit of the results of this legisla-
tion. This is an expensive test, but Congress will not see the fallacy of its approach
until we can show through an audit what we know to be the facts.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15194, approved October 1, 1976, is Public Law 94-447 (90 Stat. 1497).
846
Remarks at a Meeting With the President Ford Committee on
Ethnic Affairs. October 2, 1976
GOOD MORNING. It is wonderful to see you all, and I am very pleased to
welcome you to the State Dining Room.
And I know that the President Ford Campaign Committee on Ethnic Affairs
is going to play a very vital role in this election. I am especially pleased to
announce that my good friend, Pete Domenici, has agreed to serve as the
chairman of this group.
I think Pete's story is a very inspiring one. He is the son of Italian immigrants,
and I think Pete embodies all of the values that are the very backbone of this
country. Pete is a great campaigner. He tells me he was out in New Mexico last
night and flew back on the "red-eye special.” And so anybody with that dedica-
tion and that willingness to work is the right kind of a chairman for this very,
very important campaign committee. So, we thank you very, very much, Pete.
But I am delighted to see not only all of you who are leaders in your respec-
tive communities but the Members of Congress who are likewise vitally im-
2391
