[995]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
had $1,250 more in personal exemptions." He said, "Gosh, how could the
Congress be so irresponsible?"
So, I made a pledge to him, and I will make the same pledge to each of you.
When Congress gets back next January, they will have on their desks a proposal
to increase that personal exemption. I hope they are responsible in 1977 to give
that kind of tax relief, but if they aren't, we will repeat it in 1978 when they
reconvene. But then, if they don't pass it by the next election, we will go out
and beat them, because the American people need that kind of tax relief.
So, as we look as to what the issues are between now and November 2, each
one of you-and millions like you all over the country-have a very crucial
decision to make. If you believe in strength at home, strength abroad, if you
believe in the kind of an America that has taken us from 3 million people 200
years ago to a nation of 50 States and 215 million Americans, if you believe in
the principles that have made America so great that we are envied by adversaries
and allies around the world, you will vote for Jerry Ford and Bob Dole.
America has made an incredible comeback in the last 26 months. We have
made it because of the character of people like yourselves. We have made it
because we believe in the free enterprise system. We have made it because of
the Constitution that was given to us by our forefathers, the greatest document
in the history of mankind.
Yes, as I said on that day, August 9, 1974, I had not been confirmed by your
ballots, but I have since been supported by your prayers. Now I can ask you on
Tuesday, November 2, to not only support me by your prayers but to support
me by your ballots.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:47 a.m. at the
Houston Music Theatre. In his remarks, he referred
to John Connally, Governor of Texas 1963-69 and
Secretary of the Treasury 1971-72, his wife, Nell,
and Representatives Bill Archer, Ron Paul, and Alan
Steelman.
996
Remarks in Langhorne, Pennsylvania. October 30, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, my very good friend and former colleague,
Ed Biester. Ed, everybody here knows that you've done a superb job as a Mem-
ber of the House representing this area in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
And I will miss you in the next 4 years, and I thank you for your support and
your friendship over the years. Ed, we will miss you very, very much.
But let me add very quickly, I have had the privilege and the honor to get
2798
