[860]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
860
Remarks at the University of Southern California in
Los Angeles.
October 7, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Glenn, Dr. Hubbard, Bob Flournoy-I should say,
Bob Fluor and Hugh Flournoy-students, faculty, and guests:
It's great to be at the home of the University of Southern California, the
home of the conquering Trojans. I will tell you one thing: I would rather run
against Jimmy Carter than Ricky Bell¹ any time. [Laughter] And I might add
that I started out way behind, but I've been swimming upstream ever since.
By November I hope to be known as the John Naber2 of politics.
The opinion polls have been very encouraging lately. But as I said in Kansas
City a few weeks ago, the only polls that count are the polls that the American
people go to on November 2.
My campaign experts tell me if past performance is a guide, your age group
will be the least representative at the polls on election day. When I was minority
leader in the House of Representatives, I worked hard with many others to lower
the voting age to 18. Even though some of the experts said young Americans
would vote against my party more than for it, I wanted to open up the system,
make sure that you had a voice as to what goes on in your Government. But for
one reason or another most people your age have never taken advantage of this
new right and this new privilege. The experts say the majority probably won't
vote in this election. I hope that forecast is wrong, and I believe it is wrong.
You have the biggest stake in the country's future. You must take an active
interest in the work of your Government.
One reason for the low turnout, probably, the low turnout of the past, must be
that some of you have been disappointed so many times. Through most of your
lives America has been in turmoil. Some of our most beloved leaders were
assassinated, including my good friend and our President, John F. Kennedy,
who spoke here as a candidate in 1960 and whose memory is honored with a
plaque in your library. There was a war that seemed to have no end. There were
destructive riots in our cities and on some of our campuses. We suffered runaway
inflation and the worst recession in 40 years. We were betrayed by wrongdoings
at the highest level of our Government.
1 University of Southern California football player.
2 Winner of four gold medals in swimming in the 1976 Summer Olympic games and a student at the
University of Southern California.
2442
