[689]
July 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
these offers have been accepted. But we will persist; we will keep trying as
long as we have any hope whatsoever, and I promise you that.
We are willing to talk with the Vietnamese. At my direction, we have ex-
changed messages with them, indicating our willingness to discuss outstanding
issues in our two countries. We have made clear that our primary concern is
to obtain an accounting for our servicemen who are missing in action. With-
out a satisfactory solution of the MIA issue, no further progress in our rela-
tions is possible.
I know that many of you are deeply concerned about declassification of
information relating to MIAS. Several months ago, I discussed in depth this
problem with the members of my staff and directed that progress be made in
that regard. And I have been informed that progress has been made. But let
me reemphasize, there will be continuing progress in this regard.
Everyone in this room has demonstrated a strength, has demonstrated a
resolve which makes you equal to the burdens that you are carrying. Your cour-
age has been an inspiration to me and to millions of your fellow citizens. Your
loved ones have not been forgotten. You have not been abandoned. I promise you
I will not rest until the fullest possible accounting of your loved ones has been
made.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:51 p.m. in the
Presidential Ballroom at the Statler Hilton Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Carol Bates,
executive director of the National League of Fam-
ilies of American Prisoners and Missing in South-
east Asia.
690
Remarks Upon Signing the
Act Amendments of 1976.
Coastal Zone Management
July 26, 1976
Secretary Richardson, distinguished Members of the House and the Senate,
Frank Zarb, and guests:
It's a great privilege and pleasure to have you all here this morning. And I
especially wish to thank the Members of the Congress for working on this
legislation and cooperating with the administration in putting together what
I think is very excellent legislation.
I am here this morning with all of you to sign into law the Coastal Zone
Management Act Amendments of 1976. These amendments include many of
the principal elements of the proposal that I sent to the Congress in February,
2086
