July 13
[664]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the law enforcement assistance funding and agency [Law Enforcement Assist-
ance Administration], and I hope and trust that their example here will be an
example for other law enforcement officers around the country.
What we have to do is to give to these outstanding departments and the
individuals more tools to work with. I have submitted, as I think they know
and you know, additional legislation to Congress to make it more difficult for
those who break the law to continue to be free and to carry out their criminal
activities.
We have, I think, one objective—to protect the innocent victim from those
who break the law. And these individuals who you see here have done two
fine jobs and should be a warning to the criminals throughout this country.
I wish to congratulate Chief Cullinane and Nick Stames, from the FBI, and
the other Federal agencies that worked with them. If we can get the Congress
to move on some of this legislation, they will have better tools to work with
as they carry out their responsibilities on behalf of the citizens of the Wash-
ington metropolitan area. And law enforcement officers around the country
will have better tools to do their job with the protection of their fellow citizens.
I want to thank the Chief and Nick and all of those associated with them.
CHIEF CULLINANE. Mr. President, it is very gracious of you to take time from
your busy schedule to be with us. So, on behalf of the men and the women
in our undercover operations, I would just like to present this small token
not only of the esteem that we hold you in but also the appreciation that we
have for your support.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Chief.
I think it's a remarkable record. They recovered some $32 million in
property. They were able to arrest or to bring before the court some 300
individuals. And the net result is that they have set an outstanding example
of what law enforcement officers can do. But I say again, they need more and
better tools to work with, and that's the kind of legislation I hope the Congress
will pass.
May I look at this? Oh, say! I am not sure I could qualify with all the physical
requirements that these people have, but I do thank you very, very much, Chief.
This will be proudly exhibited in the Oval Office.
I express my appreciation to all of you. Thank you very much, Nick.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:45 a.m. on the
North Lawn at the White House after meeting in
the Cabinet Room with Maurice J. Cullinane, Dis-
trict of Columbia Police Chief, Nick F. Stames,
FBI Special Agent in Charge, and several District
of Columbia police officers and Federal agents who
took part in two undercover operations known as
"P.F.F., Inc." (Police-FBI Fencing, Incognito) and
"G.Y.A." (Got Ya Again).
Chief Cullinane presented the President with an
honorary Bicentennial Metropolitan Police badge.
2009
