December 29
[1039]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. As prompt as possible.
Q. Would you think within the next week or so?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a fair time span.
Q. Can you give us any feeling for your inclination at this point? We know
that you have opposed this in the past. You said that you were going to look
into it. Are you leaning one way or the other at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. We are having a fair analysis made of the success of the
program that I instituted in 1974,2 which showed about 21,000 out of 105,000, or
thereabouts, took advantage of the program. It was a good program. I regret
that many, many more didn't participate. But we have to take an overall look
at the impact on military morale, public reaction, equity as far as those who
participated and went through their process of earning their way to clear their
records, and then see how it equates vis-a-vis the blanket order. I can't give you
any particulars as to what the decision will be at the present.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to get on to something else. I wonder if you
have decided whether to give your former colleagues in Congress a pay raise?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are looking at that and studying very carefully the
figures.
Q. Are you going to have a recommendation before you go out of office?
THE PRESIDENT. I will have to make a recommendation before I leave office
or else leave it up to Mr. Carter.
Q. Do you plan to leave it up to Mr. Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't made a decision yet.
Q. Mr. President, would you have initiated the amnesty study but for
your conversation with Mrs. Hart?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe I would have. She made the specific request.
She is the window of a dear friend of mine, and at her request I thought that
it would be appropriate to do so.
Q. Mr. President, one other thing: We know that you are considering lifting
Federal controls on gasoline prices. Some of your aides have said that if you
were going to make a decision, you would probably have to make it by the 4th
of January in order to allow Congress the 15-day period to approve or reject it.
Have you given any thought to that yet?
THE PRESIDENT. We have given it a lot of thought. We will make a recom-
mendation. We haven't decided on the details yet, but there will be a proposal
to Congress, because I made a commitment at the time I signed the energy act
in December of 1975 that we would eliminate controls as rapidly as possible,
2 See 1974 volume, Item 77 and 78.
2879
