[885]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
government to praise this tremendous act of courage and determination by the
State of Israel.
Just as I am determined to fight terrorism throughout the world, I will do
everything in my power to fight terrorism in our own streets and neighborhoods,
in New York and throughout the United States. We all know, from the records
and from personal experiences, there have been too many muggings and too
many murders. The time has come to lock up those who make a career of crime
and give the streets back to the people.
We are dedicated to American religious freedom, but religious freedom means
little if people cannot walk in safety to their synagogues and to their churches,
cannot feel secure in their own streets and in their own neighborhoods, and
cannot be sure that society is as devoted to the rights of the victim as to the
rights of the criminal. A free people must never capitulate to terrorism whether
at foreign airports or in our own streets.
I am in Flatbush today to reaffirm that neighborhoods and communities like
this are the lifeblood of America today. Let us expand and encourage the values
inherent in our neighborhoods and in our traditions. America's future requires
traditional commonsense, not radical experimentation at personal expense. We
must cherish and preserve our religious traditions, the family, the home, and
the rich heritage of many cultures and neighborhoods throughout America.
The United States is sound. We are secure. We are on the march to full eco-
nomic recovery and a better life for all Americans. But America's salvation will
not be found in expensive new programs financed by you who pay the taxes and
obey the laws. In the name of justice for some, we must not do injustice to
others.
I am totally opposed, completely against arbitrary quotas in hiring and in
education. Individual merit must be rewarded. Opportunity should be open to
all Americans on an equal basis. I, today, renew my pledge to be President of
all the people, not with wild promises and vague plans but with a proven record
of performance.
The Arab boycott has been in existence since 1952, and I have opposed it since
1952. Our moral and legal opposition to the Arab boycott is being made force-
fully clear not only to the foreign governments but to the American business
community. Last week I ordered the Department of Commerce to make public
every instance in which Arab boycott demands are reviewed from now on by
American companies. Such disclosure will allow the public to monitor the
response of business and industry. I have not and will not tolerate the transla-
2490
