October 14
[898]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
VOTER APATHY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, how do you account for-at this rather late stage in
the campaign—so many voters are telling pollsters that they remain undecided,
and many more are saying that they may not bother to vote at all?
THE PRESIDENT. It is disturbing that there are these statements to the effect that
the voters are apathetic. I believe we have tried to do everything we possibly can
to stimulate voter participation. I want a maximum vote in this election on
November 2. And in every way that I possibly can, we're going to stimulate it
between now and November 2.
I can't give you an answer why there is apathy. I'm going to do what I can to
overcome that apathy, and naturally, I hope to convince 51 percent of the people
in enough States so that we get enough electoral votes so that we can continue
the policies of trust, peace, and growing prosperity in the United States.
THE PRESIDENT'S GOLFING VACATIONS AND TRAVEL
[11.] Q. Mr. President, do you think it's proper for a Member of Congress to
accept a golfing vacation or a golfing weekend trip, and would you, now that
you're in the White House, accept such a trip?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not accepted any such trip since I've been Vice Presi-
dent or President. And when I was in the Congress, I've done as I said in the
limited number of instances that have been in the papers.
PRESIDENTIAL DECISIONMAKING
[12.] Q. Mr. President, it's been said that in your debate with Jimmy Carter
your statement on Eastern Europe demonstrated a certain lack of ability to think
fast on your feet. Without intending to once again review the merits of that
debate, how important, in your judgment, is it for a President to think fast on
his feet to do his job properly?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's vitally important for a President to make the right
decisions in the Oval Office. And I think I've made the right decisions in the
Oval Office. I have admitted that in that particular debate, I made a slip in that
one instance. But I'd like to compare that one slip with the documented instances
that we found in Governor Carter's presentation a week ago, when he made
some 14 either misrepresentations or inaccurate statements.
And while we're on that subject, I'd like to say that I feel very strongly that
the attitude that he took on that occasion, where he said America was not strong,
where he said the United States Government had tried to get us into another
Vietnam in Angola, and where he said the United States had lost respect
2527
