[955]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
of public trust 2 years ago, America has had its faith restored in the White House.
My administration has been open, candid, straightforward, and we will keep it
that way for the next 4 years.
In every field America is on the move, on the march. We have made an incredi-
ble comeback in the past 2 years, and we are not through yet. You can believe
me when I say--I say it from my heart—America, this Nation, is sound; this
Nation is secure; this Nation is on the way to a better quality of life, and this
administration has earned the trust of the American people for the next 4 years.
My record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises. We
don't need a government to do everything for us or tell us everything we can or
cannot do. As I travel around this great country, I find we have a great reservoir
of talent and industry in America, and it is not all concentrated, believe me, on
the banks of the Potomac. Don't ever believe that.
Jimmy Carter has indicated—Jimmy Carter has told the American people
that the United States is not respected anymore. This week America made a
clean sweep of the Nobel Prizes for economics, chemistry, physics, medicine, and
literature. This is the first time in history that a single country has brought home
all of these winners. That doesn't sound like a second-rate nation to me.
As I stand before this fantastic crowd of wonderful people from this part of
California, I say from the bottom of my heart I am proud to be an American, I
am proud of all of you, and we are proud of America.
We have our problems, but in the past 2 years we have come a long, long way.
At home and abroad, we are putting all of our differences aside. We are putting
our old problems behind us, and we are healing the wounds. There is an old
saying among many of us, "You can disagree without being disagreeable." And
America is united; we are healed; we are on our way. Let's keep going.
As I look back over these troubled 2 years, it is a record that I think all of us
can share. It is a record that I am proud of, a record for the people of California
and concerned citizens throughout America—Democrats, Independents, Repub-
licans. I think it is a record you will support and the people in 49 other States
will support November 2.
Give me your mandate, and we will reduce the growth of government in the
next 4 years. Give me your mandate, and we will ensure the integrity of the
social security system; we will improve Medicare so that our older citizens can
enjoy the health and the happiness that they have worked so hard and so richly
earned. There is no reason that they should have to go broke just to get well.
2672
