[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
as John Kennedy was in office. I would like to ask the American people what
has been accomplished. A lot remains to be done,
My own background is different from his. I was a school board member and
a library board member, I served on a hospital authority, and I was in the State
senate, and I was Governor and I am an engineer, a naval officer, a farmer, a
businessman. I believe we require someone who can work harmoniously with
the Congress and can work closely with the people of this country, and who
can bring a new image and a new spirit to Washington.
Our tax structure is a disgrace and needs to be reformed. I was Governor of
Georgia for 4 years. We never increased sales taxes or income tax or property
taxes. As a matter of fact, the year before we went out of office we gave a $50
million refund to the property taxpayers of Georgia.
We spend $600 per person in this country-every man, woman, and child—
for health care. We still rank 15th among all of the nations in the world in in-
fant mortality, and our cancer rate is higher than any country in the world. We
don't have good health care. We could have it.
Employment ought to be restored to our people. We have become almost a
welfare state. We spend now 700 percent more on unemployment compensa-
tion than we did 8 years ago when the Republicans took over the White House.
Our people want to go back to work. Our education system can be improved.
Secrecy ought to be stripped away from government, and a maximum of per-
sonal privacy ought to be maintained. Our housing programs have gone bad.
It used to be that the average family could own a house, but now less than a
third of our people can afford to buy their own homes.
The budget was more grossly out of balance last year than ever before in the
history of our country-$65 billion—primarily because our people are not at
work. Inflation is robbing us, as we've already discussed, and the Government
bureaucracy is just a horrible mess.
This doesn't have to be. I don't know all of the answers. Nobody could. But
I do know that if the President of the United States and the Congress of the
United States and the people of the United States said, "I believe our Nation is
greater than what we are now," I believe that if we are inspired, if we can
achieve a degree of unity, if we can set our goals high enough and work toward
recognized goals with industry and labor and agriculture along with Govern-
ment at all levels, we can achieve great things.
We might have to do it slowly. There are no magic answers to it, but I be-
lieve together we can make great progress, we can correct our difficult mis-
takes and answer those very tough questions.
2648
