[858]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
weapon systems. If we want peace in the world, we have to let our enemies know
we're willing to defend the peace. They may not understand that in English,
but this B-1 is the message that they will clearly understand.
The B-1 is one of the clearest examples as to what is at stake in this cam-
paign. My opponent either favors the cancelling or the delay of the B-1. His
running mate in the Senate, Senator Mondale, voted against the B-1 in the
Senate no less than three times. They say the B-1 is unnecessary. I certainly hope
and pray that is true, but what if those critics are wrong?
The very fact that we don't have the B-1 could well invite a challenge from
abroad. If we are wrong about buying the B-1, the cost will be measured in
dollars and cents. If we are wrong about not buying the B-1, the cost could be
well measured in lives and in blood.
As President, I will not take that chance. Our children will live in a future
where Soviet technology poses an increasing threat to the security of the United
States. The B-1 bomber provides graphic proof to our friends and to our enemies
that 200 years have not diminished America's commitment to freedom.
The B-1 bomber is not the only major difference in this campaign. Another
fundamental and critical issue is the proper size of America's defense budget.
The issue is simple. Our opponent wants to cut it. We want to keep it intact and
keep it strong.
Over the last year and a half, our opponents have cited various figures as to
how much the defense budget ought to be cut. About a year ago, Mr. Carter
said it could be cut $15 billion. A few months ago he changed and said it could
be cut $7 to $9 billion, and now the figure they use is $5 to $7 billion.
They are vague about the place where those cuts could be made, but the
realities of manpower needs and pension requirements and many, many other
fixed costs ensure that a cut of that magnitude—whether it's 15, or 7 to 9, or 5
to 7-would have to come from weapon system procurement. That would be a
strategic tragedy for America. It would be an economic tragedy for the State
of California and other States which do the research and development and
build this wonderful weapon system.
Our opponent's platform amounts to an overall policy of "fire them and hire
them." First, their $5 to $7 billion in defense cuts would put you and thousands
and thousands of others out of work. Then the Humphrey-Hawkins bill would
try to put you back to work in dead-end public service jobs. That formula
would be a triple disaster. It would mean less defense, it would mean less real
employment, it would mean more taxes and more inflation.
2440
