[1028]
December 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
archival collection shall be all papers, records, photo-
graphs, illustrations, films, vocal or visual recordings
and the like. Allocated to the museum collection shall
be all other items and objects of an historical, artistic,
educational or commemorative value. However, if
the materials include more than one copy of a
documentary or illustrative item, which would other-
wise be allocable to the archival collection but which
would also be of interest or value for the museum
collection, one of the copies may be allocated to the
museum collection. In addition, temporary realloca-
tions may be made from one collection to the other
as circumstances warrant from time to time.
2. Separate placement of the two collections. The
archival collection is to be located at Ann Arbor,
Michigan, in a Presidential archival facility on a
campus of the University, space for which is to be
provided there temporarily in an existing facility and
as soon as practicable on a permanent basis in a
suitable new building to be constructed and owned
by the University and designated as the Gerald Ford
Library. The museum collection is to be located as
soon as practicable on a permanent basis within
Grand Rapids, Michigan, or its environs after a suit-
able building for that purpose has been provided by
an appropriate organization (such as the Gerald R.
Ford Commemorative Committee or other local civic
group, a municipality or State agency, the University
or another institution of higher learning) which shall
be designated as the Gerald Ford Museum. Until such
time as the arrangements set forth above can be
implemented, materials for either or both collections
may be kept in whole or in part, under appropriate
safeguards, at such other locations as the Archivist
may from time to time determine, in concurrence
with the University, including, if I so request, place-
ment of specific portions of the collections at a
designated office that is provided for my use by the
United States Government. The use by the United
States for the foregoing purposes of land, buildings
or equipment owned by the University or other ap-
propriate organization shall be on available terms
that the Archivist considers proper; and the respec-
tive facilities to be used on a permanent basis for
housing and preserving my collections shall together
constitute the Presidential archival depository for the
historical materials of my Presidency and of the
other offices I have held.
3. Integrity of the respective collections. This con-
veyance has been made comprehensive to include
and, except as provided in paragraphs 1 and 2, to
keep together on a permanent basis all materials that
relate in any way to each of the different offices I
have held and each of my political and other public
activities over the entire period since 1948. In the
protection, care and administration of the materials,
as and after they are accessioned, this integrity shall
at all times be maintained; provided, however, that
no provision of this conveyance shall be construed
to preclude:
(a) Additions to the collections of related ma-
terials from any source, on a temporary or permanent
basis.
(b) Temporary loans to other institutions or ex-
hibits of items or objects from the collections under
appropriate safeguards and for purposes consistent
with the historical, commemorative, and educational
value of the collections and the public interest therein.
(c) Temporary loans to me or to any member of
my immediate family of objects from the museum
collection or of extra copies from the archival
collection.
(d) Return to me or, as the case may be, to any
other rightful owner of items received by the Archi-
vist which were not by the terms of the applicable
conveyance intended to be conveyed or which could
not under valid existing and applicable law have
been conveyed for the uses and purposes stated.
(e) Disposal in any manner of materials that do
not appear to have sufficient administrative, legal,
research or historical value to warrant their further
preservation as part of the collections, provided the
University shall have the right of first refusal to any
of the archival materials the Archivist proposes for
disposal.
4. Administration of the collections and operation
of the library and museum. The respective collections
and facilities in which they are located shall be ad-
ministered and operated in a manner consistent with
the terms of restrictions stated in this Annex and
with the uses and purposes for which the deposit and
conveyance have been made, including the following
particular provisions:
(a) Each collection and permanent facility shall
be under the direction and supervision of a qualified
director, or a single such director may serve for both
collections and permanent facilities. Such directors
are hereinafter referred to respectively as the director
of the library and the museum. Each director shall
be appointed by the Archivist, and the appointment
for the archival collection and facility shall be made
only after prior consultation with the University and,
insofar as the law permits, with its approval, so that,
if at all possible, the director to be appointed may
have or be given faculty status by the University.
Each director shall be entitled to act for and in behalf
of the Archivist to the extent of the authority dele-
gated to him, subject to any restrictions or qualifica-
tions imposed by the Archivist.
(b) For the archival collection, the University
shall appoint a council of not less than five members
who shall initially hold office for such staggered
terms as the University shall designate at the time of
appointment and whose successors shall be appointed
by the University for terms equal to the longest of the
initial terms or equal to the unexpired portion of a
2868
