[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
action of me, President Ford, that saved the lives of the crew of the Mayaguez.
And I can assure you that if we had not taken the strong and forceful action
that we did, we would have been criticized very, very severely for sitting back
and not moving.
Captain Miller is thankful, the crew is thankful. We did the right thing. It
seems to me that those who sit in Washington 18 months after the incident
are not the best judges of the decisionmaking process that had to be made by
the National Security Council and by myself at the time the incident was de-
veloping in the Pacific.
Let me assure you that we made every possible overture to the People's Re-
public of China and, through them, to the Cambodian Government; we made
diplomatic protest to the Cambodian Government through the United Na-
tions. Every possible diplomatic means was utilized. But at the same time I
had a responsibility, and so did the National Security Council, to meet the prob-
lem at hand, and we handled it responsibly. And I think Captain Miller's testi-
mony to that effect is the best evidence.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, I am reluctant to comment on the recent report. I haven't
read it. I think the American people have only one requirement—that the facts
about Mayaguez be given to them accurately and completely.
Mr. Ford has been there for 18 months. He had the facts that were released
today immediately after the Mayaguez incident. I understand that the report to-
day is accurate. Mr. Ford has said, I believe, that it was accurate and that the
White House made no attempt to block the issuing of that report. I don't know
if that is exactly accurate or not.
I understand that both the Department of State and the Defense Depart-
ment have approved the accuracy of today's report, or yesterday's report, and
also the National Security Agency. I don't know what was right or what was
wrong or what was done. The only thing I believe is that whatever the knowl-
edge was that Mr. Ford had should have been given to the American people
18 months ago, immediately after the Mayaguez incident occurred.
This is what the American people want. When something happens that en-
dangers our security, or when something happens that threatens our stature in
the world, or when American people are endangered by the actions of a foreign
country, just 40 sailors on the Mayaguez, we obviously have to move aggressively
and quickly to rescue them. But then, after the immediate action is taken, I
believe the President has an obligation to tell the American people the truth and
not wait 18 months later for the report to be issued.
2432
