August 5
[716]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is in that spirit that I pledge our efforts to ensure that in 1980, at which
time we will be hosting the Olympic games in Lake Placid, politics be kept out
of the arena. We will welcome every team recognized by the International
Olympic Committee. Attempts to use the Olympic games for international
power politics will utimately backfire. Our friend Jesse Owens, here with
us today, proved that.
In 1936 when Adolph Hitler was trying to turn the games into a spectacle
that would glorify racist dogma of the Nazi state, there was a strong movement
in the United States against our participation in the games. As it turned out,
U.S. participation in those Olympics provided a sharp rebuke of Hitler's racist
rubbish. Five black American athletes won eight gold medals in track and field.
One American athlete in particular proved that excellence knows no racial or
political limits. That man is Jesse Owens.
I don't have to tell any of you who studied the history of the Olympics of his
phenomenal career. I happened to be a student at the University of Michigan
when Jesse Owens was a student at Ohio State—as Woody Hayes³ calls it, that
school up north. [Laughter] I saw Jesse Owens at a Big 10 track meet in Ann
Arbor, as 1 of some 10,000 or 12,000 spectators, when he broke three world
records and tied a fourth. His performance that day in the broad jump—26
feet 84 [5516] inches-was not equaled for 25 years. It was a triumph that
all of us will remember.
In the 1936 Olympics Jesse Owens won four gold medals-the 100 meters,
the 200 meters, the 400-meter relay, and the broad jump. He personally achieved
what no statesman, journalist, or general achieved at that time-he forced
Adolph Hitler to leave the stadium rather than acknowledge the superb victories
of a black American.
Fifteen years later, revisiting the same stadium, Jesse Owens received a stand-
ing ovation when he urged his audience, and I quote, "to stand fast with us for
freedom and democracy." Giants like Jesse Owens show us why politics will
never defeat the Olympic spirit. His character, his achievements have continued
to inspire Americans as they did the whole world in 1936.
He brought his own talents into the service of others. As a speaker, as an
author, as a coach, he has inspired many young men and women to achieve their
very best for themselves and for America. As an American who rose from
poverty to a position of leadership, he has motivated many, many others to make
the most of what America has to offer.
3 Head coach of the Ohio State University football team.
2133
