[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
One of the principal concerns with export legislation proposed in the last
Congress was the fear that foreign customers could be subjected to arbitrary new
controls imposed well after a long-term agreement and specific contracts for
nuclear powerplants and fuel had been signed. In the case of nuclear plants and
fuel, reliable long-term agreements are essential, and we must adopt export con-
trols that provide reliability while meeting nonproliferation objectives.
V. International Controls Against Proliferation
To reinforce the foregoing policies, we must develop means to establish in-
ternational restraints over the accumulation of plutonium itself, whether in
separated form or in unprocessed spent fuel. The accumulation of plutonium
under national control, especially in a separated form, is a primary proliferation
risk.
-I am directing the Secretary of State to pursue vigorously discussions aimed
at the establishment of a new international regime to provide for storage of civil
plutonium and spent reactor fuel.
The United States made this proposal to the International Atomic Energy
Agency and other interested nations last spring.
Creation of such a regime will greatly strengthen world confidence that the
growing accumulation of excess plutonium and spent fuel can be stored safely,
pending reentry into the nuclear fuel cycle or other safe disposition. I urge the
IAEA, which is empowered to establish plutonium depositories, to give prompt
implementation to this concept.
Once a broadly representative IAEA storage regime is in operation, we are
prepared to place our own excess civil plutonium and spent fuel under its con-
trol. Moreover, we are prepared to consider providing a site for international
storage under IAEA auspices.
The inspection system of the IAEA remains a key element in our entire non-
proliferation strategy. The world community must make sure that the Agency
has the technical and human resources needed to keep pace with its expanding
responsibilities. At my direction, we have recently committed substantial addi-
tional resources to help upgrade the IAEA's technical safeguards capabilities,
and I believe we must strengthen further the safeguard functions of the IAEA.
-I am directing the Secretary of State and Administrator of ERDA to under-
take a major international effort to ensure that adequate resources for this pur-
pose are made available, and that we mobilize our best scientific talent to sup-
port that Agency. Our principal national laboratories with expertise in this area
2772
