[1028]
December 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
represented in the Congress for 25 years and by interested visitors, researchers,
educators and students from throughout the nation in the manner that similar
materials of former Presidents Hoover, Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, and
Johnson have become available within their respective home areas for that
purpose.
(f) To express my deep appreciation to the people of the State of Michigan
and to the University for their many benefits to me and helpful influences upon
my life, and to demonstrate my grateful cooperation with the University, the
citizens of my former Congressional district, especially the members and sup-
porters of the present Gerald R. Ford Commemorative Committee, and other
interested persons in their plans to raise the funds necessary for the construc-
tion of the archival facility and the museum which, when in operation with
the materials conveyed, will serve as national resources of historical, com-
memorative, and educational importance.
Materials similar in nature to those conveyed hereby and suitable to the uses
and purposes for which this conveyance is made, including those related to my
life and work as former President after January 20, 1977, may hereafter be
added to those conveyed hereunder by me, or by any other person having title,
right, or interest therein, by intentional delivery to the Archivist for that pur-
pose or by an instrument of conveyance that makes reference to this letter. Such
additional materials, if accepted by the Archivist shall be subject to the terms
and restrictions of Annex B hereto except as otherwise specified by the donor
at the time they are conveyed.
Upon acceptance of this letter, along with accompanying annexes, by your
respective signatures on all three copies hereof (one of which copies is to be
returned to me, and the others of which shall be kept by the two of you, re-
spectively) the offer and acceptance for deposit and the conveyance evidenced
by this letter and accompanying annexes shall be effective for all purposes, and
the terms thereof shall not be altered or amended except by agreement in writ-
ing among the Archivist, the University and me or, after my death, by agree-
ment among the Archivist, the University and my duly appointed and acting
executor or executors. In no event, however, shall any amendments to this let-
ter and accompanying annexes revert or restore to me or to my estate any rights
of ownership in the conveyed materials.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable James B. Rhoads, Archivist of
the United States, and Robben W. Fleming, presi-
dent of the University of Michigan. The attached
annexes follow:
GERALD R. FORD
ANNEX A
DESCRIPTION OF MATERIALS CONVEYED
I. General description. Subject to the provisions
of paragraphs II and III below, all my documents,
2866
