[805]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
On the first day of this year, I signed into law the Mortgage Disclosure Act to
prevent redlining and neighborhood decline. Last month, I met with the ethnic
leaders to see what more we could do. As a result of that meeting, I created the
President's Committee on Urban Development and Neighborhood Revitaliza-
tion. I charged that Committee with developing a sound Federal policy to help
preserve our neighborhoods. That policy will be based on local initiative and
local control.
Revitalizing our neighborhoods will help preserve your investments in your
homes, your churches, and your community facilities. It will help keep families
together; it will help keep America together. America itself is a wonderful fam-
ily. We must keep that family close-closer in the future than it has been in the
past.
As a young boy in Grand Rapids, Michigan, I was very fortunate to have as
close friends Americans from many backgrounds. In high school I was lucky.
I worked as a part-time waiter and a dishwasher in a restaurant owned by a man
named Bill Skouges, who was of Greek descent. That was in 1929 and 1930,
when jobs and money were not easy to come by. I earned $2 a week and my
lunches, and Bill Skouges earned my admiration and affection and respect.
As a young Congressman, my first administrative assistant was my long and
dear friend John Milonowski, who is, incidentally, running for probate judge
out there, and let's get him elected. John and I worked together for many, many
years, and on my recommendation he became our United States District Attorney
in the Western District of Michigan. I was proud of the job he did, and it earns
him the opportunity to be one of our three probate judges in the city of Grand
Rapids.
But, as President of all of the people, I am determined that every voice in the
American family must be heard. The voice of American Polonia will be listened
to because all of us are proud of the red, white, and blue. We should be proud
of the great heritage of the red and white.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 a.m. in the
Crystal Ballroom at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to John Cardinal
Krol, archbishop of Philadelphia, and Senator
Richard S. Schweiker of Pennsylvania.
As printed above, this item follows the text of the
White House press release.
2316
