[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
if
you look at the projections, it shows that we will reduce unemployment, that
we will continue to win the battle against inflation and, at the same time, give
the kind of quality of life that I believe is possible in America: a job, a home for
all those that will work and save for it, safety in the streets, health care that is
affordable. These things can be done if we have the right vision and the right
restraint and the right leadership.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you. Governor Carter, your response, please.
MR. CARTER. Well, I might say first of all, that I think in case of a Carter ad-
ministration, the sacrifices would be much less. Mr. Ford's own environmental
agency has projected a 10-percent unemployment rate by 1978 if he is President.
The American people are ready to make sacrifices if they are part of the process,
if they know that they will be helping to make decisions and won't be excluded
from being an involved party to the national purpose.
The major effort that we must put forward is to put our people back to work.
And I think that this is one example where a lot of people have selfish, grasping
ideas now. I remember in 1973, in the depth of the energy crisis, when President
Nixon called on the American people to make a sacrifice to cut down on the
waste of gasoline, to cut down on the speed of automobiles. It was a tremendous
surge of patriotism. “I want to make a sacrifice for my country."
I think we could call together-with strong leadership in the White House-
business, industry, and labor, and say, let's have voluntary price restraints, let's
lay down some guidelines so we don't have continuing inflation.
We could also have an end to the extremes. We now have one extreme, for
instance, of some welfare recipients who, by taking advantage of the welfare
laws, the housing laws, the Medicaid laws, and the food stamp laws, make over
$10,000 a year, and they don't have to pay any taxes on it. At the other extreme
just 1 percent of the richest people in our country derive 25 percent of all the tax
benefits. So both those extremes grasp for advantage, and the person who has
to pay that expense is the middle-income family who is still working for a living.
And they have to pay for the rich who have the privilege and for the poor who
are not working.
But I think that a balanced approach, with everybody being part of it, and
striving for unselfishness could help, as it did in 1973, to let people sacrifice for
their own country. I know I'm ready for it; I think the American people are, too.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you. Mr. Maynard, your question to Governor
Carter.
MR. MAYNARD. Governor, by all indications, the voters are so turned off by
this election campaign so far that only half intend to vote. One major reason
2624
