[704]
July 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. Ford, you are going to poll all the delegates around the Nation as far
as getting their input as far as the Vice-Presidential choice is concerned.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. If that choice turns out to be the unanimous decision of the people to be,
say, John Connally, are you going to go along with that?
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to poll all of the delegates, all of the alternates,
asking them to give me their recommendations in a list of priorities. I will also
ask the Members of the House and the Senate on the Republican side of the aisle.
I will also ask the Republican National Committee and other outstanding
Republicans, and their recommendations to me will be very significant in the
choice that I make. I want to get as much an input, as broad a cross section
as I possibly can. I think that is the right way to do it, and I certainly will be
guided substantially by their recommendations.
Q. There has been some criticism of you, Mr. Ford, concerning your veto of
certain programs dealing with social programs, school lunch measures, what
have you, Do you think that is warranted criticism, that you are not attuned to
the poor in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, because if you look at the budget I recommended,
in almost every category I recommended more money for education, more
money for health, more money for many of the social programs than had been
previously recommended or approved. It is just that you can do just so much. And
it was a sound recommendation, and I fully stand by it.
Q. Mr. President, how many delegates did you meet with individually in
the hotel room?
THE PRESIDENT. I met with the whole delegation. I did not meet with any in-
dividual delegates except some of the leaders in the Mississippi delegation.
Q. What did they say?
THE PRESIDENT. It looked good.
NOTE: The exchange began at 6:50 p.m. at the Allen C. Thompson Field.
705
Statement on the Establishment of the Federal Energy
Office. July 30, 1976
I HAVE today signed an Executive order [11930] which establishes the Federal
Energy Office in the Executive Office of the President and which transfers to
the FEO the functions and resources of the Federal Energy Administration.
2112
