[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
dragging, and things got quieter as the current season approached. Is there a bit
of politics involved there, perhaps on both sides? Or, perhaps more important,
are interim weapons developments—and I am thinking of such things as the
cruise missile and the Soviet SS-20 intermediate range rocket-making SALT
irrelevant, bypassing the SALT negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. First, we have to understand that SALT I expires October 3,
1977. Mr. Brezhnev and I met in Vladivostok in December of 1974 for the pur-
pose of trying to take the initial steps so we could have a SALT II agreement
that would go to 1985. As I indicated earlier, we did agree on a 2,400 limitation
on launchers of ballistic missiles. That would mean a cutback in the Soviet
program. It would not interfere with our own program. At the same time we
put a limitation of 1,320 on MIRV's.
Our technicians have been working since that time in Geneva trying to put
into technical language an agreement that can be verified by both parties. In
the meantime there has developed the problem of the Soviet Backfire, their
high performance aircraft, which they say is not a long-range aircraft and which
some of our people say is an intercontinental aircraft. In the interim there has
been the development on our part primarily, the cruise missiles-cruise missiles
that could be launched from land-based mobile installations; cruise missiles that
could be launched from high performance aircraft like the B-52's or the B-1's,
which I hope we proceed with; cruise missiles which could be launched from
either surface or submarine naval vessels. Those gray area weapons systems are
creating some problems in the agreement for a SALT II negotiation.
But I can say that I am dedicated to proceeding. And I met just last week
with the Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, and he indicated to me that the
Soviet Union was interested in narrowing the differences and making a realistic
and a sound compromise.
I hope and trust in the best interests of both countries and in the best in-
terests of all peoples throughout this globe that the Soviet Union and the United
States can make a mutually beneficial agreement because, if we do not and
SALT I expires on October 3, 1977, you will unleash again an all-out nuclear
arms race with the potential of a nuclear holocaust of unbelievable dimensions.
So, it is the obligation of the President to do just that, and I intend to do so.
MR. TREWHITT. Mr. President, let me follow that up. I'll submit that the cruise
missile adds a whole new dimension to the arms competition, and then cite a
statement by your office to the arms control association a few days ago in which
you said that the cruise missile might eventually be included in a comprehensive
arms limitation agreement, but that in the meantime it was an essential part of
2424
