October 30
[997]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
if the Congress had done the right thing and followed the recommendations
that I made to give a fair break to the middle-income taxpayers, they would
have accepted, approved, my increase of $750 to $1,000 for the middle-income
taxpayers with a personal tax exemption.
Now, what did that mean to that family of five—$1,250 more in personal
exemption. That's a lot of dough to a family that's trying to make it with a
new house, send kids to school, improve their own status in society.
And that gentleman said to me, “Well, supposing Congress doesn't pass it
next time?” I said, “When they get back in January, they are going to have it
on their desk. And if they don't pass it in 1977, then we will submit it in 1978,
and if they don't pass it in 1978 to give you the kind of tax relief that you
deserve, we will go out and beat them in the 1978 election."
So, when you come right down to it, we've got peace, we're on the move to
prosperity, and we have restored trust. So, in every field, America is on the
move. The Nation is sound. The Nation is secure. This Nation is on the way to
a better quality of life.
I say to you, my record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not
promises. We have our problems, but I think we are making the kind of head-
way that gives us pride in America.
So, I say to you, on November 2—it has been tough the last 2 years, but I
have been proud to be your President in a period when adversity almost over-
came us, when difficulties were awesome. But because you supported me, because
our form of government worked, because America is great, it was a privilege
to be your President. But now, as skies get brighter, I ask you to give me an
opportunity. I would be highly honored to serve as your President for the next
4 years.
We had a magnificent Bicentennial. There was a rejuvenation of the American
spirit. There was a rebirth of our faith. So, I would look forward to representing
you, to doing the best I could, and I pledge that to you. Therefore, on this
occasion I ask you not only to confirm me with your prayers but to support
me with your ballots. I won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. at the
Onondaga County War Memorial Auditorium. In
his remarks, he referred to Richard Rosenbaum, New
York State Republican chairman, and Joe Garagiola,
NBC sports commentator.
2805
