January 19
[1077]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Memorandum for the Attorney General
By separate memoranda, I have directed the Secretaries of the Army, Air
Force, and Navy and the Commandant of the Coast Guard to take all necessary
action to insure that the other than honorable discharges of former service
members who were wounded in combat or who received decorations for valor
in combat in Vietnam and who applied to the clemency program be reviewed on
an individual basis. I have further directed that these discharges be recharac-
terized as under honorable conditions, unless there is a compelling reason to the
contrary in any case.
In order to assist the identification process, I am requesting that you provide
to the Secretaries of Defense and Transportation, as appropriate, the names and
service numbers of all former service members who applied to the Presidential
Clemency Board program and whose records indicate that they were wounded
in combat or that they received decorations for valor in combat.
GERALD R. FORD
1077
Letter to Mrs. Philip A. Hart on Amnesty for Vietnam-Era
Draft Evaders and Deserters. January 19, 1977
Dear Jane:
Since our recent conversation, I have thought a great deal about your request
that I grant amnesty to all Vietnam war era draft evaders and deserters.ยน I have
carefully reviewed my clemency program which enabled individuals to earn
clemency discharges and pardons and believe it is a program consistent with
America's best traditions of compassion and forgiveness. When I established
the program, I did so in the belief that it was very important for the country
that the post-Vietnam reconciliation take place in an atmosphere that restored
unity and at the same time maintained a respect for the law and for diversity of
opinion. Of the more than 21,700 people who applied to the clemency program,
approximately 13,500 have received or are in the process of earning pardons,
clemency discharges, or other benefits.
I know how firmly and deeply you and Phil and your children have felt about
Vietnam amnesty, and I respect that feeling and belief. However, I also have a
strong personal belief that earned clemency was the right approach to healing
our country's Vietnam wounds and to creating a mutual understanding among
1 See footnote 1, Item 1039.
2967
