[674]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. The administration has had many reservations about several
of the provisions in the bill that is on the floor of the Senate at the present
time. One, the Senate bill provides, as we understand it—and we have gone
into it with some outstanding legal scholars—an unconstitutional method of
the appointment of a Special Prosecutor.
So, what we have recommended is a completely constitutional method of
selecting a Special Prosecutor, one that would call for a Special Prosecutor
recommended by the President, confirmed by the Senate for a 3-year term, with
that particular Special Prosecutor being ineligible to serve other than the first
3 years.
That is definitely a constitutional way to have a Special Prosecutor who
would have criminal authority over any allegations made against a President,
a Vice President, high executive officials, all Members of Congress, and those
involved in the judiciary.
Our reservation was not as to the thrust but as to the constitutionality of
several provisions, including the one I have just described.
Q. What is your proposal?
The President. Well, it is our proposal that we feel would accomplish the
job of restoring public confidence in all three branches of the Federal Govern-
ment and do it in a constitutional way.
PARDON OF FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[21.] Q. Mr. President, in his acceptance speech, Senator Mondale specifi-
cally attacked you for your pardon of Richard Nixon and received prolonged
applause from the people in the hall. And later, Mr. Carter said it was an issue
that apparently ran very deep in this country. Do you consider your pardon of
Mr. Nixon a liability?
The President. I decided to grant the pardon in the national interest. At
that time the United States was faced with serious economic problems, and
we were still involved in a long and difficult war in Southeast Asia. We had
very important matters to face and to solve. We could not be involved in the
Nixon matter and concentrate fully on the more important matters. I decided
in the national interest. I would do it again.
UNIFICATION OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[22.] Q. Mr. President, will you tell me, sir, what it is that you are accom-
plishing when you unite both wings of the party, when it is widely recognized
1
2038
