July 14
[667]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
or is forced by law to assume—the responsibility of ensuring that these cruelties
are not being practiced upon those horses taking part in their sponsored events,
real reform will be assured.
The Department of Agriculture urged the Congress to place the onus on the
industry where it belongs, rather than upon Federal regulators. The proposal
would have required that the management of every show put in place an inspec-
tion system—using independent, qualified inspectors—under penalty of law.
The Department could then monitor the industry to ensure that the system oper-
ated properly. However, the Congress—in a mistaken belief that the addition of
more Federal enforcement officials will solve the problem-has ignored the
real problem and simply authorized more money and stiffened penalties.
I continue to be committed to achieving meaningful reform by compelling
this industry to police itself properly. To that end I pledge cooperation with the
Congress in seeking continued improvements in the law which will place the
primary responsibility for enforcement with the industry itself.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 811, approved July 13, 1976, is Public Law 94-360 (90 Stat. 915).
667
Statement on Signing the Department of Defense
Appropriation Authorization Act, 1977. July 14, 1976
TODAY I have signed into law legislation authorizing fiscal year 1977 appro-
priations of $32.5 billion for procurement and for research and development
programs for the Department of Defense. While this authorization provides for
many defense activities essential for our national security, the bill still has a
number of deficiencies.
It is noteworthy that this is the first defense authorization bill in many years
to be passed by the Congress in time to become law before the start of the fiscal
year. I commend the Congress for their expeditious action which, by helping
us to maintain the continuity of defense management activities, assists us in our
efforts to improve defense management practices.
My FY 1977 total budget request for national defense is $115 billion—as it
must be, given the adverse trends which have developed as a result of congres-
sional cuts in U.S. military expenditures. The Congress must cooperate if we
are to be able to successfully arrest these trends in order to assure our own
security and, in a real sense, peace and stability in the world.
In important respects, however, Congress has not faced up to the challenge.
2013
