September 28
[824]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
progressing with continued high priority being given to the development and
evaluation of more effective ways to reduce the iron load in the bodies of
patients that has resulted from repeated blood transfusions required to main-
tain life.
The White House,
September 28, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "Fourth Annual Report on the Administration of the Cooley's Anemia
Programs" (9 pp. plus appendixes).
824
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on the
World Weather Program. September 28, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Weather and climate are at once familiar and sources of deep concern. Through
technology, we have minimized the harmful effects of weather and have
adapted our civilization to a wide range of climatic conditions. Yet, we now
know how fragile is the balance between our activities and the environment.
Understanding that balance is the key to the successful management of energy,
food, and water resources and the beneficial application of technology. Our na-
tional goals in improving weather predictions and warnings and coping with
the vagaries of climate cannot be accomplished except in the context of a world-
wide endeavor. All nations play roles; the United States can be truly proud of
our contributions.
The World Weather Program is the U.S. commitment to an effort that will
affect every one of us. I am pleased to report significant and continuing progress
in furthering the goals of the World Weather Program. The following accom-
plishments are representative of the progress being made:
-There has been a smooth transition into the operational use of geostationary
meteorological satellites. The Western Hemisphere, much of the Atlantic, and
part of the Pacific are now observed continuously. A nationwide network of
Satellite Field Service Stations has been implemented by NOAA to capitalize
on these new data. Hurricane and typhoon forecasting has been aided, for
example, as has the observation, tracking, and warning of severe weather over
the United States.
-The data processing system at the World Meteorological Center, Suitland,
2355
