October 29
[989]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
education, and American taxpayers expect a substantial return for their
investment.
My administration shares their expectation and their concern in America's
continuing and striving to be the world's finest. No other sphere of activity
is so closely bound to the lives of all Americans. The strength of our political
system is dependent on educated, sovereign people.
Early generations of Americans looked upon education as a cherished privi-
lege, a steppingstone to a successful and a happy life. Our schools, our colleges
educated millions of immigrant children who spoke no English when they
arrived on our shores. These people and their descendants valued education
above all. To them, self-discipline was both essential and natural. If self-disci-
pline was missing, then imposed discipline in the home and the school was ac-
cepted as reasonable and proper.
Today, these attitudes have eroded. Education, particularly in America's ur-
ban centers, has been inundated by a barrage of social problems. Schools are
facing a litany of ills-drugs, disruption, violence that victimizes both teachers
and students, increased racial tensions, and the excessive demands for schools to
be all things to all people.
In the midst of all of this, it is not surprising that education and our children
suffer. Headlines, if not personal family experiences, tell us that crime in the
schools is a very serious problem. The National Education Association reports
that over the past few years, there has been a dramatic increase in school crime
and school violence.
Some of today's parents say teachers must understand our children better. I
say it is hard for a teacher to understand a student who is threatening him or her
with a knife. No teacher should be subject to physical or verbal assault by stu-
dents, nor should any teacher be fearful of physical abuse by undisciplined stu-
dents—and I add this with emphasis―nor by the undisciplined parents of those
students.
We can, and I honestly think that we must, keep the schoolrooms of America
places to learn, to uplift, to move forward. If our schools fail, we fail; and if they
succeed, we succeed.
The heart of America's education system, the key to success or failure for the
millions of students sitting in classrooms, is not buildings or dollars spent. The
key is the classroom teacher. All of us, as individuals and collectively as a nation,
owe much, a very great deal, to our teachers during our lifetime.
Who among us does not recall the impact made on his or her life by that very
special teacher? I could recite a number in my own lifetime who have con-
2781
