[991]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
starts for the second month in a row. We are very impressed with the fact that
several surveys show that consumer confidence is in good shape.
We think that as we move ahead in the fourth quarter-and we're in the
fourth quarter now-there will be good results by the end of this quarter.
Q. Mr. President, have you approved the sale of computers to China that
would be useful in its defense-you or your administration?
THE PRESIDENT. I approved the sale of computers on the recommendation
of the Department of Defense, on the recommendation of the National Security
Council, and on the recommendation of the Department of Commerce. They
all approved them, and they are not related to any defense capability as far as
the PRC [People's Republic of China] is concerned.
Q. Why didn't you make it public, Mr. President? Why did this have to
be revealed by reporters? You say you have an open administration.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you the answer. I signed it. I assumed that it
was part of a regular process. There was no question about it. The Department
of Defense recommended it; the Department of Commerce recommended it;
the NSC recommended it. These particular computers had no relationship what-
soever to our national security.
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us why you called Senator Dole at 5 a.m., as
reported from Denver?
THE PRESIDENT. I was going to have a busy day, as you knew, and I wanted to
make sure that I said hello to him and wished him well and urged him to keep
up the good work. It was just 7 o'clock our time and, as you know, we were
about to take off. That was the most opportune moment for me to give him a
call.
Q. How will the drop in economic indicators affect the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the American people know that we made very signifi-
cant progress in the battle against inflation. The latest figures show that the
cost of living has gone up at the rate of 4.4 percent, which was considerably less
than the 12 percent inflation that I inherited, so that we have made almost a two-
thirds successful battle in winning the war against inflation.
So as long as we are winning the battle against inflation, I think the Ameri-
can people will think that is a significant gain, and it will be reflected in the
campaign.
REPORTER. Thank you, very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:52 a.m. at Lambert
Field. In his remarks, he referred to John C.
Danforth, attorney general of Missouri, Gene
McNary, chairman of the St. Louis County President
Ford Committee, and Governor Christopher S. (Kit)
Bond of Missouri.
2788
