August 20
[735]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But I've been talking to Bob about another problem that involves his Com-
mittee on Finance. It is extremely important. If we want to maintain the con-
tinuity of the family farm and the small family business, we have to increase
the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to at least $150,000.
But then Bob, in addition to his responsibilities on the Committee on Fi-
nance, has been a stalwart friend of the farmer on the Committee on Agricul-
ture. Bob has talked to me not once, but many times about the problems that
agriculture faces, and he has been one of the most ardent and effective
advocates.
Let me summarize to all of you right out here in the heartland of agriculture,
in Russell, Kansas, what I said to the American people last night. The farmers
of America must get a fair price in a free market. We want an expanded produc-
tion, an increase in our exports. We want to be able as a humanitarian country
to help feed the people around the world, because that's our responsibility. But
let me add this: This administration will never make the hard work and the
production of the American farmer a pawn in international diplomacy. Then
one final comment-two words: This administration will have no embargoes,
period.
But this great country, as I said last night, offers to the young an opportunity;
to the old, certainty, happiness, and security; to the businessman, to the farmer,
an opportunity to move ahead as your forefathers have done. I think every per-
son that I look at who has children or grandchildren has worked hard, has
sacrificed, has done all of the things for one single reason: We want to make
a better America for the children and grandchildren that will follow us. That's
our tradition; that's what we're going to do.
It's
's great to be in Russell. When I called Bob yesterday, I said, "Bob, I would
like you to be on the team." He thought for a moment and then he said, “I
have got to have one commitment." I said, "Well, don't hesitate too long."
[Laughter] He said, "Will you come to Russell, Kansas, tomorrow?" I said
"Yes."
So, here we are. I can't express my appreciation and gratitude adequately.
I'm looking forward to an opportunity to say hello and shaking a good many
hands. We'll stick with you. We need your help to keep America going to
peace, prosperity, and trust for the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:34 p.m. on the
Courthouse grounds in Senator Dole's hometown. In
his remarks, he referred to Mayor Roger Williams
of Russell and Gov. Robert F. Bennett, Lt. Gov.
Shelby Smith, and Representative Keith Sebelius of
Kansas.
2167
