October 27
[975]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is great to be here at Villanova, and I am deeply appreciative of the warm
welcome. As we come into the home stretch of this great campaign, I can't
think of a better place to be than at this great university. I can't think of a better
place to be at this great university that has been the alma mater of so many
fast runners. As a matter of fact, the only thing that would make me worry
about running against Jimmy Carter would be if he had Jumbo Elliott² as his
coach. [Laughter] But let me tell you something else. This one long-distance
run is one race I am going to win.
Villanova University is truly an outstanding example of those privately sup-
ported institutions which have contributed so much to America's greatness and
to our country's progress. You share in America's distinguished tradition of
private higher education, a tradition that is a century older than our country
itself.
I am strongly opposed to a suggestion made by my opponent in this campaign
that the Government tax all church-supported properties other than the church
building itself. This would have serious implications, as I have analyzed the
the problem, not only for church-supported schools but for church-supported
hospitals, orphanages, and retirement homes.
As far as our Government is concerned, those activities are as much a part
of the church's mission as the church's place of worship. There is a constitu-
tional separation of church and state in this country, and I will not see that
separation sacrificed for a few more dollars in Federal tax revenues.
Americans must never forget that privately endowed colleges and universi-
ties like Villanova serve important public functions. Today, as in the past, they
help prepare our national leadership in arts, the sciences, law, medicine, religion,
and in business, as well as in government.
The strength, the vitality of America's privately endowed colleges and uni-
versities are essential to our educational system in America. If these private
institutions should close, shifting the burden from private donors to public
taxpayers, the tax load would be infinitely heavier. We must not let this happen,
and as far as I am concerned, we will not.
Let me repeat with emphasis what I have said many, many times before. I
approve, support, and encourage the principle of volunteer giving to help
finance higher education, and I will continue to strongly oppose any legislative
proposals which discourage such support, including those which would limit
charitable tax deductions, disallow the full value of appreciated assets, or exclude
the State tax deductions.
2 Chalmers (Jumbo) Elliott, head coach of the University of Michigan football team 1959-68.
2729
