[702]
July 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
programs that have a special focus and a particular interest to all of you, but
they improve the quality of life and the betterment for all of us throughout this
country.
Several months ago, as some of you may recall, I issued orders that resulted
in speeding up the naturalization proceedings for new citizens from Cuba ¹—
and I might add parenthetically, we're monitoring that to see that the greater
number of employees produces more results. But, nevertheless, on a broad scale
I strongly welcome the growing political involvement and vigorous and talented
efforts by new Americans at all levels of government—State, local, as well as
Federal.
On a broader basis involving an issue where all of you are interested and
I'm certainly deeply concerned, let me say in the following several sentences
what this administration stands for. My administration will continue a policy
of friendship toward the people, and I underline the people, of Cuba. But, I add
very emphatically, we will not accept intervention by the Fidel Castro regime
in the affairs of other countries. We will not accept the counsel of those who
would give in to Fidel Castro. And let me illustrate by another example: The
free choice of the Puerto Rican people will be vigorously defended. My admin-
istration and the Government of Puerto Rico view any outside intervention into
Puerto Rican affairs as an unfriendly act. We shall strongly resist any such
intervention.
Freedom of choice is precious not only for the Puerto Ricans but for all
Americans. After 200 years of freedom, we are approaching another day when
the American people again give their consent to be governed and choose their
elected representatives.
I call upon all Hispanic Americans to join me in my campaign to achieve
a greater realization of that wonderful American dream. I think you know
where I stand. You know who I am. You know my record in our National
Government—a record that I am glad to say you helped to achieve. Let us go
on working together, as partners, to obtain full participation for all citizens
in the political process. I ask your help I need your personal involvement—to
complete the work of the last 2 years.
Hispanic genius, Hispanic energy, Hispanic pride, and the Hispanic dedica-
tion have strengthened our political system. You have advanced our goals in
the best interests of the highest aspirations of all Americans.
I need your abilities and your skills for America and for the Republican
Party. The Republican Party is a channel for a new era of Hispanic involve-
1 See Item 148.
2108
