[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Well, with that kind of record in Georgia, I think it would be catastrophic
if he tried to do the same thing with the Federal Government. I don't think
you want that kind of reorganization. I think you want a Federal Government
that is responsive and responsible to the American people. And under the Ford
administration we are going to give you that.
Now, Jimmy Carter on two occasions—once in Savannah, Georgia and once
in Los Angeles-said that the Defense Department ought to be cut by $15 billion.
He denied it, but the facts are that's what he said. On the other hand, Jimmy
Carter says America isn't strong enough. Now, you can't cut the defense budget
by $15 billion and keep the United States number one. We are number one
under President Ford, and we're going to keep you number one for the next 4
years under President Ford.
But as we have traveled from Joliet down here to Springfield, we've gone
through the heart of the agricultural area of this country. And it's been a great
privilege and honor for us to see so many people who produce the food and the
fiber that makes America really run. Five percent of the people produce more
than enough for us to eat and wear and, at the same time, produce enough for us
to sell overseas.
Every one of us ought to be thankful that we are blessed with the farmers of
America, who through their hard work do that job for us. And I thank each and
every one of them for making America strong with their efforts.
A few days ago many of you probably heard Jimmy Carter say that America
is not respected anymore. That isn't true. The leaders of the world, whether they
are the leaders of the free world or the leaders behind the Iron Curtain, respect
the United States of America. And when Jimmy Carter says that America isn't
respected, I think he is slandering our country, slandering the efforts, the be-
liefs, the convictions of 215 million Americans.
Jerry Ford has faith and trust and confidence in the American people and in
our great country. I am proud of America. And with me as President for the
next 4 years, we will keep America number one.
Thank you very much.
And while I go down and shake hands with as many of you as I can, I want
my friend, Chuck Percy, to introduce some very special guests who have come
from many parts of this country to indicate their support for Betty and for my-
self. They are great citizens. They believe in what we've done. And I want you to
meet them and Chuck will introduce them. In the meantime, I will come down
and say hello to as many as I possibly can.
Thank you.
2558
