[892]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
892
Remarks in New City, New York. October 13, 1976
Thank you all. Thank you, Dick Rosenbaum. Senator Javits, Senator Buckley,
Congressman Ben Gilman, distinguished guests, wonderful people from Rock-
land and Orange County:
I love you. Thank you. I am deeply, deeply grateful to the fine Congressman
that you have from this congressional district. All of you know Ben Gilman.
You know the job he's done. You know that he got the Otisville prison for you.
You know he works day after day after day for you. Let me congratulate you, and
reelect Ben Gilman.
In the last day and a half, I have had a great privilege to be in the State of New
York. We started out in Manhattan, we went to Brooklyn, we were in the Flat-
bush. We, this morning, started in Yonkers, we were in White Plains, and now
we are in Rockland County with all the fine people from Orange County along
side of us.
But all during this time, where we have had great crowds like all of you here,
I have had the privilege and the honor of having with me your two outstanding
United States Senators-my good friends Jack Javits and Jim Buckley. And I
want you to give them a great big show of appreciation. I can't express to them
adequately my personal appreciation and gratitude.
But now let me express particularly to the young people who I see here from
the various schools-elementary, secondary, and otherwise—their coming here
and warmly welcoming their President. Let me say I couldn't think of a better
way to spend a brisk fall afternoon than being in this particular county with
all of you. I only wish that I could talk to each one of you individually.
Since I can't, let me tell you what I would do, what I would say to each of you
if I could sit down with you over a cup of coffee or just a plain, old sandwich. Let
me give you some straight talk right from the White House.
Mr. Smith, I would say to you, or to Mrs. Jones, you have been hearing an
awful lot of words and a lot of numbers in the last several weeks. You have
heard statistics, percentages, and conflicting claims. I don't believe those are
the most important things in this campaign. Let me tell you what I believe
and believe very deeply is the most important thing—and that is you and you
and you and the 10,000 people who are here in Rockland County right now.
But each of you, between now and November 2, have some clear choices to
make, and let me present some of the alternatives.
2510
