[1045]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
billion dollar investments in controversial control equipment or some relaxa-
tion of existing air quality requirements. Most such requirements were set be-
fore we were aware of our energy problems, and often without sufficient regard
to energy or consumer price impact. They often prevent substitution of coal
resources for oil and gas and prevent construction of new coal producing and
burning facilities.
As another example, concerns about environmental protection and reclama-
tion requirements for surface mining activities led to legislation—twice vetoed—
which would have imposed unnecessarily rigid requirements, cut domestic coal
production and employment and led to even greater reliance on imported oil.
Under these bills, Federal regulations and enforcement activities-which
would contribute to a larger more cumbersome Federal Government—would
have supplanted State laws and enforcement activities which are now in place
and which require reclamation as a condition of mining.
Limiting Growth
The concept of limiting growth and development is an important ingredient
in some efforts to halt increased domestic energy production or to develop and
use newer energy technologies. Limits on growth and development may be
necessary in particular areas, but I oppose strongly the concept of limiting
growth as an objective in itself. For the Nation, I continue to believe that our
best hope for increasing the standard of living and quality of life for all our
people is to expand and strengthen our economy and, in this way, create mean-
ingful and productive jobs for all who are willing and able to work. The energy
policies and goals that I have advocated do not require limiting our economic
growth below historic rates.
Eliminating Risk
In some cases, attempts to increase domestic energy production—particu-
larly from nuclear energy and coal and oil and gas resources from Outer
Continental Shelf—are met with demands that virtually all safety and
environmental risks be eliminated.
There should be no disagreement that major efforts are necessary to protect
human health and the environment. For example, strong efforts have already
been made in the case of nuclear energy and an excellent record of safety and
minimum environmental impact has been achieved. However, it must be rec-
ognized that there is no practical way of completely eliminating all risks. Fur-
ther, each additional precaution adds cost in terms of reduced supplies or higher
prices. Risk levels that have already been achieved in many energy producing
2898
