[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
and carry a flyspotter-flyspot-flyswatter. [Laughter] It has been a long day.
[Laughter]
One final point: Last week Jimmy Carter said that America is not respected
anymore. That is not right. The United States of America is respected, respected
by our allies and respected by our adversaries. And when Jimmy Carter says
that our country-yours and mine, the Nation of 215 million wonderful
people-when he says we are not respected, he is slandering America. I don't
like it, you don't like it because America is a good country, with good people.
And we love it, and we are proud of it, and we are going to stay proud of it 4
years under Jerry Ford.
So, Betty and I are delighted here to be in Alton. Mayor Lenz and the wonder-
ful people of this community—it's a pleasure and honor to be your President.
And we ask you between now and November 2 to not only go to the polls your-
self but to get your neighbor, your friend, your business associate, and get them
to the polls because this is a crucial, critical election.
We can win in Illinois with your help. We can win this election. And it will
be good for America, and we promise not to let you down.
Thank you very much.
Let me ask you one more thing. Wait just a minute. We have had some won-
derful friends, outstanding people in their various professions, who have been
with us from Joliet to Alton. I am going to ask that Chuck Percy take just a
minute or two to introduce them. I want to thank all of them personally for their
contributions to this good day. And you will love them. They are wonderful
people. Betty and I are most grateful for their support.
I want to come out and shake hands with as many of you as I can.
NOTE: The President spoke from the Observation
Car of the "Honest Abe" Amtrak train at the
Amtrak Station in each community on the tour. At
cach stop, he left the train to greet the community
welcoming committee and members of the audience.
908
Telegram to Jimmy Carter on Clarification of Campaign
Positions. October 16, 1976
Dear Jimmy:
I am in receipt of your telegram of October 15, 1976, and appreciate your de-
sire to clarify your positions on the issues. I think it is vitally important that the
2564
