[969]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
young men and women in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines. That is
1,400,000 less than we had 18 to 20 months ago.
I think we can whip the problem of unemployment. We can have a healthy
economy. We can still have an all-volunteer military force, and we don't have to
be engaged in a military conflict. The way to solve unempolyment is by stimulat-
ing the free enterprise system with tax incentives, tax reduction. We don't have
to put young men in uniform to solve the problem of unemployment in America.
As I said, we have an all-volunteer Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, and
they are good, they are career people. And we are strong because we have the
right weapons systems, good leadership, outstanding young people, and they
are voluntary recruits. And I can say with great pride that the United States
is at peace. Not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign
battlefield tonight, and they won't.
But now that we have turned things around—and I happen to think the
American people in this great country have made incredible progress in the last
2 years—but now we have got new opportunities.
Here is where I think we ought to focus in the next 2 years, the next 4 years.
We ought to focus on trying to improve the quality of life for our 215 million
Americans. What does that mean? It means first that we want an economic
environment so that people who want to work will have a job. I am not going
to argue about statistics. The only criteria by which I judge whether we are
doing a good job or not is that the time must come where every young American
who wants to work will have a job in America.
One of the things that makes America great is the capability and the fact that
so many Americans own their own home. I saw some figures just the other day
that some 60 to 65 percent of the people in America own their own home or are
in the process of buying it. But let me say, having said that, I am not going to take
away the deductibility of interest payments on your income tax returns.
But how do we stimulate the capability, particularly for the young, to get a
new home? Just the other day the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, Carla Hills, announced a 50-percent reduction in down payments. That
is vital for the young people who are trying to make their first investment.
Many of the loaning institutions are beginning to undertake the kind of
mortgages, so that in the early days of a mortgage the monthly payments are
less when the earning capacity is smaller, and the monthly payments increase
as one's earning capacity increases. I think that is an imaginative approach.
But the best thing we can do for those that want to buy a house is to see to
2712
