[965]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Can you imagine a better team—Garagiola, Connally, and Green?¹ Man,
that will be something.
Yes, Dick? [Richard Growald, United Press International.]
Q. Did you hear that Jimmy Carter was hiding out down in Plains this
weekend?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if he was hiding in Plains, I understand that Helen
Thomas [United Press International] found him. [Laughter] I understand she
asked him a few very pertinent questions, which I know Helen can be real
tough. I am glad she is down there helping his cause.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:20 p.m. at the Port-
land International Airport.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
966
Radio Address on Taxes. October 26, 1976
GOOD MORNING. I would like to talk with you this morning, as this year's
campaign nears its end, about a subject that is very much on the minds of most
American families—taxes. As I have traveled around our country in recent
weeks, people have told me, Mr. President, things are going well. America is
going back to work. There is a new spirit of confidence in our land. But there
is one problem that is bothering us very much—the heavy burden of taxes.
I completely sympathize with this feeling. And I have tried to do something
about it. I asked Congress to cut taxes this year at a rate that would have put an
extra $200 in the pocket of the average American family. But Congress turned
me down. Next year, with the mandate of your votes behind me, I will go back
after them again—and this time we will succeed.
I want to cut taxes, not simply because I want American taxpayers to be able
to keep more of their hard-earned dollars but also because more money for the
American consumer means more growth for the American economy—which in
turn means more jobs, higher return on investments, and greater prosperity for
all of us.
Federal income tax payments per capita have gone up more than five times
since 1950-more than twice the rate of inflation. This means that we taxpayers
are giving more and more of our dollars to the Federal treasury-dollars that we
could otherwise be using for ourselves and our families.
¹ Joe Garagiola, NBC sports commentator; John B. Connally, Governor of Texas 1963–69 and Secretary
of the Treasury 1971-72; and Edith Green, Representative from Oregon 1955-75 and cochairman of the
Citizens for Ford Committee.
2696
