[688]
July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
surers be held accountable. But my first concern is that a safe and effective vac-
cine be available to all Americans who want it during the flu season.
I am pleased that the Health and the Environment Subcommittee of the
House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee will hold another hearing
on this important matter. I urge you to act immediately on my legislative pro-
posal. We cannot accept the fact that the health of all Americans can be placed
in jeopardy by a failure to take action on this important legislation.
While we await Congressional action—and I trust that the Congress will act
quickly with due regard for the Nation's health and safety-I have directed
Secretary Mathews to ask for the cooperation of the manufacturers again to
ensure that they do not terminate their production of this vital vaccine while
negotiations continue.
In conclusion, let me reiterate a single point: The threat of swine flu is very
genuine. Data from both the scientific and medical communities support the
need for an inoculation program. Clinical tests conducted to date show that
the vaccine is both safe and effective. There is no excuse now to let this program-
a program that could affect the lives of many, many Americans—bog down in
petty wrangling. Let's work together to get on with the job.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Paul G. Rogers, Chairman, Subcommittee on Health and the Environment, Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee, House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
NOTE: This is the text of the letter presented to
Chairman Rogers by Dr. Theodore Cooper, Assist-
ant Secretary for Health, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare, during his testimony be-
fore the subcommittee.
689
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the National League
of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in
Southeast Asia. July 24, 1976
Carol Bates, Congressman Sonny Montgomery, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is a very high honor and a very great privilege to meet once again with this
courageous assembly of Americans whose loved ones remain unaccounted for
in Southeast Asia. You have borne a very heavy burden with incredible courage.
Every citizen in this country admires your bravery, your dignity, and your
persistence.
2084
