October 8
[862]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
discussion on foreign policy raised a lot of rhetorical partisan issues and in the
2 minutes of rebuttal, if you are going to make a forthright, accurate answer and
you don't have time to answer all of the, I think, purely partisan charges that he
makes.
But then we do find, even when you say he is totally inaccurate—as I said that
he had advocated a $15-billion reduction in the defense budget—he denied it,
and if you read the Los Angeles Times this morning, he had made that state-
ment in an interview with a Los Angeles Times reporter.
I think it was in the late winter or early spring of 1975. It was quoted in the
paper. It was reaffirmed by the reporter that talked to him. I happen to believe
the newspaper account of what he said rather than a denial, which I don't
believe was the fact. So, even when you pin him down he varies, I think, from
an accurate answer. I could have used stronger language, but―[laughter]—
Q. Mr. President, I am commissioner of airports of LAX [Los Angeles Inter-
national Airport] and several others. In August of this year, Secretary Coleman
made a recommendation to OMB [Office of Management and Budget] relative
to noise abatement programs as it affects retrofit and the phasing out of the air-
craft. Are you going to be prepared to give us an answer prior to November 2
as to what we can expect on noise abatement in LAX?
THE PRESIDENT. I have spent a great deal of time with Secretary Coleman in
the last month on just that question, and I have also spent a good bit of time
with others within the administration. And let me give you some idea of what
the problem is, as well as what the solution might be.
And I don't want to preempt precisely what we are going to do, but the
problem is that there are about 25 airports in this country where there is a noise
problem. It involves roughly 6 million people who live adjacent to or within the
area of those airports. The noise standards that were established by FAA
[Federal Aviation Administration], as I recall about 2 years ago, required that
all new aircraft that are going to use those, or any airports in this country, must
meet those standards.
Under that kind of a program, as I recall, it will take 8 to 10 years to go
through the whole cycle of abandoning those present planes that don't meet the
standard and replacing them with planes that do meet the standard. I am very
concerned that we have not been tougher in this regard.
Now, when you say that, in effect you are saying that today we're going to
impose on all aircraft who use our many, many airports in this country the
same standards, the new ones as well as those that are unable to meet the
problem, which, if you did it today, would force the aircraft industry to replace,
2455
