[904]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
[4469] to limit beef imports and thereby help the American beef industry. I
have repeatedly said that I would not under any circumstances permit the
United States to become a dumping grounds for foreign beef.
I've already done something about Government loan rates for grains. On
Wednesday, I ordered an increase in the Government loan rates for wheat
from $1.50 to $2.25 a bushel; for corn, from $1.25 to $1.50. These adjustments,
as you know far better than I, will permit the bumper crops to be marketed in
a much more orderly way, and will help farmers to properly finance next year's
plantings.
And I've also done something about the great tradition of the American fam-
ily farm. Earlier this year I called upon the Congress to increase the Federal
estate tax exemption. I fought hard for it and was proud to sign it into law a
few days ago. This increases the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to the
equivalent of $175,000. This new law also permits estate tax payments on family
farms to be stretched out over an extended period. These tax reforms will go
a long, long way to help save the family farm from the Federal tax collector.
But I must add one other comment. Congress failed to go along with my
proposal to permit tax exempt transfers from spouse to spouse, but next year
I'm going to put the pressure on the Congress and will keep it there until they
do something about this situation.
I'm also trying to do something about the drought. [Laughter] I've just signed
legislation authorizing the establishment, for the first time in American history,
of a national policy to develop new methods of combating the crippling drought
conditions that have cut farm production far too frequently. Under this new
program, the Commerce Department will conduct research and develop means
of modifying the effects of severe weather changes to protect the farmer.
This new program, with some extra funding, is in addition to the increases
that I approved for other agriculture research and development in this year's
budget at a time when we were faced with serious financial problems in the
Federal Government, at a time when I kept the lid on, or actually cut back a
number of Federal programs. But agricultural research has produced wonders
for America and the world, and we must continue making sound investment in
research and development in agriculture in the future for us and those around
the world.
Those are some of the things that our Government can and should do to
help you. The Government should never try to dictate how farmers should
farm. I have faith in the ability of America's farmers to make their own decisions,
to determine what and how much they will plant. As long as I am your Presi-
2542
