[1070]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
foreign moves that affect the price and can alter the availability of imported oil.
Strategic storage will provide a first line of defense against the threat of dis-
rupted supplies. This vital program must be implemented, and we must also
take positive steps to lessen our economic dependence upon foreign oil.
Measures that will make us less dependent on foreign energy supplies have
been proposed by this Administration; but unfortunately many of the most im-
portant proposals have not yet been accepted by the Congress. Some of the
measures involve present costs which will yield much greater future benefits.
Others, which would lead to more efficient use of our energy resources, would
benefit the Nation immediately as well as in the future.
It is critically important—for energy security, environmental quality, and long-
term economic productivity—that prices of domestic petroleum and natural gas
be allowed to match more closely the full cost of these fuels. In the immediate
future oil prices should be allowed to rise as they were intended to do under
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. Steps should also be taken which would
help close the gap more rapidly between domestic and world market prices
for petroleum, allow a free-market price for North Slope Alaskan oil, and de-
regulate the wellhead price of new natural gas.
Although a number of inconsistencies remain, the relation between the Na-
tion's goals for energy and for the environment has become clearer and the
effects of existing policies more fully known. The time is ripe for reexamining
environmental policy and determining whether the ends we all seek can be
achieved at a lower cost to the economy and to the security of our energy supplies.
Taken together, all of the actions recommended here would help the economy
to adjust to the new energy situation and do much to ensure more reliable
supplies of energy for the future. They would also signal to the world that this
Nation is serious about developing secure supplies of energy. Most important,
these efforts would encourage conservation and give industry the confidence
that will spur the production of both conventional fuels and substitutes.
REGULATORY REFORM
As economic problems have arisen and been dealt with by new policy initia-
tives, the Government's role in the economy has grown ever larger. The number
of commissions, agencies, administrations, bureaus, and offices set up to con-
duct programs increases constantly. Each appears important when it is first
established. The trouble is that they are seldom, if ever, terminated when they
2950
