[691]
July 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
oil and gas from the Federal Outer Continental Shelf. It incorporates for
coastal States the principal elements of the Energy Development Impact Assist-
ance Program, which I recommended to Congress in February of this year.
Specifically, the bill creates a Coastal Energy Impact Program with an author-
ization level of $1.2 billion over the next 10 years. The principal form of the
assistance will be loans and loan guarantees to assist communities in developing
the additional public facilities needed to cope with the expanding population
associated with new OCS and coastal-dependent energy activities. In addition,
Federal grants are authorized to assist States and communities in planning for
these impacts, in ameliorating unavoidable environmental losses, and in pro-
viding public facilities and public services for limited time periods to the extent
adequate credit under the bill is available.
The legislation has been carefully designed to ensure that Federal assistance
is limited to those situations where the assistance is needed, and only for those
specified projects or activities directly related to increased coastal energy activity.
Clearly, the national taxpayer should not be asked to underwrite costs normally
covered by ordinary State and local taxes; similarly, the energy industry should
bear its normal tax load and the usual costs of doing business.
Under the bill, loans and loan guarantees will be provided for public facilities
needed because of new or expanded coastal energy activity, in recognition that
such facilities would normally be financed through State and local bonding.
Grants for public facilities can only be used if the Secretary of Commerce finds
that the loans and loan guarantees are not available. Grants may also be used
for planning and for the prevention, reduction, or amelioration of unavoidable
environmental losses if the Secretary determines that the loss is not attributable
to, or assessable against, any specific person and cannot be paid for through
other Federal programs.
The bill also appropriately limits the extent to which the Federal Government
will become involved in decisions that should be made at State and local levels.
The individual States and localities will determine whether their principal
need is for schools, roads, hospitals, new parks, or other similar facilities. The
Secretary of Commerce will have responsibilities which are limited to those
areas where Federal involvement is necessary.
Prior to the disbursement of funds, the Secretary of Commerce must make
certain that States which are entitled to receive loans or grants will expend
or commit the proceeds in accordance with authorized purposes and that Fed-
eral loan grants will not subsidize public services for an unreasonable length of
time. The Secretary must also determine, prior to the disbursement of funds, that
2088
