[706]
July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
your preference. I request that you sign your letter, and I assure you that your
response will be handled in complete confidence.
I appreciate the time and thoughtfulness which I know you will devote to
this matter. It is an important decision for our Party and for our country. I
would fully understand, considering the status of the Presidential contest within
our Party, if for any reason you would rather not respond. I do welcome any
suggestions you may wish to submit and pledge my personal attention. I look
forward to seeing you in Kansas City.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
707
Remarks of Welcome to President Urho Kekkonen
of Finland. August 3, 1976
President Kekkonen, ladies and gentlemen:
On behalf of the American people, I am delighted to welcome you to our
country. Your visit permits us to reaffirm the closeness of the ties between our
two countries and to reciprocate the wonderful hospitality extended to Mrs.
Ford and me in Helsinki just a year ago.
Finns began arriving in America over 300 years ago and have contributed
much to the building of the United States. My home State, Michigan, which
is said to resemble Finland in many respects, has attracted many Finns. Their
cultural influence, the deep Finnish devotion to education, commerce, farming,
and physical fitness is evident in Michigan's copper country.
Mr. President, Finland has proven beyond any doubt whatsoever in recent
years that a small country can make important contributions to world peace
and world understanding of fundamental importance to both of our nations.
Your active involvement in world affairs, your role in the United Nations,
including a significant part in peacekeeping forces in the Middle East and in
Cyprus, your serving as a host to important international conferences such as
the initial phase of the strategic arms negotiations and the Conference on Secu-
rity and Cooperation in Europe have all contributed to a better world. Finland
has played a constructive role within the Nordic Council and the Organiza-
tion for Economic Cooperation and Development and has followed closely
the dialog which has been established between the developed and developing
countries.
2114
