October 12
[886]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
certain that we spend your tax dollars in a responsible and a proper way. We
must make certain that we find the best way, the fairest way for the Federal
Government to tax all of you. I happen to believe very strongly that the middle-
income taxpayer of this country has been shortchanged and that the middle-in-
come taxpayer needs a tax reduction in the way that I proposed by increasing the
personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. And we're going to get it in the next
session of Congress.
But it is also important that we find the best answer to making America
prosperous again. And we can do that by the right tax policies that give more
tax reduction to the taxpayers and hold a reasonable restraint on the expenditure
of Federal funds.
Let me say this: I will never be satisfied until everybody who wants to work
can find a job, period.
Let me in conclusion make this observation. America is strong; America is
secure. There is not a single young American boy fighting or dying on foreign
soil today. We are at peace, and we should be proud of it. We have the military
capability and the diplomatic skill to keep the peace.
So, I pledge to each and every one of you that we will have a strong and
prosperous economy. We will have a peace that is secure. And you can trust your
President, who has restored trust in the White House.
Thank you very, very much.
BAY RIDGE (3 p.m.)
LET ME say just a few words. I think we can say with pride, we can say with the
fullest, complete conviction, that we are doing the right thing for this country.
I am the first President in 20 years who can go before the American people and
say that our Nation is at peace. There is not a single young American fighting
or dying on any foreign soil today, and we should be proud of it. And we have
the military capability and the diplomatic skills to keep the peace, and you
will under a Ford administration.
But we have to have a healthy economy at home, and that means a job for
everybody who wants a job; it means a home for everybody who will work for it
and save for it. And that means we have to get rid of the crime on the streets so
that you and your children will be free of any terrorism, either at home or
abroad. It means that you have to have the best education, the kind of health care
that you need and that you can afford.
So, we want only good health, good education, a better tax system, responsible
action in meeting the problems of crime, equality of life in America.
2493
