September 9
[766]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
nally proposed that our first subject be defense and foreign policy, and that it
should be held yesterday, September 8. Mr. Carter rejected this arrangement. I
guess he did not want me to be present. Well, I got here as quickly as I could.
[Laughter] Without objection, I'd like my turn at the plate.
Number one, Mr. Carter told you, "I have called for closer ties with our tradi-
tional allies and stronger ties with the State of Israel." I say to you, Israel is one
of our traditional allies, and our ties have never been closer or stronger.
As for our other allies, the gentleman has proposed troop withdrawals from
Western Europe and from Korea; defense budget cuts that would cripple our
ability to supply or sustain our friends; bans on nuclear tests by our allies; a
nuclear strategy of massive retaliation-policies which would invite a major
crisis with our allies, including Israel.
Number two, Mr. Carter told you, and I quote, "I have stressed the necessity
for a strong defense, tough and muscular, adequate to maintain our freedom
under any conceivable circumstances." I say to you, the gentleman on other
occasions has advocated defense cuts of $5 to $7 billion, delaying our strategic
bomber program, withdrawing from overseas bases, and cutting off military aid
to vital allies. I say to you, if we do any or all of these things it would be impossi-
ble to have a defense adequate to maintain our freedom and the freedom of our
friends.
Finally, I seem to recall that the shepherd boy, David, was both tough and
muscular. It's a good thing he also had the most advanced weapon system of
that day.
Number three, the gentleman told you, "We have allowed virtually unlimited
sales of arms to countries around the world, a policy as cynical as it is danger-
ous.” I tell you, most of our arms sales in military aid goes to key countries like
Israel and Iran. I assume he is not proposing to cut off Israel.
Does the gentleman want Soviet arms to have a monopoly in the world?
Does he want our adversaries to arm not only the radical Arabs but also the more
moderate Arabs? Does Mr. Carter honestly consider his own country's bipartisan
policies more cynical and less moral than the Soviet Union's?
And now, back to my nice nonpartisan speech.
As America celebrates its 200th anniversary, there is a new maturity in our
national pride. There is a new awareness that ours is a nation of many faiths
and denominations-Jewish, Catholic, Protestant, and others—all equally hon-
ored and all equally separated and protected from government by the Constitu-
tion of the United States. A fresh optimism grows from self-confidence and
mutual trust and from a reliable, stable, enduring philosophy of government.
2223
