October 15
[906]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the world. We all want to keep this industry strong so that our farmers and
ranchers can continue to provide the food that America needs.
This legislation provides a useful and necessary program to ensure that the
livestock industry can obtain the credit it needs in order to return to a healthy
and a stable position.
This action and other actions I have recently taken, such as signing the much
needed packer bonding legislation and the imposition of quotas on meat im-
ports, will help to strengthen the American livestock industry. I consider it
critically important that we continue to provide the relief to the livestock in-
dustry while it is experiencing the current economic adversities.
The bill, which I will sign very shortly, will assist livestock producers, pro-
vide stability in the marketplace, and help to ensure an adequate supply of meat
for the American consumer at reasonable prices.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:23 p.m. at the
Iowa State University College of Veterinary Medi-
cine.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 15059) is Public Law
94-517 (90 Stat. 2446).
906
Telephone Conversation With Senator Robert Dole
Following the Vice-Presidential Campaign Debate.
October 15, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Bob?
SENATOR DOLE. Yes, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. You did great. And Betty and I, on our anniversary, are very,
very grateful for the anniversary present, because your performance was superb.
And we are all applauding and very, very proud of your accomplishments.
SENATOR DOLE. I am very proud of you, Mr. President, and I hope I did a good
job. I had a bad cold, but I guess my voice held out long enough.
THE PRESIDENT. You were confident. You hit hard but hit fairly. And you dif-
ferentiated the issues, I think, very effectively between their platform and ours,
between our promises and theirs, where we have consistently said that taxes
ought to be reduced, and they have, as we all know, played both sides of the
street. You have done a fine job in showing that they are the big spenders, and
we are the ones that think we should spend responsibly and effectively.
And I think the most telling point you made—there was no answer by Senator
2545
