October 29
[993]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
family of five. I said, “If Congress had been smart enough they would have
done what President Ford recommended, and then next April when you have
to fill out your income tax return, you would have had $1,250 more in personal
exemption."
Well, the Congress was irresponsible, unresponsive, and they didn't do it.
Next January, I am going to put that same proposal on their desk, and if they
don't pass it, I will put it on their desk the next January, in 1978, and if they
don't pass it then, will you help me beat them in the next election in 1978?
The best tax reform that I know is tax reduction, and the kind of a tax reduc-
tion program I recommended is meaningful. It will help 50 percent of the
American taxpayers when they need it. So, let's make sure that instead of the
kind of talk that I hear from my opponent, where one day he says he might
give a tax reduction, the next day he says he isn't sure—you can count on
President Ford to be on your side to reduce taxes in 1977.
Let me conclude with this observation: This election, in 3 days, will determine
the direction of this country not only for the 4 years but for the next 100 years,
which is our third century of American history.
Our forefathers, 200 years ago, drafted the most wonderful document for the
governing of people in the history of mankind, and on July 4 of this year, we
celebrated our 200th birthday. You had celebrations the length and the breadth
of America. I was privileged to go to Valley Forge and to see where the straggling
army of George Washington fought that battle. I was privileged to be in
Philadelphia where it all began. I was privileged to be in New York City to
see those "Tall Ships", where countries from all over the world came to pay
respect to the greatest country in the history of mankind.
Out of that wonderful birthday celebration, America had a rebirth of spirit,
a restoration of confidence, and a feeling that America was on the move. We
can keep it on the move if you do your job on November 2, 1976.
I have been honored to be your President for the last 2 years, through the
tough, difficult times we have had. I have nothing but the highest aspirations
for all of you who kept your cool and stayed with us during those tough times.
I would be honored to be your President in the next 4 years, and I would be
so pleased, I would be so proud, if you would tell me, “Jerry, you have done a
good job, keep right on doing it.”
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:27 p.m. at the
Luther Ely Smith Memorial Park. In his remarks, he
referred to John C. Danforth, attorney general of
Missouri, and Gene McNary, chairman of the St.
Louis County President Ford Committee.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
2793
