[908]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
holes." But this is the one loophole that you are specifically on record with a
promise to repeal.
Finally, you say that I have unfairly accused you of favoring "spending pro-
grams that would total over $100 billion.”
Actually, the total cost of the Democratic platform, which you have endorsed,
would be far more than $100 billion-probably in the neighborhood of $200
billion.
The $100 billion figure, to which I have referred, is the cost of only four spe-
cific programs that are provided in the Democratic platform. These are: The
Humphrey-Hawkins Job Bill, costing $10.3 billion in the first year; the Ken-
nedy-Corman National Health Insurance Program, costing $70 billion in the
first year; the Griffith Negative Income Tax, costing $9.9 billion the first year;
and the Perkins Federal Education Bill, costing $12 billion the first—a total cost
of just over $102 billion in the first year. Costs in subsequent years would be
sure to rise rapidly, requiring higher taxes, higher inflation, or both.
It is, of course, your right to change your position on any or all of these issues.
What
you have done instead is to claim that you never took the positions in the
first place.
The facts, however, are part of the documented record.
So long as you do not acknowledge these views and publicly reverse them, it
must be assumed that these are still positions which you stand behind.
While your current effort to clarify your positions on the issues appears to be
limited to the above items, it seems to me there is the need for further clarifica-
tion on many additional issues. I would also like to assist your clarification effort
in a few additional areas:
1. Do you really believe, as you stated in San Francisco, that America is no
longer respected?
2. Do you really believe, as you stated in San Francisco, that our country is
not strong any more?
3. Do you really believe, as you stated in an interview with Liberty Magazine,
that church property, other than the church building itself, should be
taxed?
4. Do you really believe we can defend freedom and avoid Communist dom-
ination of our allies by withdrawing our troops from Korea and reducing
other commitments overseas?
5. Do you agree with your chief economic adviser who, according to the New
York Times of Monday, said that your economic policies will increase
inflation?
2566
