[817]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
remain number one, that America will be number one so we can keep the peace,
deter aggression, and protect our national security.
Well, I want to warn you about one thing. I am dismayed that my opponent
thinks you can make a stronger Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps by
cutting them $5 to $7 to $9 to $15 billion. You can't do it. He ought to know
better. And under President Ford, we won't.
But as long as we build our military capability for the preservation of peace
here and abroad, we have to do things to build up our economy so that we can
take full advantage of the natural blessings that we have here at home.
I can recall hearing about the Tennessee-Tombigbee project when I first
went to the Congress in 1949. Nothing has pleased me more than to see the
construction that is underway for this great public works project. And let me
say without hesitation that the Ford administration will make certain that it
will proceed and proceed at full funding. In 1976, we recommended about $65
billion [million]. In 1977, it was about $85 to $90 billion [million], and the
latest figures for planning for the next fiscal year, something over $100 million.
That is the kind of support that the Ford administration gives to the Tennessee-
Tombigbee a good project which we want not just for you but for all
America.
But we have to think in even broader terms than that. We have to think
about the quality of life that we want for 215 million Americans for the next 4
years and the next century. What are those things? I mentioned earlier that
we want a job for everybody who wants to work, who will work, and will
look for work.
We want a home for every family that will work and save, and we want
that home for them in a decent neighborhood. We will get that kind of a
program and those kinds of homes under a Ford administration. We've built
almost 3 million homes in the last 2 years under this administration, and we
will be doing better in the next 4 years.
We all want the best in medical care, and we have the capability of doing it.
And we want it so that the American people will have an opportunity to get
that care. There is no reason in this country why a person should go broke just
to get well, and they won't under this administration.
Then, every one of us for the last 4 or 5 years has worried about crime. The
crime rate went up in 1974. It dropped off a little in 1975. We have some encour-
aging news in the first 6 months of 1976. It is down to a net gain of 3 percent.
But we have to make certain, under our crime legislation, in the courts of this
2342
