[817]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
I especially want to indicate my gratitude, Governor Wallace, for your accept-
ing my invitation to come to Mobile and to give me a welcome in front of your
wonderful friends from the State of Alabama. I have known Governor Wallace
ever since I was the minority leader. He was your Governor. We worked together
then; we worked together when I was Vice President.
I have attended a number of conferences where Governors and the President
were in session, and our working relationship in trying to solve problems—
regardless of whether Governor Wallace is a Democrat and I am a Republican-
that was the aim and the objective of our relationship. And I can say without
hesitation, I have never known anyone who I could work better with in that
relationship, and I thank you very, very much.
You don't know how pleased I am, how honored I am with the comments by
my long-time friend, Bear Bryant. He is right. We graduated-he from the
University of Alabama, and I from the University of Michigan. He got into
coaching, and I did. He did a lot better in coaching than I did, but let me say that
I am a good Monday morning quarterback when it comes to reading the paper
and seeing what ball teams win and what ball teams lose.
I don't offer the advice because I played and coached, and I found that, you
know, there is nothing like the coach who is there and the players who have
to play. But I have great respect for the players that are successful and the coaches
who are successful. And I want to commend all of you here in the great State of
Alabama for not only having a great university and a great university at
Auburn, but I want to commend you for having, I think, one of the outstanding
coaches, not only from the point of view of technically being a great coach but
being a great leader of men, and that's what really counts.
Thank you very much, Bear.
When I made the acceptance speech in Kansas City, I made a pledge, and
I used these words: I said that I will not concede a single State, I will not concede
a single vote. I was going to travel this country from the snowy banks of Min-
nesota to the sunny plains of Georgia, and that I was going to cut across this
country North, South, East, and West-we were going to have a national
campaign.
And in the last 2 days, I've traveled by riverboat, I've traveled by car, by
plane, and it's been a tremendous experience. We have been in Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama, and we are going to Florida after we leave here tonight.
But what impresses me is that we come to these wonderful States, where I
think we have great support, and I think with all the enthusiasm and drive and
2340
