[708]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
708
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
and Two Studies Undertaken by the Federal
Council on the Aging.
August 3, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith the Annual Report of the Federal Council on
Aging, together with two studies undertaken by the Council as required by
sections 205 (f-h) of the Older Americans Act (P.L. 93–29).
Last year I indicated that I was looking forward to receiving then two studies
from the Federal Council on Aging. The Council recognized its responsibilities
and undertook the task in a forthright manner. I appreciate the fine work that
the Council has done, particularly with the severe time constraints imposed
upon it.
The Council's report and studies provide documentation, from the viewpoint
of our elderly citizens, which support the need for legislation along the lines of
my proposed Financial Assistance for Health Care Act and the Income Assist-
ance Simplification Act which I will be proposing shortly. My proposals would
permit both Federal and State programs to be simplified and integrated into a
coordinated system that would best meet the needs of our citizens.
Council Recommendations
With respect to the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program, the
Council has recommended in its program report that legislation be passed
that mandates continuance of a specific State supplementation for certain re-
cipients. The Federal Government took over this program from the States on
January 1, 1974, and provided a basic payment level to recipients. For those in-
dividuals who received benefits under the State programs in December 1973
that were larger than the basic Federal payment level, and who continue to be
eligible for SSI, States are required to supplement the basic Federal payment
up to the level of the December 1973 payment to such recipients. The require-
ment does not apply to new recipients who became eligible after December 1973.
The Council's legislative proposal would require that the size of the State sup-
plementation to recipients carried over from the State programs on January 1,
1974, could not be reduced. Thus, whenever the basic Federal payment level is
increased, this proposal would allow States to continue to maintain a disparity
in the benefits for the carried-over recipients versus those recipients who came
2116
