October 7
[859]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Our opponents have managed to turn the words of President Teddy Roose-
velt upside down. Some of you may recall that Teddy Roosevelt once said,
"Speak softly and carry a big stick." Our opponents want to speak loudly and
carry a fly swatter. Such an attitude is a danger to our military and diplomatic
stability abroad and to our economic stability here in America.
World peace depends on continued American military strength. Over the
years, the workers of California have played a vital role in maintaining that
strength and keeping that peace. You have done a great job. In the next 4
years, I am going to see that you keep right on doing it.
Thank you. Congratulations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. at the B-1
Division of the Rockwell International Corporation.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Robert Ander-
859
son, president and chief executive officer of Rockwell
International.
Memorandum to Secretary of Commerce Richardson on the Arab
Boycott of American Businesses. October 7, 1976
Memorandum for the Secretary of Commerce
Would you please assure that the Department of Commerce takes steps to
permit the public inspection and copying of boycott-related reports to be filed
in the future with the Department of Commerce. Only business proprietary
information regarding such things as quantity and type of goods exported, the
release of which could place reporting firms at a competitive disadvantage,
should not be made available to the public.
During the past year, there has been a growing interest in and awareness of
the impact of the Arab Boycott on American business. Disclosure of boycott-
related reports will enable the American public to assess for itself the nature
and impact of the Arab Boycott and to monitor the conduct of American
companies.
I have concluded that this public disclosure will strengthen existing policy
against the Arab Boycott of Israel without jeopardizing our vital interests in the
Middle East. The action I am directing today should serve as a reaffirmation
of our national policy of opposition to boycott actions against nations friendly
to us.
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was released in Los Angeles, Calif.
GERALD R. FORD
2441
