[663]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Neighborhoods and churches, schools and civic groups can keep America as
proud and active every day as it was on the last Fourth of July.
You can maintain America's renewed confidence in itself. Your projects will
bring Americans together. You can give some real meaning to your motto by
making this time of national rebirth an era of unity for service.
Our Government should be a focal point for national pride. It must nurture
the energy and the spirit that we saw on the Fourth of July for the good of all.
Governmental power must be used wisely, cautiously, constructively. It can only
work if every government official, elected or appointed, is a model of personal
integrity.
We can all aspire to achieve that goal set by George Washington at the Consti-
tutional Convention when he said, and I quote, “Let us raise a standard to which
the wise and honest can repair. The rest is in the hands of God.”
In this way, with this new spirit, with this new energy, with this new dedica-
tion, with this greater vision, we will sustain not only just the spirit of a single
historic weekend, but the spirit of two centuries which will give us the impetus
to move to a greater century, so we can celebrate for our Tricentennial an even
greater American birthday party.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:49 p.m. in the
Sheraton Hall at the Sheraton Park Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Jack A. Pirrie, out-
going national president, and Lee Wells, executive
secretary, National Exchange Club.
664
Remarks Following a Meeting With Law Enforcement Officials
on the Successful Completion of Two Undercover Operations.
July 13, 1976
YOU CAN see I am in good hands with all of these outstanding law enforce-
ment officers. I asked them to come in because I wanted the American people
to know that their President fully supported the combined efforts of law enforce-
ment officers, both the Federal as well as local, in trying to protect the lives
and property of the American people.
And these two operations which were conducted with the combined efforts
of a number of Federal and local agencies is a clear indication of what can be
done. I congratulate and compliment the individuals involved and the various
departments. They conducted these operations under very difficult circumstances,
but they set an example. They were financed with the help and assistance of
2008
