August 19
[731]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
solid for Ronald Reagan. Tonight, after the nomination, I was quite pleased
to see Texas, who fought so hard, waving Ford signs. How do you plan on
carrying these States, being sure they go to Ford in November?
THE PRESIDENT. I think all during the campaign, the Ford people that I
talked with indicated they would have supported Governor Reagan, and the
Reagan people that I had the opportunity to talk with or heard from otherwise
said they would support President Ford. I think that is true across the spectrum
as far as the convention is concerned. Our principles really transcend person-
alities, and I think we can solidify the party, strengthen it, and win in November.
Thank you very, very much.
GOVERNOR REAGAN. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 a.m. at the
Alameda Plaza Hotel, where Governor Reagan was
staying during the Republican National Convention.
Following his nomination as the 1976 Republican
Presidential candidate, the President went to the
hotel to meet with the former.
731
Remarks to Campaign Supporters in Kansas City.
August 19, 1976
IT IS really awfully hard to express adequately my deep appreciation, that of
Betty, all of the family.
As we have traveled in every one of the 50 States, you have been wonderful in
helping and assisting. You have been tremendous here as an inspiration in the
closing minutes of a tough ball game.
When things didn't go as well as we would have liked, we know that we had
literally millions and millions of people—young, old, all kinds of Americans—
who were out there willing to go to the mat to help us. And I want you to know
that helped us get through and win, and win on November 2.
I want you to know that I just returned from a meeting with Governor
Reagan. I complimented him on a real good campaign. I indicated that we
certainly wanted him to be standing shoulder to shoulder with us in the months
ahead. And I am glad to report that he indicated he would be there fighting
just as hard as I am.
So, I think we can leave that arena tomorrow night unified, vigorous, de-
termined to win for the American people on November 2.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 a.m. in the Lobby at the Crown Center Hotel.
2153
