[862]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I am very personally conscious of
the importance of that airport. I have flown in there a few times over the years
when I have had the privilege of visiting California. The Secretary of Commerce,
the head of the FEA [FAA], and the Secretary of Transportation are all very
cognizant not only of the importance of that airport to this area but to the
State. And I can assure you that they will make a maximum effort to come
to the right decision, which I hope, obviously, is one that will satisfy the needs
of the people of this area.
Q. Mr. President, do you have a time frame established for returning to a
balanced budget?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer-well, let me repeat the question in case some
didn't hear.
The question is, do I have a timetable for returning to a balanced budget?
The answer is categorically yes.
In the State of the Union Message that I gave to the Congress in January
of this year, in the budget that I submitted to the Congress in January of this
year, and the economic program that was likewise submitted, we pointed out
that if we cut the rate of growth of Federal spending from 11 percent to 5½
percent, and if we gave the $28-billion tax reduction that I proposed-which
means that you would have, for every dollar you cut in Federal spending, you
could have a dollar reduction in Federal taxes—we could have, by the budget
that I submitted-or would submit, I should say, in January of 1978, a bal-
anced budget.
Now we have run into a problem, but it's not insoluble. I recommended a
budget for the current fiscal year of $395 billion. The Congress has exceeded
that by their resolution by approximately $18 billion. That is more, obviously,
than I think the Federal Government should spend.
But I believe with a new and better Congress-and I hope we get one-we
can make some adjustments that, in my opinion, will make up for the extrav-
agance of this past Congress. In other words, we have two more budget cycles
where, I think, we can put the lid on, keep the spending under control, and still
achieve our balanced budget that would be submitted in January of 1978.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you what is your feeling on the taxa-
tion of church-owned property, not the church itself but on parochial schools?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I indicated in my remarks, Mr. Carter, in an inter-
view that he gave to a magazine called Liberty—which is a magazine published
by the Seventh Day Adventist faith-said that he was in favor of taxing all
church property other than the church itself.
1
I
H
!
2452
