[1072]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Secretary of Transportation conducted hearings on alternative financing
arrangements.
With regard to the financing problem, it is encouraging to note that the air-
lines have reported that their earnings for 1976 increased substantially over
those for the previous year. I believe, however, that it is essential to the long-term
economic success of the airlines that meaningful regulatory reform legislation be
enacted in this session of the Congress.
It must be recognized that it is up to the Congress to enact legislation on
regulatory reform and that the full benefits of any such legislation would be
phased in over time. Implementation of the noise requirements, however, must
begin now. Because the airlines must meet the prescribed noise reduction sched-
ule on time and in a cost-effective manner, I am submitting two bills for the
consideration of the Congress.
In brief, the amendments to the Federal Aviation Act and the Airport and
Airway Development Act, that I am now submitting provide for:
(1) The establishment by the Civil Aeronautics Board of a program under
which an environmental surcharge would be placed on air passenger tickets and
waybills that would provide revenues necessary to help finance the modification
or replacement of noisy aircraft; and
(2) The establishment of a program of grants to airlines from existing bal-
ances in the Airport and Airway Trust Fund to assist in financing the modifica-
tion of categories of aircraft specified by the Secretary of Transportation.
The amendments to the Internal Revenue Code provide:
-A reduction in existing air passenger ticket and waybill taxes, the revenues
from which have built up a $1.5 billion surplus in the Airport and Airway
Trust Fund.
Revenues from the reduced aviation user taxes will still be sufficient to finance
Government airport and airway programs at levels provided for through fiscal
year 1980.
Again, it is preferable to solve the long-term financial requirements of the
aircraft noise problem through the enactment of the regulatory reform legisla-
tion I proposed in 1975 and have recommended again this year. Given the need
to begin implementation of these noise rules immediately, I recommend that
the Congress give careful attention to the benefits that my regulatory reform
proposal will provide and consider the bills I am forwarding today in this
context.
The White House,
January 18, 1977.
GERALD R. FORD
2960
