[766]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
bassador here and I was in the Congress, reported to his Parliament on June 15
this year, and I quote:
"I note with satisfaction that during the past 2 years, relations between the
United States and Israel have become closer.
"Our governments have arrived at a common approach regarding the de-
sirable political direction on the road to peace and in the development of
processes of peace... there has been no erosion in the position and in the attitude
of the Administration, the Congress, and the American public, toward Israel.
"Relations between the United States and Israel remain firm . . . it will never
be superfluous to emphasize and reemphasize the feeling of gratitude and ap-
preciation that the people, the Knesset and the Government in Israel maintain
toward the United States for its stand on Israel's side."
The negotiating process will continue. The progress made has withstood the
dangerous conflict in Lebanon, and I believe it helped to prevent that tragic
warfare from spilling over into a wider confrontation.
I intend to pursue further progress, because it is right for America, right
for Israel, right for the Arabs, indeed right for all the peoples throughout this
world. I do not promise you it will be easy.
I can tell you what I will do:
There will be no imposed solutions, but agreements whose terms are ham-
mered out between the parties as in the Sinai agreement. There will be no one-
sided concessions, but a balanced quid pro quo in exchange for everything
given up. We will proceed as we have in the closest, constant consultation with
Israel before, during, and after any negotiations.
A strong Israel is essential to peace and to the national security interests of
the United States. From the time I first ran for Congress in 1948, I recognized
the justice of Israel's rebirth and its importance to the United States. I am proud
to stand on my consistent 28-year record of support for Israel. You know where
I stand. The funds I proposed for Israel in my first two budgets totaled over
$4 billion for 27 months. These figures speak more eloquently than words.
I am proud that my ambassadors at the United Nations have stood up and
spoken out for the elementary principle of fairness that Americans believe in.
I tell you now that we will fight any measure that condemns Zionism as racism
or that attempts to deny Israel her full rights of membership in the United
Nations. The United States will stand firm in its commitment to Israel's security
and survival.
America's policy of peace through strength has proven itself in the Middle
East and throughout the world. Nobody questions our dedication to peace, and
2226
