[735]
August 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
[Laughter] But during the time that I served in the Congress of the United
States, in the House, I got to know a great, great Congressman, he was a pretty
big guy, Wynn Smith. And he was followed by Bob Dole, and now Keith
Sebelius. What I'm really saying is you not only produce cattle and wheat and
energy but, doggone it, you produce great people.
When I looked over the list of people that I wanted to be my teammate in the
months ahead, for the first 75 days while we go through a tough campaign so
we can have the privilege and the honor of winning November 2 and serving
the American people for the next 4 years-Bob Dole was the guy.
Let me mention just one or two reasons why Bob makes a wonderful team-
mate. We have to bring Washington, D.C., and local government closer to-
gether. Bob Dole was your county prosecutor, or county attorney, for 6 or 8 years.
He understands the problems of local communities and their relationship with
the Federal Government. We have to establish a better relationship between
State government and the Government in Washington. Bob Dole served in your
State legislature, so he understands the problems of the statehouse and the State
legislature.
Bob Dole served in the House of Representatives for 8 years in Washington,
D.C., representing this great western part of the State of Kansas. So he under-
stands all of your individual problems.
I will bet Bob could look around this group from Russell, Kansas, mention
many, many, many by name, and could refresh your memories—and his-of
how he helped you to do this or helped you do that. Bob is the kind of a person
who has a personal contact with people.
Then, of course, he has done a superb job in the United States Senate. Bob
served in the House of Representatives on the Committee on Agriculture. He
served in the Senate on the Committee on Agriculture as well as the Committee
on Finance. Those are two very, very key committees that involve not only the
people of Russell, Kansas, but 49 other States.
Let me just talk for a minute about the input that Bob can have and why
his part on the ticket is so essential.
First, we have got to find a way to give greater tax relief to the middle-income
people of this country who have been shortchanged over the years. About a week
ago the United States Senate was considering this tax bill that has been there
for consideration for some time. Bob took the initiative, on a recommendation
made by me, to take some real relief for middle-income taxpayers. He offered
the amendment to increase the personal exemption for every taxpayer from
$750 a person to $1,000.
2166
