[1057]
January 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have cut the growth of crime by nearly 90 percent. Two years ago crime
was increasing at the rate of 18 percent annually. In the first three quarters of
1976, that growth rate had been cut to 2 percent. But crime, and the fear of crime,
remains one of the most serious problems facing our citizens.
We have had some successes, and there have been some disappointments.
Bluntly, I must remind you that we have not made satisfactory progress toward
achieving energy independence. Energy is absolutely vital to the defense of our
country, to the strength of our economy, and to the quality of our lives.
Two years ago I proposed to the Congress the first comprehensive national
energy program-a specific and coordinated set of measures that would end
our vulnerability to embargo, blockade, or arbitrary price increases and would
mobilize U.S. technology and resources to supply a significant share of the free
world's energy after 1985. Of the major energy proposals I submitted 2 years
ago, only half, belatedly, became law. In 1973 we were dependent upon foreign
oil imports for 36 percent of our needs. Today, we are 40-percent dependent,
and we'll pay out $34 billion for foreign oil this year. Such vulnerability at pres-
ent or in the future is intolerable and must be ended.
The answer to where we stand on our national energy effort today reminds me
of the old argument about whether the tank is half full or half empty. The pes-
simist will say we have half failed to achieve our 10-year energy goals; the op-
timist will say that we have half succeeded. I am always an optimist, but we
must make up for lost time.
We have laid a solid foundation for completing the enormous task which con-
fronts us. I have signed into law five major energy bills which contain signifi-
cant measures for conservation, resource development, stockpiling, and standby
authorities. We have moved forward to develop the naval petroleum reserves;
to build a 500-million barrel strategic petroleum stockpile; to phase out unnec-
essary Government allocation and price controls; to develop a lasting relation-
ship with other oil consuming nations; to improve the efficiency of energy use
through conservation in automobiles, buildings, and industry; and to expand
research on new technology and renewable resources such as wind power, geo-
thermal and solar energy. All these actions, significant as they are for the long
term, are only the beginning.
I recently submitted to the Congress my proposals to reorganize the Federal
energy structure and the hard choices which remain if we are serious about
reducing our dependence upon foreign energy. These include programs to re-
verse our declining production of natural gas and increase incentives for domes-
tic crude oil production. I proposed to minimize environmental uncertainties
2922
