[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
is not respected, he is slandering America. I don't like it, and you don't like it,
and he is not going to be President for the next 4 years.
I am going to come down and have the privilege and honor of shaking hands
with as many of you as I possibly can. But while we are doing that, while I am
trying to do that, we have some very honored and very prominent and special
guests on board this train who have come from faraway places in our country
to show their support for me. I am going to ask your outstanding United States
Senator, Chuck Percy, to introduce them to you, and then they will come and
join me in extending the warm hand of friendship to all of you—Chuck.
[After greeting members of the community welcoming committee and members of
the audience, the President departed Lincoln Station for the Hotel Lincoln, where he
participated in an informal luncheon meeting with Illinois newspaper publishers, executive
editors, and State media executives.]
[5.] SPRINGFIELD (4:03 p.m.)
LET ME introduce a few of my very, very good friends, and a special one. We
celebrated our 28th anniversary last night in the great State of Illinois. I want
you to know my bride, Betty Ford.
This is my third visit to Springfield in the time that I've been President. But
before making a few observations and comments, let me introduce some people
that you know, that I know you want to support; first, my good friend, your
Senator, Chuck Percy. And let me introduce to you-I shouldn't have to—but
I want you to know that it's important for this district, for the State of Illinois,
and for the United States that you reelect your Congressman, Paul Findley. And
can I give you some good, sound, friendly advice? I think you ought to elect an
outstanding candidate who will be a great Governor-Jim Thompson. And then
I think it would be great if you also did the same thing for George Lindberg,
as State comptroller.
As I said at the outset, it's great to be in Springfield and in Illinois. We have
had a wonderful day coming from Joliet. Betty and I are here because we want
your help. We think we have a record of performance, a record that shows that
we have restored confidence and trust in the White House. We have turned
the economy around from the worst recession in the last 40 years. And right
today, we are on the road and a path toward real prosperity not only for 1977
but the kind of prosperity that will be good for America for a long, long time.
And I won't be satisfied until every American who wants to work has a job.
But also we have peace, and we have the military capability and the diplomatic
2556
