[815]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
have all along the coast-fishing, hunting. Gosh, I think we ought to make it
very clear right now. All right-believing people who are law-abiding ought to
have the traditional right under the Constitution to retain firearms for their
own national protection, period. I don't think you should have to go down and
register your gun or your firearm if you want to go hunting, and you won't
under a Ford administration.
Let's talk about some of the things that we want done in the future, but
let's take a quick look, if we could, at just what's happened in the last 2 years.
In August, 2 years ago, I became President in a very tough time in this country.
People had lost trust in the White House itself. We were having inflation of
over 12 percent. We were on the brink of the worst economic recession in the
last 40 years. We were still involved in Vietnam. They were troubled times.
People were distrustful of one another, and we were divided as a people.
But in the last 2 years we have calmed the waters, we have healed the
differences between our people, and we have made tremendous strides in
turning our economy around. Oh, you can't turn a switch and solve all the
problems, but instead of over 12 percent inflation, it's under 6 percent. We've
added 4 million jobs in the last 17 months. We're making all kinds of progress
to get this economy healthy again. Of course, we're no longer in Vietnam, and
we have peace, and we have the military capability to keep it.
But let me talk for just a minute about the military. I'm mighty proud of
the people out at Keesler Air Force Base. You're a very vital part of this great
national defense team that we have. I believe that the United States in the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, we're unsurpassed. And under a
Ford administration we're going to stay number one. In the last 2 years that
I've sent budgets to the Congress, I have submitted the two largest military
budgets in dollars in the history of this country. And let me be very frank with
you. Nobody can honestly cut the defense budget $5 to $7 billion, as my op-
ponent does, and keep America number one. You must do it the way I want it.
But let's talk about some of the things that we want for the young people, the
old people, and all of us. We have to think of the quality of life now that we
have gotten our economy turned around and we are out of Vietnam and trust
has been restored in the White House. We want everybody to have a job that
wants a job-a meaningful job, not a dead-end job under some of these subsi-
dized programs. We want the economy of this country to give the people of
this country a job where they can have an opportunity for advancement, to better
themselves, and have some security. We want the American people, those who
will work and save, to have a decent home in a decent neighborhood. We want
2336
