October 23
[951]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have made a substantial amount of progress. We have gone from a lack of trust
in the White House to confidence and trust in the White House under
President Ford. We have gone from inflation of over 12 percent 2 years ago,
to a rate of inflation under 6 percent, and it's going down. We have made a
lot of progress in winning the battle against inflation, and we're going to make a
lot more between now and the end of the next 4 years.
But then, let me make one other observation. America is at peace. We're at
peace because we're strong. Not a single young American is fighting or dying
on any foreign battlefield tonight. But we're able to do that because the United
States has the military capability and the diplomatic skill to strengthen our
allies and to get respect from our adversaries.
But the most fundamental thing that's important in America is our moral
and spiritual strengths. The United States is a nation where each and every one
of us has an opportunity to participate—to participate in government, to pray to
God, to have our own convictions, and strengthen the character of America. And
I think by any standard, we can say we are proud of America, and we are proud
to be Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 p.m. Prior to his
arrival at the State Fair, he attended the second half
of the Notre Dame-University of South Carolina
football game at William Brice Stadium on the
campus of the University of South Carolina.
951
Remarks in Columbia, South Carolina.
October 23, 1976
Thank you very much, Governor Jim Edwards, Senator Strom Thurmond,
Congressman Floyd Spence:
I can't express deeply enough my appreciation for the hospitality of Jim
and Ann and this wonderful turnout here in this just gorgeous mansion and
the grounds. I thank you all for your very warm and generous hospitality.
It's great to be in South Carolina.
I enjoyed the second half of the football game.¹ I can claim some credit—
you scored more points than your opponents while I was there. [Laughter]
As I said in Kansas City, I'm not going to concede a single State or a
single vote. While I'm here, let me extend to each and every one of you a
special invitation to come to Washington next January, when we have the
¹ The President was referring to the Notre Dame-University of South Carolina football game he attended
earlier at the University of South Carolina campus.
2659
