October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
skill to keep the peace. And I am very proud that not a single young American
is fighting or dying on any foreign soil today. That's a good record.
So, in the last 2 years plus, we have restored trust in the White House. We
are on the road to real prosperity, and we have peace. That's a record of per-
formance. I lay that alongside of the promises made by Jimmy Carter. It seems
to me that Jimmy Carter will say anything, anywhere to get to be President of
the United States. When Jimmy Carter is in California, he sounds like he is try-
ing to be Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter is in Chicago, he tries to sound like
Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter is in New York, he tries to sound like Bella
Abzug. But when Jimmy Carter comes down to Illinois, downstate, Jimmy
Carter tries to tell you he is just a little old peanut farmer. [Laughter]
Jimmy Carter-he wanders, he wavers, he wiggles, and he waffles. [Laughter]
I think you deserve a better candidate for the Presidency than Jimmy Carter,
and Jerry Ford is the candidate that I want you to support on November 2.
I believe that the best tax reform is tax reduction, and Jerry Ford tried to
get it for you with an increase in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
That would be good, sound tax relief, tax reduction, for the middle-income
taxpayer who has been shortchanged by the Democratic Congress. Jimmy
Carter-he wants to increase taxes for the individuals who will go from the
median income on up. That means that under Jimmy Carter's platform, Jimmy
Carter will increase the taxes of 50 percent of the Federal taxpayers in America.
Let me tell you, if you like Jimmy Carter, you like taxes. I think you prefer
Jerry Ford, who wants to reduce your middle-income taxes. A big issue, a
major difference between Jimmy Carter and myself—I think we've got to keep
a lid on Federal spending. I think the Federal Government has to pull in its
belt and stop spending your money as recklessly as we have.
Jimmy Carter embraces the Democratic platform, which calls for 60 new
programs that will spend a minimum of $100 billion more each year. And if you
cost them all out, it will probably cost you $200 billion more a year. I don't think
the American people want that kind of spending, which means more inflation
and more taxes.
But Jimmy says, well, he's going to reorganize the Federal Government.
Jimmy Carter, when he was Governor of the State of Georgia, told the people
of Georgia the same thing. What happened? Well, in 4 years, he increased the
number of State employees by over 25 percent, he increased the spending by
over 50 percent, and he added to the bonded indebtedness of Georgia by $200
million.
2557
