[842]
October 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
meeting, which grew out of a 1974 U.S. initiative, marked the first time that the
problems of women had been the subject of such a major international confer-
ence. With some exceptions the conference recorded a number of major achieve-
ments. The United States made significant contributions to the World Plan
of Action which was adopted at the conference, thus setting in motion a program
that will gradually help the world to realize the full rights and potential of
half of its people.
At my direction in November 1975, Secretary of State Kissinger sent a letter
to the Director General of the International Labor Organization announcing
our intention to withdraw from the organization in 1977 unless reforms are
made before then. We cited four special areas of concern: erosion of tripartite
representation; selective concern for human rights; disregard of due process; and
increasing politicization of a technical agency. We took this step only after the
most careful deliberation and, as we have stated, we will make every effort to
promote conditions that could permit us to continue to participate in the
organization.
The 30th session of the General Assembly was marked both by cooperation
and contention. Many economic and social issues were debated, resulting in
resolutions adopted by consensus. But political differences arose among the mem-
bers over such issues as Korea, the Middle East, human rights and decolonization.
Among other actions, a resolution equating Zionism with Racism was adopted
over strong United States opposition. We view this resolution as a fundamental
distortion of the truth and, as a result of its adoption, announced that we would
not participate in the activities of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and
Racial Discrimination.
These are but a few of the important events in the United Nations during
the past year. Much of the work of the United Nations is unknown because it is
not regularly reported through the news media. The economic, social and tech-
nical coordination work of the United Nations, which account for more than 90
percent of its total resources, include such important activities as:
—Maintaining international aviation safety standards;
-Helping to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons;
-Working to combat illicit drug production and trafficking;
-Improving health conditions and standards worldwide and combating
disease and plague;
-Setting improved international standards for the environment;
-Improving international food standards and preventing plant and animal
disease from crossing borders;
2388
