September 30
[831]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
831
The President's News Conference of
September 30, 1976
REPORTER. Mr. President, you are well aware of all the stories of allegations
concerning your Grand Rapids past and the campaign financing, I know, and
that the records allegedly have been subpoenaed by a Special Prosecutor. So,
this must be very disturbing, and I suppose you want it cleared up before the
election.
I know that you believe that the Judiciary Committee covered it all. But can
you say categorically that there has never been any misuse of any of your
campaign funds when you ran for Congress?
The President. First, let me say very emphatically that I strongly believe in
the Special Prosecutor concept. I supported, the administration supports the
continuation of a Special Prosecutor. I was pleased when the Senate passed a
version that included such a provision. And I am disappointed that the House
apparently is not going to do it. I should add that I have full confidence in the
integrity of Mr. Ruff in his responsibilities as the Special Prosecutor.
Number two, I also believe in the full integrity of the Department of Justice,
and I am certain that they will do whatever they are required to under their
responsibilities.
Let me add that nobody on my staff has any authority whatsoever to contact
either the Special Prosecutor or the Department of Justice to, in any way, hinder
or impede whatever investigations are going on.
What I know about the Kent County situation I have picked up in reading
the newspapers or seeing on television or radio what has been reported.
I, therefore, am not familiar with the precise charges, whatever they may be.
But I can say with complete confidence that I am certain that when the
investigation is completed, that I will be free of any allegations such as I've read
about.
I would add this final comment: There is a saying that's prevalent in the
law that “justice delayed is justice denied.” And I am certain that the people
responsible for any investigation will live up to the high standards required
in the canon of ethics for the legal profession, which does require that in any
such investigations that they be full, complete, and concluded as readily as
possible.
2365
