November 1
[1003]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
America has had its heart broken too many times when grand promises
went unfulfilled. We have learned through painful experience that when those
frustrations cannot be held inside any more, our society explodes in violence
and fear. That is why it is so important that those who would lead this country
be honest enough to promise only what they know they can deliver, to admit
that some problems can't be solved by waving a magic wand, or creating still
another government program, or even by changing an administration. The
answer lies not in making government bigger, but in making it serve us better
in assuming more responsibilities for ourselves.
This Nation was not built on comfort, but on sacrifice; not on a maze of
government programs, but on the strength and vitality of a free, self-reliant
people.
We can improve the quality of life in America. We can improve education
and health care. We can have comfortable, affordable homes in safe, decent
neighborhoods. We can have clean air and water. We can create more parks
and recreational facilities. We can care for those who need our help. We can
keep America strong and at peace.
These are all worthy goals, and the government can help reach them all. But
the government can't do everything. If it tries to do too much, it ends up doing
nothing very well. If it assumes too much power and control, we will have
sown the seeds of our own destruction as a free people. I would never let govern-
ment grow so big or so strong that it can take away our freedom. I would not
allow our people to grow so dependent on government that they would lose the
incentive to develop their own creativity, generosity, and initiative. When a
government solution is needed, I would make government respond at the level
closest to the problem.
That is my vision of America: a vision of limited government and unlimited
opportunity; a commitment to common sense and common progress.
On July 4, we celebrated the first 200 years of America's history. On Novem-
ber 2, with your help, we will begin a new generation of freedom for all
Americans.
NOTE: The address was broadcast over the Mutual
Radio Network.
The text of the remarks was released in the Akron-
Canton area of Ohio.
2821
