[1001]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I have a dear friend of mine here that has campaigned with me from
California to New York. Well, he has been tremendous, and I would like to
have him come here. He is sort of a stranger. You may not recognize him. But,
on the other hand, you might. He is a great guy, a tremendous friend of mine.
I would like Joe Garagiola to come up.
Let me speak very seriously with you for a few minutes. We are on the final
moments, the countdown of probably the most crucial election in the lifetime
of most of us here. A very important decision has to be made between now
and next Tuesday when those polls close. I happen to believe that with the
momentum we have going, with the performance that we have had, with the
vision that we see, with the enthusiasm that I find in northern New York,
here in Long Island, or any place else in this country, I think we are going to
win that election good on November 2.
All right now listen carefully. On behalf of Betty and myself, I invite you
all to come on down to that inauguration on January 20.
All right, let me tell you why you can go out and talk to your friends between
now and November 2, and give them a real sales pitch that should convince
them that the Ford-Dole ticket ought to win. Let me give you a quick review
of where we were on August 9, 1974 when I took the oath of office in the
White House.
America was in trouble. Inflation was 12 percent; we were on the brink of
a recession; we were still involved in Vietnam; the American people had lost
faith and trust in the White House itself. And as I took the oath of office in
the East Room of the White House and Betty held the Bible, I pledged to you
that I would uphold the Constitution, that I would do right as God gave me
the right to see what we should do. And then afterwards, I said I had not been
elected by your ballots but I had been confirmed, I hoped, with your prayers.
And, believe me, as those tough months went ahead-and they were difficult-
I knew that the American people were praying for me to give them the leader-
ship, to give them the strength to come out of the difficult times that we went
through.
We put the ship of state on a steady course; we put it on an even keel. And
we have made incredible progress in the last 2 years. Yes, we have cut the rate
of inflation by more than 50 percent, and I pledge to you we will do even better
in the next 4 years.
We have added 4 million jobs in the last 17 months. We have 88 million people
gainfully employed. But, I pledge to you I will not be satisfied until we have
a job for every American who wants a job in the next 4 years.
2816
