[925]
October 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
regrets, any remorse for the role that you played in helping to block the first
investigation of one of the worst White House scandals in history? And I have
a followup.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe what I did in working with the Republican
members of the House Committee on Banking and Currency was a blocking
of an investigation of Watergate. I did that because the Republican members of
that committee specifically asked me to get them together.
Now, what that committee would have done was, as I understood it, to in-
vestigate a very limited part of certain campaign activities. It didn't have any
intention or have any program to do anything beyond that. So what I did was at
the request of the responsible people on the Banking and Currency Committee.
And under the circumstances, as I knew it then, I think I would do exactly the
same thing.
POSSIBILITY OF PARDON FOR CERTAIN WATERGATE FIGURES
[2.] Q. Well, Mr. President, there also is a widespread speculation that you
may pardon Mitchell, Haldeman, and Ehrlichman, which is all part of the same
package. Is there any validity to that?
THE PRESIDENT. There is absolutely no validity whatsoever to that rumor. In
fact, you are the first one that's raised it with me. So I want you to know it and
I want everybody else to know it: There is no credence whatsoever to it.
Ms. Lewine [Frances Lewine, Associated Press].
COMMENTS BY CLARENCE KELLEY AND GEN. GEORGE S. BROWN
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in the past week, two top men in your administration,
FBI Chief Clarence Brown and General George-I mean Clarence Kelley and
General George Brown, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff-have come under
criticism for their comments involving curbs on the press and aid to Israel.
And I want to know-you haven't made any comment on this-what is your
view of this incident? And if you are elected, would you keep these two men
in these responsible jobs?
THE PRESIDENT. I am glad that the Counsel of the White House, through the
Attorney General, did stop what I understood was to be a speech by Clarence
Kelley. From what I know about the speech, I think it would have been ill-
advised and would not reflect the views of President Ford in his relationship
with the press.
Now, General Brown had an interview 6 or 8 months ago. It was released
2586
