July 29
[700]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
larly provides for a limitation of 150 kilotons on all individual underground
nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes.
During the negotiation of the PNE Treaty, the Parties investigated whether
individual explosions with yields above 150 kilotons could be accommodated
consistent with the agreed aim of not providing weapon-related benefits other-
wise precluded by the TTB Treaty. The Parties did not develop a basis for
such an accommodation, largely because it has not been possible to distinguish
between nuclear explosive device technology as applied for weapon-related
purposes and as applied for peaceful purposes. The Parties therefore agreed
that the yield limitations on individual explosions in the two Treaties would
be the same.
The TTB Treaty and the PNE Treaty contain numerous provisions to en-
sure adequate verification, including some concepts, more far-reaching than
those found in previous arms control agreements, which are not only important
in themselves but which will have significant precedential value as well. For
example, the Limited Test Ban Treaty is verified only by national technical
means. The TTB and PNE Treaties add requirements for exchange of specific
information in advance to assist verification by national technical means, and
the PNE Treaty establishes procedures for on-site observation under certain
conditions on the territory of the Party conducting the explosion.
The TTB Treaty provides for an exchange of data on the geography and
geology of nuclear weapon test sites as well as the yields of some actual weapons
tests conducted at each site. The PNE Treaty requires that the Party conducting
any underground nuclear explosion for peaceful purposes provide the other
Party in advance with data on the geography and geology of the place where
the explosion is to be carried out, its purpose, and specific information on each
explosion itself. These requirements are related to the yield of the explosion
and become more detailed as the magnitude of the explosions increase.
In addition to the limitation on individual nuclear explosions of 150 kilotons,
the PNE Treaty provides for an aggregate yield limitation of 1.5 megatons on
group underground nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes. A group explosion
consists of substantially simultaneous individual explosions located within a
specific geometrical relationship to one another. The Treaty provides for man-
datory on-site observer rights for group explosions with an aggregate yield in
excess of 150 kilotons in order to determine that the yield of each individual
explosion in the group does not exceed 150 kilotons and that the explosions
serve the stated peaceful purposes. The Treaty also provides for on-site observers
for explosions with an aggregate yield between 100 and 150 kilotons if both
2103
