January 19
[1079]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Accordingly, I am herewith transmitting the Energy Independence Author-
ity Act of 1977. This legislation would create a new partnership between the
private sector and the Federal Government to assure action on vital energy
projects in the next decade. The Federal financial assistance provided in this
Act would be directed primarily toward the commercialization of those new
technologies which offer the greatest promise to develop new supplies and con-
serve our present energy resources. The financing would be limited to those
projects which would not be initiated without new Federal assistance. The EIA
would be authorized to invest up to $100 billion during a seven-year period.
It would terminate after ten years.
This legislation also addresses the need to simplify and expedite the increas-
ingly complex process by which Federal regulatory decisions affect energy
development. It provides for a more effective Federal licensing process by
authorizing a coordinated, single Federal application process and requiring
Federal agencies to act promptly. The legislation would not alter the basic
statutory responsibilities of Federal regulatory agencies.
The achievement of energy independence in the next decade requires a part-
nership of American business, labor, and government. Each partner must bear
a fair share of the burden in the national interest.
The Energy Independence Authority Act of 1977 will give the United States
the tools necessary to achieve energy independence, and I urge its prompt en-
actment.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
GERALD R. FORD
the House of Representatives, and the Honorable
Nelson A. Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
1079
Statement on the National
Challenge Grant Program.
Endowment for the Humanities
January 19, 1977
THE National Endowment for the Humanities, which I have strongly sup-
ported, faces important challenges in the future: It must help meet the demand
by our citizens for fuller participation in the humanities and must infuse into
the national life greater concern for ethical and moral values. To accomplish
this goal the Federal and non-Federal sectors must cooperate to improve the
financial stability of those American institutions which house and make available
2969
