[812]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Michigan, everybody felt good, because in the last 2 years we have healed our
divisiveness, we have all come together with a great hope, with a good vision
about the future of America.
That means a good job for everybody who wants to work. That means a
home for every family that wants to work and save. That means the best medi-
cal care that we can give to our people. That means freedom on the streets
from crime. That means an opportunity for all of us to enjoy the blessings of
our national parks and recreation areas. But it also means that we are at peace.
And the United States is strong enough to maintain the peace, and we are
diplomatically skillful enough to keep the peace. This is the vision, this is what
we want as all Americans in all 50 States, and we are going to get it under
the Ford administration.
Now, Betty and I love being here in Destrehan, in St. Charles Parish, and in the
great State of Louisiana. We look forward to coming down and shaking hands
with as many of you as we possibly can, to look you in the eye and say hello and
express our friendship for you.
But let me ask you, if I could-November 2 is a very critical date. It makes
the difference whether America is going to keep moving. I want your vote on
that day so America will keep moving and have a better America for all of us.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President left the SS Natchez to greet the people assembled at the ferry
landing. The President then returned to the riverboat and continued his remarks as follows:]
A final word to not only thank all of you but to express our deepest apprecia-
tion for your friendship.
As I was walking up that hill and as I stand here now, I can't help but notice
that tremendous grain elevator. I know that farmers in the Middle West have
produced a great grain crop this year. I can tell you we are going to increase
our exports. I can tell you that the part you play here in this area in our exports
is very vital.
Let me say with all the production that we have, we're not going to have any
grain embargoes, period. And we are doing our best to fight the battle for a re-
sponsible grain inspection bill, and we'll do the best we can to try and help
those who have done a good job in the past.
Thank you very much.
[4.] NEW ORLEANS (5:18 p.m.)
IT'S wonderful to come here to New Orleans after a tremendous day. And I
want to thank Congressman Dave Treen, Congressman Henson Moore. I would
2328
