[1025]
December 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, why doesn't the Republican Party have a broader base
than it does? The 18-percent figure must be terribly alarming to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Wally, I think you can turn it around. We got 48-plus percent
of the vote, so we must have had some appeal beyond the 18 percent who were
registered Republicans. We came awfully close. So we do have a relatively
broad base, and we ought to make sure that that 48-plus percent will follow the
Republican Party in the elections in 1978.
Q. How can you do that?
THE PRESIDENT. By the kind of a program and the kind of a campaign we
ran in 1972.
Q. Mr. President, could you spell out in any detail at all what it is you
envision this coordinating committee actually doing and how many members
it might have?
The President. I think it's premature to get into specifics there. If you use
the format and the record of the coordinating committee in 1965, it covered
issues, it covered programs. I think the best way for you to envision what might
be a part of the contemplated one is to go back and read the history of the one
in '65 and '66.
Q. Mr. President, will you run for office again?
THE PRESIDENT. Sarah, do you want me to? [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:25 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
1026
Remarks at the Annual Congressional Christmas Ball.
December 9, 1976
BEFORE I say anything, I would very much like to have the Speaker, Senator
Mansfield, and Senator Scott come up and join Betty and myself. We can wait
just a minute. Sorry to interrupt the music and the good time. Speaker
McCormack, come up here.
Now that we have all of the dignitaries here, let me say a word or two on
behalf of Betty and myself. We are greatly honored to have the privilege of
recognizing the Speaker, the majority leader in the United States Senate, Mike
Mansfield, minority leader in the United States Senate, Hugh Scott, and as an
added attraction, a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, our dear
friend John McCormack.
I was looking over the record of service of the three people who are being
2860
