October 7
[861]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
cient on details, but the general direction of his philosophy is very plain—it is
unstable, it is unreliable. It won't work because it hasn't worked.
Mr. Carter wants more Federal Government; I want less. Mr. Carter wants
higher Federal taxes for middle-income taxpayers; I want lower taxes for every-
body, especially the overburdened man in the middle. Mr. Carter wants less
defense. He wants it on the cheap. I want the strongest and best military capa-
bility that science and money can provide, and we will keep it under the Ford
administration. Mr. Carter wants to reduce our commitments to our allies;
I must maintain America's leadership for peace and for freedom around the
world, and we will during the next 4 years. There are serious differences, real
choices to be made.
Mr. Carter and his party's platform chart one course for this country. No
matter how he zigs and zags, there is no doubt where we wants to go. The
direction Mr. Carter would take us is the same one that brought us double-
digit inflation, a taxload that kills initiative and slows expansion, a slowdown
in research and development and oppressive interference by a know-it-all Fed-
eral Government.
I want a new direction, a direction with more freedom and more liberty for
215 million Americans.
This year my budget cut the rate of Government growth by half. Congress
added $18 billion more. Despite the extravagance of a majority in the Congress,
I will submit a balanced budget by 1978. I have cut 11,000 jobs from Federal
bureaucracy. Next year, with a better Congress, I will make our Government
more responsive and more responsible to you, the taxpayers.
My 59 vetoes saved the American taxpayers over $9 billion. Mr. Carter con-
stantly criticizes. If his party's Congress had not overridden 12 of my vetoes,
I would have saved all of you $16 billion more for the middle-income taxpayer.
That would save his hard-pressed family $200, and that is what we have got to
do in the months and years ahead.
When I say I stand for smaller government, my performance proves it. Mr.
Carter says he is for reforming and reorganizing bureaucracy, but his perform-
ance tells a far different story. Ask your friends from Georgia.
What do you think you will get from a liberal President and another 2 to 1
liberal Congress? One guarantee: You certainly will get more spending and big-
ger deficits, and you can depend on that. Another thing you will get is more
runaway inflation. You certainly won't get lower Federal taxes. You won't
get less Federal Government. So, the choice before our country is clear. You
know where I stand.
2447
