September 1
[749]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
per-
When I took office as President, defense expenditures claimed a smaller
centage of the Federal budget than at any time since Pearl Harbor. A decade of
Congresses had chopped away at America's defense budgets, cutting more than
$50 billion from defense appropriations over the last 10 years.
I knew from my 12 years' experience as a member of the Defense Subcommit-
tee on Appropriations in the House of Representatives that that dangerous trend
had to be reversed, and I reversed it. Cutting the muscle out of America's de-
fenses is not the best way to ensure peace. It is the best way to destroy it. The
world is still a dangerous place. We cannot lay down our arms in the simple hope
that others will follow our lead, and we cannot retreat from the frontlines of
freedom if we are to preserve freedom here at home.
There are those in this political year who want to withdraw our troops from
positions overseas. The voices of retreat who talk about a phased withdrawal,
they talk as if our defenses won't be weakened if we only dismantle them one
brick at a time. They are very, very wrong. Preparedness preserves peace, weak-
ness invites war.
Our "total force" defense policy in which the National Guard plays a very
crucial part is vital to this preparedness. Our active all-volunteer armed forces
are no bigger than they have to be because of the outstanding contributions of
our capable reserves and National Guard forces. I congratulate each and every
one of you and your associates back home.
My policy in this area is clear. Since we are giving the Army National Guard
and the Air National Guard ever greater responsibility, we have to give you the
best training and the best combat equipment available, and we will. We can
never again afford to treat our National Guard as the poor relations of our
regular forces. Hand-me-down weapons are not enough for the National Guard.
My administration has made every effort to upgrade your equipment and
your training. Our Guard forces are being equipped and trained to fight on
the first team against any potential enemy. You are now being assigned some
of the world's most modern combat equipment. In the future, I will fight to
make certain that you get even more of the best.
Every member of the National Guard has made a very special commitment
to our country. It is best said in the National Guard Association motto: “We
serve." You made that commitment because you know there comes a point
when you have to make tough decisions, there comes a point when you have to
make a stand. I reaffirm my promise to face up to those same tough decisions.
With God's help, we will stand up for the country we love, for the freedom
we cherish, and for peace among nations.
2197
