[967]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
sumer purchasing power at the Federal level and, at the same time, create tax
incentives for business to provide more jobs.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Henry Gailliot; I'm an economist for Fed-
erated Research Corp. Governor Carter has stated that a philosophical goal of
his administration would be to keep the Federal Government's share of our
gross national product in 1981 at a level that approximates that of today, that
is; the Federal Government's share of our total economic pie would stay con-
stant after decades of growth.
Do you subscribe to this goal or would you promote the perhaps more am-
bitious goal of a slight reduction in the Federal Government's share of our
total economic pie by the end of your next administration?
THE PRÉSIDENT. I do, and I think we can do it in several ways. Number one,
I believe that we can continue sufficient pressure on the Congress to restrain the
rate of growth of Federal spending. The figures indicate that for the past 10
years the rate of growth of Federal expenditures has been about 11 percent.
And if you project that into the next quarter of a century, the problem you, I
think, are concerned about multiplies.
So, in the budget that I submitted last January for congressional considera-
tion reduced that rate of growth by 50 percent or a rate of growth of 5½ per-
cent. We made some headway. The Congress added about $18 billion over the
actual dollars that I recommended for the budget for the current fiscal year,
but that is better than they have been doing over the last 10 years.
So, what we hope to do in the future is to continue that pressure so the rate
of growth of Federal expenditures keeps going down. I concede you will have
to have some increase just because of inflationary pressures. But if we can make
it not a 5½ percent rate of growth but 2 or 3 percent or 4 percent, we achieve
part of the answer that I think you are concerned about.
On the other hand, if we can expand our total GNP in this country by a
healthier economy through tax reductions so that we can expand our industrial
capacity, expand, as I said a moment ago, the consumer capability to partici-
pate by spending his money rather than having the Federal Government spend
it, we increase the pie in size. And we reduce at the same time, as I said a mo-
ment ago, the rate of growth of Federal spending.
So, I am not going to be satisfied with what my opponent says is apparently
a satisfactory division. I think it is wrong, and we ought to change it, and my
programs will.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Leonard Swanson; I'm vice president of Cox
Broadcasting and general manager of WIIC television, the NBC station here
2704
