October 9
[873]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
people in Texas has been very, very encouraging—the State Fair, the football
game, and the wonderful rally here. We are very, very encouraged about Texas,
and we're delighted to be here.
Q. Mr. President, how do you assess your chances in Texas in November?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we're an underdog, but I think we're going to surprise
some people.
Real nice to see you all.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 6:17 p.m. at the Apparel Mart.
873
Statement on Signing the Health Maintenance Organization
Amendments of 1976. October 9, 1976
I AM pleased to sign into law H.R. 9019, the Health Maintenance Organiza-
tion Amendments of 1976. This legislation, which extends the HMO program
for 2 years beyond the current expiration date of September 1977, is designed to
make HMO's more competitive with traditional health insurance programs and
health delivery systems.
The original HMO act of 1973 authorized two major forms of Federal assist-
ance to stimulate the development of HMO's:
-a program of grants, contracts, loans and loan guarantees; and
—a requirement that employers who offer health insurance to their employees
also offer them the option of joining a federally qualified HMO.
Other requirements of the 1973 HMO act, however, discouraged participation
in the Federal HMO development and slowed the expansion of this important
health industry. These amendments correct those deficiencies and provide the
foundation for a strong nationwide system of HMO's.
My administration is concerned with the following fundamental areas of
medical and health care problems:
-the quality of medical care and rapidly rising costs;
-local shortages of medical personnel and services due largely to maldistribu-
tion of physicians and other health personnel; and
-the need to promote preventive medicine and maintain good health.
The HMO concept has demonstrated an ability to hold down rapidly rising
medical costs while maintaining high quality standards, efficient utilization of
medical personnel, and a focus on disease prevention and the maintenance of
2477
