July 16
[671]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sources section whose sole responsibility is litigation on behalf of Indian tribes to
protect your natural resources and your jurisdictional rights.
Indian leaders and the Indian people have gained an increasing skill in manag-
ing these resources so they benefit your tribes and our Nation as a whole. I
wholeheartedly and unequivocally pledge our cooperation in working with you
to improve the quality of Indian life by providing soundly managed programs
and a stable policy.
We can make the rest of the 1970's decisive years in the lives of the Indian
people. Together, we can write a new chapter in the history of this land that
we all serve and this land that we all share.
I thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:15 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Secretary of the Interior
Thomas S. Kleppe.
671
Toasts of the President and Chancellor Helmut Schmidt
of the Federal Republic of Germany at a Reception
Honoring the President. July 16, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Schmidt, Captain von Stackel-
berg, distinguished guests:
In the atmosphere of the outstanding Baltimore Harbor, the atmosphere of
Fort McHenry, and the wonderful ship on which we are enjoying ourselves this
evening, I thank you for your kind and gracious remarks. And I express to you,
Mr. Chancellor, and to Mrs. Schmidt the very best wishes of Mrs. Ford and
myself and all 215 million Americans.
About a year ago, I had the privilege of making some comments over at Fort
McHenry, which is a very integral part now, but even more importantly, a
very vital part of the Port of Baltimore in the difficulties we had with Great
Britain back in the War of 1812. And looking at Fort McHenry today, one can't
help but get the feeling that it represents the kind of spirit which was so prom-
inent during our Bicentennial experience over the Fourth of July, when there
seemed to be an upsurge, a tremendous movement among the American people
to have a reaffirmation of our true patriotic feeling in this country.
And I wish to thank you, Mr. Chancellor, for the generous gift and the
thoughtfulness of you and the people from the Federal Republic on behalf of our
200th anniversary.
2023
