January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have not yet as a Nation faced up to many of the hard decisions and choices
that are necessary before we can achieve our energy objectives.
The lack of better progress is regrettable but I believe the reasons for it are
quite clear:
—First, the real nature of the Nation's energy problem and the implications
of leaving it unresolved are not fully understood or appreciated by many
people.
—Second, many of those who recognize the problem and the implications
of not solving it have looked for easy solutions. This has led often to proposals
which:
-promise far more than can be delivered; or
-expand significantly the role of the Federal Government.
We are now beginning to recognize more clearly the dangers of a greatly
expanded Federal role in energy. We also now realize that other “easy” answers
are turning out to be impractical, ineffective, or oversold.
FUNDAMENTAL ISSUES AND CHOICES
The decisions which must be made are difficult and the implications of the
choices are far reaching. Thus, the Congress and the public should have the
best possible understanding of the fundamental issues and choices that are
involved in my proposals and in the proposals that will be forthcoming from
the new Administration and Congress. There are five matters that deserve
special attention:
-The high cost to the Nation of delay in solving our energy problem.
—The illusions and false hopes that are involved in some of the “easy”
answers that have been proposed.
-The dangers of expanding the Federal role in energy.
-The need to recognize the interdependence of the U.S. and other con-
sumer nations in energy matters.
-The necessity of facing up to the hard choices that must be made in order
to achieve a balance among our Nation's security, energy, economic,
consumer price, and environmental objectives.
HIGH COST OF DELAY IN SOLVING OUR ENERGY PROBLEM
A better understanding of our energy problem and the high cost of delay in
solving it should help restore the sense of urgency that was lost when the em-
2887
