September 21
[794]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and justice. The Liberian national motto, "The love of liberty brought us
here," could apply just as well to the United States of America.
You have arrived here at a time when Americans are seeking to assist Afri-
cans to achieve peaceful solutions to extremely difficult problems. I have sent
our Secretary of State to Africa, in full knowledge of the complexity of the
problems and of the limitations of our role. Any realistic and enduring settle-
ment must be made in Africa. We can only offer our assistance in encouraging
the parties to negotiate to prevent increased violence and bloodshed.
Mr. President, as a distinguished African statesman, you are fully aware of the
danger and the challenge that faces all men and women of good will in the
southern portion of your continent. We greatly appreciate and value your
wise counsel, your moderation, and your support. We assure you that the
United States will remain a trusted friend, worthy of your confidence and that
of all Liberians and all the peoples of Africa.
Americans have noted with admiration the determination [with] which
Liberia is developing its potentialities. We will continue to help Liberia help
herself.
As President of Liberia, you have contributed much to the material and
spiritual evolution of your people. But you have also given yourself interna-
tionally as an ordained Baptist minister, through your leadership of the Baptist
World Alliance. As the first black elected president of the Baptist World Alli-
ance, you have advanced the vision of President Tubman¹ through your inspired
work for the benefit of man and the glory of God.
We thank you and all the people of Liberia not only for your visit but for
Liberia's many manifestations of friendship in this Bicentennial Year. I was
especially gratified to know of your personal participation, Mr. President, in our
Fourth of July celebration in Monrovia.
Mr. President, you are a welcome visitor to the Nation's Capital and to the
White House. I look forward to our discussions. Through these exchanges, we
can advance the cause of peaceful progress for Africa and for all humanity. The
American people join in welcoming you and strengthening, during this visit,
the very close ties between our two peoples.
NOTE: President Ford spoke at 10:50 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where President
Tolbert was given a formal welcome with full
military honors. President Tolbert responded as
follows:
¹ William V. Tubman, President of Liberia 1943-71.
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, distinguished ladies and
gentlemen, friends:
We are profoundly touched by your thrillingly
warm remarks of welcome, Mr. President, extended
to Mrs. Tolbert, members of my official party, and
2273
