September 17
[791]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
791
Remarks at a Reception for the National Federation of
Republican Women. September 17, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Betty, Pat, and all the members of the federation:
We do welcome you to the White House and to the State Dining Room. We
are delighted to have you here, and I, at the outset, would like to compliment
Pat-where did she go? [Laughter] Right here.
She's not only a great president of your organization but I am honored to have
here on the steering committee of the President Ford Committee. And thank
you, Pat, for taking on an extra burden and responsibility. Her input to that
organization will be very significant in how we lay out our campaign organiza-
tion, our plans, our strategy. And thank you very, very much, Pat.
I was looking at the statistics that were given to me as to the size of this orga-
nization—238,000, as I recollect. Let's use a little mathematics here to show the
impact of that organization.
Supposing each of you made it a personal mission to get 100 people educated,
as Betty says, as she indicates. You get them to the polls. Isn't that a figure of
23 million plus? That's what we need as a starter on this campaign. I think the
figures show that the person who wins will get double that, but if this organiza-
tion in every one of the 50 States gives us a base from which we can operate—say
25 million Republican votes-we are well on the road to victory. I think this
ought to be your goal, your aim, your objective. And, therefore, as I talked to all
of the leaders of the federation in the 50 States, I hope you will go back to your
respective hometowns, your home State, and make this the aim that you are
shooting for on November 2.
As I said before, and have repeated since, we are going to have a national cam-
paign. I have had the privilege of meeting people from virtually every State.
We are going to make a campaign in every State. That does not mean I am going
to get to every State, but we will have either myself or Bob Dole or some out-
standing advocates who will get to every State. It will be an indication that the
Ford-Dole ticket wants the full support and victory in every State. I think it can
be done.
One of the questions that's often asked is, “Are we going to ignore the South?”
Absolutely not. As a matter of fact, it was announced yesterday that Betty and I
2267
