July 28
[697]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
וי
the building of peace. The fact that your nation.
attracts criticism at times in its international role is,
in the Australian view, much less important than
the fact that the task is done.
Mr. President, over the last 200 years there have
been many revolutions, but whatever some other
ideologies may claim from their revolution, yours
is distinguished by its unequaled democratic char-
acter, by its purpose, and by its morality. The ideas
contained in the Declaration of Independence still stir
the hearts of men and women around the world. We
can find in that Declaration of many years ago the
philosophy of the best social reforms that have taken
place in all the years since.
Mr. President, we know the great responsibility
that rests on democratic leadership. That is one of
the reasons why meeting the demands of the office
you hold must be the most difficult but, at the
same time, Mr. President, the most rewarding task
in the world.
Your country has made an immeasurable contri-
bution to world peace and to the ideal of liberty.
There has never been a time when support of these
ideals has required more dedication, greater com-
mitment, more persistence than in the present.
My wife and I are honored to be here, and I ask
you now to rise and drink the toast to the President
of the United States.
697
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on Budget
Rescissions and Deferrals. July 28, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith pro-
pose four rescissions totalling $126.4 million in budget authority provided in
the Second Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1976. In addition, I am report-
ing four new deferrals totalling $334 million in budget authority.
Three of the proposed rescissions are for education programs of the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare. The other rescission proposal affects
the child nutrition program of the Department of Agriculture. These funds
are either not needed to accomplish program objectives or, in the case of $3
million which would fund State school financing programs, would be used in-
appropriately to fulfill a State responsibility rather than a Federal responsibility.
Approval of these rescission proposals would (1) reduce Federal spending
by $126.4 million over the transition quarter, 1977, and 1978, and (2) provide
the Congress with an opportunity to demonstrate its willingness to prevent un-
necessary Federal spending even if this involves reconsidering earlier funding
decisions.
One of the deferrals consists of $4 million in construction funds for the
Rogers Memorial Hospital in the District of Columbia. This deferral is reported
to give Congress time to consider a request to reprogram the funds. The repro-
gramming that I will propose would allow all eligible medical facilities construc-
tion projects in the country an equal opportunity to compete for the funds. The
2097
