[791]
September 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
are going down to Louisiana. We are going to have a whistle-stop down the
Mississippi River. I think it's a unique campaign technique-the Natchez. We
will end up in New Orleans, spend the night there, and then drive the next day
across the State of Mississippi, the Gulf, going on through Alabama, ending up
in Florida that night, and we will be in Florida on a week from Monday.
This is only an example of what we believe is the right way to convince the
voters in this country that we care about every State and every voter in every State.
Now, the message I would like to give to you on this occasion is a very simple
one. This country, in the last 2 years, has gone through a very traumatic experi-
ence. We had domestic troubles with the worst recession in 40 years. When
I became President, we were still engaged in a war that we seemingly couldn't
win or couldn't end. At the same time, we had a great loss of public support
for Washington and the White House itself. But by doing the right thing, by
giving leadership-leadership in the domestic area, leadership in international
policy-we have turned this country around, and we have laid the foundation
in 2 short years for a great 4 years, the first 4 in our third century of American
history.
I think that without any question, without any hesitation or qualification,
we are going to win on November 2.
Right after the Democratic Convention the polls showed us almost 2 to 1
behind. That didn't look very, very optimistic, but we had a great convention.
It was one of competition, but when we left that convention hall in Kansas
City, we ended up arm in arm for a cause and for a philosophy that all of us
believe in.
We have solidified our leadership. We have a good program. I think we
appeal to the vast majority of Americans. In the next couple of weeks after our
convention the polls narrowed, and we ended up about 15 points behind. But
some good news has been coming in from polls taken all over the country. We
have narrowed that gap very significantly.
And we have the momentum, as Betty said, and momentum is what counts.
I would rather have the momentum going up than trying to be at the top and
keep it from going down. I would much rather be a fast finisher than an early
starter. [Laughter]
As we look at the 6 weeks ahead, they are going to come very, very fast.
Betty and Mike and Jack and Steve and Susan and I, as a Ford family, will be
out trying to be helpful, to tell the American people the length and breadth of
2268
