October 12
[885]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tion of foreign religious prejudice into domestic discrimination against Ameri-
can citizens.
I am proud to be the first President to take strong, Executive action to combat
the boycott. In March of 1975, I initiated the first comprehensive White House
review of the boycott problem. My action led, in November 1975, to a series of
Executive orders that I issued specially to combat religious discrimination
against American citizens.
During the 25 years that I was privileged to serve in the Congress of the
United States, I acted, as you know, on numerous occasions to bring America's
attention to the plight of Soviet Jewry. As President, I am pressing for new
movement on the issue of emigration of Jews from the Soviet Union. I raised
this question personally with General Secretary Brezhnev, and I will raise it
again and again. It is immoral for any nation to either dominate other nations
or to dominate the religious life and elementary human rights of its own citizens.
From the time that I first ran for Congress in 1948, I recognized that a strong
Israel is essential to the cause of peace and the national security of the United
States, and I am proud of that record. That record is as old as the State of Israel,
and you know where I stand. I stand firm in my commitment to Israel. I am
proud that our delegation at the United Nations has fought and will fight any
measure that condemns Zionism as racism or would deny Israel her full rights
of United Nations membership.
America's policy of peace through strength has proven itself in the Middle
East and throughout the world. Nobody questions our dedication to peace, and
nobody must doubt my willingness to use our strength when America's vital
interests are at stake. A strong defense is the best insurance for peace. But our
strength has never rested upon arms alone; it is rooted in our commitment to
the highest standards of ethics and morality.
As President, I am proud to say that peace in the Middle East has been
enhanced by the trust that we have elicited on both sides. Israel's future is
certainly brighter today than it was before I had the honor of becoming Presi-
dent of the United States. In the last 2 years the forces of moderation in the Mid-
dle East have grown stronger. The area's extremists and terrorists are on the
defensive. Prime Minister Rabin, who has been my personal friend since he
was Ambassador in the United States when I served in the Congress, said recently
that relations between our two countries are at a peak. The funds for Israel in my
first 2 years of office totaled $4,300 million. Forty percent of the total American
aid to Israel since 1948 was authorized during the Ford administration.
Our support of Israel with weapons, not words, was summed up by Israel's
2491
