November 3
[1014]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ever, it's because of Jerry Ford, Senior, and Dorothy Ford. And that's what that
mural will always mean to me in the years ahead.
So, I thank you all and express to you as deeply as I can, to Dave, to Paul, to
Bobbie, and to Guy, of course, who had really the inspiration to start it all, but
mainly to all of you who mean so much to Betty and myself.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:42 a.m. in the
passenger building at the Kent County Airport,
where an 8-by-18-foot mural depicting stages of
the President's life was unveiled and presented to
the President by artist Paul Collins.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Representative Guy Vander Jagt, Mrs. Bobbie
Butler, chairman, and David Mehney, finance
chairman, the Gerald R. Ford Mural Committee,
and Senator Robert B. Griffin.
1014
Remarks on the Presidential Election Results and Telegram
Congratulating President-elect Jimmy Carter on His Victory.
November 3, 1976
IT IS perfectly obvious that my voice isn't up to par, and I shouldn't be making
very many comments, and I won't. But I did want Betty, Mike, Jack, Steve,
Susan, and Gayle to come down with me and to listen while Betty read a state-
ment that I have sent to Governor Carter. I guess Ron¹ has told you that I
called him.
But I do want to express on a personal basis my appreciation and that of my
family for the friendship that all of us have had. And after Betty reads the
statement that was sent to Governor Carter by me, I think all of us—Betty, the
children, and myself—would like to just come down and shake hands and
express our appreciation personally.
Let me call on the real spokesman for the family. Betty.
MRS. FORD. The President asked me to tell you that he telephoned President-
elect Carter a short time ago and congratulated him on his victory.
The President also wants to thank all those thousands of people who worked
so hard on his behalf and the millions who supported him with their votes. It
has been the greatest honor of my husband's life to have served his fellow
Americans during 2 of the most difficult years in our history.
The President urges all Americans to join him in giving your united support
to President-elect Carter as he prepares to assume his new responsibilities.
1 Ron Nessen, Press Secretary to the President.
2843
