[692]
July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
important contribution to stability and progress in the Pacific region and in the
world at large.
Mr. Prime Minister, you are deeply conscious of the need to preserve a global
balance among the great powers. We sincerely appreciate Australia's support
for our foreign policy. We assure you that the United States will remain a
strong and faithful ally, worthy of Australia's trust.
Australia-its Government and its citizens-have done much to celebrate the
American Bicentennial. Festivals have been held in Australia, performers have
come to the United States, and Australia will endow a chair of Australian studies
at Harvard University. We thank you, and all Australians, for those warm ex-
pressions of friendship.
Mr. Prime Minister, you are a very welcome visitor to our Nation's Capital.
I look forward to my discussions with you and the continuing close relationships
with Australia and its people, our natural friends and allies in every sphere of
life.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:37 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where Prime
Minister Fraser was given a formal welcome with
full military honors. Prime Minister Fraser responded
as follows:
Mr. President, my wife and I thank you for
your
most warm and moving welcome to Washington. It
is now 6 years since I was last in the United States,
and it is good to be back in this Bicentennial Year.
Mr. President, the Revolution that you are celebrat-
ing this year was a great triumph for the then radi-
cal idea that man could be free, that a free people
could not only survive and work together but that
they could create a better society than had existed in
the world before.
It is from your Revolution that we traced the birth
of our own nation in 1788. Our two countries have
traveled far since that time. We have both demon-
strated the vitality and strength of democracy. We
have both been able to build societies which are just
and which enshrine freedom.
That we have similar ideals is not a matter of
mere coincidence. America's independence and its
subsequent development as one of the world's great
civilizations has been an inspiration and an example,
especially to younger nations such as my own. In
this Bicentennial Year it is a debt to which we are
pleased to pay tribute.
Like you, we value our independence. We do not
expect others to assume our responsibilities. Over
time, however, our paths have come to run, to an
increasing extent, in parallel. Comradeship-in-arms
on a number of occasions has been the basis for a
closeness, the sharing of purpose which has, I feel,
been to the benefit and comfort of both our countries.
Over the last 30 years, it has fallen to the United
States to provide leadership for the Western World.
You have our continuing support in this difficult role.
For the sake of world peace and for the ideals we
share, it is essential, Mr. President, that this leader-
ship continue, and Australia has every confidence
and knowledge that it will.
We live in a world that continues to hold many
dangers and challenges to human dignity. Many
countries are confronted by appalling problems of
poverty, hunger, disease. The developed countries
face their own problems of inflation and unaccept-
ably high rates of unemployment. These are chal-
lenges to be faced together, contributing wherever
we can to their just and practical solution. In re-
sponding to them, the world will look, as it has so
often in the past, to the United States to play a
prominent role.
It is in recognition of this, and the determination
that Australia will play its full part, that I make this
journey to the United States in this Bicentennial
Year.
Mr. President, I look forward to my discussions
with you and other members of your Government
and to the opportunity to be among the American
people on this occasion. Thank you very much, Mr.
President, for your hospitality.
2090
