September 24
[808]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
808
Veto of the Indian Employment Bill. September 24, 1976
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning, without my approval, H.R. 5465, a bill which would pro-
vide special retirement benefits to certain non-Indian employees of the Bureau
of Indian Affairs (BIA) and the Indian Health Service (IHS) who are ad-
versely affected by Indian preference requirements.
I strongly support the objective of having Indians administer the Federal
programs directly affecting them. I am familiar with and understand the con-
cern of non-Indian employees of these agencies about their long-term career
prospects because of Indian preference. But H.R. 5465 is the wrong way to deal
with this problem.
This bill is designed to increase employment opportunities for Indians by
providing special compensation to non-Indian employees in BIA and IHS who
retire early. It seeks to accomplish this purpose by authorizing payment of ex-
traordinary retirement benefits under certain conditions to non-Indian em-
ployees of these agencies who retire before 1986-benefits more liberal than
those available to any other group of Federal employees under the civil service
retirement system. I believe that this approach will result in inequities and
added costs that far exceed the problem it is attempting to solve—a problem
which is already being addressed through administrative actions by the agencies
involved.
H.R. 5465 would provide windfall retirement benefits to a relatively small
number of the non-Indian employees of these agencies. The Indian employees
and other non-Indian employees in these same agencies would not receive these
benefits. The eligible employees are not in danger of losing their jobs. Because
they may face a limited outlook for promotion, the bill would pay these em-
ployees costly annuities even though they had completed substantially less than
a full career. Payments could be made at age 50 after only 20 years of Federal
service, of which as little as 11 years need be Indian-agency service. Their
annuities would be equivalent to the benefits it would take the average Federal
employee until age 60 and 27 years of service to earn.
This would seriously distort and misuse the retirement system to solve a
problem of personnel management for which there are far more appropriate
administrative solutions. The Departments of the Interior and Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare have established special placement programs to help non-
2319
