[989]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
989
Remarks in Milwaukee at the Annual Meeting of the Wisconsin
Education Association. October 29, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Paul duVair. It's wonderful to be back in
Wisconsin to see some of my old very dear friends, Congressman Bob Kasten,
former Governor Warren Knowles, and an old friend of mine in my political
party, Ody Fish.
But it's a very special privilege and pleasure for me, if I might have the
dispensation, to introduce to all of you a very dear friend of mine who is also
a great and longstanding friend and supporter of education. I take the pleasure
of introducing her because she served as a Member of the House of Representa-
tives with me for 19 years. She was on the other side of the aisle. She was a very
formidable person in debate. I always did better when she was on my side.
But let me assure you there was never a more knowledgeable, more dedicated
person in the field of education than the former Democratic Member of the
House of Representatives, Edith Green. Edith is here some place. Right here.
Naturally, I am very pleased and proud that she, having retired voluntarily
from the Congress 2 years ago, is now serving as a valuable contributor to my
campaign. But I think it is interesting to note that she served on the House
Committee on Education and Labor and was chairman of the Subcommittee on
Postsecondary Education. And it's also of some consequence to note that she
received both the Oregon and the NEA [National Education Association]
Citizens Award. So, you know Edith is real quality.
But I am honored to appear before the Wisconsin Education Association
Council, a distinguished group of professional teachers, to discuss a subject of
vital importance to all of us and to the Nation-America's schools.
We in America have, from our very earliest days, developed an educational
system as significant and as revolutionary as our political structure. Educational
opportunity for all citizens was a crucial part of the vision which our Nation's
founders had. They knew that ignorance and freedom could not coexist.
Education is now the Nation's number one business. Today, 60 million
Americans attend school: 10 million in postsecondary education and 50 million
in elementary and secondary schools. Over 2½ million Americans are school
teachers and school administrators.
More money is spent on education in America than any other single govern-
mental endeavor. In all, America is making a huge investment in quality
2780
