October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
MR. MAYNARD. Governor Carter, you entered this race against President
Ford with a 20-point lead or better in the polls and now it appears that this
campaign is headed for a photo finish. You have said how difficult it is to run
against a sitting President, but Mr. Ford was just as much an incumbent in
July when you were 20 points ahead as he is now. Can you tell us what caused
the evaporation of that lead, in your opinion?
MR. CARTER. Well, that's not exactly an accurate description of what happened.
When I was that far ahead it was immediately following the Democratic Con-
vention and before the Republican Convention. At that time 25 or 30 percent of
the Reagan supporters said that they would not support President Ford, but as
occurred at the end of the Democratic Convention, the Republican Party unified
itself, and I think immediately following the Republican Convention there was
about a 10-point spread. I believe that to be accurate. I had 49 percent; President
Ford had 39 percent.
The polls are good indications of fluctuations, but they vary widely one from
another, and the only poll I've ever followed is the one that, you know, is taken
on Election Day. I was in 30 primaries in the spring and at first it was obvious
that I didn't have any standing in the polls. As a matter of fact, I think when
Gallup ran their first poll in December 1975, they didn't even put my name on
the list. They had 35 people on the list-my name wasn't even there. At the
beginning of the year, I had about 2 percent. So the polls, to me, are interesting,
but they don't determine my hopes or my despair.
I campaign among people. I have never depended on powerful political fig-
ures to put me in office. I have a direct relationship with hundreds of thousands
of people around the country who actively campaign for me. In Georgia alone,
for instance, I got 84 percent of the vote, and I think there were 14 people in addi-
tion to myself on the ballot, and Governor Wallace had been very strong in
Georgia. That is an overwhelming support from my own people who know me
best. And today we have about 500 Georgians at their own expense, just working
people who believe in me, spread around the country involved in the political
campaign.
So the polls are interesting, but I don't know how to explain the fluctuations.
I think a lot of it depends on current events—sometimes foreign affairs, some-
times domestic affairs. But I think our core of support among those who are
crucial to the election has been fairly steady. And my success in the primary
season was, I think, notable for a newcomer, from someone who's outside of
Washington, who never has been a part of the Washington establishment. And
2645
