October 1
[837]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
837
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate on Basic Allowances for Quarters for Members of the
Uniformed Services. October 1, 1976
[Dated September 30, 1976. Released October 1, 1976]
IN ACCORD with 37 U.S.C. 1009(c), I am hereby advising the Congress
that I plan to exercise the discretionary authority provided by 37 U.S.C. 1009(c),
as added by section 303 of the Department of Defense Appropriation Au-
thorization Act, 1977 (Public Law 94-361), with respect to adjustments in the
levels of compensation for the members of the uniformed services.
The amendments to 37 U.S.C. 1009 made by that act provide discretionary
authority to apply the adjustments (based on the overall average percentage
increase in General Schedule rates of basic pay, in accord with 37 U.S.C. 1009
(a)) to the basic pay, quarters allowances and subsistence allowances of the
uniformed services on a percentage basis other than an equal percentage basis.
Those amendments also provide discretionary authority to pay a partial quarters
allowance to bachelors in government quarters, on field duty and on sea duty.
The current levels of the military allowances for quarters and for subsistence
bear little relationship to the costs of the services they are intended to procure.
Further, the present system in which entitlement to these allowances is com-
pletely eliminated when these services are provided in kind fails to recognize
the value of military housing, of food provided in military messes, or of shelter
provided to those at sea and in the field. The Congress has, for the present,
reserved its acceptance of my budget proposal to initiate a "fair market” rental
concept for military housing. This concept was the basis for my request for
discretionary authority to allocate a portion of military basic pay increases to
the allowances, and to pay to bachelors in government quarters, or on sea duty
or field duty, a portion of the quarters allowance.
Considering these aspects of the deficiencies in the current level of these al-
lowances, and consistent with the FY 1977 budget, it is my considered judg-
ment that a reallocation of the October 1, 1976 military basic pay increase is ap-
propriate. Accordingly, I plan to reallocate 25 percent of that increase, by grade,
all to the basic allowance for quarters, and to pay a partial payment of the
quarters allowance, equal to this reallocation, to bachelors in government
quarters, and to those on sea duty or on field duty. This action takes a positive
2381
