October 23
[948]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
written glorious chapters in the history of this great country. Their names are
American legends-George and Martha Washington, Jefferson, Madison,
Monroe, Patrick Henry, George Mason, William Henry Harrison, Zachary
Taylor, John Tyler, Woodrow Wilson, John Marshall, Robert E. Lee, Harry
Byrd, Senior, and now Harry Byrd, Junior.
In this campaign, you know where I stand. I stand on your side for limited
government, for fiscal responsibility, for rising prosperity, for lower taxes, for
military strength, and for peace in the world. I stand for your principles. Can
I count on your support November 2?
After so many years of war, America is enjoying the blessings of peace with
freedom. Not a single young American is fighting and dying today on any
foreign battlefield, and I intend to keep it that way. Not a single American
wife or sweetheart, mother or father, is wondering whether their loved ones
will be a wartime casualty tomorrow, and I intend to keep it that way.
After so many years in which America's defensive needs were shortchanged,
I proposed in 1975 and again in 1976, the two largest defense outlays in
America's history and convinced the Congress to stop slashing away at our
military spending and our defense capability.
After many, many years of runaway growth in the Federal budget, I sub-
mitted a budget for fiscal year 1977 which cut the rate of growth in Federal
spending in half. I have held the line on Government spending with 64 vetoes
and saved the hard-pressed taxpayers $9 billion. Because I have not been afraid
to say no to excessive spending, we will submit a balanced Federal budget by
1978, and we'll have another tax cut in the meantime for the hard-pressed
American taxpayer.
The Commonwealth of Virginia has a well-deserved reputation for financial
integrity, and I will do my very best in the next 4 years to see that your Federal
Government matches that reputation you've so well earned under Governor
Mills Godwin.
After so many years of uncontrolled inflation, we've cut inflation in half,
and we'll do even better in the future, because you know, as I know, that infla-
tion is the cruelest tax of all. It hits all segments of our population, but particu-
larly those who live on fixed incomes.
Now, after the worst recession in this country in the last 40 years, we have
added 4 million new jobs to the American economy-not by creating dead-
end jobs at the taxpayer's expense, but by stimulating jobs with a future in the
private economy, where five out of the six jobs in America exist today. Still, too
many people are out of work; we are not satisfied with the progress that we
2651
