January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and are acceptable from the standpoint of cost, safety and environmental im-
pact, we must rely on resources and technologies which are available.
Federal funding for the development of advanced technologies has been in-
creased substantially over the past two years in my budgets-to the point where
Congressional add-ons above my requests generally cannot be used productively.
When major breakthroughs are required, the necessary ingredients are ideas
and time. Large funding increases are likely to be wasteful and often merely
contribute to overly optimistic expectations.
Energy Conservation in Lieu of Production
There are some who believe that our energy needs for a growing popula-
tion and expanding economy and workforce can be satisfied by eliminating
wasteful and inefficient uses of energy. They point out correctly that the ready
availability of cheap energy in the past tended to encourage uses of energy which
now are wasteful.
There is no question but that energy conservation can and must contribute
to the solution of our energy problems. In many cases it will be cheaper, more
efficient, and involve less environmental impact, to reduce energy waste than
it will be to produce a comparable amount of new energy. We have begun
major efforts in energy conservation, and progress is being made in reducing
growth in energy consumption. However, it takes time to achieve results from
energy conservation because energy-intensive plants and equipment and con-
sumer products (such as automobiles and appliances) will only be replaced
gradually as they wear out.
Growth in our energy demands simply cannot be eliminated without severe
economic impact. We must have both energy conservation and sharply increased
energy production if we are to meet the needs for energy in a growing economy.
To rely solely on energy conservation would soon mean a lower standard of
living for all, and insufficient energy to keep people employed in productive
and meaningful work.
Abandoning Coal Energy or Nuclear Fission
Some believe that we should not continue or expand the use of coal and
others have the same view about nuclear energy. But a careful look indicates
that we do not have a choice between increasing the use of coal or nuclear
energy. Instead, we must increase the use of both coal and nuclear energy until
more acceptable alternate energy sources are available. Even with strong efforts
to conserve energy, and increased efforts to produce domestic oil and natural
gas, we must increase the use of both coal and nuclear energy if we are to meet
2891
