October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Republic, or to sell to the People's Republic of China, military equipment. I do
not believe that we, the United States, should sell, give, or otherwise transfer
military hardware to the People's Republic of China or any other Communist
nations, such as the Soviet Union and the like.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
Mr. Carter. I'd like to go back just one moment to the previous question,
where Mr. Ford, I think, confused the issue by trying to say that we're ship-
ping Israel 40 percent of our aid. As a matter of fact, during this current year, we
are shipping Iran—or have contracted to ship to Iran-about $7½ billion worth
of arms and also to Saudi Arabia about $72 billion worth of arms.
Also, in 1975 we almost brought Israel to their knees after the Yom Kippur
war by the so-called reassessment of our relationship to Israel. We, in effect,
tried to make Israel the scapegoat for the problems in the Middle East. And this
weakened our relationship with Israel a great deal and put a cloud on the total
commitment that our people feel toward the Israelis. There ought to be a clear,
unequivocal commitment without change to Israel.
In the Far East I think we need to continue to be strong, and I would cer-
tainly pursue the normalization of relationships with the People's Republic of
China. We opened up a great opportunity in 1972—which has pretty well been
frittered away under Mr. Ford-that ought to be a constant inclination toward
friendship. But I would never let that friendship with the People's Republic of
China stand in the way of the preservation of the independence and freedom
of the people on Taiwan.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Frankel, a question for Governor Carter.
MR. FRANKEL. Governor, we always seem, in our elections, and maybe in be-
tween, too, to argue about who can be tougher in the world. Give or take a few
billion dollars, give or take one weapons systems, our leading politicians, and I
think you two gentlemen, seem to settle roughly on the same strategy in the
world at roughly the same Pentagon budget cost.
How bad do things have to get in our own economy, or how much backward-
ness and hunger would it take in the world to persuade you that our national
security and our survival required very drastic cutbacks in arms spending and
dramatic new efforts in other directions?
MR. CARTER. Well, always in the past we have had an ability to have a strong
defense and also to have a strong domestic economy and also to be strong in our
reputation and influence within the community of nations. These characteris-
tics of our country have been endangered under Mr. Ford. We are no longer
respected. In a showdown vote in the United Nations or in any other interna-
2421
