October 2
[846]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
about Governor Carter's recent statement, and I will quote. He said recently,
Mr. President and I also tell my advisory group this, we will talk about it
today as we meet—but he said in the Religious Liberty Association of America
and Seventh Day Adventist Church publication, and I will quote for you, Mr.
President, that he would "favor the taxation of church property other than the
church building itself."
Now, Mr. President, this disturbs me, and I am sure when we finish meeting
today, that we will have a statement from your ethnic advisory committee on
this proposition.
I don't favor that if that means that hospitals, orphanages, institutions that
our churches own that are not directly related to a building called a church are
going to be taxed so we can raise more revenue for the American tax coffers.
There are a lot of other ways to do it, and we don't want to do it that way,
Mr. President. We know that profitmaking endeavors of our churches are pres-
ently taxed, and I think you support that, and I think we support that. But,
Mr. President, we think it would do great violence to the ability of our churches
to supply the great kinds of social needs that they are now giving to us, to our
children if this proposition by Governor Carter became the law of this land,
that only the church building itself would be exempt from taxes.
you
I know that you have some feelings on this. If you would, Mr. President, I
would like you to give us your observations on this. And, once again, I thank
for the privilege you have given me of being your chairman. And we make
a commitment to you today that we are going to prove that the ethnics in
this country just don't follow any party, they vote for a man, and they are
going to elect you to the Presidency.
The President. Senator, I was of course very, very disturbed when I heard
about the proposal of Governor Carter. I think my opponent's proposal to tax
church properties other than the church buildings is a very, very unfortunate
and disturbing development. Nothing could be worse for church-operated
schools, hospitals, and orphanages, many of which face constant financial
struggles to make ends meet.
I think the more we learn of my opponent's plans for future taxes, the more
troublesome they become. And I can tell you unequivocally, emphatically, that
this administration has neither plans nor supports any efforts to tax churches
beyond the present scope of Federal taxation.
It seems to me instead of a tax proposal to increase taxes in this way, we should
make additional efforts in the area of tax reform. And when I talk about tax
reform, I talk about tax reduction for the middle-income taxpayer.
2395
