October 22
[940]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
H.R. 12572 has one undesirable provision. To administer the national grain
inspection and weighing program, the bill provides for the creation of a sep-
arate service, the Federal Grain Inspection Service, within the Department of
Agriculture. I consider this addition to be unnecessary. Nevertheless, the critical
need for this legislative improvement outweighs my strong objections to this
one provision. Without the strong grain inspection and weighing reform meas-
ures included in this bill, our whole international grain trade is jeopardized.
I have with pleasure signed the grain standards act, thus ensuring continued
confidence in our international grain trade system.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12572, approved October 21, 1976, is Public Law 94-582 (90 Stat. 2867).
940
Statement on Signing the Veterans Omnibus Health
Care Act of 1976. October 22, 1976
I AM pleased to sign into law H.R. 2735, the Veterans Omnibus Health Care Act
of 1976.
H.R. 2735 significantly improves the scope of medical care services available to
our Nation's disabled veterans and their families. It expands the medical care
available to veterans with 50 percent or more service-connected disabilities. It
also makes available to the families of service-connected veterans a new program
of mental health services in order to assure that the disabled veteran and his
family can work as a group toward the veteran's rehabilitation and successful
recovery. Other provisions of this bill will aid our aging veterans and the vet-
eran population as a whole.
The bill includes an important administration-sponsored proposal—the 1-
year extension of the physician and dentist pay bonus to aid VA in the recruit-
ment and retention of skilled medical personnel. Also included are a number
of provisions which will assist VA in strengthening and improving the adminis-
tration of its medical care system.
H.R. 2735 represents a constructive effort by the Congress and the adminis-
tration to improve care for disabled veterans within the context of a responsive
and a responsible medical program. It focuses on those veterans who are our
top priority-the veterans with service-connected disabilities—and for whom the
VA medical system was developed.
I believe H.R. 2735 can aid the administration in continuing to provide high
2613
