September 10
[768]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
condolences to the Government and to the people of the People's Republic of
China.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Chairman Mao was the Chinese Communist
Party Chairman from 1949 until his death in Peking.
768
Remarks Upon Signing a Proclamation for the Observance of
National Hispanic Heritage Week, 1976. September 10, 1976
FIRST, LET me welcome all of you to the East Room in the White House as I
sign this proclamation [4459] designating September 12 through the 19th as
National Hispanic Heritage Week. It is wonderful to have you all here. Un-
fortunately, we could not have it outside because of the weather, but both Betty
and myself are delighted to have you with us here in the East Room of the White
House.
In this Bicentennial Year it is good for us-I think all of us—to consider how
much the people who came to the New World in a search for an opportunity to
determine their own futures have meant to America. These representatives of
many races and many cultures brought with them their own unique heritage
and contributed immeasurably to the American spirit and to the American
character.
America's Hispanic heritage runs particularly deep. Men and women of His-
panic origin fought in our Revolutionary War. Hispanic Americans have en-
riched our culture, our arts, and our scholarship. They have helped build an
America where freedom and equality as well are the practice as well as the ideal.
In recent months more than 11 million Americans of Hispanic origin have
made great and substanial contributions and accomplishments to a better
America. More than 50 Hispanics have been appointed to ranking positions in
the Federal Government. And, although the Members of Congress with Hispanic
origin are not here because of other responsibilities up on Capitol Hill, I am
pleased to note, as we all do, that in both the House and the Senate, on both sides
of the aisle, those with Hispanic heritage are well represented.
Federal funds for bilingual education have been increased. A system of
Spanish-speaking coordinators has been established to help Hispanic Americans
get worthwhile jobs. The Voting Rights Act has been extended to protect
2229
