September 15
[784]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
future of majority rule and minority rights; a prospect of widening human
dignity and economic progress; and a unified and independent Africa, free from
outside intervention or threat. The tortuous path that leads to these goals is
not an easy one. The risks are great. But America's interests and America's
moral purpose summon our efforts. Despite the rigors of a great national elec-
tion, I have persisted in carrying out this new policy towards Africa—not because
it is expedient-but because it is right.
I pledge to you that under my administration, American foreign policy will
serve the interests of our country and our people; it will be true to our great
heritage of the past, fulfill our purposes in the present, and contribute to our
best vision of the future.
It's not enough for anyone to say "trust me." Trust must be earned. Trust is
not having to guess what a candidate means. Trust is leveling with the people
before the election about what you are going to do after the election. Trust is
not being all things to all people, but being the same thing to all people. Trust
is not cleverly shading words so that each separate audience can hear what it
wants to hear, but saying plainly and simply what you mean—and meaning
what you say.
I am proud of the maturity of the American people who demand more honesty,
truthfulness, and candor of their elected representatives. The American people,
particularly our young people, cannot be expected to take pride—or even par-
ticipate in a system of government that is defiled and dishonored, whether in
the White House or in the halls of the Congress. Personal integrity is not too
much to ask of public servants. We should accept nothing less.
As we enter the last 7 weeks of this national election, a new poll indicates that
as many as 65 million Americans will not vote in November. Some people have
said that they are not excited about any of this year's candidates. Let them be
excited about America. Let them be excited about their own capacity to grow
and change, about our Nation's capacity to grow and change, and even about
the evolution, with their help, of the candidate of their choice.
In this year of 1976, I stand before you as the last President of America's first
200 years. But with your help, I also intend to be the first President of America's
new generation of freedom. Working together we can build an America that
does not merely celebrate history, but writes it; that offers limited government
and unlimited opportunity; that concerns itself with the quality of life; that
proves individual liberty is still the key to mutual achievement and national
progress.
And when the history of this great era is written, future generations will look
2257
