[784]
September 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I would rather run against Jimmy Carter than Harlan Huckleby¹ any day
of the week.
I am reminded of another Michigan football game that I attended in 1948.
I had just won my first Republican nomination. Then, as now, I faced a tough
challenge. My mind wasn't on politics that Saturday afternoon. It wasn't even
on football. I was on my honeymoon. Betty and I were married the day before,
and tonight I would like to introduce you to my bride, Betty Ford.
MRS. FORD. Well, dear, I see we are back here in Michigan again, but this
time not on our honeymoon.
THE PRESIDENT. That was some years ago, but as has been indicated, Michigan
and Ford have been winners ever since.
I have come home to Michigan to share with you my views of America in
1976 and my hopes for America in the next 4 years, and beyond.
During the last 2 years, in the aftermath of a difficult war and a painful ordeal
of economic adversity and political crisis, we reached a critical turning point in
America's history.
Throughout most of your lives, America has faced turmoil. Some of our most
beloved leaders have been assassinated. There was a war we could not either
win or end. There were destructive riots on our streets and on our campuses.
We suffered runaway inflation and the worst recession in 40 years. We were
betrayed by corruption at the highest levels of our Government.
Fortunately, the skies are far brighter. My administration has restored trust
in the White House. My administration has turned the economy around. We
are in the midst of a growing prosperity. We have peace and the capability and
will to keep it.
Through all of this, we found in ourselves a basic strength which has proven
mightier than our armaments, more precious than our great store of national
wealth, and as enduring as our Constitution.
As I said on taking the oath of office as President 2 years ago, "Our long na-
tional nightmare is over." In the last 2 years, the United States of America has
made an incredible comeback, and we are not through yet.
In 200 years as a free people, much has changed in our Nation, but America's
basic goals remain the same:
-Americans want a job with a good future.
—Americans want homes and decent neighborhoods and schools where our
children can get a quality education.
¹Running back for the University of Michigan football team.
2252
