[763]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
people and the world as a whole. The decision on whether such an agreement is
signed will have no relevance whatsoever to this current political campaign.
We hope that such an agreement can be achieved as soon as possible.
Q. What would you say the prospects are, please, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they are gradually improving, but we have some very
difficult problems yet to resolve.
CAMPAIGN LAWS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, don't you feel that there should be a law that limits
what an incumbent President can do in the way of spending time, spending
money, and use of employees of the White House and vehicles and other tax-
payers' resources on his campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Congress has made its decision in that regard,
Sarah [Sarah McClendon, McClendon News Service]. And I will, of course,
always abide by the laws passed by the Congress.
the
USE OF MEDIA IN THE CAMPAIGN
[8.] Q. Mr. President, do you feel that you are in any way perhaps abusing
power of this office by controlling the media, to use the media, as it were,
to make statements daily on one subject or another?
THE PRESIDENT. I apologize if I am using the American press. I am trying
to do the job as President of the United States. And I hope that between the
American press and the President we can convey important information to the
American people.
PRESIDENT FORD'S ECONOMIC RECORD
[9.] Q. Mr. President, Governor Carter and Senator Mondale and labor
leader George Meany have all in recent speeches, in criticizing your economic
record, referred to the Nixon-Ford administration, thus lumping the two
together.
Would you prefer to run on your own economic record rather than being
associated with the Nixon economic record, specifically, imposition of wage-
price controls?
THE PRESIDENT. The Ford record is the record that I will run on as far as
foreign policy is concerned, as far as domestic policy is concerned. To take the
particular matter that you mentioned, I have consistently said, and I reiterate,
that wage and price controls will not be imposed by this administration.
This administration has had a good record in handling serious and difficult
2214
