[766]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
on political philosophy. That is why I was delighted when Mr. Carter accepted
my challenge for a nationally televised debate on the real issues facing 215
million Americans.
It is still my fervent hope that this campaign will be pursued in keeping with
the best American traditions. America has no place for those who would set
brother against brother, group against group, American against American.
America did not rise to the heights by catering to fear and to prejudice. We
succeeded through courage, decency, commonsense. We are all equal in the eyes
of God.
My administration will go on working for a better world. We have abso-
lutely no reason to fear our adversaries abroad as long as we remain strong and
true to our principles. Our system has proven its superiority in every way. In
remaining vigilant we must never abandon our vision or our spiritual values.
In the words of the New Testament, "Let us [therefore] follow after the
things which make for peace,” heeding still the Old Testament which encour-
ages us to "seek peace, and pursue it."
As we must never lose our vigilance, neither must we ever lose our vision.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 a.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to
David M. Blumberg, president of B'nai B'rith, and
Simcha Dinitz, Israeli Ambassador to the United
States.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
767
Remarks on the Death of Mao Tse-tung. September 9, 1976
THE PEOPLE'S Republic of China announced today the passing away of
Chairman Mao Tse-tung.
Chairman Mao was a giant figure in modern Chinese history. He was a leader
whose actions profoundly affected the development of his own country. His
influence on history will extend far beyond the borders of China.
Americans will remember that it was under Chairman Mao that China moved
together with the United States to end a generation of hostility and to launch
a new and more positive era in relations between our two countries.
I am confident that the trend of improved relations between the People's Re-
public of China and the United States, which Chairman Mao helped to create,
will continue to contribute to world peace and stability.
On behalf of the United States Government and the American people, I offer
2228
