[891]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
One of the most important issues in this campaign is taxes. You have heard
over the last few months all four sides of the same question, three of them from
Mr. Carter. As a matter of fact, the liveliest debate of this campaign has been
the debate between Jimmy Carter and Jimmy Carter. He says he's for a bal-
anced budget, but he refuses to support the 60 vetoes that have saved the
American taxpayer $9-plus billion. He says America is weak militarily, but he
wants to cut the defense budget by $15 billion. Jimmy Carter says he's against
inflation, but he supports the Democratic platform with $100 billion to $200
billion in new spending. He can't have it both ways, and we're not going to let
him have it both ways.
He says he's for tax reform, but he reneged on his promise to provide specifics
before the election. He says he's for higher taxes for people earning over $14,000
a year. But I say—and listen carefully—I say the middle-income taxpayer is al-
ready overtaxed, overburdened, and underrepresented.
Jimmy Carter says he wants to tax the churches except on their church
property. I am opposed to that, and I know you are.
I have been told few things upset New Yorkers as much as your skyrocketing
taxes. I think that bothers people all over the country. The way to reverse that
trend is not to expand Government spending but to cut it back. And thanks to
my 60 vetoes, you know which candidate for President stands for cutting back
expenditures, holding the line, and reducing your taxes—it is Jerry Ford.
Property taxes all over the country are climbing. But let me add this: They
would climb a lot faster if we didn't have general revenue sharing, which I just
signed into law in the city of Yonkers. Revenue sharing is the kind of a specific
program to help all of you, to encourage all of you to solve your problems at
the local level.
Let me tell you something that some of you may have forgotten. Last February,
Jimmy Carter came out in favor of eliminating the deduction for mortgage in-
terest on your Federal income tax return. Obviously, when the American people
rebelled, he retreated back into the same old generalities.
Well, there's no such confusion about my stand on that deduction of mortgage
interest. Jerry Ford supports that deduction. I did for 25 years in the House of
Representatives, and I will do it for the next 4 years as President of the United
States. I'm not going to let homeowners become the next endangered species.
Jimmy Carter would.
To me, tax reform means tax reduction. Nine days ago, I signed into law a tax
bill which extended the cuts that I recommended last year. But the Tax Reform
Act of 1976 fails to include some other suggestions that I have proposed to give
2508
