[881]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Carter has rightly raised. Do we want to entrust the leadership of this great
Nation to a man who seeks to lift himself up to the White House by running
down the reputation of the United States? Is the leadership we want that which
claims that America “is not respected anymore" when it is the United States—
and the United States alone-that is trusted by all sides in the Middle East and
by both black and white in southern Africa?
America is the leader of the free world, and the American people are proud
of it. But the kind of leadership America seeks for itself, the kind of leadership
America offers the world, the kind of leadership we need for the future, is the
leadership of example, compassion, and commonsense. And if that is what we
are, if that is what we want to be, then phrases such as "a disgrace to our coun-
try"-phrases that demonstrate moral conceit rather than example, compassion,
or commonsense—have no place.
I want the American people to understand the profound differences between
us in areas of policy as well as philosophy. Therefore, I intend to fight Mr. Carter
on the issues with all the ability I can command.
The challenges before us are immense if we are to successfully defend the
principles of freedom and independence we celebrate this Bicentennial Year. The
free world looks to us as the last best hope for preserving this heritage. To be
successful we must be strong. The fact is we are, and I intend to assure that in
this critical hour America remains the strong, steady defender of freedom for
all humanity.
NOTE: This is the text of the remarks as read by the President at the meeting, which began at 9:45 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
882
Statement on Signing the Toxic Substances Control Act.
October 12, 1976
I HAVE signed S. 3149, the Toxic Substances Control Act. I believe this legis-
lation may be one of the most important pieces of environmental legislation that
has been enacted by the Congress.
This toxic substances control legislation provides broad authority to regulate
any of the tens of thousands of chemicals in commerce. Only a few of these
chemicals have been tested for their long-term effects on human health or the
environment. Through the testing and reporting requirements of the law, our
understanding of these chemicals should be greatly enhanced. If a chemical is
2486
