[880]
October 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
fine careers of their children and their grandchildren who have risen to the
highest levels of achievement and respect in this great country.
Today, the problems we face in building a better world can be just as difficult
as the ones Columbus overcame in finding a new one. The peoples of the Old
World still look to the New World as the champion of freedom, the champion
of human rights. America has been their hope and their help, and we will never
let them down.
Our goal of peace with freedom requires every bit as much courage and faith
and endurance and as much toil for Americans today as Columbus demanded
of his wonderful crew.
We can build a better world. We can do it by working to preserve our neigh-
borhoods and the influence of the family on American life. We can do it by en-
suring a decent education and equal opportunity for every American. We can
do it by working to give our children the very best legacy-continued peace
with freedom throughout the world.
Today, we honor the bravery, the imagination, the initiative of Christopher
Columbus by laying this wreath. We can honor him every day of the year
by being just as brave, just as imaginative, and showing as much initiative in
facing the challenges before us.
We seek not a new trade route or a new continent, but a new world of free-
dom, equality, and lasting peace among nations. Over the years, America has
made great strides toward that goal. As Columbus, himself, might have thought,
we have come too far to turn back now. The course has been set. Our mission to
achieve the American dream here at home, but also worldwide, will be achieved.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:42 p.m. at the
Christopher Columbus Statue at Union Station.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Bonnie
Angelo, White House correspondent for Time
magazine, Roberto Gaja, Italian Ambassador to the
United States, Joaquin Cervino, Minister of the
Spanish Embassy, Senator Pete V. Domenici of
New Mexico, Lt. Gov. Blair Lee of Maryland, and
Mayor Walter E. Washington of the District of
Columbia.
881
Remarks at a Meeting With American Leaders of Eastern
European Ancestry. October 12, 1976
I APPRECIATE this opportunity to meet with you today because I want to set
the record straight on an issue that has received prominent attention in the past
week—the question of Soviet domination of Eastern Europe.
2484
