[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
shelters—they only apply to people in the $50,000-a-year bracket or up. And
I think this is the best way to approach it, is to make sure that everybody pays
taxes on the income that they earn and make sure that you take whatever savings
there is from the higher income levels and give it to the lower- and middle-
income families.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Carter's answer tonight does not coincide with the
answer that he gave in an interview to the Associated Press a week or so ago.
In that interview Governor Carter indicated that he would raise the taxes on
those in the medium- or middle-income brackets or higher. Now, if you take
the medium- or middle-income taxpayer-that's about $14,000 per person-Gov-
ernor Carter has indicated, publicly, in an interview, that he would increase
the taxes on about 50 percent of the working people of this country.
I think the way to get tax equity in this country is to give tax relief to the
middle-income people who have an income from roughly $8,000 up to $25 or
$30,000. They have been shortchanged as we have taken 10 million taxpayers
off the tax rolls in the last 8 years and as we have added to the minimum tax
provision to make all people pay more taxes.
I believe in tax equity for the middle-income taxpayer-increasing the per-
sonal exemption. Mr. Carter wants to increase taxes for roughly half of the
taxpayers of this country.
Now, the Governor has also played a little fast and loose with the facts about
vetoes. The records show that President Roosevelt vetoed on an average of 55
bills a year. President Truman vetoed on the average, while he was President,
about 38 bills a year. I understand that Governor Carter, when he was Governor
of Georgia, vetoed between 35 and 40 bills a year. My average in 2 years is 26,
but in the process of that, we have saved $9 billion.
And one final comment. Governor Carter talks about the tax bills and all of
the inequities that exist in the present law. I must remind him the Democrats
have controlled the Congress for the last 22 years, and they wrote all the tax bills.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Reynolds.
Mr. Reynolds. I suspect that we could continue on this tax argument for
some time, but I'd like to move on to another area.
Mr. President, everybody seems to be running against Washington this year,
and I'd like to raise two coincidental events, then ask you whether you think
perhaps this may have a bearing on the attitude throughout the country.
The House Ethics Committee has just now ended its investigation of Daniel
Schorr, after several months and many thousands of dollars, trying to find out
2304
