[836]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
particularly important in deterring price-fixing agreements that would result
in higher costs to consumers.
Second, my administration has been the first one in 40 years to recognize
an additional way the Federal Government vitally affects the environment for
business competition. Not only must the Federal Government seek to restrain
private anticompetitive conduct but our Government must also see to it that its
own actions do not impede free and open competition. All too often in the past,
the Government has itself been a major source of unnecessary restraints on
competition.
I believe that far too many important managerial decisions are made today
not by the marketplace responding to the forces of supply and demand, but by
the bureaucrat. Government regulation is not an effective substitute for vigorous
competition in the American marketplace.
In some instances, government regulation may well protect and advance the
public interest. But many existing regulatory controls were improsed during
uniquely transitory economic conditions. We must repeal or modify those con-
trols that suppress rather than support fair and healthy competition.
During my administration, important progress has been made both in
strengthening antitrust enforcement and in reforming Government economic
regulation.
In the last 2 years, we have strengthened the Federal antitrust enforcement
agencies. The resources for the Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Com-
mission's Bureau of Competition have been increased by over 50 percent since
fiscal year 1975. For the Antitrust Division, this has been the first real manpower
increase since 1950. I am committed to providing these agencies with the neces-
sary resources to do their important job.
This intensified effort is producing results. The Antitrust Division's crack-
down on price-fixing resulted in indictment of 183 individuals during this period,
a figure equaled only once in the 86 years since enactment of the Sherman Act.
The fact that the Division presently has pending more grand jury investigations
than at any other time in history shows these efforts are being maintained.
To preserve competition the Antitrust Division is devoting substantial re-
sources to investigating anticompetitive mergers and acquisitions. At the same
time, the Division is litigating large and complex cases in two of our most
important industries—data processing and telecommunications.
The cause of vigorous antitrust enforcement was aided substantially when I
signed the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act of 1974, making violation of
2378
