September 30
[831]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But they were not the ones who wrote the speech that you are speaking of. They
submitted what they thought would be appropriate, and we took their ideas
with the suggestions from the staff committees on the House and Senate side,
the executive department people, the labor organizations, from the maritime
industry overall, and that combination of information went into whatever
speeches I made. I think that's a very appropriate way to handle it.
Q. Did they give you a check for this, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, yes, and those checks were fully reported on my income
tax returns. They were reported to any other authority that required it. And all
of that matter was looked into by the House and Senate committees at the time
of my Vice-Presidential hearing.
Q. But if they had matters pending before the Congress, did you think that
was right to take that money when they had matters pending before the
Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was deeply interested in the new legislation that was
before the House and the Senate to expand and upgrade our maritime industry.
That was a group that likewise felt that way, and I think it was proper.
Q. Mr. President, in your golf outings or social occasions or other vacations
with Rod Markley of Ford Motor Company or U.S. Steel, did you discuss Gov-
ernment business with them either when you were a Member of the House or
Vice President or President?
THE PRESIDENT. Not to my best recollection.
Q. You never discussed business?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. Mr. President, do you think in the headlines that have run for about the
last 10 days and the fact that some of these potential allegations have not been
resolved, that there has been any damaging effect on your campaign, or would
there be if “justice delayed” means that there is no resolution of this before
November 2?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's vitally important that any aspects of either
one of these matters be fully resolved as quickly as possible. I have no way of
knowing what the impact is politically.
Q. Mr. President, one of the issues raised is whether any of this campaign
money was actually ever diverted to your personal use. Would you like to say
flatly whether that was so or not?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't know whether that's an allegation that's being
investigated by the Special Prosecutor's Office, but I can say that there was never
money given to me by the Kent County Republican Committee. The Kent
2367
