[770]
September 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
President ought to be President and get that job done and politic, if and when
he can, on the side.
Q. What about the abortion issue, Mr. President? I think he has accused you
of exploiting it.
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. My position on this very emotional and very vital
issue has been well known. I have not brought it up. It's a position that the
American people are interested in, and his views and mine ought to be set forth
on the record. I have done it, and I trust he will.
Thank you all very much. Have a good day.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where he bid
farewell to the Secretary of State, who departed for
Africa on September 13.
771
Remarks Upon Signing the Bill To Protect the New River
of North Carolina. September 11, 1976
Senator Helms, Governor Holshouser, Members of the House of Representa-
tives:
I'm delighted to welcome all of you here today for a bill signing ceremony in
the Rose Garden of the White House.
In just a minute, I will sign into law a bill to protect the New River in North
Carolina from destruction by including it in the National Wild and Scenic River
System.
This new law, as many of you know here, is the culmination of years of effort
by a great many people. And I congratulate all of you here and your many
friends for your persistence, your courage, and your ultimate success.
Some very serious obstacles had to be overcome for this legislation to be
enacted. In a way, I think that's the way it should be. When a decision has to
be made between energy production and environmental protection, both sides
have legitimate and very worthy points to be made, and such decisions should
never be made in haste.
But the most important consideration on this issue or any other issue in a
government like ours is, what is the will of the people involved? It should not
matter whether the people involved are rich or poor, famous or anonymous,
powerful or not. And it is clear that in this key case, the people wanted the New
River like it is.
Through the tireless efforts of the North Carolina delegation, past as well as
2234
