October 12
[885]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
For these reasons I am unable to approve S. 3790. I have signed other private
relief legislation during the 94th Congress designed to rectify the inequitable
circumstances arising from the "length of marriage" requirement in the civil
service retirement law. However, these bills did not contain the objectionable
provisions contained in S. 3790. I would be pleased, however, to consider legisla-
tion for Mrs. Hester that would provide appropriate relief without the objec-
tionable features discussed above.
GERALD R. FORD
885
Remarks at Yeshiva of Flatbush High School
in Brooklyn, New York. October 12, 1976
Senator Javits, Senator Buckley, Attorney General Lefkowitz, Congressman
Peyser, Congressman Gilman, Dick Rosenbaum, Mr. Goldschmidt, Mrs. Eliach,
Mr. Klein, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I commend this outstanding Jewish institution and especially the Center for
Holocaust Studies. From the greatest tragedy of the Jewish people came the
greatest achievements of the Jewish spirit—the rebirth of the State of Israel.
This inspires Americans of all faiths. The Jewish people, once tragic victims,
today are symbols of human courage, pride, and unconquerable determination,
and I congratulate you for it.
When I think of the terrible atrocities of World War II, when I recall the
grim and moving day when I visited Auschwitz, when I think of the 6 million
Jewish martyrs and others so brutally murdered, I reflect on how fortunate we
are to be citizens of a country which exalts trust in God and God-given rights
of every person to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
I was just presented with a small lapel pin inscribed with a Jewish or Hebrew
word "Remember"—and I will remember. God has blessed our great land. With
this blessing goes a great responsibility. As a free people, we must remember
that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance.
In our lifetime there has been more than enough tragedy and terror, more
than enough fanaticism and fear. My administration has committed to combat,
effectively and affirmatively, terrorism everywhere on a worldwide basis.
I shared the relief and the pride of the Jewish people last July 4, when our
Independence Day was given an added dimension by the heroic Israeli rescue
operation in Uganda. And I am proud of the fact that I was the first head of
2489
