[969]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
strong militarily, economically, industrially, but most important, morally and
spiritually.
So, whether it is allies wanting to be associated with us or adversaries who re-
spect us and will not challenge us, every American in this country can be proud
of our history and can be proud of the things that we are going to do to make
that vision of our forefathers a reality in the third century of America's great
history.
Thank you, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. at the
corporate headquarters of the Allstate Insurance
Company. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Senator Charles H. Percy, Arch Boe, chairman of the
board of Allstate Insurance Corporation, and Gover-
nor Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73, chairman
of the Illinois President Ford Committee.
970
Remarks in Schaumberg, Illinois. October 26, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Jim Thompson, the next Governor of the great
State of Illinois:
It is great to be here in this wonderful plaza and to have the opportunity of
being on the platform not only with Jim Thompson but my good friend and
your firstclass, outstanding United States Senator, Chuck Percy.
But let me add, we have here two former colleagues of mine in the House of
Representatives who I hope and trust that you will strongly support, Phil Crane
and Sam Young.
And let me add one other point: Jim Thompson can't do the job alone in run-
ning the State of Illinois the way you want it run. He has an outstanding State
ticket, and I hope you will pull that lever and go right down the line for that
State ticket to help Jim Thompson do the job.
I can't imagine a more wonderful way to end a beautiful day in the State of
Illinois than to come to this plaza and see so many wonderful people who are
going to support Jerry Ford for President. Let me extend to every one of you a
special invitation to come to Washington, D.C., next January 20 to participate in
the inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole as President and Vice President of
the United States.
As we come to the final countdown in this great election that will determine
the direction of this country for the next 4 years and will determine the direc-
tion perhaps of the next century in America, I want each and every one of you
to know where I stand. I stand on your side for limited government, for fiscal
2714
