July 19
[674]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
but come to the conclusion that they want to spend a lot of money on the one
hand and they talk on the other about some restraint in Federal spending. You
can take almost any one of the many issues, and they are on both sides of the
issue. So, I think it fits in very precisely with my observation that I made on
Saturday.
PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN APPROACH
[7.] Q. Mr. President, what is the biggest single issue between you and Gov-
ernor Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to discuss this campaign from that point of
view. I think it is important for me to act affirmatively in indicating the results
that we have accomplished. I will let Mr. Carter decide the issues where he has
some differences.
UNIFICATION OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, if you do go to the convention with the number of
delegates that you think
will go
you
with now, is there anything else at the con-
vention that could really divide the Republicans there?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope not because the Republican Party does have to
be as unified as possible if we are going to win the election in 1976. I think that
unity can be achieved at the convention in Kansas City, and I will maximize my
effort to accomplish that result. Therefore, we will have the job of picking the
nominee, and I expect to be the nominee. We have to write the platform. I
hope the platform will be one that all can support, and not divisive. And when
we leave, we, as a party, must be united individually and collectively.
Q. Mr. President, isn't that, sir, going to be easier said than done though?
These Reagan people are very committed. They have worked very hard. It is
going to take more than just going into that convention, isn't it, and saying,
"Well come on and be on our side." What are you going to say to them?
THE PRESIDENT. I think these delegates, all of them, the ones that support me
and the ones that support Mr. Reagan, have a basic philosophical identity. They
do represent delegates, one group for me and the other for Mr. Reagan. But the
identity of the philosophy is such that I think when the convention is concluded,
they can be together on the need and necessity for a candidate who will put
forth their philosophy against that of the opposition.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[9.] Q. Wouldn't they be a lot happier if you put Mr. Reagan on the ticket
with you? There is going to be a lot of pressure on you to do that, is there not?
2033
