[712]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
for the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Unfortunately, it
also contains provisions which indicate the strong reluctance on the part of this
Congress to seek real solutions to the problems we face in assuring adequate
housing for all lower-income Americans.
Two years ago, the 93d Congress authorized a new approach to provide rental
subsidies for lower-income families-the Section 8 Housing Assistance Pay-
ments Program. This program was designed to avoid the serious and well-
documented defects in the then-existing public housing program.
As a result of that new program, for the first time in our history we have been
using effectively the existing housing in inventory, as well as new housing, to
provide decent shelter for the Nation's poor. This approach is approximately
half as costly as constructing new public housing, and it prevents the waste of
our Nation's housing stock. Moreover, this program permits lower-income
families to live in modest homes, indistinguishable from those of their neigh-
bors, instead of institutionalized housing.
In S. 3295, however, the Congress has ignored both our unfortunate previous
experience and the recent success resulting from the Section 8 program. Revers-
ing this record of progress, it voted to reinitiate a public housing program. For-
tunately, in the 1977 HUD appropriation bill, the Congress has voted
overwhelmingly to cut back the size of that program.
S. 3295 would also extend a number of programs which should be discon-
tinued and would authorize appropriations far in excess of my budget proposals.
Although the Congress, in acting on HUD's appropriation bill, has demon-
strated much greater restraint than was shown in S. 3295, the threat to future
budgets remains because these high authorizations produce unrealistic
expectations.
This bill also calls for shortsighted and illogical changes in the way interest
rates are established under certain existing Federal programs.
Despite my strong reservations about these and other undesirable features,
I have signed this bill because good government requires that a number of the
authorizations and program extensions contained in S. 3295 become law as soon
as possible. I have instructed Secretary Hills to use the resources of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development to implement this measure in a
manner which will maximize its benefits while reducing as much as possible
the inevitable frustration, delays and increased costs it will also bring.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3295, approved August 3, 1976, is Public Law 94-375 (90 Stat. 1067).
2126
