October 25
[965]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
literally neck-and-neck with Jimmy Carter at this late stage in the campaign, and
are you confident of turning it around in 1 week?
THE PRESIDENT. When you look back before our convention in Kansas City,
where we were 33 points behind nationally, and now we are virtually neck-and-
neck. I think we are going to win because we have the momentum going with
us. I think it proves the American people support what we have done in the
last 2 years and know that from that foundation we can build a better America
in the next 4. So, I am just very, very thankful for the support we are getting
from people all over the country.
Q. Mr. President, our Senator was warned that if the nuclear initiative should
pass this State or other ones, that the Federal Government might intervene,
we might see the Congress stepping in to tell the States to build nuclear
plants anyway. Do you foresee that happening?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to pass judgment on anything of that kind.
I expressed myself this afternoon that I believe nuclear energy is a very important
ingredient in our effort to become energy independent by 1985. At the same
time, I fully recognize that we must and we will maximize our efforts to achieve
safety in the development and the implementation of a nuclear energy program.
Our scientific efforts are superb in this country. The best recognition, I think,
is the fact that we won seven of the Nobel prizes, the first time in the history of
those prizes that one nation had a sweep. As I recall, three or four of those peo-
ple were nuclear experts. So, we are going to get safety, we are going to have
adequate safeguards, and we are going to get nuclear power. I think it will be
in the best interests of the United States.
There is a young lady back there.
Q. Do you think that a comprehensive health care program is imminent, and
if you do, can you talk about what form you think it will take?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Carter has embraced comprehensive mandatory national
health insurance. I think there is a better answer. I feel that the Federal Govern-
ment, with the kind of recommendation that I have made for catastrophic health
insurance for the individuals in our senior citizen area-they need catastrophic
health insurance, and I am going to get the Congress to do something about it
in the next session.
But I don't think we should federalize health care, as Mr. Carter proposes
to do. I don't think that is the right answer. It hasn't worked in the countries
around the world where they have tried it on a mandatory basis. I think there
is a better answer, and the one I propose is the best one.
2693
