[964]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
handled. So, without having more information, I think it would be premature
and unwise for me to make an off-the-cuff comment.
I would welcome recommendations from your industry, and I'm sure that
Vince and all of you will see to it that I hear about it. [Laughter]
Q. As a past member of the NAB Television Board, I would like to ask you,
do you think the family viewing hour concept has been good for national
television, and do you favor more industry self-regulation as opposed to Govern-
ment regulation?
THE PRESIDENT. To answer the last question first, I strongly feel that self-
regulation is infinitely preferable to Government regulation, period.
Since our children are now grown up, and we don't have any grandchildren
yet, and since I seldom get back to the residence to watch any programs until
about 8, 8:30, I'm really not the best judge of how the programs have been
going. But, believe me, the impression I get is that the honest, bona fide efforts
to take this period of time and focus it in a wholesome direction, in a self-
regulatory way, I wholly applaud. And I've heard minimal complaints about the
way it has been done.
Q. It has been reported recently that Mr. Carter would make his first appoint-
ment to the Federal Communications Commission from the ranks of the Ralph
Nader³ group. Do you have some feelings along those lines? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we could find a more objective person-
[laughter]-than somebody that comes from that organization. I'm proud of
the appointments that I've made to the various regulatory agencies. I'm proud of
the person that I selected to be a member of the Supreme Court. We picked in
that case—and I use it as an illustration—a person who was fully qualified legally,
who was overwhelmingly approved by a potentially very critical United States
Senate, dominated by individuals who are perhaps much more liberal than I.
But Circuit Court [Judge] John Paul Stevens was an outstanding jurist, and
he was overwhelmingly approved. And for the first vacancy in the FCC, I would
seek to appoint somebody of that same caliber in this particular field. I don't
think we ought to pull somebody out of a certain segment of our society just to
perhaps show off a bit.
Q. Several months ago a member of your staff, Mr. Paul MacAvoy,* issued a
proposal which was so overwhelmingly in favor of cable television that it has
caused serious concern among broadcasters. May I ask whether you endorse Mr.
3 Consumer activist and a trustee of Public Citizens, Inc.
Member, Council of Economic Advisers.
2690
