[949]
October 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
lina; last week, in Oklahoma, Texas; the week before, in Louisiana, Mississippi,
Alabama, and Florida. I don't think that's hiding out in Washington, D.C.
A couple of weeks ago I opened the State Fair in Texas, but Jim Holshouser
told me if I wanted to see a really big fair, I'd have to come to North Carolina.
I'm here, and I love it. Thank you.
While I am here, let me extend a very special invitation to come to Wash-
ington next January for the inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole; or to put
it another way, y'all come. [Laughter]
In Kansas City, I knew I had picked an outstanding teammate or running
mate. Bob Dole has a superb record, not only in the House of Representatives
but in the United States Senate. But I didn't really understand that I got such
a big dividend when we got Liddy Dole with Bob Dole, and thank you very
much.
Let me express my deepest appreciation to your outstanding United States
Senator Jesse Helms, and the two fine Congressmen that I know so well, Jim
Broyhill and Jim Martin. Lets add a few more just like them on Election Day.
Over the years, I've developed a very close and warm friendship with the
people of this State, dating back—I went to law school here one summer at the
University of North Carolina, I spent a few months in Chapel Hill-assigned
there by the Navy in World War II. [Laughter] My oldest son, Mike, and his
wonderful wife, Gayle, graduated from Wake Forest and, of course, as I
mentioned earlier, were delighted to have that wonderful Southern accent, that
beautiful gal, Elizabeth Hanford Dole, from Salisbury, North Carolina.
But let me talk very straight to you for a few minutes. You know where I
stand. I stand on your side for limited government, for fiscal responsibility, for
rising prosperity, for lower taxes, for military strength, and for peace in the
world. Not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign soil
today, and I intend to keep it that way.
After so many years in which America's defensive needs were shortchanged,
I proposed the two largest military budgets in America's history, and I was able
to convince the Congress to stop slashing away at military spending.
After so many years of runaway growth in the Federal budget, I submitted
a budget for this fiscal year which cut the rate of growth in Federal spending in
half. I have held the line on Government spending with 64 vetoes and saved you,
the hard-pressed taxpayers, $9 billion. Because I've not been afraid to say no
to excessive spending, we will be able to submit a balanced Federal budget by
1978; and, in addition, we'll have another tax reduction for the American
taxpayer, particularly the middle-income taxpayers of this country.
2654
