October 12
[881]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Let me be blunt: I did not express myself clearly when this question came
up in the debate last Wednesday night.' So that there can be no doubt about
where I stand, let me spell out precisely what I believe:
-First, the countries of Eastern Europe are, of course, dominated by the So-
viet Union. Were it not for the presence of more than 30 Russian divisions there
the countries of Eastern Europe would long since have achieved their
freedom.
now,
-Second, the United States never has, does not now, and never will recog-
nize, accept, or acquiesce in this Soviet domination of Eastern Europe.
-Third, the peoples of Eastern Europe yearn for freedom---while their coun-
tries may be physically dominated, their spirit is not. Their spirit has never been
broken and never will be. And some day they will be free.
That, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of my position. It is what my com-
mitment to the dignity of man and his inalienable right to freedom compels
me to believe. It is what my whole record of public service has demonstrated I
believe. And any man who seeks to persuade you that I think otherwise is en-
gaging in deceit and distortion.
The original mistake was mine. I did not express myself clearly; I admit it.
But in the last analysis, my record of 30 years of service in the Congress, as Vice
President, and as President must speak for itself. More than a year ago, in July
of 1975, I said that, “It has always been my policy ever since I entered public
life, to support the aspirations for freedom and national independence of the
peoples of Eastern Europe-with whom we have close ties of culture and blood—
by every proper and peaceful means." I stand by that record today, and I am
proud of it. I welcome making it an issue in this campaign.
But another critical issue-one which you, with particularly close ties to
Eastern Europe, as well as the American people as a whole, should consider—
is whether a man who shows so little appreciation of America's strength, Amer-
ica's respect, and America's needs—as my opponent has done in this campaign—
should be allowed to guide the fortunes of the most powerful Nation on Earth.
The American people have a right to ask whether a political candidate, who
has variously called for a $15 billion cut, or a $7 or 8 billion cut, or a $5 to 7 billion
cut in the defense budget, and who then complains that we are “not strong
anymore"-as Governor Carter has done-is truly the man to govern the only
country in the world that can assure the defense of freedom and give hope to the
millions of oppressed in Eastern Europe and throughout the world.
Finally, let me address the critical question of leadership, which Governor
1
See Item 854, page 2408.
2485
