August 27
[742]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Needless to say, the change in the poll was very helpful. But I am encour-
aged—I have been in some political campaigns where I have been behind as
much as 12 points with 4 weeks to go-and it is going to be done. It is going
to be done because the American people believe in President Ford's leadership.
So, I am excited about the future and ready to get going.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. One of my longstanding, political friends and a person whose
record in public service is outstanding-he came here to meet with us. He
made very significant contributions during our 5 or 6 hours of discussion. And
I would like to reemphasize at this point, a point that he has made, and made
repeatedly, that unemployment is a serious matter that we are making headway
on. But we have to concentrate on making certain that we win the battle
against inflation. We're making headway there, very significant headway.
And we're going to continue to do so. I would like to express my gratitude to
Governor Connally for coming and joining us.
I would like John to say a word or two.
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am delighted to say a few words, because I think I came here to say to you
that I want to contribute everything I possibly can to see your election and the
election of Senator Dole, as President and Vice President of the United States.
I think it's critical, it's imperative, that you be elected. I don't know of anyone
who has a deep concern for this country who is not going to give their all-out
effort to see that you are elected in November.
And in the conversations we had, you started talking, first, about defense and
foreign policy. There is no question but what you and this Republican admin-
istration has made an enormous contribution to peace in the world. And that
peace we have to continue, and those policies we have to continue. And we have
to initiate new policies, which you certainly are going to do.
You reiterated, again, your dedication to fight inflation in the interest of
everybody in this country, and I think there is not a more important issue in
this country.
I won't go over all of the things we tried to talk about, but I will say to
you members of the press that I think the thing that impressed me the most was
the President's and Senator Dole's fierce determination to wage an extremely
aggressive, fighting campaign.
I must say that not a one of us was concerned by the present gap in the polls
between Governor Carter and President Ford. I personally reported to the
2183
