September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. On November 2 all of you will make a very, very important
decision. One of the major issues in this campaign is trust. A President should
never promise more than he can deliver, and a President should always deliver
everything that he has promised. A President can't be all things to all people.
A President should be the same thing to all people.
Another issue in this campaign: Governor Carter has endorsed the Demo-
cratic platform, which calls for more spending, bigger deficits, more inflation,
or more taxes. Governor Carter has embraced the record of the present Con-
gress, dominated by his political party. It calls for more of the same. Governor
Carter in his acceptance speech called for more and more programs, which
means more and more Government. I think the real issue in this campaign—
and that which you must decide on November 2—is whether you should vote
for his promises or my performance in 2 years in the White House.
On the Fourth of July, we had a wonderful 200th birthday for our great
country. It was a superb occasion. It was a glorious day.
In the first century of our Nation's history, our forefathers gave us the finest
form of government in the history of mankind. In the second century of our Na-
tion's history, our forefathers developed the most productive industrial nation
in the history of the globe. Our third century should be the century of individ-
ual freedom for all our 215 million Americans today and all that join us.
In the last few years government has gotten bigger and bigger; industry
has gotten larger and larger; labor unions have gotten bigger and bigger; and
our children have been the victims of mass education.
We must make this next century the century of the individual. We should
never forget that a government big enough to give us everything we want is
a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
The individual worker in the plants throughout the United States should
not be a small cog in a big machine. The member of a labor union must have
his rights strengthened and broadened, and our children in their education
should have an opportunity to improve themselves based on their talents and
their abilities.
My mother and father, during the Depression, worked very hard to give me
an opportunity to do better in our great country. Your mothers and fathers
did the same thing for you and others. Betty and I have worked very hard to
give our children a brighter future in the United States, our beloved country.
You and others in this great country have worked hard and done a great deal
to give your children and your grandchildren the blessings of a better America.
2311
