[1070]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
1070
Annual Message to the Congress: The Economic
Report of the President. January 18, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
The past year was a year of sound economic achievement. A year ago I said
that my key economic goal was "to create an economic environment in which
sustainable noninflationary growth can be achieved." While much remains to
be done we have built a very solid foundation for further economic gains in 1977
and beyond. The recovery has continued to produce substantial gains in output
and employment. Unemployment remains much too high, but the marked
reduction that we see in inflation as well as in inflationary expectations repre-
sents significant progress toward regaining the stable noninflationary prosperity
that has been our goal.
The gross national product, adjusted for inflation, rose by slightly more than
6 percent last year. The rise in production was extremely rapid at the beginning
of 1976. The advance moderated during the spring, but at the close of the year
the recovery showed signs of reacceleration. In December more than 88 million
Americans were employed, an increase of about 3 million from last December
and more than 4 million above the 1975 recession low. Economic gains were
widespread. Real incomes continued their rise, consumer expenditures also
moved upward, business investment began to recover, and housing construc-
tion improved significantly. Unemployment dropped sharply in the early
months of last year, although it rose again as the extraordinarily rapid expansion
in the labor force outpaced the creation of new jobs.
Substantial headway was also made on the inflation front. Since late 1975 the
consumer price index has risen only 5 percent, a full percentage point less than
was anticipated and a noteworthy improvement over the 12 percent inflation
rate of 1974. Wage settlements continued to moderate. Record crops and more
ample supplies of farm products halted the sharp increases in food prices. As
fears of inflation ebbed, interest rates declined, contrary to most expectations
at the beginning of the year; and the stock market, reflecting this heightened
confidence, was close to the highs of the year when trading ended in 1976. The
lower rate of inflation and the improved state of financial markets attest to the
significant progress we have made during the past year toward reestablishing a
stable, noninflationary, full-employment economy.
If this goal is to be fully realized, the present policy of moderation in fiscal
2946
