September 8
[763]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and removed the crushing burden of anxiety and uncertainty from their rela-
tives and their loved ones.
But none of us can be satisfied with this limited action by the Vietnamese.
What they have done is to release information of only a dozen men. They still
have information on hundreds more.
For wives, parents, and friends of the men still missing, the anxiety and the
uncertainty continues. It is callous and cruel to exploit human suffering in the
hope of diplomatic advantage.
The Vietnamese have an obligation to provide a full accounting of all Ameri-
cans missing in action. I call upon them to do so without further delay. Nor-
malization of relations cannot take place until Vietnam accounts for all our men
missing in action.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:32 p.m. in the Briefing Room at the White House.
763
The President's News Conference of
September 8, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning. I have a very short opening statement, and then
we will get to the questions.
PROBLEMS CONCERNING SOUTHERN AFRICA
[1.] I met this morning with Secretary Kissinger to discuss his report on his
meetings with Prime Minister Vorster and with European leaders. On the
basis of this report, I believe that good progress has been made on the problems
concerning southern Africa.
It is important to understand that in this diplomatic process now unfolding,
the United States is offering its good offices as an intermediary. We are willing
to present ideas on how progress can be achieved, but we are not—and I em-
phasize not trying to develop a specific American plan.
We have three objectives: first, to prevent an escalation of the violence which
in time could threaten our national security; second, to realize popular aspira-
tions while guaranteeing minority rights and ensuring economic progress;
third, to resist the intervention in the African situation by outside forces.
In his discussions with Prime Minister Vorster, the Secretary put forward
some ideas conveyed to the United States by black African leaders, and Prime
2211
