[886]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me conclude by one final comment. I think the middle-income taxpayer
in this country is getting shortchanged, and the best way to give him the right
kind of tax relief is to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
That's what we need and that's what we'll get.
Thank you all very much.
[At this point, the President's motorcade proceeded from 82d Street and Fifth Avenue to
84th Street and Fifth Avenue, where the President spoke as follows:]
Hi, how are you? Nice to see you.
Let me make one or two comments. I am delighted to be here in this wonder-
ful community with Senator Jack Javits and Senator Jim Buckley. Give them
a big hand.
Let me say very quickly, what do we want in America? We want peace, and
we want prosperity, and we want trust. Under your President, Jerry Ford has
restored trust in the White House. You can now believe what you hear out of
the White House.
Number two, America is at peace. There is not a single young American
fighting and dying on foreign soil today, and we're going to keep it that way.
But we want to give a better quality of life right here in America. What we
want is a job for everybody who wants to work, and we will get him a job. We
want a home for everybody who will work and save for it, and we are going to
get that under the next 4 years. We want to be certain that you can walk down
this street or that street and be safe, and we are going to take care of the crime
problem in America, period.
We want these young people that I have seen on both sides of the street—
we want them to get an education so that they can not only have an education
but one that will do them good when they get old enough and want a job. And
we're going to get that in the education system.
But let me just conclude with this observation. November 2 is a critical testing
point for America. It you want a country that is strong at home, strong abroad,
and with peace and prosperity, vote for Jerry Ford. I ask for your support.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke from his limousine at each stop during the motorcade tour.
2494
