October 20
[925]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
future military engagement there, because Israel is strong and the Ford admin-
istration has contributed significantly to making them strong. But in the 1973
Yom Kippur war, some emergency actions had to be taken, Now we have
overcome it. Israel is strong; they are a good ally, and we are dedicated to their
security and survival.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN ISSUES; FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO CITIES
[14.] Q. Mr. President, there has been a good deal of discussion, sir, and
concern that the issues discussed in the campaign have been too narrow, and
you and Mr. Carter haven't discussed a broad enough range of issues and that,
frankly, very often during the debates, you have been rattling off prerehearsed
answers to questions, regardless of the questions. How about that large ques-
tion, and would you have any particular initiative for America's troubled cities
in another term?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me speak very forthrightly. I can't speak for Mr. Carter,
but we don't anticipate what those questions are going to be from the members
of the press. We answer them based on our knowledge or our experience. And
in my case, they are not prerehearsed, and any allegations to that effect just
aren't accurate.
Now let me say this about the Ford administration and its reference to the
needs and requirements of our major metropolitan areas. The Ford adminis-
tration, with general revenue sharing, with the Community Development Act,
Mass Transit Act, with the LEAA program and a number of other programs,
has given more money to major metropolitan cities, to our big cities in this
country, than any previous administration. That's a fact.
Now, the net result is sometimes those programs have overlapped. And so
about 5 months ago, I asked the Secretary of HUD, Carla Hills, to head a
Cabinet-level committee called the Committee on Urban Development and
Neighborhood Revitalization. And some time—I hope maybe this week or
next-we will have the Cabinet committee's recommendations so we can better
utilize the vast amounts of money, the billions and billions of dollars that have
gone from the Federal Treasury to our cities so that they will be better utilized.¹
And I am looking forward to that report. I am looking forward to having it
published, because I am told that it has some very good recommendations how
we can better utilize what we are making available.
ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING PRESIDENT FORD AND WATERGATE INVESTIGATIONS
[15.] Q. Mr. President, in addition to doing what you did in connection
1 For the President's statement on receiving the report, see Item 930.
2593
