[967]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
relationships with our allies. When I took office, America was in the midst of a
constitutional crisis. We were still suffering from the bitterness of Vietnam, and
we were faced with a deteriorating economy. The world was watching to see if
we could recover. They knew it was critical to their own future, because if
America became mired in self-doubt, then the peace of the world would be
jeopardized.
And I am very proud of our record during this period of severe testing. We
have led the world out of the most dangerous recession since the 1930's, and
launched our economic recovery without producing another round of devastat-
ing inflation.
The economic comeback of the industrial democracies is being accomplished
not with the “beggar thy neighbor” policies of the 1930's, but with an unprece-
dented degree of cooperation, as witnessed by the summit meetings in France
and Puerto Rico of the leading industrial nations.
In Europe, we have injected new vigor into the Atlantic Alliance. We have
successfully resisted congressional pressures to reduce our NATO troop com-
mitments. We have worked closely with our allies on the energy crisis, on the
nonproliferation of nuclear weapons, on economic policies, and on coordinat-
ing our approaches to East-West diplomacy. The alliance in Europe has never
been stronger.
We have also made significant progress in the Middle East. The United States
stands staunchly by Israel, supplying in just 2 years over 40 percent of all U.S.
aid to that country since its founding in 1948. At the same time, we have earned
the respect and the confidence of the Arab nations. Today, the United States
is the only major leader trusted by both sides in the Middle East. They want
our leadership, and we will continue to provide it.
We can also look to Asia with new confidence today. We now enjoy the
strongest links ever with Japan. This was symbolized by the first visit-the
first visit ever—of the Emperor to the United States, and my own visit to his
homeland, the first visit to Japan by any American President.
We have remained steadfast in the Korean peninsula. We have put the Viet-
nam war behind us in a way which has protected our essential interest and main-
tained America's respect in that part of the world. We have opened the door to
better relations with China.
Now let's look at the alternative that is being offered in this election. Instead
of holding firm in Asia, we are told that we should pull our troops and major
weapons systems out of Korea—an invitation to disaster, not only there but in
Japan as well.
2700
