[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yugoslavia. President Tito is old and sick, and there are divisions in his country.
It's pretty certain that the Russians are going to do everything they possibly
can after Tito dies to force Yugoslavia back into the Soviet camp.
But last Saturday, you said—and this is a quote-"I would not go to war in
Yugoslavia even if the Soviet Union sent in troops." Doesn't that statement prac-
tically invite the Russians to intervene in Yugoslavia? Doesn't it discourage
Yugoslavs who might be tempted to resist? And wouldn't it have been wiser
on your part to say nothing and to keep the Russians in the dark, as President
Ford did and as, I think, every President has done since President Truman?
MR. CARTER. In the last 2 weeks I've had a chance to talk to two men who have
visited the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, and China. One is Governor Averell Harri-
man,¹ who visited the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia, and the other one is James
Schlesinger, whom I think you accompanied to China. I got a complete report
back from those countries from these two distinguished gentlemen.
Mr. Harriman talked to the leaders in Yugoslavia, and I think it's accurate to
say that there is no prospect, in their opinion, of the Soviet Union invading
Yugoslavia should Mr. Tito pass away. The present leadership there is fairly
uniform in their purpose. I think it's a close-knit group, and I think it would
be unwise for us to say that we will go to war in Yugoslavia if the Soviets
should invade, which I think would be an extremely unlikely thing.
I have maintained from the very beginning of my campaign—and this was a
standard answer that I made in response to the Yugoslavian question—that I
would never go to war, become militarily involved in the internal affairs of
another country, unless our own security was directly threatened. And I don't
believe that our security would be directly threatened if the Soviet Union went
into Yugoslavia. I don't believe it will happen. I certainly hope it won't. I
would take the strongest possible measures short of actual military action
there by our own troops, but I doubt that that would be an eventuality.
MR. KRAFT. One quick followup. Did you clear the response you made with
Secretary Schlesinger and Governor Harriman?
MR. CARTER. No, I did not.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, your response.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I firmly believe, Mr. Kraft, that it's unwise for a
President to signal in advance what options he might exercise if any international
problem arose.
1
I think we all recall with some sadness that at the period of the late 1940's,
¹ Governor of New York 1954-58 and Ambassador at Large 1961, 1965-68.
2
Secretary of Defense 1973-75.
2628
