[989]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Government as a helpful servant rather than a meddling master in the area of
education.
American schools have met and overcome many challenges in our Nation's
first two centuries. Today, we have a civilization which has reached unparalleled
heights of material well-being, a civilization that has uncovered many of the
secrets of the physical world. But even more important are our moral and intel-
lectual values—the elements that constitute the very essence of civilization.
A Gallup poll earlier this year reported—and I quote: "The public is over-
whelmingly in favor of instruction in morals and moral behavior in the Nation's
public schools." Many years ago, a great President, President Theodore Roose-
velt, put it much more dramtically. He said, and I quote: "To educate a man in
mind and not in morals is to educate a menace to society." I wholeheartedly agree.
Unfortunately, too many citizens are uninformed or, worse, unconcerned
about the workings of their government. Too many young Americans are
graduating from our schools with a feeling that the law is a threat and that
government is an enemy. Too many are cynical; too many don't care.
We cannot uphold our society's system of values by simply lecturing our
children that it is good. We can only assure its future by educating our children
to be aware of and to respect its strengths and, at the same time, give them the
knowledge and the incentive to correct its faults. Only then will they under-
stand why America's moral values must be preserved, even though our society
constantly changes. Only then will they understand that truth, equity, and
justice are more than mere words, but a way of life.
Meeting the educational challenges of America's third century must not be
the responsibility of educators and teachers alone. They cannot and must [not]
be called upon to assume the burden of curing all of society's ills singlehandedly.
It must be a cooperative effort by parents, school board members, teachers,
religious leaders, government officials, businessmen, labor leaders—every single
one of us.
We do face great problems in America today. Overcoming them requires
more than dollars, more than technology, more than programs. We need a belief
in ourselves. We need the will, the education, the discipline to take action.
Let us take a new look at ourselves in America. Let us see a constructive
partnership between the education community and the rest of our society. Let
us seek the highest standards in every aspect of American life.
As Daniel Webster once wrote, and I quote: "If we work upon marble, it will
perish. If we work upon brass, time will efface it. If we rear temples, they
will crumble to dust. But if we work upon men's immortal minds, if we embue
2784
