January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
pacity and avoid the need for billions of dollars in Federal outlays when the
private sector can provide the financing.
-Authority to increase the price for uranium enrichment services performed
in Government-owned plants--to assure a fair return to the taxpayers for their
investment, to price services more nearly comparable to their private sector
value, and to end the unjustified subsidy by taxpayers to both foreign and
domestic customers.
-Criteria for the control of nuclear exports which is necessary to round out
the comprehensive non-proliferation, export control, reprocessing evaluation and
waste management program I outlined in my October 28, 1976, statement on
nuclear policy.
-Reform the nuclear facilities licensing process by providing for early site
review and approval and encouraging standardization of nuclear facility design.
-Building Energy Facilities
-Establishment of an Energy Independence Authority (EIA), a new govern-
ment corporation, to assist private sector financing of new energy facilities.
-Legislation to encourage states to develop comprehensive and coordinated
processes to expedite review and approval of energy facilities siting applications,
and to assure the availability of sites.
-Energy Conservation
-Tax credit for homeowners to provide up to $150 for purchasing and install-
ing insulation in existing residences.
-Reform of rate setting practices applicable to public utilities—to expedite
consideration of proposed rate changes and assure that rates reflect full costs of
generating and transmitting power.
1978 BUDGET REQUESTS
My 1978 Budget which will soon be forwarded to the Congress will include
major new funding to:
-Continue and expand our extensive program of energy research and de-
velopment in cooperation with private industry which is directed toward new
technologies for conserving energy and for producing energy from fossil,
nuclear, solar and geothermal sources.
-Implement the Early Storage Program as part of the Strategic Petroleum
reserves which will provide up to 500 million barrels of oil for use in emergency
situations such as an embargo.
2901
