[964]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
understand in some States there are as many as 19 Presidential candidates who
are legitimately on the ballot in some States.
So, the conflicts that you run into are almost insoluble. I think if I had a
choice, I would leave it up to the good judgment of those that have the respon-
sibility in the electronic media to use how they think the airways ought to be
used. I've never seen that abused where it has been given some flexibility. So
if 315 has to amended to put more burden on you, more responsibility on you—
a responsibility that I think you've handled well—I would favor it.
Q. If we can have the burden, we'll take the responsibility.
Q. Mr. President, I have an easy question for you, I believe. Of our two indus-
tries, radio and television, television gets much of the glamour, but as a radio
broadcaster I know most people in my town start their day with their radio.
Sir, I would like to know, on an average day—and I realize the past few have not
been average for you-how do you start your day? How much time do you
spend with radio, sir? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. What was the last? I didn't hear that.
Q. How much time do you spend with radio? Is radio important in your
day?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I usually get up about 5:15 in the morning. I spend a
couple of hours reading the Washington Post and the New York Times and a
daily news summary and my intelligence briefing. And I usually do a little
exercising to try and keep in reasonable shape.
I get to the office roughly 7:30, quarter of 8. While I am reading in the
morning before breakfast, I either have the radio on, if television isn't on, or I
have the television on while I'm—[laughter]—I have the television on while I'm
eating breakfast. But I think it's a very important part of the first 2, 2½ hours of
the day: one, to get the news as it comes in two of the major newspapers in the
East and the news summary that I get, plus the up-to-date news that comes early
in the morning with radio first and television second. I wouldn't try to balance
them in minutes, but I'm the beneficiary of both.
Q. This may seem like a broadcaster question, but it's really a public interest
one in a way, and I know you're a sports fan. We've had a recent example here of
where Home Box Office, a pay cable organization, was able to outbid local
stations or an interested network in the NIT tournaments. And in a very short
period of time it's estimated—perhaps in 2 or 3 years—pay cable is going to
be able, due to its affluence and income, to outbid networks and local stations
for much of the top and choice programing, including sports. And I'd like to
2688
