[685]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
studies that must be completed to assure a decision in the public interest, with
participation by both the Congress and the Executive.
NUCLEAR FUEL ASSURANCE ACT
This legislation would authorize the Energy Research and Development
Administration to enter into cooperative agreements with private firms wishing
to finance, build, own and operate uranium enrichment plants and authorize
work on an addition to a government-owned enrichment plant. Existing capac-
ity is fully committed. Additional capacity is needed to meet domestic demands
for fuel for commercial nuclear powerplants and to enable the U.S. to main-
tain its position as a leading world supplier of nuclear fuel and equipment for
peaceful purposes. This legislation would permit a transition to a private com-
petitive uranium enrichment industry, ending the government monopoly and
avoiding the need to spend Federal funds for capacity that can be provided by
private industry.
COMMERCIAL PRICING FOR URANIUM ENRICHMENT SERVICE
This legislation would permit the Energy Research and Development Ad-
ministration (ERDA) to revise the basis for establishing its prices for uranium
enrichment services to domestic and foreign customers. It would enable ERDA
to include cost elements in its price which should be associated with a com-
mercial-industrial activity (e.g., provisions for taxes, insurance, and return on
equity). The bill would end an unjustifiable subsidy by the taxpayers to
domestic and foreign customers.
SYNTHETIC FUELS
The Administration supports legislation to amend the Energy Research and
Development Administration's existing authorities to provide $2 billion in loan
guarantees during 1977 for the commercial demonstration of synthetic fuel
production from coal, oil shale, and other domestic resources. A total of $6
billion in loan guarantees is expected to be necessary over the 1976 to 1978
period in order to reach the 1985 objective of 350,000 barrels per day of synthetic
fuel production capacity. With the enactment of the Energy Independence
Authority legislation these ERDA projects will be transferred to the Energy
Independence Authority.
WINTERIZATION ASSISTANCE ACT
This proposal would establish within the Federal Energy Administration, a
grant program for States to assist low income persons, particularly the elderly,
1
2066
