October 29
[991]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
year. And if they don't pass it in 1977, it will be on their desk in 1978, and if
they don't pass it then, we will go out and beat them in 1978.
The middle-income taxpayer has been shortchanged too long under the
Federal tax system. But at the same time, if we are going to create jobs, we
have to give industry an incentive. So, coupled with this increase in the personal
exemption, I think we have to give some tax relief in the corporate income tax
so they will have the wherewithal to expand, to build new plants, to provide
those jobs—and we have 2 to 2½ million young people coming into the labor
market every year, and we can't have a stagnant economy if we are going to
provide those young people with jobs.
Now, my opponent wants to take care of the unemployment by dead-end,
taxpayer-financed jobs. I am against it. I am for the free enterprise system.
Thank you all very, very much. Wisconsin is crucial, Wisconsin is critical.
If we carry Wisconsin, we are in. So what your job is, is to maximize what
you have done. We have been grateful for what you have achieved, but boy, it
is like the last quarter of the big game, and this is big because it determines
America's course, America's direction in the next 4 years.
Thank you. I want your help. Let's maximize it, and Wisconsin be in favor
of a Wolverine.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:54 a.m. in the Monarch Room at the Marc Plaza Hotel.
991
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at St. Louis, Missouri.
October 29, 1976
GOOD MORNING. It's nice to be here with Jack Danforth and Gene McNary.
And it's great to be back and have the memories of that last visit with the
tremendous crowd we had. What was it-35,000, 40,000? So it's a pleasure to be
in St. Louis, Missouri, and to make certain that Missouri goes for Jack—which
there is no question, I guess—and Kit Bond, myself, and the rest of the ticket.
I would be glad to answer a question or two.
REPORTER. Mr. President, what's your reaction to the decline in the leading
economic indicators for the second month in a row?
THE PRESIDENT. We did expect some falling-off because of the pause, but on
the other hand, we are very encouraged by the tremendous increase in housing
2787
