January 20
[1085]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
policies of possible adversaries by maintaining strong military forces and by
pursuing negotiations to enhance stability, not by encouraging an arms race
which would increase the risk of nuclear war.
SALT is a proven means of furthering the essential dialogue between the
United States and the Soviet Union on arms control. Our goal is to promote
stability by mutual restraint in strategic nuclear competition, to limit growth
of the nuclear forces of both sides, and to reduce them through verifiable agree-
ments. This effort, I am confident, will succeed.
As a part of our efforts to restrain strategic nuclear competition with the Soviet
Union, we have also negotiated two treaties which limit the yield of nuclear
explosive tests: the Threshold Test Ban Treaty and the related Nuclear Explo-
sions for Peaceful Purposes Treaty. Both of these treaties represent genuine
progress. They contain precedent-setting provisions which will enhance the
prospects for further progress in this area. These treaties have been submitted to
the Senate, and I urge that it provide its advice and consent to ratification.
Complementing the resolution of nuclear rivalry with the Soviet Union is
another imperative in our dialogue for survival: Preventing the further spread
of nuclear weapons. If nuclear arsenals proliferate in the world, the likelihood
of a nuclear conflict is vastly increased. The worldwide need for peaceful nuclear
energy complicates this problem, since the same technology that produces such
energy can be diverted to the development and production of nuclear weapons.
To emphasize more strongly our commitment to the objective of the nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty, I announced a new, comprehensive United States
nuclear energy policy last October which harmonizes our non-proliferation
objectives with our domestic energy policy. We have tightened controls on
American exports of sensitive nuclear materials and technology. Our sustained
diplomatic initiatives with other suppliers of nuclear technology have also
resulted in improved international comprehension of the risks of proliferation,
as well as cooperation to prevent it.
Non-proliferation is only one example of our pursuit of arms control through
multilateral forums and arrangements. With our Western allies we are engaged
in negotiations to reduce military forces in Central Europe. Our goal is to ob-
tain a more stable military balance in Central Europe at lower levels of force.
We also participate in the activities of the Conference of the Committee on Dis-
armament (CCD) which recently approved a convention outlawing the use of
environmental modification techniques for hostile purposes. This Convention
will soon be open to all nations for ratification. The CCD is also continuing its
2977
