September 22
[801]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
lative appropriation bill have agreed to some of the steps that I have recom-
mended. This defense bill, however, represents, overall, very real progress, but
there are other measures that I feel must be taken.
The shipbuilding program is of critical importance to our future ability to
control the seas in the event of conflict. The Seapower Subcommitte of the
House Committee on Armed Services has unanimously approved a $1.1 billion
program to begin work on the additional ships needed to strengthen our Navy.
I urgently call on the Congress to approve this program before adjournment, so
that we can be assured our continued naval superiority during the next two
decades.
I thank in particular those of you here today. I know and I deeply appreciate
the efforts of all of you with respect to our national security. I share your dedi-
cation, and I share with you the valuable contributions that you have made to
the Nation's freedom.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 14262.]
Again, thank you all very, very much. We are very grateful for your con-
tributions and your support, and we will be continuing to sustain this effort
which is so important.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:47 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Rose Garden at the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Secretary of Defense
Donald H. Rumsfeld.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 14262) is Public Law
94-419 (90 Stat. 1279).
801
Memorandum on Recombinant DNA Experiments.
September 22, 1976
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
On June 23 the National Institutes of Health released guidelines for the con-
duct of research involving the creation of new forms of life used in studying
genetics (recombinant DNA [Deoxyribonucleic acid] experiments). These
guidelines establish carefully controlled conditions for experiments in which
foreign genes are inserted into microorganisms, such as bacteria. The objective
of the guidelines is the containment of these possibly dangerous organisms
while permitting research of great potential benefit to mankind.
2281
