October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Cochran; and then a favorite of mine—[laughter]—Betty Ford; Ed, how are
you? Ed Madigan, a fine, fine Congressman. Reelect him, too.
Betty and I are delighted to be in Pontiac, Livingston County. We had a good
start in Joliet this morning. I couldn't help but notice that Abe Lincoln made
a very famous statement in the State of Illinois just a few years ago when he
said, “A house divided against itself cannot stand." Jimmy Carter wants to
divide America. President Ford wants to heal America, and that's where we're
going.
Betty and I are here in the great State of Illinois because we want your help,
we need your vote. With your help we are going to carry Illinois on November 2.
And we hope and trust that we can do it emphatically and successfully and
win that election for the good of America on November 2.
I can't help but make the observation that Jimmy Carter will say anything,
anywhere to be President of the United States. When he's in California, he
sounds like Cesar Chavez. When he's in Chicago, he sounds like Mayor Daley.
When he's in New York, he sounds like Bella Abzug. When he's in Wash-
ington, D.C., he sounds like George Meany. And when he comes to Illinois,
he sounds like just a little old peanut farmer. [Laughter] He wavers, he wanders,
he wiggles, and he waffles, and he shouldn't be President of the United States.
Now, let me just give you what I think is the reason Betty and I can come
here and honestly ask you for your support. Since I have been President, we
have restored trust and confidence in the White House. Since I have been
President, we have turned the economy around, and the United States today
is on a surge toward the kind of prosperity that we expect and will have in the
4 years under President Ford. And thirdly, the United States is at peace. And
I am proud to say that not a single young American is fighting or dying on any
foreign soil under this administration.
One other very important point—taxes, spending, national security. Jerry
Ford believes the best tax reform is tax reduction, and that's why I recom-
mended to the Congress that they increase your personal exemption from
$750 per person to $1,000. The Congress didn't do it, but we're going to pressure
them to do it in 1977, and we will keep on pressuring them until they do do it.
Tax reduction is the best tax reform.
Now, what does Jimmy Carter want to do about your taxes? He had an
interview a few weeks ago, and he said that he would increase taxes on all
taxpayers from medium income on up, and that means that 50 percent of the
taxpayers in the United States will have a tax increase under Jimmy Carter.
So, the issue is clear. President Ford wants to reduce the middle-income
2549
