October 26
[967]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ances and our friendships. To preserve the peace, we must be tough-minded and
persistent in our dealings with our adversaries. Never—not once—can we drop
our guard. To preserve the peace, we must apply the enormous talents and
technology in this great country to advancing gains made in farflung corners
of the world, stretching from the Middle East to southern Africa.
To preserve the peace, we must be generous and compassionate toward
others less fortunate than ourselves.
Finally, to preserve the peace we must be true to the ideals of America, to
our love of freedom and dignity and justice for all mankind.
These are my goals as your President. They are the goals of a great nation.
With your help, with your prayers, I will continue to pursue during the next
4 years these policies. And I pledge to you today that as long as I am your
President I will never let you down.
Thank you very much. I would be delighted to respond to questions.
I can't see through the lights, but go ahead.
Q. Mr. President, I'm J. R. Ferguson, executive vice president of U.S. Steel.
I would like to turn perhaps to an economic rather than a foreign policy ques-
tion. Will you outline specific programs you will recommend to Congress
which will stimulate capital formation and thereby the creation of jobs for our
growing working forces?
THE PRESIDENT. I will submit in January a tax reduction program that will
have two major prongs. Number one, I firmly believe that the middle-income
taxpayers in this country over the last decade has been shortchanged. And our
analysis indicates that the best way to help and assist that wide range of tax-
payers in this country is to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
That will be the fundamental.
I should add that I recommended that to the Congress in January of last
year. After fooling around with the tax problem for almost 10 months, they
ignored it. But they are going to get it right back on their desk in January. And
if they don't pass it then, we are going to go after them next year, and if they
don't pass it then, we are going to go after them in the next election in 1978.
But that would help, as I have indicated, in the consumer area. But, at the
same time, I feel that we have to make some reductions in our corporate in-
come tax rates; that you cannot, under the present circumstances, finance the
expansion, the modernization, and all the other things that are essential at the
present Federal income tax burdens that business bears.
So, we are going to approach the problem on the one hand to increase con-
2703
