[893]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
fighting and dying on foreign soil because of Ford foreign policy. We are at
peace because we are strong. We are going to stay strong.
Jimmy Carter wants to undercut your Defense Department with a $15 billion
reduction in Federal spending for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force. That's not
the way to keep the peace. That's not the way to be sure, to be certain that we
have peace in America, we have peace around the world.
The Ford administration has achieved the peace, and we are strong and diplo-
matically skillful. And we are going to keep the peace in the next 4 years.
The American people want a steady, experienced hand handling our national
affairs in our international relations, someone who knows a little bit about what
is good for us at home as well as us abroad.
Let me say that I have had nothing but the finest experience in working with
Cliff Case and his Republican associates in the House of Representatives. I am
very impressed with the kind of programs that are good for New Jersey that
Cliff Case and others have sponsored and made available through their ability
and skill in the Congress.
But let me add this: Cliff does a super job-and I have a long list of things
that have been accomplished—but Cliff Case could do more for New Jersey and
you could do more for yourself with some of those good Republican candidates
for the House of Representatives. Send them down to Washington.
Let me conclude with this observation and comment. We have heard a lot—a
great deal, I might say—about trust in this campaign. But it is not enough for
anybody to say trust me. Trust must be earned. Trust is not guessing what a
candidate means; trust is leveling with the American people before the election
about what you are going to do after the election. Trust is not being all things to
all people; trust is being the same thing to all people. Trust is saying what you
mean and meaning what you say.
In the 2 years that I have had the honor and privilege of being your President,
by the progress that we have made at home, by the successes we have had abroad,
by the way in which we have run the White House—open, candid, straight-
forward-I think I have earned the trust of the American people. Now I need
your help. We have to carry New Jersey. We have to carry a great State like New
Jersey. And when I said that I had seen this wonderful sign on the way in-
"Jersey Loves Jerry”—I want to reiterate what I said at the outset, that Jerry loves
Jersey.
But to do what all of us have to do-you in New Jersey and your fellow
Americans from all over the country-we have to win that election November 2.
I need your help. We can win in New Jersey. We are going to win throughout
2514
