July 19
[675]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
requiring appointment would be under advisement by a special court. This
extraordinary result of the present bill would almost certainly produce incon-
sistency and inequity of prosecutorial action. I must also point out that Title I
would not require direct referral to a special prosecutor of allegations of wrong-
doing by most members of Congress, while it would require referral for all
high level officers of the executive branch. I do not believe that such difference
in treatment should be allowed to exist if public confidence in the government
is to be maintained.
• Title II attempts to preempt certain law enforcement powers accorded to
the President by the Constitution and vest them in the Congress.
• Title III, requiring financial disclosure by numerous government officers
and employees, allows certain loopholes in reporting procedures, and has certain
other deficiences.
To remedy these defects, while advancing the principles of accountability
by officers and employees in all three branches of the Federal government, I
am transmitting today a substitute for S. 495. I urge the Senate to consider
my modifications in proposals at the same time it considers S. 495. I also urge
the House Judiciary Committee to consider my proposal at the time of its
initial hearings on this matter later this week.
The highlights of my proposed legislation to maintain the public's confidence
in the integrity of our government are as follows:
Title 1-Reorganization of the Department of Justice
To avoid the problems in Title I, my legislative proposal would establish
a permanent Office of Special Prosecutor to investigate and prosecute criminal
wrongdoing committed by high level government officials. The Special Pros-
ecutor would be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, for a single three-year term. Individuals who hold a high level
position of trust and responsibility on the personal campaign staff of, or in an
organization or political party working on behalf of a candidate for any elective
Federal office would be ineligible for appointment. The bill would sanction
removal of the Special Prosecutor only for extraordinary improprieties and in
the event of removal, the President would be required to submit to the Com-
mittees on the Judiciary a report describing with particularity the grounds
for such action.
Any allegation of criminal wrongdoing concerning the President, Vice
President, members of Congress, or persons compensated at the rate of Level
I or II of the Executive Schedule would be referred directly to the Special Pros-
2045
