[994]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
994
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Houston, Texas.
October 29, 1976
I THINK the people of the great Lone Star State know of President Ford's
deep personal commitment to a strong national defense program. Everybody
here knows that I have worked for 2 years with the Congress, trying to get
the Congress to go along with the kind of a defense budget that's needed and
necessary now as well as in the future. We were fortunate in the last Congress
to have made considerable success in that regard.
I am looking forward to a continuation of a strong national defense program.
That's the most effective way to keep the peace and the most effective way to
ensure our domestic security.
I want everybody in Texas to know what a great contribution they have made
to the national security of the United States. Your military industry here in
Texas, not only in the building of aircraft but electronic communications sys-
tems, as well as all the other things, are very significant in making our defense
program the kind that will produce results in deterring the enemy, maintaining
the peace, and meeting any challenge.
I also wish to compliment the young men and women who man the military
installations from El Paso to Houston. They do a tremendous job on behalf of
our national security.
So, it's great to be in Texas with all the fine people that have contributed so
significantly to my campaign. And I might add one footnote: In the last 5
days, there has been a very noticeable, very evident upturn in the polls, a very
discernible increase in crowds all over the United States, whether it's in the
Southeast, the Middle West, the Northeast, or elsewhere. We have the
momentum going and we expect it to keep going, because we have got the right
programs and we have got good leadership and good organization. And with
that kind of a momentum, we're going to surprise some people on November 2.
REPORTER. Mr. President, with the court decision today in New York regard-
ing Mr. McCarthy, could you afford to lose Texas and still win the election on
Tuesday?
The President. We are optimistic, of course, about winning Texas. It is a
very key State. On the other hand, we don't write off New York even if, by
chance, the court does decide in the final analysis that Senator McCarthy will
2794
