August 19
[733]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
out helping and assisting. And believe me, the Ford-Dole team is not just two
of us, we have got four of us.
We have got some other members of the Ford family-Mike and Gayle, Steve
and Susan. I don't know whether we have got Jack or not yet, but he, as you all
know, has been doing quite a bit—and Michelle, Senator Laxalt's daughter. I
think you ought to get a good chance to see what this kind of an outfit is going
to be. And we are going to get Bob's daughter. We didn't have much time to get
that coordinated, but she will be here.
Thank you all very much. You will see a lot of us. We will be out there bat-
tling. We will be out there doing a good job. I couldn't be happier than having
Bob Dole as Vice President.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in the Century Room at the Crown Center Hotel.
733
Remarks in Kansas City Upon Accepting the 1976
Republican Presidential Nomination.
August 19, 1976
Mr. Chairman, delegates and alternates to this Republican Convention:
I am honored by your nomination, and I accept it with pride, with gratitude,
and with a total will to win a great victory for the American people. We will
wage a winning campaign in every region of this country, from the snowy banks
of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia. We concede not a single State. We
concede not a single vote.
This evening I am proud to stand before this great convention as the first in-
cumbent President since Dwight D. Eisenhower who can tell the American
people America is at peace.
Tonight I can tell you straightaway this Nation is sound, this Nation is secure,
this Nation is on the march to full economic recovery and a better quality of life
for all Americans.
And I will tell you one more thing: This year the issues are on our side. I am
ready, I am eager to go before the American people and debate the real issues
face to face with Jimmy Carter. The American people have a right to know first-
hand exactly where both of us stand.
I am deeply grateful to those who stood with me in winning the nomination
of the party whose cause I have served all of my adult life. I respect the convic-
2157
