[887]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
leadership, you can have character, you can have experience, and Nelson has all
of these things. Believe me, though, the one thing that you really look for in
this political arena most of all is loyalty, and Nelson has it. And I thank you
very much.
If I might, I would like to add a very special comment, Nelson, not only
for what you have done as Vice President, not only for what you have done
for my candidacy and what you are doing in this campaign but what you
have done for our country all of your public life. Nobody will ever surpass the
dedication, devotion that has been demonstrated on behalf of his country over
the years by our Vice President. And I think not only you here tonight but the
people in the great Empire State and all of us in the other 49 States are deeply
grateful for this wonderful public servant, whom I have gotten to know and
love and trust, and who I think is super.
Now I would like to express my gratitude to your great State chairman, Dick
Rosenbaum, who has a subtle way of suggesting that maybe certain things
ought to happen-look at him blush. [Laughter] Well, we will do our best,
Dick, to repay you for the first-class job you did in Kansas City.
Needless to say, I have been gratified and deeply impressed by what I have
heard and seen here in New York today. I am no judge of how big the crowds
are or how enthusiastic the people are because I have never had the privilege
of being a candidate in New York State before. But I can tell warmth in the
eyes of people, and I can tell by the way they look and feel and speak and yell
and get together. We had a great day in Brooklyn today, and I want to thank
everybody for it.
As Nelson said, the people of New York City are sorting out some of the
most difficult financial problems any city in this country has ever faced. I know
it has not been easy for New York City to pull through these financial problems.
During our travels through Brooklyn, Flatbush, I had an opportunity to
talk to Senator Javits and Senator Buckley, and I told them as follows: As New
York City continues to meet its responsibilities—and I commend them and
congratulate them-I strongly favor the continuation of Federal cash-flow
assistance. It's good for the city, and it's good for the country.
I also added another little comment. I told them I support the rebuilding of
the West Side Highway. About 35 or 40 years ago I was courting a very nice girl,
and I used to come down from New Haven, and I used to ride and drive on
that highway then. It was old and broken down then, and it should have been
replaced a long time ago. As soon as the enviornmental impact statement is
ready, we will go ahead. And the second-now this is the good news—I think
2496
