August 3
[712]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
was one of the main topics of our discussion here
in Washington. During those discussions I said
that I was speaking for a European nation that
desires nothing but the possibility of living in peace
and security and cultivating friendly relations with
all nations, both near and far. And I expressed
the hope that these aspirations of the Finnish
people would meet with understanding and sym-
pathy on the part of the United States.
Today, we know what then has happened. The
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe
has taken place, and when the final act of that
Conference was signed in Helsinki on August 1,
1975, you, Mr. President, represented in person the
United States of America.
In my statement at the Helsinki Conference I
said that the security of states, cooperation among
peoples, and the enrichment of the lives of human
persons are watchwords of the Conference. Now
that a year has passed since that Conference, I
believe that we can note that our expectations have
not been unfounded. The implementation of the
recommendations, continuity of the Conference has
begun, but it will continue for a long time in the
future.
Mr. President, in your speech in Helsinki a year
ago, you quite correctly stated that history will
judge this Conference not by what we say today,
but what we do tomorrow; not by the promises we
make, but by the promises we keep.
Indeed, our adherence to promises, our acts and
their results have been and will be the crucial test
of the rationale and the benefit of the process of
the Conference on European Security and Coopera-
tion in its various stages.
At the same time, we must pay attention to the
continuity of this process to the conference to be
held in Belgrade next year and to the developments
following from the conference. On her part, Fin-
land will do her utmost that the development
that commenced and procedures established will
not go to waste.
Equality and mutual responsibility have always
characterized the interactions between Finland and
the United States. Again, it has characterized the
meetings during my present visit and made our
discussions useful.
I hope this Bicentennial state visit will further
strengthen the warm ties of friendship which
have always characterized the relations between
our two countries. On behalf of the people of Fin-
land and on my own, I would like to express our
warmest wishes to you, Mr. President and Mrs.
Ford, and to all the people of the United States
who are now commemorating their two centuries
of work for the happiness and greatness of the
United States of America.
Mr. President, I am very happy that I have had
the opportunity to exchange views with you today
on several international questions. The common
feature in the talks of today and in those which
we had last year has been their friendly, sincere,
and constructive spirit, which I appreciate very
much.
Mr. President, your activity in high political po-
sitions in your country has been exceptionally
long and impressive. Throughout your whole pub-
lic career you have been known as a resolute man
who has never hesitated to take responsibility and
who has been capable of making decisions even in
situations that have called for rapid action. Your
activity in the highest office of your country,
which has rightly been characterized as one of
the most difficult and responsible in the world, has
also abroad created of you an image of a depend-
able and realistic statesman.
I am most grateful to you, Mr. President and
Mrs. Ford, for your generous hospitality and for
this festive opportunity to meet so many distin-
guished Americans.
Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to join me
in a toast in honor of the President of the United
States and Mrs. Ford.
712
Statement on Signing the Housing Authorization
Act of 1976. August 3, 1976
I HAVE signed into law S. 3295, the Housing Authorization Act of 1976.
The need to increase the quantity and quality of housing in America and to
assure adequate housing for all Americans has been one of my primary con-
cerns. S. 3295 contains provisions which are important in helping us reach
these housing goals and also contains important fiscal year 1977 authorizations
2125
