[834]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
waste essential defense resources. Thus, I am directing the Secretary of De-
fense to implement realignment plans at the conclusion of this 60-day period.
Finally, my concern for the economic difficulties faced by individuals and
communities affected by defense realignments is well known. On July 12 of this
year, I directed the heads of 20 Federal departments and agencies to strengthen
their efforts to deal with all aspects of the problem. It should be noted that con-
cerned departments and agencies have worked effectively with 136 communi-
ties in 40 States over the past 6 years, and have achieved notable results.
I am equally committed, however, to the principle that our economic adjust-
ment efforts in communities affected by realignments must remain separate from
national defense decisions to realign military installations. This legislation does
not make base realignment decisions contingent upon the economic impact such
decisions may have upon communities where affected bases are located. In
this regard, the Senate Committee report on this bill states:
"... the decision to close or reduce a military installation must be based on
military necessity with due regard for environmental impact. Military bases
cannot be maintained to support other than national defense requirements.”
In summary, H.R. 14846 provides a satisfactory and much needed military
construction program for fiscal year 1977. I am confident that the bill will en-
able us to meet our essential military requirements in a responsible and cost-
effective manner.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14846, approved September 30, 1976, is Public Law 94-431 (90 Stat. 1349).
835
Statement on Congressional Action Extending the General
Revenue Sharing Program. September 30, 1976
I AM most pleased that Congress has today passed the extension of the general
revenue sharing program.
General revenue sharing has proven to be a triumph of the conviction that
State, county, city, and local government can be far more responsive and flexible
in serving citizens than distant bureaucracies and special interest programs.
Revenue sharing has only one special interest: the return of tax dollars to
local authorities so they can best determine how to solve community problems
with community solutions.
Without the passage of this program, county executives would have been
faced with cutting essential services or raising property taxes; States, which use
2376
