[995]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
a member of the Committee on Appropriations—the Defense Appropriations—
and the most articulate, the most effective, the most knowledgeable witness
before our committee was John Connally. You should be proud of him. I was
in the Cabinet Room the day that the announcement was made that John
Connally was going to be the Secretary of the Treasury. The President couldn't
have picked a finer man for that fine job; we're lucky.
But you also have some other great Texans who are helping in this campaign.
Ray Richardson-Ray Hutchinson,¹ excuse me—a dear friend of mine at home is
Ray Hutchinson [Richardson]-but Ray, I want to thank you very much for the
superb job you have done in organizing the State of Texas. I thank you from the
bottom of my heart.
But then at the head of the President Ford Committee is another great Texan,
Jim Baker, and I thank Jim for the fine job that he has done.
As we near the countdown on this great election, I recall vividly August 9,
1974. When I took the oath of office as your President, this country was in deep
trouble. People were angry with one another. America was divided. There was
a great loss of confidence in ourselves, in our Government, and in our Nation.
We were suffering unemployment that was reaching a very high level. Inflation
was over 12 percent. We were on the brink of a recession. We were still involved
in Vietnam.
Yes, America was having trouble. And as I took the oath of office, I said,
subsequently, that I had not been elected by your ballots, but I asked for your
prayers. The American people responded with their prayers, and we put the
ship of state on an even keel, we set a steady, commonsense course. And the
net result is, we have restored confidence in the White House because your
President has been open, candid, straightforward, and I will do the same for
the next 4 years.
We decided that the way to whip inflation was to reduce Federal spending,
to reduce the rate of growth of Federal spending, and we have. Inflation,
instead of being 12 percent-the last figure, 4.4 percent. That's progress.
We were able to end our involvement in Vietnam. And I am proud to say
to all of you in Houston and the other wonderful Texans, that not a single
American is fighting or dying on foreign soil today. We are strong and free
because we have the finest Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines in the whole
world, and we are going to keep it that way.
Mentioning our national security, there's a distinct difference, as John
Connally said, between my position and that of my opponent. I believe that our
1 Texas Republican Party chairman.
2796
