[914]
October 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
influenced agricultural practices and the produc-
tion of food plants.
ORVILLE ALVIN VOGEL-For outstanding contribu-
tions to agronomic research including the de-
velopment of radically new and improved semi-
dwarf varieties of wheat that now grow on five
continents and have made the green revolution
a reality.
Engineering Sciences
MANSON BENEDICT-For inspired and ingenious
leadership in the development of gaseous dif-
fusion plants for uranium isotope separation,
and for his role in creating the discipline of
nuclear engineering.
WILLIAM H. PICKERING-For his leadership of the
exploration of the planets of the solar system
and his personal contributions to the theory and
practice of soft planetary landings and collec-
tion of data from deep space.
FREDERICK E. TERMAN-For his principal role in
creating modern electronics and his ability to
document his knowledge, so that it could be
effectively communicated to his many students
who now populate the worlds of industry,
academia, and public service.
Mathematical Sciences
JOHN BACKUS-For his pioneering contributions to
computer programming languages, especially
development of the FORTRAN language which
made the modern digital computer directly
available to countless scientists and engineers.
SHIING-SHEN CHERN-For developing and extending
techniques that led to profound discoveries in
geometry and topology.
GEORGE B. DANTZIG-For inventing linear program-
ming and discovering methods that led to wide-
scale scientific and technical applications to
important problems in logistics, scheduling, and
network optimization, and to the use of com-
puters in making efficient use of the mathe-
matical theory.
Physical Sciences
HANS A. BETHE-For his explanation of the origin
of the sun's heat, his many contributions to our
understanding of the atomic nucleus and his
counsel in matters involving atomic energy.
JOSEPH O. HIRSCHFELDER-For his fundamental con-
tribution to atomic and molecular quantum
mechanics, the theory of the rates of chemical
reactions, and the structure and properties of
gases and liquids.
LEWIS H. SARETT-For his pioneering contributions
to the chemicalsynthesis of cortisone, steroidal
hormones, and other chemotherapeutic agents
which have contributed to the benefit of
mankind.
E. BRIGHT WILSON-In recognition of his funda-
mental theoretical and experimental contribu-
tion to our understanding of the structure of
molecules.
CHIEN-SHIUNG WU-For her ingenious experiments
that led to new and surprising understanding of
the decay of the radio-active nucleus.
915
Remarks at the Swearing In of Edward Aguirre as
Commissioner of Education, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. October 18, 1976
Justice Stewart, Dr. Aguirre, and Mrs. Aguirre:
I am highly honored and consider it a great personal privilege to have the
opportunity of participating in this ceremony where Dr. Aguirre will become
the Commissioner of Education. Dr. Aguirre brings a very useful background
to this very important job and responsibility in the Federal Government.
As an expert on manpower programs, he understands the relationship be-
tween education and jobs for our youth. As a distinguished member of the
Hispanic community, he is sensitive to the very special educational needs of
America's minorities. As an able administrator, and especially as a former
2576
