October 28
[987]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have been directed to provide assistance, on a continuing basis, to the IAEA
Secretariat.
The terrible increase in violence and terrorism throughout the world has
sharpened our awareness of the need to assure rigorous protection for sensitive
nuclear materials and equipment. Fortunately, the need to cope with this prob-
lem is now broadly recognized. Many nations have responded to the initiatives
which I have taken in this area by materially strengthening their physical secu-
rity and by cooperating in the development of international guidelines by the
IAEA. As a result of consultations among the major suppliers, provision for ade-
quate physical security is becoming a normal condition of supply.
We have an effective physical security system in the United States. But steps
are needed to upgrade physical security systems and to assure timely inter-
national collaboration in the recovery of lost or stolen materials.
—I have directed the Secretary of State to address vigorously the problem of
physical security at both bilateral and multilateral levels, including exploration
of a possible international convention.
The United States is committed to the development of the system of interna-
tional controls that I have here outlined. Even when complete, however, no sys-
tem of controls is likely to be effective if a potential violator judges that his
acquisition of a nuclear explosive will be received with indifference by the in-
ternational community.
Any material violation of a nuclear safeguards agreement—especially the di-
version of nuclear material for use in making explosives—must be universally
judged to be an extremely serious affront to the world community, calling for
the immediate imposition of drastic sanctions.
—I serve notice today that the United States will, at a minimum, respond to
violation by any nation of any safeguards agreement to which we are a party
with an immediate cutoff of our supply of nuclear fuel and cooperation to that
nation.
We would consider further steps, not necessarily confined to the area of nu-
clear cooperation, against the violator nation. Nor will our actions be limited to
violations of agreements in which we are directly involved. In the event of ma-
terial violation of any safeguards agreement, particularly agreements with the
IAEA, we will initiate immediate consultations with all interested nations to
determine appropriate action.
Universal recognition of the total unacceptability of the abrogation or viola-
tion of any nonproliferation agreements is one of the most important steps
which can be taken to prevent further proliferation. We invite all concerned
2773
