[743]
August 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
and unity. Somehow, despite our difficulties and our differences—perhaps be-
cause of them-Americans recaptured the essential spirit and greatness that
makes us a very special kind of people. We realized again what a wonderful
thing it is just to be an American.
As I thought about the changes that have taken place in this great country—
not only in the last 2 years but during the last two centuries—I also thought
about those things that must never change. Those unchanging things really
make us Americans. They are the things we must pass on to future generations.
Some are intangible, invisible—our deep religious and moral convictions, our
bonds of family and community, our political values embodied in the Declara-
tion of Independence and the Constitution. But we have other common treas-
ures that are material and visible, that can be damaged and destroyed by man.
We must be equally committed to conserve and to cherish our incomparable
natural heritage-our wildlife, our air, our waters, and our land, itself.
More than a century ago we began to save our natural heritage for the enjoy-
ment of future Americans with the national park system, of which Yellow-
stone is the oldest and the largest. This year alone we expect 260 million Ameri-
ans to visit and enjoy our 287 national parks that spread from the Virgin Islands
to Maine to Alaska and to Hawaii. And I am sure there are times when some
of you thought that all 260 million were camping on your camp site. [Laughter]
We have had a wonderful Bicentennial. We celebrated what our patriotic
founders and our immigrant ancestors handed down to us. We renewed our
vows to their vision of freedom and equality. But I found myself saying we
ought to do more. Can't we do something special, as our Bicentennial birthday
present to future generations, a gift that will be gratefully remembered 100
years from now? We can.
I, therefore, decided upon a 10-year national commitment to double America's
heritage of national parks, recreation areas, wildlife sanctuaries, urban parks,
and historic sites.
I will send to the Congress, Tuesday, a Bicentennial Land Heritage Act, which
calls for a pledge of $1,500 million during the next 10 years. It will more than
double our present acreage of land for national parks, recreation areas, and
wildlife sanctuaries; beginning development of these new lands to make them
accessible and enjoyable; improving facilities and increasing dedicated person-
nel at existing national parks; making available $200 million for urban parks;
bringing the benefits of nature to those who live in our cities; and accelerating
the development of parklands and sanctuaries now delayed for lack of man-
power and of money.
2190
