[896]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
For these reasons, I am withholding my approval from H.R. 4654.
The White House,
October 13, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
897
Remarks Upon Signing the Allied Wartime Veterans
Medical Benefits Bill. October 14, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody.
It's a great privilege and pleasure for me to welcome the distinguished Mem-
bers of the Congress and representatives of various veterans organizations, ethnic
groups, and the like. It's a great day here in the Rose Garden, and good luck.
And it's nice to see you all.
But I'm especially pleased to have the opportunity to recognize the contribu-
tions of many valiant Americans of Polish and Czech ancestry who fought for
freedom.
I think this legislation that I'm signing today provides that any person who
served during World War I or World War II as a member of any armed
force of the Government of Czechoslovakia or Poland and participated while
so serving in armed conflict with an enemy of the United States shall by virtue
of such service be entitled to certain medical benefits. This legislation requires
that each person who is so entitled shall have been a citizen of the United States
for at least 10 years.
For two centuries a very fundamental principle of American policy toward
other nations has remained unchanged. The American people support the aspira-
tions for freedom, independence, and national self-determination of people
everywhere. We do not accept foreign domination over any nation.
The people we recognize with this legislation today fought alongside of us for
these ideals. This year, as American citizens, they joined with us in our Bicen-
tennial celebration. Their wartime service is an inspiration and a lasting contri-
bution to the strength of America and to America's commitment to freedom.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:57 a.m. at a cere-
mony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 71) is Public Law 94-
491 (90 Stat. 2363).
2520
