October 8
[866]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
has grown at an alarming rate, thanks to an overtaxing, overspending, over-
bearing Congress. The budget that I submitted to the Congress this year cut that
rate of growth by one-half. I asked for a $28-billion tax cut. I asked for a $28-
billion restraint on the growth of Federal spending so we could have an honest
tax reduction. For every dollar we cut in spending, we could cut a dollar in taxes.
Unfortunately, the Congress refused to make those reductions in spending. They
went $18 billion more in the spending than I recommended. And the net result
is they only cut the taxes of the American people $10 billion this year.
In January of next year, we're going to do a lot better with a much better
Congress. I will tell you the kinds of tax reductions I want. I asked for an in-
crease in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000 per person. That means
that the middle-income taxpayer who has gotten short shrift, shortchanged by
the Congress over the years will get the kind of tax reduction that the Ameri-
can people need and want. And that's what we stand for, and we're going to get
it next year.
I asked for tax incentives to increase business investment in high unemploy-
ment areas. Congress refused. I sent back to the Congress 59 bills that I vetoed.
I saved you more than $9 billion. If Mr. Carter's friends in the Congress had been
more interested in saving rather than spending, we could have saved another
$16 billion.
But let me say those vetoes did a lot of good. I thank those in the Congress
who supported me. I appreciate the support from people like Henry Bellmon,
Dewey Bartlett, John Jarman, Tom Steed. Those are the kind of people that
have stood with you and stood with me in these tough decisions to save your
hard-earned tax dollars.
But, let me say another word or two. One day Mr. Carter proposes doing
away with tax deductions for home mortgage interest payments, for taxing
church properties other than church buildings; the next day he says that wasn't
what he really meant. One day Mr. Carter talks about balancing the Federal
budget and fighting inflation; the next day he turns around and talks about
new programs that would cost at least $100 billion annually. We have seen
Mr. Carter go from labor halls and blast away at businessmen for paying less
than their share of taxes and say their burden should be increased. Then he goes
to Wall Street in New York City, the 21 Club, and tells businessmen, “Don't
worry, I didn't mean what I said." We have seen Mr. Carter call for cuts of $15
billion in the defense budget, not once but twice-in Savannah, Georgia,
March 15, 1975; in Beverly Hills, California, 5 days later. Then last Wednesday
night we saw him deny it in San Francisco.
2467
