[730]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
It took a lot of time, a lot of effort, but the net result is good for the Republican
Party.
Q. Governor Reagan, are you saying you will permit your name to be en-
tered for the Vice-Presidential nomination tomorrow night?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. No.
Q. You will not permit it?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. No.
Q. Mr. President, could you reflect a little on the course of the campaign, and
would you explain why you think it was so difficult for you, an incumbent
President, to get the nomination in your own fight to-
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Reagan is probably the most effective campaigner
in the United States today. And when you are competing against a man with
that skill and ability and dedication, of course it is a tough contest. I have com-
plimented him for a fine campaign. He had a good organization. That makes
it very difficult.
Q. Governor Reagan, you seem to have left the door open for a draft, or at
least not closed it entirely?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. NO.
Q. Are you going to instruct the States not to enter your name in nomination
tomorrow evening?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. Well, I am not going to be so presumptuous as to go
out there and suggest that maybe they are going to do it. That is what I meant
by I haven't seen any signs of that. I will treat that at that time. But I am not
going to go running out and saying don't you dare do something, and they
might look at me very astounded and say, “We didn't have any intention of
doing that." [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, will Governor Reagan be invited to address the convention
tomorrow?
THE PRESIDENT. Quite frankly, I haven't thought about it.
Q. What is your instinct about that?
THE PRESIDENT. I will talk to the Governor about it.
Q. Mr. President, do you still feel that Governor Reagan's comments about
the Panama Canal in the campaign were irresponsible?
THE PRESIDENT. I support the Republican platform, which was agreed to
by his people and by my people.
Q. I don't think that answers the question.
THE PRESIDENT. That is the way I will answer it. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, California and Texas and several other States were very
2152
