[674]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. You heard me correctly.
Q. Do your comments on the Vice-Presidency here today rule out any pos-
sibility you will declare the nomination open and let the convention in Kansas
City decide the Vice-Presidential selection?
THE PRESIDENT. I will certainly make a recommendation, and I hope the
convention would follow my recommendation.
Q. Mr. President, since you have known all of the people involved as a poten-
tial Vice President so long and so well, is it possible you have made your decision
and are delaying the announcement until the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all.
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what elsewhere is?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, use your imagination.
FORD ADMINISTRATION EFFORTS TO PREVENT POSSIBLE ARAB OIL EMBARGO
[26.] Q. Mr. President, Governor Carter has said that if the Arabs were to
impose another oil embargo, he would treat that as an economic declaration of
war and cut off all U.S. trade with the Arab nations. What do you think of that
proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been able, through diplomatic successes, to avoid the
possibility of a Middle Eastern war and thereby avoided the possibility of an oil
embargo. I am confident that the Ford administration successes, diplomatically,
in the Middle East, will preclude any such situation as was indicated by Mr.
Carter.
If you are doing things right, if you have the trust of Arab nations, as well
as Israel, I don't think we have to look forward to either a Middle Eastern war or
an oil embargo.
THE SUMMER OLYMPIC GAMES
[27.] Q. Mr. President, may I ask about the Olympics? Now that Taiwan
and the African nations have pulled out, what is your assessment of the situation
and what changes would you like to see made in the next Olympics?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very proud of the successes I read about of the American
team there yesterday. They did very, very well in the 100-meter freestyle and
several other events, and I think the American team has done well and will
continue to do well.
Q. Has it been overpoliticized?
THE PRESIDENT. We have tried to keep the athletic competition at the inter-
national level away from being pawns in international politics. We did our very
best to achieve that result. And the net result was, with some unfortunate cir-
2040
