September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Another thing is a system called DISC [Domestic International Sales Cor-
poration], which was originally designed and proposed by Mr. Nixon, to encour-
age exports. This permits a company to create a dummy corporation to export
their products and then not to pay the full amount of taxes on them. This costs
our Government about $1.4 billion a year, and when those rich corporations
don't pay that tax, the average American taxpayer pays it for them.
Another one that is very important is the business deductions. Jet airplanes,
first-class travel, the $50 martini lunch-the average working person can't take
advantage of that, but the wealthier people can.
Another system is where a dentist can invest money in, say, raising cattle and
can put in $100,000 of his own money, borrow $900,000-$900,000, that makes a
million—and mark off a great amount of loss through that procedure. There
was one example, for instance, where somebody produced pornographic movies.
They put in $30,000 of their own money and got $120,000 in tax savings.
These special kinds of programs have robbed the average taxpayer and have
benefited those who are powerful and who can employ lobbyists and who can
have their C.P.A.'s and their lawyers to help them benefit from the roughly
8,000 pages of the tax code. The average American person can't do it. You can't
hire a lobbyist out of unemployment compensation checks.
MS. DREW. Governor, to follow up on your answer, in order for any kind of
tax relief to really be felt by the middle- and lower-income people, according to
congressional committees on this, you need about $10 billion. Now, you listed
some things. The deferral on foreign income is estimated it would save about
$500 million. DISC, you said, was $1.4 billion. The estimate of the outside, if
you eliminated all tax shelters, is $5 billion.
So, where else would you raise the revenue to provide this tax relief? Would
you, in fact, do away with all business deductions, and what other kinds of
preferences would you do away with?
MR. CARTER. No, I wouldn't do away with all business deductions. I think
that would be a very serious mistake. But if you could just do away with the
ones that are unfair, you could lower taxes for everyone. I would never do any-
thing that would increase the taxes for those who work for a living or who
are presently required to list all their income.
What I want to do is not to raise taxes, but to eliminate loopholes. And this
is the point of my first statistic that I gave you, that the present tax benefits that
have been carved out over a long period of years-50 years-by sharp tax law-
yers and by lobbyists, have benefited just the rich. These programs that I de-
scribed to you earlier-the tax deferrals for overseas, the DISC, and the tax
2303
