[669]
July 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
669
Toasts of the President and Chancellor Helmut Schmidt
of the Federal Republic of Germany. July 15, 1976
CHANCELLOR and Mrs. Schmidt, Mrs. Ford and I are deeply honored to
have you and your party with us this evening. As you well know, your visit
to America during our Bicentennial reminds all of us of the strong and historic
bonds linking our two countries.
General Von Steuben stood with George Washington at Valley Forge, and
that is one of the great stories of our Revolutionary history. German-American
statesman Carl Schurz served as a member of President Lincoln's Cabinet
and contributed significantly to those decisions. And millions of talented and
industrial Americans of German origin have contributed immeasurably to the
growth and the achievement of our Nation.
Advocates of democracy in both countries have traditionally influenced each
other. As we celebrate our German-American friendship tonight, we can take
pride in the outstanding foresight and cooperation of European and North
American statesmen over the past quarter century.
In the next quarter century, our two countries will face new challenges. As
reflected in our discussions and talks today, we look forward to building a
beneficial relationship with the developing nations of the world. We must co-
ordinate our efforts on economic, commodity, and developmental issues. The
cooperation of the industrial democracies of Europe, Japan, and North America
is crucial to any lasting solution to these problems. With our extensive resources
and skilled populations, we possess an unprecedented ability to provide leader-
ship, to contribute economic stability, and to foster progress in the world
community.
Our recent summit meetings are concrete evidence of our determination,
as well as our ability, to work together to regain our prosperity and to manage
the transition to a sustained economic expansion.
Mr. Chancellor, an essential part of our common strength is our deter-
mination to defend what we have achieved and our commitment to the collec-
tive defense of NATO under the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. While
in the Federal Republic last summer, as you know, I visited units of the German
and American Armed Forces deployed for our collective security. They were
excellent units—proud, well-trained. Through their contribution, they make
our collective security a reality.
2018
