[669]
July 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is only after a long and hard struggle and
after unspeakable errors that we have attained the
aim of a state resting on these principles. This
makes us resolved never again to gamble away
freedom and democracy, but to defend them with
all our might, as a way of life worthy of man.
And, I add, we want to do this together with you
Americans.
Freedom and democracy and solidarity are ex-
posed to many threats in the world of today.
Against the threats from outside, the North At-
lantic Alliance has, in spite of difficulties, proved
to be the most effective factor of stability in this
century. We, in Germany, on the seam between
East and West, feel every day anew that this alli-
ance is indispensable and that its strength must
be maintained in the interests of our common se-
curity and of the equilibrium of power throughout
the world.
We thank you, Mr. President, for America's will-
ingness to ensure an adequate presence of troops in
Europe as a central element of the transatlantic
link. However, defense preparedness alone is not
enough to assure lasting peace. As we see it, there
is no alternative to the policy of relaxing tensions
that we have developed together. It must remain
our endeavor, from a position of firmness and re-
solve, to extend this policy to new fields of East-
West relations. Our chances of success are good.
For the other side, too, there is a need for relax-
ation of tensions to ease its military burden and to
overcome its economic problems. Strength, I think,
is not measured by tanks and aircraft alone.
Strength-inner strength-is also a function of eco-
nomic stability, and strength is a function of social
justice. As for that, we make continuous efforts to
ensure the inner stability of our countries and of
our social systems.
It is the spiritual and moral foundations that have
made America a great country and which, ulti-
mately, also carry our alliance. Only if freedom and
human dignity are made livable elements of every-
day life, only if constitutional law is made a social
reality can we be assured that the citizens will iden-
tify themselves with their state, which is the pre-
requisite to our stability.
A great German religious reformer, Martin
Luther, once said, "You can preach anything you
want, but never preach longer than 40 minutes."
It looks as if I have managed to keep below 40
minutes, as you did, Mr. President, tonight. But in
concluding, please let me add we are really glad to
be here. America has our respect, has our friend-
ship. America has our gratitude and our good
wishes.
May I ask my fellow countrymen to raise their
glasses to the health of the President of the United
States and to a future and happiness for the
American Nation.
To the American Nation, sir.
670
Remarks at a Meeting With American Indian Leaders.
July 16, 1976
SECRETARY KLEPPE, let me welcome each and every one of you to the
White House this afternoon. I am extremely happy to have the opportunity to
meet with you individually as well as collectively, and I am very proud to have
the distinguished leaders and the elected representatives of America's Indian
tribes here in the East Room of the White House.
I looked over your schedule and I hope from the distinguished speakers that
spoke with you that you have had an informative briefing session, not only
with Secretary Kleppe but the others—those who were responsible for some
of the Government Indian programs. I think it is vitally important that you
tell us what your problems are, what your needs are, and then we can be fully
informed as to the right policies and the right programs.
Let me take just a few minutes to talk with you on a personal basis, to let
2020
