[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
the American people have been excluded from the process. If we can just tap
the intelligence and ability, the sound commonsense, and the good judgment
of the American people, we can once again have a foreign policy to make us
proud instead of ashamed. And I'm not going to exclude the American people
from that process in the future, as Mr. Ford and Kissinger have done.
This is what it takes to have a sound foreign policy: strong at home, strong
defense, permanent commitments, not betray the principles of our country, and
involve the American people and the Congress in the shaping of our foreign
policy.
Every time Mr. Ford speaks from a position of secrecy-in negotiations and
secret treaties that have been pursued and achieved, in supporting dictatorships,
in ignoring human rights—we are weak and the rest of the world knows it.
So these are the ways that we can restore the strength of our country. And they
don't require long experience in foreign policy-nobody has that except a Pres-
ident who served a long time or a Secretary of State. But my background, my
experience, my knowledge of the people of this country, my commitment to
our principles that don't change—those are the best bases to correct the horrible
mistakes of this administration and restore our own country to a position of
leadership in the world.
MR. VALERIANI. How, specifically, Governor, are you going to bring the Amer-
ican people into the decisionmaking process in foreign policy? What does that
mean?
MR. CARTER. First of all, I would quit conducting the decisionmaking process
in secret, as has been a characteristic of Mr. Kissinger and Mr. Ford. In many
instances we've made agreements, like in Vietnam, that have been revealed later
on to our embarrassment.
Recently, Ian Smith, the President of Rhodesia, announced that he had un-
equivocal commitments from Mr. Kissinger that he could not reveal. The Amer-
ican people don't know what those commitments are. We've seen in the past a
destruction of elected governments, like in Chile, and the strong support of mili-
tary dictatorship there. These kinds of things have hurt us very much.
I would restore the concept of the fireside chat, which was an integral part
of the administration of Franklin Roosevelt. And I would also restore the in-
volvement of the Congress. When Harry Truman was President, he was not
afraid to have a strong Secretary of Defense-Dean Acheson, George Marshall
were strong Secretaries of State-excuse me, State. But he also made sure that
there was a bipartisan support. The Members of Congress, Arthur Vandenburg,
Walter George, were part of the process. And before our Nation made a secret
2414
