[1070]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
ROLE OF THE GOVERNMENT IN SOCIETY
I firmly believe that if we dedicate our efforts to the major problems I have
outlined here we can successfully resolve them. As a people we have an extraor-
dinary capacity to marshal our resources against even the gravest difficulties.
Unfortunately many of our problems are self-made. One which has concerned
me particularly over the years is a tendency, born of goodwill and a desire to
improve the state of American life, which makes us think we can create cost-
less benefits for our people. We are unwilling to confront some of our hardest
choices. We persist in the belief that we can always tolerate a little larger Federal
deficit, or the creation of a little more money, especially for the sake of pro-
grams which seem to promise clear and readily definable benefits. This is a kind
of self-deception that we must learn to resist.
Certainly we must adopt measures that promise to keep the economic ex-
pansion going and reduce the high unemployment. But overly expansive poli-
cies with their inevitable risk of renewed inflation are realities which are easily
overlooked in the understandable desire for the immediately tangible benefits
foreseen from specific programs. What we seek is a sustainable expansion and
the restoration of full employment without inflation, and we must settle for no
less.
The discipline implicit in a prudent fiscal policy is not easy but it offers very
considerable and lasting rewards. I am hopeful that the recent creation of the
budget committees to serve the Congress will help to provide this necessary dis-
cipline. Prudent budget policies are essential if we are to restore stable full-em-
ployment conditions and provide the productive jobs which our people need
and want. Some part of our present deficit is the result of the recession and will
accordingly disappear as full employment is restored. Beyond this, however, we
must restrain the growth of Federal expenditures. If we do not, we shall have
to resign ourselves to higher taxes or to high employment deficits with their
inflationary consequences.
Nowhere are these tradeoffs so evident as in our social security program and
our efforts to provide medical insurance for our people. I have emphasized the
need to maintain a fiscally sound social security system and repeatedly re-
jected proposals to fund increased benefits out of what are called general reve-
nues. The purpose of linking social security benefits to specially designated
taxes is to balance the benefits to one segment of society with the costs to an-
other segment. Our democratic processes of government work better when the
2952
