October 28
[979]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
middle-income taxpayer. I submitted a tax reduction bill to the Congress last
year that called for the increase in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
Congress didn't respond. I don't understand why because I was talking to
some workers out in the factory the other day and one of the men legitimately
asked me, “What are you doing about my tax burden? They're going up locally.
They're going up statewide.” I said, "Well, I proposed that Congress give to you
this increase in the personal exemption." I said, "How many children do you
have?" He said, "I have three." It turned out he had a wife and three children.
I said, "If Congress had been smart, they would have given you that kind of tax
relief, which would have given you the opportunity next April when you
make out your 1040 return, you would have $1,250 more in personal income
tax exemption.” I said, "How could Congress be so stupid not to do it?”
We're going to submit it to them in January. We're going to submit the
same proposal to them in January, and if they don't pass it in 1977, we'll
resubmit it in 1978. And if they don't pass it in 1978, I'm going out and try to
beat them all in the election in 1978.
Well, I've indicated to you that I intend to propose as the first order of business
in Washington next January an additional tax cut of $10 billion. And as soon as
the Congress is organized, I intend to meet with its leadership-Democrat and
Republican-so that we can put a tax cut at the top of the legislative agenda
for 1977.
In the meantime, I believe that every candidate for Federal office, from the
White House to the House of Representatives, has an obligation in the closing
days of this campaign to say precisely where he stands on tax cuts. Specifically,
I call upon all candidates for the Congress to tell their prospective constituents
before the election, not after the election, whether they will support the kind
of additional tax cuts that I have proposed.
I pledge to the American people that I will seek tax cuts as the number
one priority in the next Ford administration, and I ask for the help of voters
in electing a Congress that will work with me toward that end.
My view is that our Government should return more money and more power
to the American people and to the State and local authorities closest to the
American people. In recent years, we've seen a trend toward greater centraliza-
tion, greater power in Washington, and less State and local authority in your
respective communities and States. This trend has not only hurt the American
economy, it has sapped the American spirit.
The continuing economic crisis in Great Britain—you may have read yester-
day, it was worse yesterday than it has been before-tells us all we need
2749
