[862]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
as I recall, roughly two-thirds of their present fleet.
Now, the commercial airliners say that under their restrictions imposed on
their ticket cost they cannot go into a program that permits them immediately
to buy the aircraft that would meet this problem. They say that the CAB [Civil
Aeronautics Board] won't give them enough price relief.
So, the answer is one of two approaches—either we get the regulatory reform
that I recommended to the Congress, which would force the CAB to permit
certain prime adjustments in their fares without going through a lengthy process
before the CAB. And if they got that relief, if Congress stood up and passed the
regulatory reform that I recommended, then the CAB and the industry itself
would have the capability of meeting the problems that they face in financing
the procurement of the two-thirds of the planes that don't meet the noise
standards.
Now, the other option. At the present time, there is an 8-percent Federal tax
on commercial plane tickets. That money goes into an aircraft, into an airport
trust fund. That trust fund presently has a surplus.
There is a suggestion that that be reduced from 8 to 6 percent, and that a
financing plan be worked out that would take that 2 percent and permit the
airlines to immediately be a beneficiary of that so that they could buy more
modern aircraft more quickly. It is very complicated—but it is a solution.
So, when you come down to it, we are in the process of making a final decision
as to whether we should-well, the alternatives are Congress must pass the
regulatory reform that gives the industry itself an opportunity to meet the prob-
lem or, if Congress will sit on its hands, as it has in other regulatory reform pro-
grams, if they won't take the one option, then I think the other option is a
necessity because I am not going to tolerate an 8- to 10-year program of trying
to solve the noise problem at airports, the 26-Los Angeles, La Guardia, Ken-
nedy, O'Hare, and the others.
It's not right to the 6 million people when we have a better answer, either
regulatory reform on the one hand or a financing program as I have suggested
on the other.
Q. Mr. President, I am a reservist with the Strategic Air Command out at
Marsh Field. I can tell you, sir, those B-52's will not go another 10 years. Are
we going to get the B-1?
THE PRESIDENT. I made a speech on that point yesterday out at the Rockwell
plant,¹ and I made precisely the point you are talking about. The B-52's today
1 See Item 858.
2456
