October 30
[995]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
defense must be fully funded so we can buy the most sophisticated, the most
modern weapons—number one, to keep the peace through strength and, num-
ber two, to meet any challenge by any adversary from any place in the world.
And under my administration today-and in the future-America will be
number one.
In contrast, my opponent says today he would cut $5 to $7 billion out of the
defense bill. A year ago, he said he would reduce it by $15 billion. In either
case, any such reduction in national defense funding would be gambling with
the security of the United States today and in the future, and we won't let that
happen.
We're going to keep our Nation strong to meet any challenge, to get the
respect from our allies. But we must also keep America strong here at home.
Yes, we have gone through the worst recession in 40 years. But because of the
character of the American people, because of our dedication to the free enter-
prise system, we are on the verge of the kind of prosperity that we'll have under
this administration during the next 4 years.
But this brings up the distinct differences between President Ford on the
one hand and my opponent on the other hand. I believe the best way to stimu-
late our economy, to provide jobs for everybody who wants a job, is to give tax
reductions to the individual, particularly the middle-income taxpayer, and to
give a tax reduction to industries so they can have an incentive to expand
their plants, to build new plants, so that jobs for more Americans will be in the
private economy, not dead end jobs that Jimmy Carter wants to give them out
of the Federal Treasury.
Over 50 percent of the taxpayers in this country today fall in what we are
proud to say is "middle America." I proposed last January a tax reduction that
would give to the middle-income taxpayer the kind of tax relief that he deserves.
The best tax reform that I know is tax reduction. I submitted to the Congress a
proposal that made a lot of sense and would have given the kind of relief that
you would appreciate. I recommended that we increase the personal exemption
from $750 to $1,000.
Congress, unfortunately—and I think irresponsibly—rejected that proposal.
I was talking to a worker in a plant just a week or so ago, and he said, “Well,
what will you do about my taxes?" I said I had proposed a tax reduction that
would be meaningful to him. I asked how many children did he have. He said
he has three. It turned out he had a wife, three children. and himself. I said,
"If Congress had done the right thing by you and millions like you, when you
have the opportunity to fill out your tax return next April, you would have
2797
