October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
MR. FRANKEL. Mr. President, just clarify one point. There are lots of majorities
in the world that feel they are being pushed around by minority governments.
And are you saying they can now expect to look to us for not just good cheer
but throwing our weight on their side in South Africa or on Taiwan or in Chile,
to help change their governments as in Rhodesia?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope that as we move to one area of the world from
another—and the United States must not spread itself too thinly; that was one
of the problems that helped to create the circumstances in Vietnam—but as we
as a nation find that we are asked by the various parties, either one nation against
another or individuals within a nation, that the United States will take the
leadership and try to resolve the differences.
Let me take South Korea as an example. I have personally told President
Park that the United States does not condone the kind of repressive measures
that he has taken in that country. But I think in all fairness and equity, we
have to recognize the problem that South Korea has. On the north they have
North Korea with 500,000 well-trained, well-equipped troops. They are sup-
ported by the People's Republic of China. They are supported by the Soviet
Union. South Korea faces a very delicate situation. Now, the United States in
this case, this administration has recommended a year ago—and we have re-
iterated it again this year—that the United States, South Korea, North Korea,
and the People's Republic of China sit down at a conference table to resolve the
problems of the Korean peninsula. This is a leadership role that the United
States, under this administration, is carrying out. And if we do it—and I think
the opportunities and the possibilities are getting better-we will have solved
many of the internal domestic problems that exist in South Korea at the pres-
ent time.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter?
MR. CARTER. I noticed that Mr. Ford didn't comment on the prisons in Chile.
This is a typical example, maybe of many others, where this administration over-
threw an elected government and helped to establish a military dictatorship.
This has not been an ancient history story. Last year, under Mr. Ford, of all the
Food for Peace that went to South America, 85 percent went to the military
dictatorship in Chile.
Another point I want to make is this: He says we have to move from one area
of the world to another. That is one of the problems with this administration's
so-called shuttle diplomacy. While the Secretary of State is in one country, there
are almost 150 others that are wondering what we are going to do next, what
2429
