September 27
[820]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ment decision-makers to balance the effect government policy will have between
producers, distributors, transporters, retailers, labor and the consumers who
support the entire system through the purchase of goods and services for per-
sonal, household or family use.
This can be accomplished only through participation. The consumer's right
to be heard means that the consumer must be involved in the development of
programs and participation in decision-making mechanisms that affect his or
her interests. It means that the individual consumer with a complaint or a
criticism must not only be heard, but that those complaints will be acted upon
by the government.
The procedures embodied in the Consumer Representation Plans confirm an
essential aspect of the way government must operate, with openness and candor.
I believe that certain other action must be taken at this time. Therefore, I am
herewith directing implementation of the following:
1. The Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs shall have
continuing responsibility to monitor the extent and effectiveness with which
Departments and Agencies carry forth the policies embodied in the Consumer
Representation Plans.
2. The Office of Management and Budget shall assess during the annual
budget process the effectiveness of the Consumer Representation Plans. With
assistance from that office and that of the Departments and Agencies, my
Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs shall develop a summary report evaluating
the various consumer programs, and this report shall be released to the public.
3. Each Department and Agency shall instruct employees on the purposes
and availability of the Representation Plans and shall maintain internal monitor-
ing and evaluation systems. As need arises, the Consumer Representation Plan
of that Department or Agency shall be strengthened, and any changes in the
Plans presented here shall be duly noticed in the Federal Register with an
appropriate period allowed for comment.
4. In recognition of the need for consumers to have direct access to appro-
priate Federal officials, each Department and Agency publishing in the Federal
Register a rulemaking, regulation, guideline or other policy matter shall provide
in a manner and format determined by the General Services Administration
the name, address, and telephone number of the appropriate person responsible
for responding to citizen inquiry or comment.
5. To further promote my declaration of consumer education, the Office
of Consumer Affairs in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare has
established an Interagency Consumer Education and Information Liaison. This
2351
