[733]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
schoolchildren, but the other party's platform concedes that busing should be a
last resort. But there is the same problem-their own Congress won't act.
I called for a major overhaul of criminal laws to crack down on crime and
illegal drugs. The other party's platform deplores America's $90 billion cost of
crime. There is the problem again—their own Congress won't act.
The other party's platform talks about a strong defense. Now, here is the other
side of the problem-their own Congress did act. They slashed $50 billion from
our national defense needs in the last 10 years.
My friends, Washington is not the problem; their Congress is the problem.
You know, the President of the United States is not a magician who can wave
a wand or sign a paper that will instantly end a war, cure a recession, or make
bureaucracy disappear. A President has immense powers under the Constitu-
tion, but all of them ultimately come from the American people and their
mandate to him. That is why, tonight, I turn to the American people and ask
not only for your prayers but also for your strength and your support, for your
voice, and for your vote.
I come before you with a 2-year record of performance without your mandate.
I offer you a 4-year pledge of greater performance with your mandate. As Gov-
ernor Al Smith used to say, "Let's look at the record.”
Two years ago inflation was 12 percent. Sales were off. Plants were shut down.
Thousands were being laid off every week. Fear of the future was throttling
down our economy and threatening millions of families.
Let's look at the record since August 1974. Inflation has been cut in half.
Payrolls are up. Profits are up. Production is up. Purchases are up. Since the
recession was turned around, almost 4 million of our fellow Americans have
found new jobs or got their old jobs back. This year more men and women
have jobs than ever before in the history of the United States. Confidence has
returned, and we are in the full surge of sound recovery to steady prosperity.
Two years ago America was mired in withdrawal from Southeast Asia. A
decade of Congresses had shortchanged our global defenses and threatened
our strategic posture. Mounting tension between Israel and the Arab nations
made another war seem inevitable. The whole world watched and wondered
where America was going. Did we in our domestic turmoil have the will, the
stamina, and the unity to stand up for freedom?
Look at the record since August, 2 years ago. Today America is at peace and
seeks peace for all nations. Not a single American is at war anywhere on the
face of this Earth tonight.
Our ties with Western Europe and Japan, economic as well as military, were
2160
