August 20
[735]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is going to be there because I know how important, how vital each of you are
and what all of you do. But I think as we look down the road to 1980, some of
the things that came up during this past week, the procedures that can be fol-
lowed, the way things can be done ought to be looked at.
Now, I know very vividly how things went on 16-C. [Laughter] But I
happen to believe that there is a considerable amount of merit to that approach
if we go through the process in the right way, and I believe that the national
committee ought to take a hard look at it and perhaps lay the groundwork
for 1980.
All I am saying is we cannot do everything in the future the way we have done
them in the past because things change. And we as a party and we as indi-
viduals and we as candidates have to meet the challenge for tomorrow if we are
going to win tomorrow, and that is what we are going to do.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 a.m. at the
Radisson Muehleback Hotel. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Ray C. Bliss, Republican
National Committee chairman 1965-69, and Sen-
ator Robert Dole of Kansas and his wife, Elizabeth.
735
Remarks at a Picnic Honoring Senator Robert Dole in Russell,
Kansas. August 20, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Bob.
It is good to see Mayor Roger Williams coming back from Washington.
He said he straightened everything out back in Washington. I don't have the
same problem in Russell, Kansas. [Laughter]
It's great to be here with Governor Bennett, Lieutenant Governor Smith, my
very good friend, your Senator, Jim Pearson, my long-time and very good
friend, Keith Sebelius. It's just nice to be here in the great State of Kansas.
I know that you produce a tremendous amount of wheat. I know that you're
a great cattle-producing State. I know that you make a significant contribution
in the production of oil energy which we need so badly. But the thing that im-
presses me—and I think it's worth noting—the great State of Kansas produces
some great statesmen.
You can run down the list from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Alf Landon to
former Senator Frank Carlson to another fine Senator, Harry Darby. And as Bob
Dole, said, I have been out in this part of Kansas on a number of occasions. I
was out in Great Bend a year or so ago. I went to Dodge City and survived.
2165
