September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
how he obtained and caused to be published a report of the Congress that
probably is the property of the American people. At the same time the Senate
Select Committee on Standards and Conduct has voted not really to begin an
investigation of a United States Senator because of allegations against him that
he may have been receiving corporate funds illegally over a period of years.
Do you suppose, sir, that events like this contribute to the feeling in the coun-
try that maybe there is something wrong in Washington, and I don't mean
just in the executive branch, but throughout the whole Government?
THE PRESIDENT. There is a considerable anti-Washington feeling throughout
the country but I think the feeling is misplaced. In the 2 years we have restored
integrity in the White House and we have set high standards in the executive
branch of the Government.
The anti-Washington feeling, in my opinion, ought to be focused on the
Congress of the United States. For example, this Congress very shortly will
spend a billion dollars a year for its housekeeping, its salaries, its expenses, and
the like. The next Congress will probably be the first billion dollar Congress
in the history of the United States. I don't think the American people are
getting their money's worth from the majority party that runs this Congress.
We, in addition, see that in the last 4 years the number of employees hired
by the Congress has gone up substantially, much more than the gross national
product, much more than any other increase throughout our society. Congress
is hiring people by the droves, and the cost, as a result, has gone up.
And I don't see any improvement in the performance of the Congress under
the present leadership. So, it seems to me, instead of the anti-Washington feel-
ing being aimed at everybody in Washington, it seems to me that the focus
should be where the problem is, which is the Congress of the United States,
and particularly the majority in the Congress.
They spend too much money on themselves. They have too many employees.
There is some question about their morality. It seems to me that in this election
the focus should not be on the executive branch, but the correction should come
as the voters for their Members of the House of Representatives or for their
United States Senator. That's where the problem is. And I hope there will be
some corrective action taken, so we can get some new leadership in the Con-
gress of the United States.
MR. REYNOLDS. Mr. President, if I may follow up, I think you have made it
plain that you take a dim view of the majority in the Congress. Isn't it quite
likely, sir, that you will have a Democratic Congress in the next session if you
2305
