[864]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
You know who pays for every campaign promise. You know when the bills
come due you get stuck with them.
In the last 2 years I vetoed 59 extravagant spending bills sent down to the
Oval Office by an irresponsible Congress. My vetoes saved $9 billion. If Mr.
Carter's friends in Congress had been as interested in saving money as I am,
my vetoes could have saved $16 billion more. We hope for a better Congress
with Carlos Moorhead and with Dr. Hayakawa representing you in the United
States Senate.
My idea of tax reform is tax reduction-cut spending, cut taxes, keep more
of your own money. For 10 years now Federal spending has grown at an alarm-
ing rate thanks to an overtaxing, overspending, overbearing Congress. The
budget that I submitted to the Congress last January cut that rate of growth by
one-half.
I asked for a $28 billion tax reduction and a $28 billion cut in Federal spend-
ing—a dollar of tax reduction for a dollar of a reduction in Federal spending. I
asked for an increase in your personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's
tax relief for the middle-income taxpayer of this country. They have been short-
changed by the kind of a Congress we have had for the last 22 years, and we have
got to change that Congress so the middle-income taxpayer will get the kind of
a tax reduction that they deserve. I asked for tax incentives to increase business
investment in high employment areas. Congress refused.
Mr. Carter calls our tax system-he says it is a disgrace to the human race. If
that's true, then it is a disgrace to the Democratic majorities who have controlled
both the House and the Senate, written every tax law and every tax loophole for
the past 22 years. You know where to put the blame.
The direction America takes in the next 4 years will be determined by the deci-
sion that you make on November 2. And let me use an illustration, if I might.
The crisis in Great Britain, a long and wonderful ally of the United States,
tells us all we need to know about the danger of too much government, too much
spending on borrowed money. The British pound, their currency, has sunk to its
lowest level in alltime history. Inflation in Great Britain has been running at
over 25 percent. Government spending now accounts for 60 percent of the entire
British economy.
Listen to what Prime Minister Jim Callaghan of Great Britain, a courageous
man who represents the head of that Government—he said, and I quote, “We
used to think that you could just spend your way out of a recession and increase
employment by cutting taxes and boosting Government spending. I tell you
in all candor,” Prime Minister Callaghan said, “that that option no longer exists
2462
