[808]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Indian employees who desire other jobs. I am asking the Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission to make certain that those placement efforts are
rigorously pursued with all agencies of the Federal Government.
Further, these Departments assure me that many non-Indian employees
continue to have ample opportunity for full careers with Indian agencies if
they so desire. Accordingly, H.R. 5465 represents an excessive, although well-
motivated, reaction to the situation. Indian preference does pose a problem in
these agencies, but it can and should be redressed without resort to costly re-
tirement benefits.
I am not prepared, therefore, to accept the discriminatory and costly ap-
proach of H.R. 5465.
The White House,
September 24, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The bill was referred to the House Post Office and Civil Service Committee on September 27, 1976.
809
Statement on the Observance of the Jewish
High Holy Days. September 24, 1976
ON THE occasion of the High Holy Days, Mrs. Ford and I want to express
special greetings to our fellow Americans of the Jewish faith.
The celebration of our Nation's Bicentennial has evoked in all Americans a
deeper appreciation of our rich and varied ancestral legacy. We have been
reminded in a special way that our national character has been shaped by the
accumulated wisdom and experience of many nations and individuals.
It is only fitting that we express our pride in the indelible stamp of Jewish
wisdom and experience on our way of life. This influence was strong and vital
from the moment the American continent became a promised land of hope
and opportunity. Our early settlers closely identified with the teachings of the
Prophets and dedicated themselves in this spirit to building a land that would
make the vision of the Prophets a reality.
This was the spirit that sparked our independence and sustained us through
many difficult struggles on the way to becoming a nation. It is also the spirit
that has sustained the Jewish people and brought about the creation of the
modern state of Israel. It is the same spirit that marks the special friendship
2320
