October 28
[987]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
INCREASED USE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY IN THE UNITED STATES
Even with strong conservation efforts, energy demands in the United States
will continue to increase in response to the needs of a growing economy. The
only alternative over the next 15 to 20 years to increased use of both nuclear
energy and coal is greater reliance on imported oil which will jeopardize our
Nation's strength and welfare.
We now have in the United States 62 licensed nuclear plants, providing about
9 percent of our electrical energy. By 1985, we will have from 145 to 160 plants,
supplying 20 percent or more of the Nation's electricity.
In many cases, electricity from nuclear plants is markedly cheaper than that
produced from either oil or coal-fired plants. Nuclear energy is environmentally
preferable in a number of respects to other principal ways of generating
electricity.
Commercial nuclear power has an excellent safety record, with nearly 200
plant-years of experience (compiled over 18 chronological years) without a
single death from a nuclear accident. I have acted to assure that this record is
maintained in the years ahead. For example, I have increased funds for the
independent Nuclear Regulatory Commission and for the Energy Research
and Development Administration for reactor safety research and development.
The decisions and actions I am announcing today will help overcome the
uncertainties that have served to delay the expanded use of nuclear energy in
the United States. While the decision to delay reprocessing is significant, it
will not prevent us from increasing our use of nuclear energy. We are on the
right course with our nuclear power program in America. The changes I am
announcing today will ensure that we continue.
My decisions today do not affect the U.S. program of research and develop-
ment on the breeder reactor. That program assumes that no decision on the
commercial operations of breeder reactors, which require plutonium fuel, will
be made before 1986.
CONCLUSION
I do not underestimate the challenge represented in the creation of a world-
wide program that will permit capturing the benefits of nuclear energy while
maintaining needed protection against nuclear proliferation. The challenge
is one that can be managed only partially and temporarily by technical measures.
It can be managed fully if the task is faced realistically by nations prepared
to forego perceived short-term advantages in favor of fundamental long-term
2777
