[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Betty and I love Illinois. We are here to ask for your help. We are here to
ask for your vote. And with your vote we can carry Illinois, and we will win
the election November 2.
We have some wonderful friends who have been with us on this trip. First,
I want to introduce to all of you a good friend of yours, an outstanding United
States Senator, Chuck Percy. We also have your fine Congressman, Paul Find-
ley. He is good for you, he is good for Illinois, he is good for the country. We've
also had on the trip, most of the way, one of the finest candidates for Governor
that I've ever met, who is going to be your next Governor, Jim Thompson.
In the 2 years that I've been your President, I believe we've made a record-
we've restored confidence and trust in the White House; we have turned the
economy around from the worst recession in the last 40 years. I won't be satis-
fied until everybody who wants to work has a job, and that's what we will do
in the next 4 years.
In the last 2 years, we have achieved a peace. We have the military strength
and the diplomatic skills to keep the peace. And I am proud to say here tonight
that not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign battle-
field. We will keep the peace through our policies. And I am proud of what
we've done, and I commit we will keep it that way in the future.
I've summarized the record of the last 2 years under my Presidency. Lay
that alongside, if you will, the promises of Jimmy Carter.
Jimmy Carter will go anyplace, say anything to anybody to get to be Presi-
dent of the United States. When Jimmy Carter is in California, he sounds like
Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter goes to Chicago, he tries to sound like
Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter goes to New York, he tries to sound like
Bella Abzug. When Jimmy Carter comes to this great part of Illinois, the
breadbasket of America, Jimmy Carter says, "I am just a little old peanut farmer."
Jimmy Carter wavers, he wanders, he wiggles, and he waffles. That's not the
kind of a person you want as President of the United States. You want a Presi-
dent that's got a record, a record of progress in the last 2 years.
Let me talk about three subjects. One, taxes. I believe that the best tax reform
is tax reduction, particularly for the middle-income taxpayers who have been
shortchanged in the last 10 years. I submitted to the Congress a proposal to
increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's the best way to give
relief; that's the best way to give equity to the middle-income taxpayers. Con-
gress didn't do it, but I pledge to you that I will keep the pressure on Congress
in the next session, in the next session, in the next session, and in the next session
until they do it, because it's right.
2562
