[1014]
November 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I would like to read you the telegram the President sent to President-elect
Carter this morning.
[At this point, Mrs. Ford read the telegram, the text of which follows:]
Dear Jimmy:
It is apparent now that you have won our long and intense struggle for the Presidency. I congratulate you
on your victory.
As one who has been honored to serve the people of this great land, both in Congress and as President,
I believe that we must now put the divisions of the campaign behind us and unite the country once again in
the common pursuit of peace and prosperity.
Although there will continue to be disagreements over the best means to use in pursuing our goals, I want
to assure you that you will have my complete and wholehearted support as you take the oath of office this
January.
I also pledge to you that I, and all members of my Administration, will do all that we can to insure that
you begin your term as smoothly and as effectively as possible.
May God bless you and your family as you undertake your new responsibilities.
Signed, "Jerry Ford."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:14 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
1015
Memorandum Establishing a Federal Energy Management
Program. November 4, 1976
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Since 1973, the Executive Branch of the Federal Government has taken the
lead in conserving energy. In fiscal year 1976, Federal agencies' energy con-
servation efforts resulted in savings equivalent to over 285,000 barrels of oil per
day.
These impressive results are due to dedicated and serious efforts to conserve
energy. I commend you and your employees for fine achievement and the
example it sets for all Americans.
For FY 1977, I am establishing a Federal energy conservation goal of using no
more energy than was actually used during FY 1975. I am asking each of you to:
(1) establish specific plans for energy savings during the coming year, and (2)
examine all of your facilities and operations for both short and longer term
energy conservation potential and undertake, within your existing budgetary
levels, cost-effective projects wherever possible.
I am also directing the Administrators of the Federal Energy Administration
and the General Services Administration to work with you to establish individual
agency targets and to identify energy conservation projects so as to assure that
2844
