[985]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
985
Radio Address on Peace. October 28, 1976
MY SUBJECT today is peace. When President Eisenhower was asked 20 years
ago about the goals of his foreign policy, he said, "We are for peace—peace
first, last, and always." Today, that remains the central purpose of American
foreign policy.
Throughout my time as President, I have shaped our foreign policy accord-
ing to four basic principles:
First, we have sought to maintain America's unquestioned military strength.
One of the most significant achievements of this administration is that, after
a decade in which Congress slashed a total of $50 billion from defense budgets,
we reversed that downward trend. And we have finally convinced the Congress
to stop shortchanging America's defense. As long as I am President, we will
have an Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps unsurpassed in military
capability.
Second, we have tried to maintain and strengthen our friendship with our
allies. Those relationships have never been better-a point that was echoed
repeatedly as world leaders came to America to share in our Bicentennial
celebration.
Third, working from a position of strength, we have sought to reduce
tensions in the world and to avert the threat of nuclear holocaust. Early in my
administration, I met with Secretary Brezhnev in Vladivostok to begin negotia-
tions to limit nuclear armaments. Today those negotiations are 90 percent
complete.
Finally, we have tried to act as leader and as peacemaker in such troubled
regions as the Middle East and southern Africa.
The peace that exists today is directly related to our hard work, our strength,
and our skillful diplomacy. I am very proud of what we have accomplished.
I am very proud to be the first President since Dwight Eisenhower to seek
election with America at peace.
This is not a time to weaken our defense, to deny our troops essential new
weapons, to undermine European democracies by hinting at new relationships
with Communist leaders in Western Europe, to withdraw our troops from South
Korea, to upset the balance in the Middle East, or to concede such nations as
Yugoslavia to the Soviet sphere.
To preserve the peace, we must be willing to pay the price for a mighty military
force.
2762
