[946]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
In America's first century, our forests and their vast resources seemed to our
forefathers inexhaustible. By the late 19th century, however, the spirit of expan-
sion and development had led to much abuse of our forest lands. Fires frequently
raged out of control over millions of acres, devastating floods were increasing
and our wildlife was being depleted.
With wisdom and timeliness, this Nation began to establish Federal forest
reserves to protect our forest lands and to guarantee that future generations would
enjoy their benefits. Although the first Federal forester had been hired just 100
years ago in 1876, it was the establishment of the forest reserves in 1891 which
sped the development and practice of professional scientific forestry on Federal
lands.
Today, the National Forest System comprises 187 million acres of forest and
rangelands in 44 States and Puerto Rico, and provides millions of Americans
outstanding outdoor recreation and wilderness experiences as well as many wood
products, substantial mineral and energy resources, clean and plentiful water,
forage for domestic livestock, and homes for many species of fish, wildlife, and
plants.
From its inception, the National Forest System was administered not only to
protect forest lands but also to restore their productivity. After an early period of
basic custodial protection, a philosophy evolved to manage the National Forests
in such a way that they provided a variety of uses and benefits for present and
future generations. This concept of managing lands on a multiple-use, sus-
tained-yield basis, which was confirmed by law in 1960, has always been a chal-
lenge. It has led to continuous discussion and debate over the proper mix of
resource uses.
In the past decade, the use and management of the timber resources of the
national forests culminated in a court suit challenging the manner in which
national forest timber is harvested. The decision in the Monongahela National
Forest case had the initial effect of severely reducing timber sales on all the
national forests in South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia,
causing hardships for the forest products industry and its many employees.
Applied nationwide, the court's decision would severely restrict the timber sup-
ply from all the national forests—led to the act before me today.
While the National Forest Management Act of 1976 evolved from a timber
management controversy, the act goes far beyond a simple remedy of the court's
decision. Basically, the act expands and refines the forest resource assessment
and planning requirements of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources
Planning Act of 1974-one of the first acts I signed upon taking office. This act
2620
