[978]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
economy, that the rate of growth of inflation was beginning to dampen down,
that the dollar was not eroding as rapidly as it had in 1973 and 1974. And
although we were in a recession—unemployment was going up and employment
was going down-they saw that we were doing fundamentally the right thing
to get us out of the problems we were in. Then, of course, we left Vietnam, and
our allies were reassured by the strength that we had in America, and our
adversaries saw that we meant business, and we were going to be respected.
So then, we started to move. And you could feel this new spirit that was
generating in America. And you, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
probably participated more directly because of the Bicentennial affairs that took
place in Philadelphia.
But wasn't that a wonderful experience for all Americans that we could
celebrate our 200th birthday with a rejuvenation, a rebirth of the spirit that our
forefathers developed when they put this country together 200 years ago—13
colonies, less than 3 million people.
But they faced adversity and they came out of it and gave us this blessing.
But on the Fourth of July, after all our troubles, America seemed to be on the
move again. There had been this incredible feeling that faith had been restored
and that progress was on its way; and we could look down the road with real
vision, a vision of achievement, that we could not only read about history but
we could make history in our third century.
And now we've got a great election, a great election that is just 5½ days away,
really. It's the first election of a President in our third century, and it's an election
that will undoubtedly make a difference in the course that America takes not
only for the next 4 years but for the next century.
You know what the differences are, but let me talk about what I foresee as
what will be done in the next 4 years if I have the opportunity to be your Presi
dent. We've gotten most of our past troubles out of the way, so we can begin
to have some things done that will be an added element to the quality of life that
we have here in America.
What do we want? We certainly want a job for every American who wants
to work. We aren't going to argue about statistics. I want the kind of a society
where the free enterprise system makes it possible for any American who wants
to work to get a job, and we're going to achieve that objective in the next 4
years.
But the quality of life not only depends on the job but it depends on the
home, the family. The housing industry has been in some trouble during our
economic recession. But I was so encouraged the last 2 months-the statistics
2740
