[1045]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
short run. But the higher prices help stimulate new production and cut down
on wastefulness. Market decisions are also made faster and more efficiently,
and often result in cheaper prices than if the government made the decision.
For example, the higher prices that will result from removing price controls
from new natural gas would be less costly for consumers than the expense of
switching to higher priced alternative fuels.
Mandatory Conservation Measures
Most of the problems resulting from Federal price controls also result from
Federal attempts to dictate specific actions by individuals to conserve energy.
The prospect of higher energy prices already is stimulating major efforts by
individuals and organizations throughout the country to use existing products
and develop new means to reduce wasteful and inefficient uses of energy. Such
voluntary action by consumers is far preferable to mandatory measures selected
and enforced by a larger and more obtrusive Government.
Resource Exploration and Energy Production
The Congress will again be faced with the question of whether the Federal
Government should be directly involved in energy resources exploration,
development, production and refining activities.
Some argue that such activities can be performed better by the Federal
Government, that it is necessary to have a Government "standard" to evaluate
private industry performance and prices, or that subsidized Government per-
formance is necessary to hold down consumer prices. Others argue that the
Government should itself explore Federal lands to better ascertain the value
of lands that it leases for the production of energy resources.
In fact, the Federal Government can seldom perform these functions faster,
more efficiently or at lower cost than private industry. There is no convincing
evidence that the competitive leasing system now used does not provide a fair
return and adequately protect the public interest.
Despite this, proposals undoubtedly will continue to surface which would
expand the size and role of the Federal Government to include exploration, pro-
duction and related activities. Accordingly, the best course of action will be to
insist upon hard facts to support the proposal and close scrutiny of each meas-
ure to see whether the advantages outweight the disadvantages.
Energy Research, Development and Demonstration
Still other questions before the Congress involve the Federal role and fund-
ing for developing, demonstrating and promoting the use of new technologies
for energy production and conservation.
2894
