[829]
September 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing facilities for future American Olympic athletes, which will enhance their
ability to compete with heavily subsidized teams from other nations.
I am committed to the improvement of amateur sports in the United States
and the strengthening of our Olympic teams. I believe that this can be accom-
plished without massive government interference or subsidies. For this reason,
my proposal for Federal financing of the Lake Placid games, which I introduced
last May, entailed only the construction of permanent, unique sports facilities
at a cost of $28 million in grants to the Lake Placid Olympic Organizing
Committee.
The bill I am approving today authorizes $49,040,000 for permanent facilities
and for other capital funding needed for the games. The additional authoriza-
tion provided in this bill is intended to provide temporary and support facilities
(i.e., housing, spectator, and administration facilities), and support services for
the games.
I continue to believe that this additional financial assistance should not be
provided by the Federal taxpayer. Accordingly, I am asking Secretary Richard-
son to take action to fund the permanent, unique facilities covered in the ad-
ministration's proposal of May 10, 1976. I am also asking that he meet with the
Lake Placid Olympic Committee to review its needs for related facilities and to
seek ways to meet those needs without additional Federal expenditure.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2184, approved September 28, 1976, is Public Law 94-427 (90 Stat. 1336).
830
Veto of the Appropriations Bill for the Departments of
Labor and Health, Education, and Welfare.
September 29, 1976
To the House of Representatives:
Just before adjourning for the final weeks of the election campaign, the Con-
gress has sent me H.R. 14232, the Departments of Labor, and Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare appropriations for fiscal year 1977 which begins October 1.
This last and second largest of the major Federal appropriation bills to be con-
sidered by this Congress is a perfect example of the triumph of election-year
politics over fiscal restraint and responsibility to the hard-pressed American
taxpayers.
Contained in this bill are appropriations for numerous essential domestic pro-
grams which have worthy purposes. My budget for these purposes totaled $52.5
2362
