[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Those are some brief remarks about the failures of this administration. I
would do the opposite in every respect.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Maynard to Governor Carter.
MR. MAYNARD. Governor, Federal policy in this country since World War II
has tended to favor the development of suburbs at the great expense of central
cities. Does not the Federal Government now have an affirmative obligation to
revitalize the American city? We have heard little in this campaign suggesting
that you have an urban reconstruction program. Could you please outline your
urban intentions for us tonight?
MR. CARTER. Yes, I would be glad to. In the first place, as is the case with the
environmental policy and energy policy that I just described, and the policy for
nonproliferation of nuclear waste, this administration has no urban policy. It's
impossible for mayors or Governors to cooperate with the President, because
they can't anticipate what is going to happen next.
2
A mayor of a city like New York, for example, needs to know 18 months or
years ahead of time what responsibility the city will have in administration
and in financing, in things like housing, pollution control, crime control, edu-
cation, welfare and health. This has not been done, unfortunately. I remember
the headline in the Daily News that said, "Ford To New York-Drop Dead."
I think it's very important that our cities know that they have a partner in
the Federal Government. Quite often, Congress has passed laws in the past
designed to help people with the ownership of homes and with the control of
crime and with adequate health care and better education programs and so
forth. Those programs were designed to help those who need it most, and quite
often this has been in the very poor people and neighborhoods in the down-
town urban centers. Because of the greatly advantaged persons who live in the
suburbs―better education, better organization, more articulate, more aware of
what the laws are—quite often this money has been channeled out of the down-
town centers where it's needed.
Also, I favor all revenue sharing money being used for local governments
and also to remove the prohibitions in the use of revenue sharing money, so
that it can be used to improve education and health care. We have now, for in-
stance, only 7 percent of the total education costs being financed by the Fed-
eral Government. When the Nixon-Ford administration started, this was 10
percent. That's a 30-percent reduction in the portion that the Federal Govern-
ment contributes to education in just 8 years and, as you know, the education
costs have gone up tremendously.
The last point is that the major thrust has got to be to put people back to
2634
