[1083]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
1083
Letter to Congressional Leaders Transmitting Studies on
Emergency Contingency Plans in Case of Interrupted
Petroleum Imports. January 19, 1977
SECTION 201 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), 42 U.S.C.
6261, contemplates development of emergency contingency plans that could be
implemented if a major interruption of petroleum imports should occur. Under
this section, plans for mandatory conservation measures and gasoline rationing
are to be prepared and transmitted to Congress.
Since early last year, extensive studies have been undertaken by the Federal
Energy Administration to develop plans that are fair, effective and efficient. As
might be expected, each approach raised numerous questions.
On balance, however, I believe the following three approaches to contingency
conservation plans, including emergency restrictions on heating, cooling and hot
water, emergency commuter parking management and carpooling incentives,
emergency boiler combustion efficiency, and the rationing proposal, all of which
are enclosed, represent substantial and noteworthy efforts. Accordingly, I wanted
the Congress to have the benefit of this important work.
At the same time, I recognize that modified or substantially different proposals
may more effectively meet the criteria of fairness, effectiveness and efficiency.
For example, reliance on taxes or fees with appropriate adjustments to mini-
mize the impact on low-income individuals could be a worthwhile approach.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker
of the House, the Honorable Robert C. Byrd,
Majority Leader of the Senate, the Honorable John
GERALD R. FORD
J. Rhodes, Minority Leader of the House, and the
Honorable Howard H. Baker, Jr., Minority Leader
of the Senate.
1084
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Retransmitting Proposed Bicentennial Land
Heritage Legislation. January 20, 1977
[Dated January 19, 1977. Released January 20, 1977]
I AM transmitting herewith draft legislation, "To authorize appropriations for
the acquisition, improvement, rehabilitation, and maintenance of the National
2974
