[990]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
More and more Americans are realizing the great change that has taken
place since August of 1974. We were in troubled times. People were mad at
each other. They were divided. They had lost faith in America. There was a
lack of faith in the White House itself. Inflation was over 12 percent. We were
on the brink of the worst recession in 40 years. We were still involved in
Vietnam. It was a troubled time for America. We were in turmoil.
But what we tried to do was to put the ship on an even keel and steer a steady
course. And gradually, we have turned the economy around. Inflation is less
than 6 percent. We have added 4 million jobs. Instead of a recession, we are
moving toward a strong, healthy economy. We are out of Vietnam. And I am
proud to say to you—and you should say it to everybody—this administration
has no young Americans fighting or dying on foreign soil.
And you can go to the high schools and colleges today and say to every young
man, you aren't faced with selective service. We have an all-volunteer military
force, a military force of 2,100,000 that is well-trained, well-equipped, well-led,
a force that is number one. And under President Ford, we are going to keep it
number one.
My opponent wants to cut a minimum of $5 to $7 billion out of the defense
program. You can't negotiate with our adversaries, you can't strengthen our
allies if you are going to have a weaker U.S. military force. We have to stay
strong to be at peace, and under my administration, with strength and diplomatic
skill, we are going to stay at peace and get our third century kicked off in
the right way for our young people, for America, for all mankind.
One other point. As I said, we are moving so that we are getting, I think, a
healthy and strong economy. It's not as good as we would like it, but the
remedies that we recommended Congress finally approved in part. But the
remedy that we must have for the next 4 years is a restraint on Federal spending,
so that we, in good conscience, can say to the American people, you can have
another tax reduction.
Last year I recommended to the Congress that we increase the personal exemp-
tion from $750 to $1,000. That's meaningful. Let me illustrate it. I was in a plant
the other day and one of the workers in the plant said, "Well, what are you
doing about my taxes?" I said, "Well, how many children do you have?" He
said, "I have three; a man and wife." I said, "If Congress had been responsible,
we could have given to you, when you make out your income tax return next
April-you would have had a $1,250 increase in your personal exemptions."
But Congress didn't act. I think it was wrong. I think it was irresponsible. But
that recommendation from me is going to be on their desk in January of next
2786
