October 27
[975]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
can who wants a job has a job. We have cut inflation in half, and we are making
continuous headway in that regard.
America is at peace. There are no young Americans fighting or dying on any
foreign soil today, and I say with emphasis, we are going to keep it that way.
Perhaps most important of all, America's trust in the White House has been
restored. As I said on taking the oath of office as President on August 9, 1974, our
long national nightmare is over. In the last 2 years the United States of America
has made an incredible comeback, and we are not through yet.
In 200 years as a free people much has changed in our Nation, but America's
basic goals remain the same. Americans want a job with a good future; Ameri-
cans want homes in decent neighborhoods and schools with quality education;
Americans want physical security, safety against war, and safety against crime;
safety against pollution in the water we drink and in the air that we breathe;
we want medical and hospital care when we are sick and costs that will not wipe
out our savings; we want the time and the opportunity to enlarge our experi-
ence through recreation and through travel, both at home and abroad.
These are the goals which every politician and every citizen, I think, truly has
for America. They are not some mystic vision out of the future. They are the
continuing agenda for action in this great country.
So, the question in this campaign of 1976 is not who has the better vision of
America. The question is who can best make that vision a reality.
The American people are ready for the truth, simply spoken, about what gov-
ernment can do for them and what government cannot and what it should not
do. They will demand performance, not promises.
There are some in this political year who claim that more government, more
spending, more taxes and more control over our lives will solve our problems.
More government is not the solution; better government is the solution.
It is time that we thought of new ways to make government a capable serv-
ant rather than a meddling master. It is time we trusted the American people
with the truth, that a government big enough to give us everything we want is
a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
It is not enough for anyone to say, trust me. Trust must be earned. Trust is
not having to guess what a candidate means. Trust is leveling with the people
before the election about what you are going to do after the election. Trust is not
being all things to all people, but being the same thing to all people. Trust is not
cleverly shading words so that each separate audience can hear what it wants to
hear, but saying plainly and very simply what you mean and meaning what you
say.
2731
