October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
[3.] BLOOMINGTON (12:10 p.m.)
GOOD MORNING.
Betty and I are delighted to be in the great State of Illinois, in particular in
Bloomington and McLean County. Thank you very much.
Let me introduce some good friends of yours, good friends of ours. First, your
Senator, Chuck Percy; then the next Governor of the great State of Illinois, Jim
Thompson; and your good friend, an outstanding Congressman, Ed Madigan,
and then George Lindberg, your State comptroller-reelect him. And then Betty
and I are delighted to have on this train trip, the old “Honest Abe” special—we
have Les Arends, who served you so well. We're delighted to have him—Les.
Let me say a word or two. As I said, Betty and I are so delighted to be in
Illinois. We've had a wonderful morning, and now we start a great afternoon.
Betty and I celebrated our 28th anniversary last night up in Joliet, Indiana—
Illinois. We are here because we feel that in the last 2 years since I've been your
President, we have turned things around in this great country. We have restored
trust, honesty to the White House. We've turned the economy around from the
worst recession in 40 years to a real program of prosperity for the future in Amer-
ica. We've achieved the peace, and we have the military capability and the diplo-
matic skill to keep the peace. And I remind you, as I think all Americans rec-
ognize, that not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign
soil tonight or today.
So, this record of trust, prosperity, and peace, I lay alongside the record of
Jimmy Carter and his promises. And Jimmy Carter, it seems to me, as he goes
from one part of the country to the other, says anything, anywhere, to get to be
President of the United States.
When Jimmy Carter is in California, he tries to sound like Cesar Chavez.
When Jimmy Carter is in Chicago, he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When
Jimmy Carter is in New York, he tries to sound like Bella Abzug. And when he
comes to this great farm land of Illinois, he tries to sound like just a little old
peanut farmer. [Laughter] He wanders, he wavers, he wiggles, and he waffles.
I think the American people deserve better than that.
The American people are concerned about taxes. President Ford believes the
best tax reform is a tax reduction. President Ford recommended to the Congress
that the Congress increase your personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. The
middle-income taxpayer has been shortchanged, and we're going to change it.
Jimmy Carter he wants to increase Federal taxes for all people from medium
income on up. That means that 50 percent of the taxpayers of this country
would get a tax increase under Jimmy Carter. Do you want that?
2551
