[862]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. On your desk is a piece of legislation by Congressman Corman dealing
with the extending of the Federal unemployment insurance program. Question:
Are you going to sign it or veto it?
THE PRESIDENT. I have always felt, Pete—and I am sure you would agree from
your long experience in Government—you should read the fine print, particu-
larly anything coming from this Congress. [Laughter]
I think this administration's record is one of compassion in this area. When
we were faced with the worst recession in 40 years, I not only recommended but
signed legislation to extend the unemployment compensation from 26 weeks to
67 weeks and to broaden the qualifications so that more people who had not pre-
viously been covered would be covered.
Now, as long as we have the problem we have—even though it is getting less
severe—this administration will show the same compassion, and if it is neces-
sary to sign that legislation, with the brief description you gave of it—
[laughter]——
Q. I didn't want to give you the wrong impression that I am recommending a
veto, Mr. President. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I will repeat what I said. I am going to take a good look
at it because that fine print sometimes does not always reflect what the headlines
show in the newspapers. So, when it comes to the desk we will take a good look,
and if we think it is needed, we will do it. If not, we will take other action.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 a.m. at a break-
fast meeting in the Roof Garden at the Sheraton
Universal Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Matt Lynch, president of the San Fernando Valley
Business and Professional Association.
863
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception
in Los Angeles. October 8, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mike, Congressman Carlos Moorhead, distin-
guished public officials, ladies and gentlemen:
Gee, it's just wonderful to be here. Betty and I enjoyed being with you last
night. We both want to thank you for your support.
I would like to take just a few minutes, if I might, to talk about some of the
things that are an issue in this campaign and to set the record straight on several
issues that involve the future security of this country, both domestically and
internationally.
2458
