October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
you
a relative or a friend. In light of that, why do
opposition to substantive gun control in this country?
remain so adamant in your
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Maynard, the record of gun control, whether it's in one
city or another or in some States does not show that the registration of a gun,
handgun, or the registration of the gun owner has in any way whatsoever de-
creased the crime rate or the use of that gun in the committing of a crime. The
record just doesn't prove that such legislation or action by a local city council
is effective.
What we have to do-and this is the crux of the matter-is to make it very,
very difficult for a person who uses a gun in the commission of a crime to stay
out of jail. If we make the use of a gun in the commission of a crime a serious
criminal offense and that person is prosecuted, then in my opinion we are going
after the person who uses the gun for the wrong reason. I don't believe in the
registration of handguns or the registration of the handgun owner. That has
not proven to be effective. And, therefore, I think the better way is to go after
the criminal, the individual who commits a crime in the possession of a gun
and uses that gun for a part of his criminal activity.
Those are the people who ought to be in jail. And the only way to do it is
to pass strong legislation so that once apprehended, indicted, convicted, they
will be in jail and off the streets and not using guns in the commission of a
crime.
MR. MAYNARD. But, Mr. President, don't you think that the proliferation of
the availability of handguns contributes to the possibility of those crimes being
committed? And there is a second part to my followup. Very quickly, there
are, as you know and as you've said, jurisdictions around the country with
strong gun control laws. The police officials in those cities contend that if there
were a national law to prevent other jurisdictions from providing the weapons
that then come into places like New York, that they might have a better
handle on the problem. Have you considered that in your analysis of the hand-
gun proliferation problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I have, and the individuals with whom I have consulted
have not convinced me that a national registration of handguns or handgun
owners will solve the problem you are talking about. The person who wants to
use a gun for an illegal purpose can get it whether it's registered or outlawed-
they will be obtained—and they are the people who ought to go behind bars.
You should not, in the process, penalize the legitimate handgun owner. And
when you go through the process of registration, you, in effect, are penalizing
that individual who uses his gun for a very legitimate purpose.
2639
