[1025]
December 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
1025
Remarks of the President and Republican Leaders in a
Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters.
December 9, 1976
THE VICE President and Governor Connally and myself have agreed to come
out here to indicate the context of the meeting. You had an opportunity to see
and to question Governor Reagan. The four of us met because I felt that it would
be highly desirable for the four of us to sit and try to see what could be done
to make certain that we have a viable two-party system in this country. We think
it's absolutely essential for the political health of the United States that there
be competition in the political arena, and the best way to do it is through a strong
Republican Party competing against the Democrats.
We really decided three things. Number one, that we would continue to
meet, and we tentatively agreed to meet the first week in January. We agreed
that there should be formed a coordinating committee-type of organization,
similar to the one that was put together in 1965 following the 1964 election. We
agreed that there were five or six potential Republican National Committee
chairmen that were all experienced, that all had assets and opportunities; that
we would not pick or choose as a group any one of the individuals. That was the
responsibility of the National Republican Committee.
So, with those observations the Vice President, Governor Connally, and my-
self will be glad to respond to any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, is Governor Connally one of those five or six who
you think is on the list to be national chairman?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Governor ought to respond to that.
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Well, I think I made it abundantly clear, as I tried to
do the other day at the meeting of the Republican Governors, that I'm really
not available. And I don't foresee any circumstances under which I would be.
Q. Governor, we got exactly the opposite impression from what you said
the other day. We thought you were available.
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Sarah [Sarah McClendon, McClendon News Service],
I can't interpret for you. I tried to say that I have never been a candidate. As I
recall what I said then, I said I've never been a candidate; I'm not now a candi-
date; I never will be a candidate. There would have to be two conditions prece-
dent before I would even seriously think about it, and that would be that I
would have to be publicly endorsed by the President, by the Vice President-by
2856
