[887]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
26 months. You know where we were then, and you know where we are to-
day-peace, recovering from a recession, rebuilding pride in America in its
200th anniversary. You know what I have done as President, despite the partisan
obstructionism of a Congress stacked 2 to 1 against me.
We heard before the convention that our party was sick, our party was dying.
Now we hear the voters are overcome with apathy and really don't care who
wins. I don't believe that. I just don't believe that. The American people do care,
they have a clear choice, and our job is to get them to the polls to register their
choice for our country.
Make no mistake—this election will decide the direction America is going to
take in its third century of independence. Mr. Carter may be deficient in details,
but the general direction of his philosophy is very, very plain. It's the same direc-
tion which his party has been leading this country for the last 44 years. Don't
forget that his party controlled the Congress and wrote all the laws in 40 out of
the last 44 years. That's really what's basically wrong in Washington today.
Mr. Carter wants more Federal Government; I want less. Mr. Carter wants
higher Federal taxes for middle-income taxpayers; I want lower taxes for every-
body, especially the overburdened, shortchanged man in the middle. Mr. Carter
wants less defense insurance; I want the strongest and the best military capa-
bility science that money can provide. We can't do less than that. Mr. Carter
wants to reduce our commitments to our long and steadfast allies; I want to
maintain America's world leadership for peace.
These are real, fundamental differences, serious choices to be made by the
people throughout this country. Mr. Carter, in his party's platform, chartered
one course for this country. No matter how he zigzags, there's no doubt where
he wants to go. The direction Mr. Carter would take us is the same one that
brought us heavy inflation, a tax load that kills initiative and slows economic
expansion, a slowdown in research and development, and oppressive interfer-
ence by a know-it-all Federal Government.
I stand totally for a different direction. This year, my budget reduced—as
Jack and Jim and Jack Wydler know-reduced the rate of government growth
by 50 percent, or one-half. Congress exceeded it by more than $18 billion. But I
still mean to submit-and we can with the right Congress in the next 2 years—
I still mean to submit a balanced Federal budget by 1978.
It doesn't seem like much, but I think it is an encouraging trend: In the 2 years
that I have been there, we have reduced a proposed increase in Federal employees
by 40,000—a projected increase—and we have actually reduced the number of
employees in the civilian side of the Federal Government by 11,000. That is
2498
