[672]
July 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
level—from the courthouse, to the statehouse, to the Congress, and to the White
House. We must center our attack not on fellow Republicans, but on the failures
of the Democratic Congress, on the Democratic platform, and a Democratic
ticket which tries to be all things to all people.
For our country, the new unity we have found must be channeled into com-
monsense action for the common good, but the common good in this country
must always be reflected in the well-being of the individual. Every American
must have the chance to reach his or her full potential, unfettered by exces-
sive bureaucratic regulation, by the injustices of discrimination, or by the con-
forming pressures from the giant institutions in our society.
Americans are ready once more for an era of good feeling, not in the blind be-
lief that all our problems are solved, but in the certain conviction that we can
solve these problems together.
We can ensure that older Americans will have nothing to fear from the rav
ages of runaway inflation, from the flaws in the social security system, from the
threat of crime, or from the costly burdens of catastrophic illness.
We can ensure that the American farmer will continue to produce record
crops of food and fiber and get a fair price in a free worldwide market and
ensure at the same time that the American consumer will have ample supplies
and stable prices.
We can ensure that every working man and woman in America who wants
a job can find a job—not a Humphrey-Hawkins dead-end job, but a well-pay-
ing job with a future generated by an expanding free enterprise economy. We
can ensure that our young people have an education of high quality and a job
worthy of their talents.
We can ensure that government will again be the capable servant, not the
meddling master of the American people. We can ensure that the American
people will continue to live in peace, to continue to live in freedom by keeping
America strong and by standing for what is right throughout the world.
We can achieve these great goals without looking to the Federal Government
for all the answers and without sticking the American taxpayer with all the bills.
We can do it all and still balance the Federal budget. With the right kind of a
Congress, with a few more outstanding Members of the House and Senate like
Lowell Weicker, Ron Sarasin, and Stu McKinney, I promise you that by fiscal
year 1979 we will do just that.
These are not dim visions of the future. They are the proud record of my ad-
ministration over the past 2 years, with the help of your delegation from the
2028
