October 30
[996]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to know Jack Renninger, who is running to succeed Pete [Ed]. And it's my
observation, having seen a good many Members of Congress and candidates
for Congress, that this district should send Jack down to Washington to rep-
resent you and help me in the next 4 years.
But I also want to thank Harry and Ruth for the fine job they have done in
this area.
But I would also speak out very strongly for another friend who you need and
who I need and the country needs in the United States Senate, and I speak
now—strongly, affirmatively—for John Heinz, your next United States Senator.
I brought along here, I am sure, somebody all of you know. He is a very
good friend of mine. He has been campaigning with me for the last 10 days
and, believe me, he has been extremely helpful and beneficial. Let me introduce
to you a great guy, my friend, I am sure your friend, Joe Garagiola. Thank
you very, very much, Joe.
Now, for a few minutes in this wonderful Oxford Valley Mall, in Bucks
County, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania—when I left Kansas City, I
made a commitment that I wouldn't concede a single vote and that I wouldn't
concede a single State, and the net result is our campaign has gathered mo-
mentum every day.
And so today, I can stand in front of you, this tremendous crowd, and say
with conviction that I am inviting you, on behalf of Betty and myself, to come
on down to the inauguration for Jerry Ford and Bob Dole January 20, 1977.
We will have a real swinger, all for America.
In August of 1974, this country was in deep, deep trouble. That day that I
became President—obviously, I will never forget—but that day we were on the
brink of the worst recession. Inflation was over 12 percent. Americans had
lost faith in their country, had lost faith in the White House. We were still
deeply involved in Vietnam. There was anger; there was division among the
American people.
And as I took that oath of office, standing in the East Room with Betty at
my side, I said I had not been elected by your ballots; I asked to be confirmed
by your prayers. Because of your prayers and because we put the good old
ship of state, the United States of America, on an even keel, because we had
a firm, strong, commonsense hand on the tiller, we began to make the kind of
progress that today, we can say in real conviction, America is making progress,
America is on its way, America is safe, America is secure. We made an in-
credible comeback, and we aren't stopping here.
We have cut the rate of inflation by better than 50 percent, which means,
2799
