[1009]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Central High School, but then, you know, I said to her, "Well, South High,
that was a great school, too." [Laughter]
But anyhow, Grand Rapids, Kent County, Ottawa County, Ionia, well, all
of them-western Michigan can make the difference and this is what I want
you to know and what I think it is all about tomorrow.
You know, on August 9, 1974, I was sworn in as your President. You know
better than anybody in this country, I never sought the office, but circumstances
put me in the position where I stood in the East Room of the White House.
Betty held the Bible open; I put my hand on it. I took the oath of office at a
tough time, when there had been a great loss of trust in the White House it-
self. We had high inflation. We were on the brink of a recession. We were still
involved in Vietnam. But with some apprehension I walked over to the Oval
Office. But before doing so, I said to all Americans, not just to you from here,
that you had not elected me by your ballots, but I prayed that you would con-
firm me with your prayers. And you did.
We went through troubled times for the last 2 years. But because you stood
with me, because you prayed with me, because you believed in America, because
you had strength and faith—and 215 million other Americans—we have turned
things around, and we see brighter skies, and we see greater opportunity. We
see, as we saw on July 4, when there was a great spirit that was expressed in
America, our 200th birthday, all of a sudden, Americans-Democrats, Inde-
pendents, and Republicans—came to the conclusion that we not only could
read history—and it was a great history—but more importantly, together, re-
gardless of our political persuasion, we could write history for the third cen-
tury of America's great history, and we will.
It is so nice to be back here where I see Bill Milliken, I see Bob Griffin, I see
Bob VanderLaan,' I see all the people that I grew up with, that Betty grew up
with. You know, it is hard to express one's deep sentiments about a com-
munity and an area that has been so good to us.
So, as I conclude these totally prepared remarks-[laughter]-tomorrow
each and every one of you have a great decision to make. I suspect it might be
the right one.
Let me conclude with just this final comment: Betty and I have been honored
to represent this part of the country-but all America-in the White House
during the last 2 years, and they have been troubled, and they have been tough.
But we kept the ship of state on the right course, and I tried to keep a firm,
commonsense hand at the tiller. And the net result is, things have turned
¹ Governor of Michigan, U.S. Representative, and Michigan State Senator, respectively.
2836
