[898]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I repeat that the Internal Revenue Service, the FBI, the Joint
Committee on Taxation, two committees in the House and in the Senate, and an
overwhelming majority of the Members of the House and Senate believe the
testimony. They went back and checked every one of those income tax returns
from '73 back 6 years, and they gave me a clean bill of health. And now it's
been reinvestigated for the fourth time by the Special Prosecutor, and he concurs
with the previous investigations. Those are the facts of life. I write checks.
[Laughter]
Thank you all. Thank you very much.
MS. LEWINE. Thank you.
NOTE: President Ford's thirty-eighth news confer-
ence began at 7:31 p.m. in the Old Executive Office
Building. It was broadcast live on radio and tele-
vision.
899
Statement Announcing Intention To Request Funding
for the Cultural Challenge Grant Program.
October 14, 1976
IN THE last decade there has been mounting interest and participation in the
arts. This popular demand has led to dramatic growth in the number and quality
of cultural institutions and activities throughout the country. With that has come
more widespread financial support, which now includes all levels of government
and various parts of the private sector—most notably, business, foundations, and
individuals. Together, they are contributing more money and time to the arts
at higher levels than ever before.
This pattern of decentralized, diverse, widely shared responsibility fosters the
vitality of the arts and affords them essential freedom. It has been established
by men and women everywhere in the country who have come to appreciate, as
I have, what the arts can mean in their individual lives and the lives of their
communities. Accepting responsibility for this public interest, they have encour-
aged and shared, with leadership and dollars, in grassroots efforts to advance
our cultural legacy, foster artistic creativity, and make the arts more readily avail-
able to all. We can take pride in this record, and we must work together to
extend it.
In the past 10 years the Federal Government has provided leadership and fund-
ing, serving as a catalyst in this American renaissance. Today there are many
Federal and quasi-Federal programs which can assist artists, dancers, photog-
2532
