October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
early 1950's, there were some indications that the United States would not in-
clude South Korea in an area of defense. There are some who allege—I can't
prove it true or untrue-that such a statement, in effect, invited the North
Koreans to invade South Korea. It's a fact they did.
But no President of the United States, in my opinion, should signal in ad-
vance to a prospective enemy what his decision might be or what option he
might exercise. It's far better for a person sitting in the White House, who has a
number of options, to make certain that the other side, so to speak, doesn't
know precisely what you're going to do. And therefore, that was the reason
that I would not identify any particular course of action when I responded to a
question a week or so ago.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you.
Mr. Maynard, your question to President Ford, please.
MR. MAYNARD. Sir, this question concerns your administrative performance
as President. The other day, General George Brown, the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, delivered his views on several sensitive subjects, among them
Great Britain, one of this country's oldest allies. He said, and I quote him now,
"Great Britain—it's a pathetic thing, it just makes you cry. They are no longer
a world power. All they have are generals, admirals, and bands." Since General
Brown's comments have caused this country embarrassment in the past, why is
he still this Nation's leading military officer?
THE PRESIDENT. I have indicated to General Brown that the words that he
used in that interview, in that particular case, and in several others were very
ill-advised. And General Brown has indicated his apology, his regrets, and I
think that will, in this situation, settle the matter.
It is tragic that the full transcript of that interview was not released, and that
there were excerpts, some of the excerpts, taken out of context-not this one,
however that you bring up.
General Brown has an exemplary record of military performance. He served
this Nation with great, great skill and courage and bravery for 35 years. And I
think it's the consensus of the people who are knowledgeable in the military
field that he is probably the outstanding military leader and strategist that we
have in America today.
Now, he did use ill-advised words. But I think in the fact that he apologized,
that he was reprimanded, does permit him to stay on and continue that kind of
leadership that we so badly need as we enter into negotiations under the SALT
II agreement, or if we have operations that might be developing in the Middle
East or in southern Africa or in the Pacific-we need a man with that experi-
2629
