September 24
[810]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the American and Israeli people and guides us in our commitment to pre-
serve the independence and security of both our lands.
American Jews can take satisfaction in their unsurpassed record of humani-
tarian concern, civil responsibility, and devotion to justice. As individuals, and
through their organizations, they have worked tirelessly and unselfishly to live
up to the faith of their fathers and the aspirations of the Founding Fathers of
our country. With this in mind, Mrs. Ford and I extend our best wishes for
à prosperous, satisfying, and happy New Year.
810
Statement on Signing the Postal Reorganization Act
Amendments of 1976. September 24, 1976
1
I WELCOME the opportunity to sign H.R. 8603, the Postal Reorganization
Act Amendments of 1976, because it represents the concerted efforts of the ad-
ministration, the Congress, and the U.S. Postal Service to find a long-term
solution to our postal problems.
This bill establishes a seven-member, blue ribbon Commission to study the
broad range of problems confronting the United States Postal Service. The
Commission will report to the administration and the Congress by March 15
of next year with its recommended solutions to these problems. During this
period, there will be a moratorium on post office closings, rate increases, and
service cutbacks.
To assure the maintenance of the current financial status of the postal sys-
tem, this bill also authorizes financial assistance to the U.S. Postal Service
for the purpose of reducing its accumulated operating debt.
I am pleased by the responsible and effective bipartisan cooperation that
was evident in the drafting and passage of this legislation. Senator McGee
of Wyoming, Senator Fong of Hawaii, and Congressmen Henderson of North
Carolina, Derwinski of Illinois, Hanley of New York, and Johnson of Penn-
sylvania were especially helpful contributors to this effort.
No one pretends that this bill itself ensures the long-term solution to our
postal problems—that will evolve over a period of time during and after com-
pletion of the Commission's study. But I believe this bill is a positive and con-
structive step toward that goal.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8603, approved September 24, 1976, is Public Law 94-421 (90 Stat. 1303).
2321
