January 18
[1070]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
costs of programs are open and visible to those who pay them. Funding our
social security benefits through specifically designated payroll taxes strengthens
the discipline that should govern these decisions. Benefits are not costless, and
we should not allow this fact to be submerged in any general revenue funding
of the social security system.
Similar pressures are building up with respect to medical care. We have
become concerned, and rightly so, over sharp increases in the cost of medical
care which emphasize the need to improve the efficiency and effectiveness in the
delivery of health care services. These have arisen in part because the large
expansion in health insurance coverage under both private and public pro-
grams has reduced the sensitivity of consumers to costs and weakened the in-
centives to achieve efficiencies. Individuals, businesses, and unions, confronted
with the higher costs of private health insurance have begun to exert curbs on
the systems for delivering health and medical service, and their influence should
be salutary. I hope we will not choose to fund these costs through a comprehen-
sive national health insurance system, since this will only weaken the incentives
for improvement and efficiency that are now emerging.
These are but two examples of the pressures which threaten to erode our fiscal
processes. We must recognize that making governmental expenditure policy
the principal arm of demand management has undesirable consequences. Ex-
penditure programs once in place are extremely difficult to cut back. The result
is a permanent rise in Federal outlays and the risk of ever-increasing growth
in the government relative to the private sector. As the experience of other coun-
tries forcibly illustrates, this is a dangerous path. It weakens incentives, reduces
efficiency, leads to lagging standards of living, and carries inevitable risks of in-
flation. It is much better to provide fiscal adjustments through tax reductions
than through Federal spending programs.
The solid improvement of this year means continued progress toward a better
life for all Americans. Problems will always remain, but the future is bright
with opportunities to continue strengthening our economy. Improvement is
part of the American way of life, but we must recognize that few problems,
when viewed realistically, lend themselves to quick and easy solution. Our
policies must take into account the full costs and lasting implications of the
changes we make today for whatever worthwhile reason. If they attack symp-
toms rather than causes, policies will be ineffective and may even preclude the
very goals which we seek. Enduring improvement in the economic welfare of
2953
