[685]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
specialty and geographic maldistribution. The proposal is designed to produce
more primary care physicians and to provide greater access
professionals.
HIGHER EDUCATION ACT AMENDMENT AND EXTENSION
to health
This bill would extend for four years those higher education programs which
have demonstrated their effectiveness in meeting the post-secondary educa-
tion needs of the Nation. The bill would extend the most effective student
assistance programs, namely, the basic educational opportunity grant program,
the work-study program, the State student incentive grant program, and the
guaranteed student loan program. Programs to strengthen developing institu-
tions and the Teacher Corps program would also be extended. The bill would
also simplify and clarify the requirements relating to accreditation and
institutional eligibility.
CLOSURE OR TRANSFER OF PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE HOSPITALS
This proposal is one of several Administration initiatives designed to reform
Federal financing and direct delivery of health care. It would authorize HEW
to transfer to community use or close the eight Public Health Service hospitals
which are underutilized and which essentially serve only one occupational
group. The proposal reflects the conclusion that maintenance of a Federal
hospital system for some 200,000 merchant seaman is an inappropriate and
inefficient use of resources, particularly in light of low hospital occupancy
rates, the excess supply of hospital beds, the availability of alternative health
care facilities, and the substantial capital investment which would be required
to continue operation of the hospitals.
REPEAL THE 1-PERCENT ADD-ON IN THE COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT OF THE CIVIL
SERVICE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
Federal civilian and military retirement systems automatically increase bene-
fits to compensate for changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Since 1969,
these automatic adjustments have included a 1% add-on which has been com-
pounded with each subsequent CPI adjustment. This bill would eliminate the
1% add-on provision in the civil service retirement law which has been pro-
gressively over-compensating Federal retirees for changes in the cost of living.
The Congress has passed legislation to eliminate the 1% add-on in the military,
foreign service, and CIA retirement systems, but only if it is also eliminated for
the civil service retirement system.
2078
