[736]
August 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
ber of proposals which appear to be well on their way to enactment. These
include employment cutbacks, a move toward a fair-market-rental-system for
military personnel, and revisions in certain payments for leave.
I am deeply concerned by the apparent intent to reject a large portion of
these proposed savings, and to make up the difference by cutbacks in urgently-
needed defense programs. The conference report on the first budget resolution
states, in fact, that other defense cuts will be made if these proposed savings
cannot be realized. This would be a totally unwarranted course of action. If
Congress is unwilling to enact the necessary changes to end these unjustifiable
outlays, then we must pay for these items from our pocketbooks-not by slash-
ing our national security. We simply cannot sacrifice our national security to
provide for unproductive fringe items and unwarranted levels of compensation.
Once again I urge the Congress to take the necessary actions I have proposed
in order to achieve real economies in the national defense program, and not to
add the new requirements now under consideration. While I am not now re-
questing additional appropriations for these items, I want to make it clear that
if the Congress fails to take the proper action, I will request again that the
additional appropriations be provided. Failure to do so would result in an
unbalanced national defense program.
Additional Requirements
Finally, I have approved an amendment in the amount of $39 million to
the 1977 Defense budget to provide additional funds for enlistment bonuses
to recruit the required numbers of high school graduates for the Army. Re-
cruiting success, particularly as measured in terms of quality, has proven to be
sensitive to the level of resources available, and any significant reduction of re-
sources reduces program effectiveness in the long run. We must reverse the
recent practice for curtailing budget dollars devoted to recruiting and invest
this amount as a contribution towards the relatively small additional resources
necessary to maintain a successful program over the long term.
Submission of Legislative Proposals and Appropriation Requests
Proposals for authorizing legislation and appropriation requests will be sub-
mitted to the Congress as necessary to provide for these requirements. Requests
covering weapons procurement, RDT&E and recruiting activities are being
transmitted now. The remainder of the additional appropriation requests-
principally those relating to the compensation area-will, in accordance with
the normal budgetary cycle, be transmitted in January 1977. There is yet time
2172
