[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
to sound like Bella Abzug. And when Jimmy Carter comes down to this great
farmland in the area of Carlinville, he tries to make you believe that he is just
a little old peanut farmer from Georgia. [Laughter] Jimmy Carter wanders, he
wavers, he wiggles, and he waffles. I think the voters of Illinois will take my
record of performance over Jimmy Carter's promises any day.
Let's take the issue of taxes. I believe the best tax reform is tax reduction. I
submitted to the Congress a recommendation to increase the personal exemption
from $750 to $1,000. The middle-income taxpayers of this country have been
shortchanged, and the Ford program will restore equity to those middle-income
taxpayers who have gotten short shrift.
Jimmy Carter, he said-quoted by the Associated Press-that he would in-
crease the taxes for all people in the medium-income tax brackets. Jimmy Carter
is saying to the taxpayers of this country that he would raise the taxes of 50
percent of the American people. Who do you want, a President who promises to
give the middle-income taxpayers a break or do you want Jimmy Carter, who
is going to add to the tax burden of the middle-income taxpayers? I think you
will take Jerry Ford. Anybody that likes Jimmy Carter likes taxes. Don't buy it.
Let's talk about spending. In the 2 years that I've been President, I have tried
to put the lid on Federal spending because when you have more and more Fed-
eral spending, it will mean more and more inflation. Jimmy Carter has em-
braced the platform that he helped to write, which calls for 60-some new pro-
grams. And if those programs become law, it will add anywhere from $100
billion a year to $200 billion more in Federal spending. I think the American
people want the Federal Government to spend less, not to spend more.
And Jimmy Carter has said that he is going to reorganize the Federal Gov-
ernment. Let me tell you what Jimmy Carter did when he reorganized the gov-
ernment of Georgia. In the 4 years that Jimmy Carter was President—I mean
Governor of Georgia-Jimmy Carter increased the number of State employees
by more than 12 [25] percent. In the 4 years that Jimmy Carter was Governor
of Georgia, he increased the spending of the State of Georgia by more than 50
percent. And, as Governor of the State of Georgia, he increased the bonded in-
debtedness of that State by over $200 million.
Now if you take that record and he became President, I don't think you would
want him reorganizing the Federal Government. I believe you will vote for
President Ford because he is making the Federal Government more responsible
and more responsive, and he is going to keep the lid on Federal spending.
Then let me take a minute to talk about agriculture. I know in this area
this is part of that great breadbasket of America. I know that you have produced
2560
