October 24
[954]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to multiply your efforts with your neighbors, with your friends, your business
associates, and with others.
This is a crusade-a crusade for the kind of government that our forefathers
gave us some 200 years ago. We must work extra hours, make an even greater
effort, because the future of America could well depend on what happens on
November 2.
I pledge to you, as I pledged before, I will uphold the Constitution, and I will
do as I see in the future as God gives me the light to see and to never let you
down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:24 a.m. in the H. Rousselot and Carlos J. Moorhead and Repub-
Viennese Room at the Huntington-Sheraton Hotel. lican senatorial candidate S. I. Hayakawa.
In his remarks, he referred to Representatives John
954
Remarks in Fountain Valley, California. October 24, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Duke, or John Wayne-we love you how-
ever we use the name. Thank you very, very much, Congressman Chuck Wig-
gins, our fine congressional candidates, Bob Badham, Jim Combes, Dan Lun-
gren; Glenn Ford, Ed Nelson, this wonderful group of singers, we really ap-
preciate the talent and the contribution. Thank you very, very much.
And then it is a great privilege for an old “has-been” athlete to have on the
platform here with us Steve Garvey, Andy Etchebarren, Don Sutton. I thank you
all very, very much.
I am especially honored—it is really a rare privilege to come to the great
State of California and to see such a tremendous turnout. And one of the high-
lights of this campaign—and I can say it without any hesitation or qualifica-
tion-is to have Duke do the honors of introducing me and giving me an op-
portunity to say to all of you and to the many, many millions of people here in
California what I believe in and where I stand.
It has been wonderful to come back to California. As I said in Kansas City,
I do not concede a single State or a single vote. I believe that the American
people in all 50 States want straight talk. They don't want their candidate for
the Presidency to promise more than he can deliver, but they want him to de-
liver everything that he promises.
Since Kansas City, I have come to this great State on two occasions. Betty has
2665
