September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
months, I wonder if you have rethought that question at all, whether you would
consider allowing this program to be funded, or will you veto that money bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that bill has not yet come down to the Oval Office so
I am not in a position to make any judgment on it tonight. But that is an extra
$4 billion that would add to the deficit, which would add to the inflationary
pressures, which would help to destroy jobs in the private sector, not make jobs
where the jobs really are. These make-work, temporary jobs, dead end as they
are, are not the kind of jobs that we want for our people.
I think it's interesting to point out that in the 2 years that I've been Presi-
dent, I've vetoed 56 bills. Congress has sustained 42 vetoes. As a result we have
saved over $9 billion in Federal expenditures. And the Congress—by overrid-
ing the bills that I did veto-the Congress has added some $13 billion to the
Federal expenditures and to the Federal deficit.
Now, Governor Carter complains about the deficits that this administration
has had, and yet he condemns the vetoes that I have made that have saved the
taxpayer $9 billion and could have saved an additional $13 billion. Now, he
can't have it both ways. And, therefore, it seems to me that we should hold the
lid as we have to the best of our ability so we can stimulate the private economy
and get the jobs where the jobs are-five out of six-in this economy.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, Mr. Ford doesn't seem to put into perspective the fact that
when 500,000 more people are out of work then there were 3 months ago, where
we have 22 million more people out of work than were when he took office,
that this touches human beings.
I was in a city in Pennsylvania not too long ago near here, and there were
about 4,000 or 5,000 people in the audience-it was on a train trip—and I said,
"How many adults here are out of work?" About a thousand raised their hands.
Mr. Ford actually has fewer people now in the private sector in nonfarm jobs
than when he took office, and still he talks about a success; 7.9 percent unem-
ployment is a terrible tragedy in this country.
He says he has learned how to match unemployment with inflation. That's
right. We've got the highest inflation we've had in 25 years right now—except
under this administration—and that was 50 years ago—and we've got the
highest unemployment we've had under Mr. Ford's administration since the
Great Depression. This affects human beings. And his insensitivity in providing
those people a chance to work has made this a welfare administration and not a
work administration.
He hasn't saved $9 billion with his vetoes. It has only been a net saving of $4
2301
