[717]
August 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
leader, and stressed the compelling need for a more conciliatory approach by
both sides. Moreover, we have again been active with our European allies to
insure that all avenues are explored in the search for a settlement.
Though there are many proposals for a settlement of the situation on Cyprus,
the only solution which will restore domestic tranquility for all the citizens
of that island is one which they work out among themselves. We are dedicating
our efforts to assisting in the resumption of negotiations which will achieve the
goal we share-an equitable and just peace on Cyprus. This Administration,
with the support of the Congress, will continue actively to encourage that
process in every way possible.
The White House,
August 6, 1976.
718
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks Urging Congressional Enactment of the National
Swine Flu Immunization Program. Augut 6, 1976
I HAVE been following with great concern the investigations into the cause of
the tragic outbreak of illness in Pennsylvania this past week.¹ All Americans
join me in their sympathy for the families of more than 20 people who have died
and their hope for the speedy recovery of those currently under treatment.
I am greatly relieved of course that these tragic deaths were not the result of
swine flu. But let us remember one thing: they could have been. The threat of
swine flu outbreak this year is still very, very genuine. Data from the scientific
community clearly supports the need for a full-scale inoculation program. Clini-
cal tests conducted to date clearly demonstrate that the vaccine is both safe and
effective. There is no excuse to let the legislative program that I proposed 7
weeks ago—a program that could safeguard the lives of many, many Ameri-
cans-be delayed any longer.
HEW Secretary Mathews and the leaders of Congress reported to me on Wed-
nesday that after long hours of hearings, discussions, negotiations, Congress
finally would act yesterday to pass legislation to provide swine flu vaccine to all
the American people. Needless to say, I was keenly disappointed to learn last
1 The President was referring to the outbreak of a flu-like illness which caused the death of several persons
attending a State American Legion convention in Philadelphia, July 21-24.
2136
