November 1
[1006]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
angry, divided, disillusioned. I will never forget that day in the East Room
of the White House when I put my hand on the Bible held by my wife, Betty,
and took the oath of office when America was troubled.
Yes, we were in trouble. Inflation was over 12 percent. We were still involved
in Vietnam. There was a loss of confidence in the White House itself. We were
on the brink of the worst recession in 40 years. And after having taken the
oath of office to be your President, I said, since you have not elected me by your
ballots, I ask you to confirm me with your prayers.
With those prayers we put the ship of state on a steady keel. I had a firm,
commonsense hand on the tiller, and we have made incredible progress in the
last 2 years. We have cut inflation by better than 50 percent. We have added
4 million jobs; we have 88 million people working today, the most in the
history of the United States. We are at peace, and we are going to keep the peace.
And I can say with pride to all of you and to my former colleagues in the
Congress-Bob Taft, Sam Devine, Chalmers Wylie, Clarence Miller, Bud
Brown, Bill Harsha, Willis Gradison-that we have restored that confidence in
the White House. I have been open, candid, frank.
And now, as we come to the final quarter-in fact, the final minutes-of
this great campaign, you have a critical decision to make tomorrow. It couldn't
have been put better than the way Frank Lausche put it.
But let me add, I have been proud to be your President during troubled
times. I want the opportunity to build on that firm foundation, to keep America
moving.
Therefore, I ask when you go to the polls tomorrow that you not only confirm
me with your prayers but you also confirm me with your ballots. And I won't
let you down.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m.
1006
Remarks on Greeting Students at the Fort Hayes Career
Center in Columbus. November 1, 1976
LET ME say that coming to the Fort Hayes Career Education Center is a real
thrill and a great experience for me. I would like to stay and get to know all of
you better and to see all of the wonderful opportunities that you are getting
through the leadership of people like Jim Rhodes, your great Governor, your
2829
