[890]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
ington want to tell you how to run your State and local affairs. Over the years,
Democrats in Washington created big government. They have a stake in
preserving it. They are firmly committed to it, and without a President who
is willing to say no they would make it even bigger, more powerful, and more
expensive.
I am willing to say no, not only by exercising the Presidential veto but by
calling for positive, imaginative alternatives to government by Washington
decree-alternatives like general revenue sharing.
Governor Carter has stated his opposition to revenue sharing in its present
form, calling it a big hoax and a mistake. He says he opposes general revenue
sharing with State governments, but he apparently had no trouble whatsoever
in finding uses for the $140 million in general revenue sharing funds that came
to Georgia during his one term as Governor of that State. As far as I know, he
didn't send a single penny of that big hoax revenue sharing back to Washington
during those 4 years.
He knew in his heart, as most Governors know, that revenue sharing is vitally
important. It is a vitally important resource of State governments as well as local
units of government. We know that revenue sharing has been a major success
at every level of government.
The legislation that I will be signing into law will make the program an even
greater success. It will extend revenue sharing for another 3¾4 years. It will pro-
vide $25,600 million to State and local units of government. But most impor-
tantly, it will give to you here in Yonkers, in Westchester, and in the State an
even greater voice in deciding how your tax dollars that go to Washington and
come back to you will be spent at the local level.
The city of Yonkers is particularly appropriate for the signing of this bill. This
city has 204,000 residents, and its distinguished government officials are com-
mitted to solving your own problems in your own way, with your own imag-
ination, and with your own hard work.
I congratulate each and every one of you for your very recent breakthrough
in selling many millions of dollars in Yonkers bonds on the public market. This
is an encouraging sign of health in which thousands of cities and towns through-
out America proudly share because of the success of the revenue sharing
program.
With confidence that this legislation will make a good program even better, I
will very shortly, right down there, sign into law the general revenue sharing ex-
tension act of 1976.
2506
