December 6
[1023]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a stronger Europe-working together with the United States-your contribu-
tion to the dialog with the developing nations, and your dedication to peace
and international understanding.
Mr. Prime Minister, our two governments have made it a priority task to
strengthen the North Atlantic alliance. The alliance has made progress in
strengthening its defenses, standardizing equipment, and coordination of
strategies and planning. Nevertheless, much more needs to be done.
All of us know that the defensive strength and the cohesion of our alliance
are crucial to the balance of power in Europe that is so critical to European free-
dom and international security. Our alliance, of course, has a purpose beyond
military defense. The United States and Italy both recognize that Western
Europe unity is a pillar of world peace. We must reduce tensions and reduce the
possibility of confrontation in Central Europe, where almost 2 million armed
men face one another. We must promote mutually beneficial cooperation
between Western and Eastern Europe.
The industrial democracies, if we are to be the masters of our own destiny,
must work together, for we share basic, common interests on global issues—
from defense to energy, the environment, trade, and relations with the
developing countries of the world.
Mr. Prime Minister, our discussions on these many issues will be of great
value to the United States not only in practical terms but to reaffirm our pro-
found friendship. Few nations are linked as strongly as the United States of
America and the Republic of Italy by history, culture, economics, and the emi-
gration of peoples. Our friendship has deep roots that ensure its preservation.
Italy's contribution was one of the highlights of America's Bicentennial
celebration. We especially welcomed, Mr. Prime Minister, the visit of Mrs.
Vittoria Leone, the First Lady of Italy, when the La Scala Opera came here
for its spectacular performance. The American people thank you for this
wonderful presentation.
I look forward with great anticipation, Mr. Prime Minister, to our discussions
today and tonight. As two democratic allies we have a large area of common
ground and many common concerns.
I bid you and your party, on behalf of the American people, a hearty welcome
to the United States of America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where Prime
Minister Andreotti was given a formal welcome
with full military honors.
The Prime Minister spoke in Italian. His re-
marks were translated as follows:
Mr. President, I am deeply grateful for the
invitation you were kind enough to extend to
at a particularly challenging time for my
country.
Two years after the visit of President Leone-
whom you kindly mentioned-your invitation con-
2851
