November 1
[1009]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1009
Remarks at a Rally on Arrival at Grand
Rapids, Michigan. November 1, 1976
WOULD you please be very quiet for just a minute? I would hope that we might
even hear a pin drop.
I don't think that I can adequately express in words tonight Betty's appre-
ciation and mine for this tremendous welcome to the home that we love so
much, Grand Rapids.
I have made a lot of speeches, and this is the hardest one to make, because as
I look out in this audience and as I saw so many people as we came down Monroe
Avenue-Democrats, Independents, Republicans—people that Betty and I lived
with, that Betty and I love, that I tried to help over the years when I had the
honor of representing this great congressional district, I could tell you some
stories about how the tough problems came to our office. And we never asked
the person that walked in that office whether he or she was a Democrat or a
Republican. We said, what can we do to help you, and that is the way I want
to be your President.
You know, those wonderful experiences over a period of time, of taking that
trailer down through Ottawa County, Ionia County, Kent County, and sitting
and listening to wonderful people who had a problem, who wanted to give me a
little trouble, give me a hard time—and they did—but also we had a couple of
friends that might come in and say nice things about us. But the wonderful ex-
perience of representing the Fifth Congressional District will be something that
I will never forget, and I thank you for the opportunity.
You know, I had a speech I was going to make, but I threw it
away. [Laughter]
But I have got a couple of friends that I would like to introduce to you
and to suggest that you can help me if you help them. First, I would like to
recommend, because I know him, because I know the job he has done in
Congress, I would like to recommend to you that you vote tomorrow for Marv
Esch for the United States Senate. Then I would equally say it would be very
helpful to me as your next President if you would send Hal Sawyer to represent
you here in the Fifth District.
As we came off the expressway, we went down College Avenue and Betty
said, “I went to Fountain School." We went right by it. Then we went by
2835
