August 19
[733]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
goods. We will build an America where people feel proud about themselves
and about their country.
We will build on performance, not promises; experience, not expediency;
real progress instead of mysterious plans to be revealed in some dim and distant
future. The American people are wise, wiser than our opponents think. They
know who pays for every campaign promise. They are not afraid of the truth.
We will tell them the truth.
From start to finish, our campaign will be credible; it will be responsible.
We will come out fighting, and we will win. Yes, we have all seen the polls
and the pundits who say our party is dead. I have heard that before. So did
Harry Truman. I will tell you what I think. The only polls that count are the
polls the American people go to on November 2. And right now, I predict that
the American people are going to say that night, "Jerry, you have done a good
job, keep right on doing it."
As I try in my imagination to look into the homes where families are watching
the end of this great convention, I can't tell which faces are Republicans, which
are Democrats, and which are Independents. I cannot see their color or their
creed. I see only Americans.
I see Americans who love their husbands, their wives, and their children. I
see Americans who love their country for what it has been and what it must
become. I see Americans who work hard, but who are willing to sacrifice all
they have worked for to keep their children and their country free. I see
Americans who in their own quiet way pray for peace among nations and peace
among themselves. We do love our neighbors, and we do forgive those who have
trespassed against us.
I see a new generation that knows what is right and knows itself, a generation
determined to preserve its ideals, its environment, our Nation, and the world.
My fellow Americans, I like what I see. I have no fear for the future of this
great country. And as we go forward together, I promise you once more what I
promised before: to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives
me to see the right, and to do the very best that I can for America.
God helping me, I won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 p.m. in Kemper Arena. His remarks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
2163
