October 29
[993]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
it. Joe was telling of not only some baseball stories, and then we got to talking
about St. Louis, and he was telling how he was brought up here in a wonder-
ful Italian neighborhood.
"Today," Joe said, "I can't be with you, but will you say hello to Father Saul
Paulevy for me," who did such a wonderful job in retaining the character and
the integrity of that neighborhood where Joe was brought up. So, I say to you
on behalf of Joe Garagiola: “Hi.”
But we have some awfully fine congressional candidates here that I would
like to recognize. We want Jack Danforth in the United States Senate, but we
also—and this is very important—want Joe Badarocco in the House of Repre-
sentatives. We sure would like Joe Frappier in the House of Representatives.
Bob Witherspoon would be very helpful. Then I know you have a first-class
candidate in Bob Snyder. Let's make sure that Missouri makes that kind of an
affirmative contribution to a better Congress that will be sworn in on January 3.
Now, if I could take just a few minutes to express my deepest appreciation for
this tremendous gathering here in front of the old courthouse, and to indicate
to you that I have kept the pledge that I made when we left Kansas City. I said
I would campaign every State, I would not concede a single vote, I would
not concede a single State. And the net result is, we have campaigned the
length and the breadth of this country. We were 33 points behind in August,
and right now we have the momentum, and we are going to win on November 2.
Let me extend an invitation on behalf of Betty and myself to all of you—all
of you, even some of those good Carter people out there—[laughter]—I extend
an invitation to every one of you to come to Washington on January 20 and
see Jerry Ford and Bob Dole inaugurated President and Vice President.
Let me tell you why we are going to win. Take just a minute to refresh your
memory back to August of 1974. We had a troubled country. America was in
turmoil. People were mad and angry with one another. They had lost their
faith in, actually, our government. We were suffering inflation of over 12
percent. We were on the brink of the worst economic recession in 40 years. We
were still involved in a tragic war in Vietnam.
I became President on August 9. It wasn't a happy day, but I had faith in the
American people, I had faith in our form of government, and I decided that we
had to keep the ship of state on an even keel, that we had to set a steady and
firm course. You know, because our people responded-all of you in St. Louis
and Missouri, all over the country—you rejoined me in that faith, that trust, that
confidence.
2791
