[665]
July 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
inherited a great, great trust. The founding of our Nation was an act of faith, a
promise to Americans and to the entire world.
The commemoration of our Bicentennial proved that people can govern them-
selves, that they can live in freedom with equal rights, that they can respect the
rights of others. A great French philosopher once said, "Once you declare for
justice, you have declared an unending revolution." By living among us at the
time of America's Bicentennial, you have participated in the reaffirmation of
our pride and in our confidence that our unending revolution has just begun.
We live in an age where an awareness of mankind's common humanity among
and within nations is an absolute necessity.
As you return to your homelands, I know you will carry with you an expres-
sion of our hope that the friendship and love that has grown between you and
your American hosts will continue to flourish, that we will be bound together by
our appreciation of the high values of personal liberty, freedom, and dignity.
Working together, all of us—all 5,000-plus of you and millions and millions
of people all over this great globe—by doing what we know is right and work-
ing with one another, let us light the way to a new century of peace and freedom
for all mankind.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:25 p.m. on the
South Grounds at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Dr. Steven Rhinesmith,
president of the American Field Service.
666
Statement on Signing the Horse Protection Act
Amendments of 1976. July 14, 1976
I HAVE approved S. 811, which provides amendments to the Horse Protection
Act of 1970. This act is intended to ban the clearly inhumane practice of inten-
tionally injuring the limbs and hoofs of horses in order to induce the highstep-
ping gait looked for in certain horse show events.
The amendments contained in S. 811 strengthen the act in some respects. Un-
fortunately, however, the approach that the Congress continues to take to eradi-
cate this heinous practice fails to comprehend the real problem.
The practice exists, quite simply, because its perpetrators can make a profit
in the horse show circuit by short-cutting the careful breeding and patient
training techniques which are normally required to produce high quality show
prospects. Until the management of public horse shows and sales assumes-
2012
