[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. I think it's accurate to say that Mr. Ford's position on gun con-
trol has changed. Earlier, Mr. Levi, his Attorney General, put forward a gun
control proposal which Mr. Ford later, I believe, espoused that called for the pro-
hibition against the sale of the so-called “Saturday night specials.” It would
have put very strict control over who owned a handgun.
I have been a hunter all my life and happen to own both shotguns, rifles, and
a handgun. And the only purpose that I would see in registering handguns and
not long guns of any kind would be to prohibit the ownership of those guns by
those who have used them in the commission of a crime or who have been
proven to be mentally incompetent to own a gun. I believe that limited approach
to the question would be advisable, and I think adequate, but that's as far as I
would go with it.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Nelson, to Governor Carter.
MR. NELSON. Governor, you've said the Supreme Court today is, as you put it,
moving back in the proper direction in rulings that have limited the rights of
criminal defendants, and you've compared the present Supreme Court under
Chief Justice Burger very favorably with the more liberal Court that we had
under Chief Justice Warren. So, exactly what are you getting at, and can you
elaborate on the kind of Court you think this country should have? And can
you tell us the kind of qualifications and philosophy you would look for as
President in making Supreme Court appointments?
MR. CARTER. While I was Governor of Georgia, although I am not a lawyer,
we had complete reform of the Georgia court system. We streamlined the struc-
ture of the courts, put in administrative offices, put a unified court system in,
and required that all severe sentences be reviewed for uniformity; and, in addi-
tion to that, put forward a proposal that was adopted and used throughout my
own term of office-selection of all judges and district attorneys, prosecuting
attorneys, on the basis of merit.
Every time I had a vacancy on the Georgia Supreme Court-and I filled five
of those vacancies out of seven total, and about half of the Court of Appeals
judges, about 35 percent of the trial judges—I was given from an objective panel
the five most highly qualified persons in Georgia, and from those five I always
chose the first or second one. So, merit selection of judges is the most important
single criterion. And I would institute the same kind of procedure as President,
not only in judicial appointments but also in diplomatic appointments.
Secondly, I think that the Burger Court has fairly well confirmed the major
and most far-reaching and most controversial decisions of the Warren Court.
2640
