October 22
[944]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
944
Memorandum of Disapproval of the Federal Grant and
Cooperative Agreement Bill. October 22, 1976
I AM withholding my approval of S. 1437, the Federal Grant and Cooperative
Agreement Act of 1976.
This legislation has a laudable goal—to clarify and rationalize the legal in-
struments through which the Federal Government acquires property and serv-
ices and furnishes assistance to State and local governments and other
recipients. The bill would establish three categories of legal instruments which
Federal agencies would be required to use: procurement contracts, grant agree-
ments, and cooperative agreements. These categories would be defined accord-
ing to their different purposes.
S. 1437 would also require the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget to undertake a study which would (1) “develop a better understanding
of alternative means of implementing Federal assistance programs . . .”, and
(2) "... determine the feasibility of developing a comprehensive system of
guidance for Federal assistance programs."
The Office of Management and Budget completed a study, almost a year ago,
of the definitions of "grant", "contract" and "cooperative agreement." That
study, which has been reviewed by other Federal agencies, public interest
groups, and other interested associations and groups, confirmed support for
the objectives of this legislation but led to serious questions as to whether at
this point legislation is necessary or desirable.
No matter how careful the drafting, a bill which requires thousands of trans-
actions to be placed into one of three categories will probably result, in many
cases, in limiting the flexibility of Federal agencies in administering their pro-
grams and creating a large number of technical difficulties for them. Federally
supported basic research programs would be particularly difficult to classify in
terms of the definitions in this bill.
The Office of Management and Budget is continuing to work in this area
with the cooperation of other Federal agencies. It plans to issue policy guidance
to Federal agencies that would more clearly distinguish between procurement
and assistance transactions and to better define patterns of assistance relation-
ships between Federal agencies and funding recipients.
In addition, OMB has been developing more comprehensive guidance for
assistance programs, as indicated by the recent circulars issued by the agency
establishing uniform administrative requirements for hospitals, universities,
2617
