[708]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
sideration of how best to resolve these issues, and I urge prompt action on them
by the Congress.
Additional mention should be made of the substantial contribution of the
two studies undertaken by the Federal Council on Aging. The efforts of those
that participated in the studies will contribute to our effort to provide necessary
income and services to our less fortunate elderly citizens in an efficient manner.
These reports will be sent for review and analysis to those Federal agencies
serving older persons. After this review, decisions on the recommendations
contained in the Council's report will be reflected in future legislative proposals
and administrative actions of this Administration.
The White House,
August 3, 1976.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Annual Report to the
President, 1975-Federal Council on the Aging"
(64 pp.). The two studies are entitled "The Impact
of the Tax Structure on the Elderly, December 29,
1975-Federal Council on the Aging" (Government
Printing Office, 119 pp.); and "The Interrelationships
of Benefit Programs for the Elderly, December 29,
1975-Federal Council on the Aging" (52 pp.),
together with three separate appendixes: Appendix I,
Handbook of Federal Programs Benefiting Older
GERALD R. FORD
Americans (Government Printing Office, 144 pp.);
Appendix II, Programs for Older Americans in Four
States: A Case Study of Federal, State and Local
Benefit Programs (Government Printing Office, 70
pp.); and Appendix III, The Combined Impact of
Selected Benefit Programs on Older Americans: A
TRIM Analysis (Government Printing Office, 79 pp.).
The appendixes were prepared for the Federal
Council on the Aging by the Human Resources and
Income Security Project of the Urban Institute.
709
Special Message to the Congress Transmitting Proposed
Foreign Payments Disclosure Legislation.
August 3, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Certain improper activities abroad undertaken by some American corpora-
tions have resulted in an erosion of confidence in the responsibility of many of
our important business enterprises. In a more general way, these disclosures tend
to destroy confidence in our free enterprise institutions.
With this in view, I established the Task Force on Questionable Corporate
Payments Abroad on March 31, 1976, and directed it to undertake a sweeping
policy review of approaches to deal with the questionable payments problem.
On June 14, after reviewing an interim report of the Task Force, I directed the
Task Force to develop, as quickly as possible, a specific legislative initiative call-
ing for a system of reporting and disclosure to deter improper payments.
2118
