[949]
October 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Carolina; it exists all over America. That's where the progress will come as
we move ahead in our third century in the United States. More often you will
find it on the banks of the Neuse River here in Raleigh or on the beautiful New
River we helped to save in the Blue Ridge Mountains of western North
Carolina, or on the Outer Banks down east.
Let me say I was deeply grateful to your great Governor, Jim Holshouser, for
listing some of the things that this administration has done in working with his
administration. The relationship between your Governor and myself is a close
one, and I can say—because I know a few Governors around the country-in
Jim Holshouser you've got one of the best, and you should be proud of him.
Having spent as much time as I have during my life in the great Tarheel
State, I think I know something about the way the people in North Carolina
feel. I don't think you here in North Carolina are ready to see our free economy
bogged down with even more rules, regulations, redtape, and red ink. And I
hope you will register your opinion loud and clear on November 2.
This great State Fair is a good example of what people can do by themselves.
We have the most productive farmers in the history of mankind. One American
farmer today feeds 56 other people. The farmers of North Carolina, as Jim
Holshouser said, will bring in their highest income from their tobacco crop in
1976. I compliment you for it. We are proud of that productivity.
I want to preserve the family farm in North Carolina, and throughout Amer-
ica. I've been fighting all year to revise the estate tax laws to ensure that you
won't have to sacrifice your farms just to pay the Federal tax collector.
I recommended this increase in the personal exemption in the estate tax from
$60,000 to a higher figure. The Congress finally passed it, and I was pleased that
they raised, on my recommendation, the tax exemption from $60,000 to some-
thing like $175,000 and stretched out the payments on those estate taxes. This
is constructive legislation, because the family farm means so much to the people
of North Carolina as well as in the other 49 States.
For those who want to own a home in rural America, I am announcing today
that I have directed the Department of Agriculture to raise the moderate income
limit for rural housing loans from $12,900 to $15,600. This change, coupled with
the recent increase in the low-income limit from $8,500 to $10,000, and lowering
the interest rate to 8 percent, will greatly increase our ability to help rural fami-
lies buy a home of their own, and a home is the most important factor in
building a strong America.
But rural vitality is not all that North Carolina has going for it. The North
Carolina Research Triangle and the other fine colleges and universities in this
2656
