November 1
[1004]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
judge in Cleveland, a mayor of Cleveland, a Governor of Ohio, and an out-
standing United States Senator, Frank Lausche.
You know I come from that State up north, but since 1963 I have been in
the State of Ohio 56 times. That's not a bad record. I have been down to
Canton on three occasions to the Football Hall of Fame, the football center
of the United States. I never made it as a participant, but I respect and admire
those outstanding men who have given us a great American sport. Congratula-
tions, Jim.
With the help of Bob Taft, Ralph Regula, Bill Stanton, they got through
the Cuyahoga National Park, the first national park in the history of the
State of Ohio, and I was honored and pleased to sign that legislation.
As I said a moment ago, this is a crucial election. It will determine the
course of events of this country, not only for the next 4 years but maybe,
undoubtedly as I see it, the next century, our third century of American history.
You know where I stand. I stand for lower taxes, a balanced budget, lower
Federal spending, beating inflation, and peace and liberty for the United
States of America. And in the last 2 years America has made incredible prog-
ress, and we are on our way, and we are going to make more in the next 4 years
under Jerry Ford.
In Kansas City, I said we would not concede a single vote, we would not
concede a single State. We want Ohio, and we are going to win Ohio.
And now let me extend a personal invitation from Betty and from me. We
would love to have every one of you down to Inauguration Day on January 20,
when Jerry Ford and Bob Dole are sworn in as President and Vice President.
There are many issues at stake in this election, but let me take two-one
that means whether we have peace or a lack of security in this country; the
other involves the health of our economy.
In the first debate, Mr. Carter said he would anticipate a $60 billion surplus
in the Federal Treasury. He said that he would spend that $60 billion for a
whole raft of new Federal programs. In that same debate, I said if there is
a $60 billion surplus, I want a tax reduction for the American people.
President Ford is for the little taxpayer and President Ford is against the
big tax spender. I have been firm; I have been consistent. The best tax reform
is tax reduction. The middle-income taxpayer in this country-over 50 percent
of us—have been shortchanged in the last 10 years by the actions of the Con-
gress, and we are going to change it in the next session.
Mr. Carter, in the last 2 or 3 days, in discussing tax reduction, has said:
Perhaps we will have a tax reduction—if we have a tax reduction. It is a clear
2823
