[1005]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
of our great country-you send Bob Taft back to Washington as your next
United States Senator.
You know this all began right here, right in front of the Capitol, and local
and State government is vital, and so I urge you-elect Bill Brownfield to the
State senate.
It is great to be in Columbus, the home of two of my good friends who repre-
sent excellence. First, Jack Nicklaus, a great supporter of mine-I thank him
for that help and assistance. And then, also, one of my best friends, the kind
of a person who represents excellence not only in coaching but excellence in
character. He believes in winning, and that is what we are going to do. Thank
you very much, Woody Hayes.¹
You know, I come from that State up north. [Laughter] But since 1963 I
have visited the Buckeye State 56 times, and I love you. I had the honor and
the great privilege of speaking at a commencement at Ohio State in the fall of
1974-it was a great experience-but I have also come to Columbus and all of
the other places. And you know what? Columbus likes to be, along with the
great State of Ohio, on the side of a winner. So let's make it a homerun, a
touchdown tomorrow for the winning team, Jerry Ford and Bob Dole.
But there are several other people that I would like to recognize and indicate
to them and to all of you my appreciation. First, we have on this platform one
of the three greatest Governors in the State of Ohio, John Bricker.
And may I say, incidentally, from the appearance here of this great crowd
and from the wonderful rally that we had in the Akron, Canton, Alliance,
Massillon area earlier this morning, I am going to issue all of you an invitation.
Betty and I want all of you to come down to that inauguration on January 20
when Jerry Ford and Bob Dole are sworn in as President and Vice President.
Now let me introduce to you, for some remarks, a person well known to you,
who was a judge here in the State of Ohio and Cleveland, who was your Gover-
nor—and one of the three greatest Governors in the history of Ohio-who was a
United States Senator. And now it is my privilege to introduce a close, personal
friend whose support I really appreciate your former Senator, your former
Governor, Frank Lausche.
[At this point, Frank Lausche announced his support of President Ford. The President then
resumed speaking.]
An endosement like that from one of Ohio's great, great citizens means a
great deal to Jerry Ford, and I promise you, Frank, I won't let you down.
As we enter this critical last 24 hours-and this is one of the most critical
1 Jack Nicklaus, professional golfer, and Woody Hayes, head coach of the Ohio State University football
team.
2826
