July 15
[669]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
!
Now, as then, I commend the Federal Republic for doing its full share in
the Atlantic Alliance. Now, as then, I reaffirm the commitment of the United
States of America to the Atlantic Alliance.
America's basic policies toward Western Europe have been consistently re-
affirmed by every administration for the past 25 years. They enjoy strong bi-
partisan support in the Congress, both in the House as well as in the Senate.
Steadfast support for NATO and cooperation with all of the members of the
Atlantic community are a fundamental part of the United States foreign policy.
Cooperation, friendship between the United States and the Federal Republic are
extremely central to that policy.
Mr. Chancellor, our peoples will remain true to the ideals of human rights,
of liberty and law, of enlightened cooperation among nations. We will help
to provide to the maximum of our capability a better way of life for all mankind.
In this spirit, Mr. Chancellor, I raise my glass to Chancellor Schmidt and to
German-American friendship.
To the Chancellor. To our friendship.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Chancellor
Schmidt responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
I wish to thank you sincerely, Mr. President,
also on behalf of Mrs. Schmidt and the distinguished
German guests of my delegation, for the kind
words of welcome with which you have greeted us
and for what you just have said.
This is the third time in the past 2 years that
I have come to the United States for talks with
you, Mr. President, and I am not counting the
meetings in other places. You, yourself, have made
several trips to Europe, one of which was an offi-
cial visit to the Federal Republic of Germany in
July 1975, and I mention this because these fre-
quent visits are a manifestation to the outside world.
of our mutual bonds and the closeness of our
relations.
I don't think I am exaggerating when I say that
at no time during the past 30 years have the rela-
tions between our two countries been closer and
has been cooperation between the two govern-
ments more trustful and direct than today. Not
only are there no bilateral problems of any sub-
stance whatsoever between us, but the shadows of
an unfortunate debacle of the more recent past are
fading away, and thus give us a clearer view of the
common tasks and responsibilities of today and
tomorrow.
I want tonight to express our thanks to you,
Mr. President, and to the American Nation as a
whole. The United States not only helped us Ger-
mans preserve our physical existence after the
Second World War-which had been unleashed
by a system born of delusion and blindness and
devoid of respect for the dignity of man-but
millions of Americans, in an unobtrusive and un-
dramatic manner, lent a helping hand to a defeated
and destroyed and divided country.
The United States helped us Germans to make
a fresh start in freedom and democracy and paved
the way for our return to the family of nations.
And it also—and here I am thinking of the Berlin
airlift staunchly defended the cause of freedom
when others were trying to undermine it.
The contributions which my country now ren-
ders to the Bicentennial birthday of the United
States cannot, by any stretch of the imagination,
be regarded as an equivalent to what your country,
Mr. President, has done for us. Of course, history
does not settle accounts down to the last cent, but
it does clearly demonstrate what we in the Federal
Republic of Germany feel today toward America
when I say that we bring with us friendship and
that America can trust that friendship and can build
on it.
We, in the Federal Republic of Germany, live
today in a state based on principles similar to
those which in 1776 were embodied in this coun-
try's Constitution. With regards to human rights,
the fathers of our basic law, our constitution,
looked to the Bill of Rights. They created a state
with a strong executive, plus a strong parliamen-
tary control, a federal structure with a vigilant
supreme court and a free local government.
2019
