[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
rations. As a matter of fact, since the late sixties when Mr. Nixon took office,
we've had a reduction in the percentage of taxes paid by corporations from 30
percent down to about 20 percent. We've had an increase in taxes paid by in-
dividuals, payroll taxes, from 14 percent up to 20 percent. This is what the
Republicans have done to us. This is why tax reform is so important.
THE MODERATOR. Mrs. Drew, your question to Governor Carter.
MS. DREW. Governor Carter, you've proposed a number of new or enlarged
programs, including jobs and health, welfare reform, child care, aid to educa-
tion, aid to cities, changes in social security and housing subsidies. You've also
said that you want to balance the budget by the end of your first term. Now,
you haven't put a price tag on those programs, but even if we priced them con-
servatively, and we count for full employment by the end of your first term,
and we count for the economic growth that would occur during that period,
there still isn't enough money to pay for those programs and balance the budget
by any estimates that I've been able to see.
So, in that case, what would give?
MR. CARTER. Well, as a matter of fact, there is. If we assume a rate of growth
of our economy equivalent to what it was during President Johnson and Presi-
dent Kennedy, even before the Vietnamese war, and if we assume that, at the
end of the 4-year period we can cut our unemployment rate down to 4 to 4½
percent. Under those circumstances, even assuming no elimination of unneces-
sary programs and assuming an increase in the allotment of money to finance
programs increasing as the inflation rate does, my economic projects, I think
confirmed by the House and the Senate committees, have been, with a $60
billion extra amount of money that can be spent in fiscal year '81-which would
be the last year of this next term-within that $60 billion increase, there would
be fit the programs that I promised the American people. I might say, too,
that if we see that these goals cannot be reached—and I believe they are reason-
able goals-then I would cut back on the rate of implementation of new pro-
grams in order to accommodate a balanced budget by fiscal year '81, which is
the last year of the next term.
I believe that we ought to have a balanced budget during normal economic
circumstances. And these projections have been very carefully made. I stand be-
hind them. And if they should be in error slightly on the down side, then I will
phase in the programs that we've advocated more slowly.
Ms. DREW. Governor, according to the budget committees of the Congress
that you referred to, if we get to full employment, what they project at a
4-percent unemployment and, as you say, even allowing for the inflation in the
2288
