[895]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
want to say it again. I saw a sign down the road that says "Jersey Loves Jerry."
But let me reciprocate-Jerry loves Jersey.
I owe a great debt of gratitude to the New Jersey delegation that went to
Kansas City and came through with, I think, flying colors. And it depended
upon the great organization and the support of Tom Kean, Cliff Case, Millicent,
Matt, and everybody else. I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Incidentally, I want you to make darned sure that you reelect Matt, that you
reelect Millicent, you elect Dave, so we can have a far better Congress to help
Cliff Case in the next 4 years.
You know out in Kansas City, in my acceptance speech, I said I was going
to not concede a single State, a single vote, and we were going to campaign from
the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia; we are doing it.
We were in New York yesterday. We had a great reception in Flatbush, in
Brooklyn, in Manhattan. We have been in Yonkers and White Plains and Rock-
land and Orange County. We were in New Jersey, had two great stops, including
this one, and I'm encouraged. I know, I feel we're going to carry New Jersey
November 2, period.
Now, one of the most important issues in this campaign, especially here in
New Jersey, is taxes. The people of New Jersey have already heard four sides
of the tax issue-two from Governor Carter and two from Governor Byrne.ยน
You know firsthand how risky it is when a candidate says one thing about
taxes on the campaign trail and then does something else when he gets into office.
You know what it's like when a candidate faces the voters with a smile-
[laughter-and then turns his back on them later. You've been burned before. I
will just say this: I think Mr. Carter has tried to do the same thing to you.
Let me give you some examples.
First, back in February, Mr. Carter said he wanted to eliminate the home
mortgage interest deduction on your Federal income tax return. Not long after
that he said maybe he wouldn't eliminate it. He said, as it stands now-nobody
is sure, certainly Mr. Carter, just what he wants to do on this particular item.
Second, a few weeks ago, Mr. Carter suggested that he would raise income
taxes for anybody from the mean- to the medium-income tax level, which means
about $14,000 per person. Now he says, that isn't what I meant. He says he has
not studied the subject at all, but he will let us know how he really feels after
he has been in office for a few months. Let me talk straight to you. That's too
darned late. I think the people of New Jersey ought to know, along with 215
1 Governor Brendan T. Byrne of New Jersey.
2516
