September 8
[763]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
problems in the domestic economic field. We have added 4 million new people
working in the last 12 months, 500,000 more in the last 2 months. So, I will
stand on my record, which I think is a good one.
SENATOR DOLE'S CAMPAIGN FINANCES
[10.] Q. Mr. President, there have been some questions in the last few days
about Senator Dole. Have you had any contact with him on that subject, in
particular about the control of money, or have you attempted to satisfy yourself
anew about this, or perhaps your staff?
THE PRESIDENT. The statement made this morning by Mr. Wild,ยน I think
clarifies the situation very dramatically. Senator Dole was in the Cabinet meet-
ing this morning and my staff has been in contact with his, and we are satisfied
today, as we were at the time we made the initial investigation of his campaign
finances.
UNEMPLOYMENT AND ITS EFFECT ON THE ELECTION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, the unemployment rate has gone up for 3 straight
months. What, if any, plans do you have to deal with this problem should it
continue to rise?
The President. Our answer is to increase the number of people working.
And as I indicated a moment ago, we have added 500,000 more people working
in the last 60 days. In addition, we have 88 million people working today, an
alltime high. We are going to continue to emphasize that more people are
working and more jobs are available. And I am convinced that with our success-
ful efforts against inflation and more jobs, the American people will subscribe
to that economic policy.
Q. May I follow up, Mr. President? Do you think the fact that unemploy-
ment is high in this particular period, just before the election, may harm you
politically?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the American people are more knowledgeable, more
sophisticated. They know that employment is going up every month, and that
as long as there are people being hired and as long as the layoff rate continues
to go down, the American people will be supportive of the economic policy of
the Ford administration.
URBAN AREA PROBLEMS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, this afternoon 40 Congressmen from 14 States and
the District of Columbia are meeting. This is the newly formed, as you know,
1 The President was referring to Claude C. Wild, Jr., a former Gulf Oil Corporation lobbyist, who recanted
a statement made on September 6 that he had given Senator Dole $2,000 in 1970.
2215
