[982]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
in order for America to be not only the symbol but the hope for freedom and
liberty around the world, America must remain strong militarily, we must stay
number one, and we will under a Ford administration.
I think all of you know that it costs money for us to have the best Army, the
best Navy, the best Air Force, and the best Marine Corps. But let me say, the fact
that we are number one encourages our allies to stand tall and strong with us
and, at the same time, is a warning to our adversaries they hadn't better try to
fool around with America. America will meet any challenge anywhere, any
place, any time, because we are strong, and we are going to stay strong.
But in order for us to do this, we have to have a strong economy at home. A
little over 2 years ago, I was privileged to become your President. We had tough
times. Inflation was over 12 percent; we were on the brink of a recession; there
had been a loss of faith and trust in the White House; and we were still involved
in Vietnam.
But we kept the Ship of State on an even keel. We set a steady course. And the
net result is there has been a restoration of faith and trust in the White House.
I have been open, candid, frank; I shoot straight from the shoulder, and the
consequence is the American people trust the President of the United States.
We have reduced inflation from 12 percent to under 6 percent. We are getting
more jobs in America. But I won't be satisfied until everybody who wants a job,
who wants to work, has a job in the United States.
But now let us think about the future security of this country-strong econ-
omy at home, peace in the world, peace through strength, and hope and vision
and expectation for those people around the world who look at America. So our
job is to make sure that America is there for their hopes, for their vision, for free-
dom and liberty.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:14 p.m. at the Fleet Avenue Parade Site.
983
Remarks at a Fundraising Reception for Senator
Robert Taft, Jr., in Cleveland. October 28, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bob Taft:
You can't imagine the thrill it is, how really humble I feel to be on this platform
in this great Karlin Hall with the two greatest Governors in the history of Ohio,
as well as the finest mayor of a great city; and then a person who is going to
2756
