[992]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
for drugpushers, hijackers, kidnapers, and lawbreakers who use dangerous
weapons in the commission of their crimes.
Fifth, I will continue to include representative older Americans on advisory
councils related to Federal consumer protection programs.
Sixth, I will launch a program for neighborhood revitalization, to direct
Federal urban programs to protect and restore the quality of life in the urban
neighborhoods in which many of our older citizens live.
Of course, in a larger sense, the entire Ford program is a program for older
Americans because its purpose is to build a peaceful, prosperous, secure
America―the objective which older Americans share with all other citizens.
NOTE: The statement was released at St. Louis, Mo.
993
Remarks in St. Louis, Missouri. October 29, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Jack Danforth. May I say at this point, nothing
would make me happier than to have Jack Danforth as your next United
States Senator. You need Jack Danforth, and I need him, so let's go work and
make sure he's elected November 2.
It's great to be back in Missouri, to have the opportunity of being in a State
so wonderfully handled by your fine, fine Governor, Kit Bond, and his very,
very able Lieutenant Governor, Bill Phelps.
I am indebted, of course, to your good friend and mine, Gene McNary.
Gene, thank you. But there are two wonderful people here who have made
extraordinary efforts. Peter Graves has been your master of ceremonies. Peter,
thank you very, very much; and one of my alltime favorites, Al Hirt. Al, thank
you.
A very dear friend of mine and a great person who was born and brought
up right here in St. Louis has been traveling with me for the last 10 days. Un-
fortunately, he had a prior commitment that prevented him from coming here
to St. Louis. But I have gotten to know, I think, one of the most fabulous
people in this whole country. Do any of you remember of the name of Joe
Garagiola?
Joe has taken about 10 days of his time and is out campaigning on behalf
of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole. The other day we were flying from someplace to
someplace, and Joe and I were sitting and I was listening to those wonderful
stories that he tells about baseball. I was a rookie baseball player that never made
2790
