[1070]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
the American people requires that the courses we embark on to meet today's
problems will also bring us closer to our more distant goals and aspirations.
January 18, 1977.
NOTE: The President's message, together with the
Annual Report of the Council of Economic Advisers,
is printed in the "Economic Report of the President,
GERALD R. FORD
Transmitted to the Congress January 1977" (Govern-
ment Printing Office, 305 pp.).
1071
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual International
Economic Report of the President. January 18, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
The world economy has come a long way from the gloom and uncertainty of
two years ago. Despite many divisive economic pressures, international co-
operation has not broken down but has, in fact, improved. U.S. initiatives to
strengthen international economic cooperation have led to real progress. Our
major allies and trading partners have cooperated with us and have reciprocated
our desire for strengthened economic ties.
At the Economic Summit in Puerto Rico, in the OECD, the IMF, the GATT
and in numerous other meetings in 1976, we joined with our major trading and
financial partners and with other nations to whom developments in the larger
economies are of primary importance, in forging compatible approaches to the
difficult problems that beset our economies. We concurred that first and foremost
we must place our economies on a path of sustained growth without inflation.
That is the essential ingredient to further and lasting reduction in unemploy-
ment. We also strengthened our common resolve to avoid trade restrictive meas-
ures and to negotiate a more open international trading system. We reached a
consensus on appropriate means to assist countries needing financial help as
they work toward economic stability. We also agreed to make constructive efforts
to deal with the problems between developed and developing nations.
The United States can be proud of its leadership in these areas. International
economic cooperation is stronger today than at any time since the Second World
War. We have learned the importance of industrialized democracies taking into
account the likely impact of their actions on other nations as they develop their
economic policies. In an interdependent world, a nation which disrupts the
economies of its trading partners does so at its own eventual peril.
2954
