September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is about 4 to 4½ percent overall, a controlled inflation rate, and have a balanced
growth of about 4 to 6 percent, around 5 percent, which would give us a balanced
budget.
MR. REYNOLDS. Governor, in the event you are successful and you do achieve
a drastic drop in unemployment, that is likely to create additional pressure on
prices. How willing are you to consider an incomes policy; in other words, wage
and price controls?
MR. CARTER. Well, we now have such a low utilization of our productive
capacity, about 73 percent-I think it's about the lowest since the Great Depres-
sion years—and such a high unemployment rate now-7.9 percent-that we
have a long way to go in getting people to work before we have the inflationary
pressures. And I think this would be easy to accomplish, to get jobs now without
having the strong inflationary pressures that would be necessary.
I would not favor the payment of a given fixed income to people unless they
are not able to work. But with tax incentives for the low-income groups, we
could build up their income levels above the poverty level and not make wel-
fare more profitable than work.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. President, your response?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that Mr. Carter has been any more specific in
this case than he has been on many other instances. I notice particularly that he
didn't endorse the Humphrey-Hawkins bill, which he has on occasions and
which is included as a part of the Democratic platform. That legislation allegedly
would help our unemployment, but we all know that it would have controlled
our economy. It would have added $10 to $30 billion each year in additional
expenditures by the Federal Government. It would have called for export con-
trols on agricultural products.
In my judgment the best way to get jobs is to expand the private sector, where
five out of six jobs today exist in our economy. We can do that by reducing
Federal taxes, as I proposed about a year ago when I called for a tax reduction
of $28 billion, three-quarters of it to go to private taxpayers and one-quarter to
the business sector. We could add to jobs in the major metropolitan areas by
a proposal that I recommended that would give tax incentives to business to
move into the inner city and to expand or to build new plants so that they would
take a plant or expand a plant where people are and people are currently
unemployed.
We could also help our youth with some of the proposals that would give to
young people an opportunity to work and learn at the same time, just like we
give money to young people who are going to college.
2285
