[984]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
I recall the many good neighbors that Betty and I had in communities where
we lived. Of course, our home is Grand Rapids, Michigan, but our four children
were brought up in Alexandria, Virginia. And believe me, good neighbors in
both places were essential and just wonderful, as far as our young family was
concerned in Betty's and my married life. The spirit in both of those commu-
nities, I know firsthand, is still alive, but it is also alive here in Ohio. But more
importantly, it is alive throughout the United States.
Our traditional values in this great country just haven't gone out of style.
As individuals, I understand you noticed that snow needed to be shoveled off
the sidewalks of some elderly neighbors, that hot meals were required by people
stricken by illness, that a blind person needed a ride to a shopping center, that
neighborhood teenagers needed help with their school work, if someone was
away and their pets needed some food, that a disabled veteran and a new
neighbor needed friendship.
You didn't refer them to some government office or agency—whether it was
local, State, or Federal—for assistance. You responded as a human being to other
human beings. And I think that is what makes America work; it always has.
It is what America really is all about—neighborliness, kindness, homes, families,
religious values-all adding up to that special quality of what we proudly call
Americanism.
And as I look around this room tonight, it is obvious to me that Americanism
has not died. Americanism is alive; it is well. It is living from Cleveland to
Rocky River, to Parma and North Royalton, to Richmond Heights, to Shaker
Heights, to Garfield Heights. Gosh, I can't think of all the other communities.
[Laughter] But they are all wonderful communities in this great State of
Ohio, and it is similar, I am sure, in all the communities throughout the United
States. And I am proud to say that as long as I am President, I will do all that I
possibly can to keep that wonderful spirit alive.
[At this point, David Skylar, president, Communications-Corporation Papers, presented
the President with the National Good Neighbor Award.]
Thank you very much, David.
I could make quite a speech about John Collins-even before he nominated
me. [Laughter] You might be curious, he is 90-something now. He was the
mayor of East Grand Rapids—I don't know, countless years—and he was a
very hard-working, dedicated, religious man. He worked for some of you may
have used their products—the Bissell Carpet Sweeper Company for years and
and years and years and years—I mean years.
2760
