[678]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
fessionals working day-to-day in this area. These individuals will make the
White House Conference on Library and Information Services a successful and
productive event.
The challenge confronting those who provide information services to the
public is one of harnessing modern technology. Telecommunications, com-
puters, and micrographics must be further employed to reduce the costs of
making information more widely accessible and improving the speed and ac-
curacy with which source materials can be supplied. The librarian of today's
space age serves a profession and a public more demanding and exacting than
ever before.
Within the next few months, I will request from the Congress the appropria-
tions necessary to fund the conference and announce my appointments for the
Advisory Committee to the White House Conference on Library and Informa-
tion Services. It is my hope that the White House Conference on Library and
Information Services will, through its State, territorial, and national assemblies,
provide the impetus for advancing the quality of America's informational
services.
679
Telephone Conversation With National Aeronautics and Space
Administration Officials on the Mars Landing of the Viking I
Spacecraft. July 20, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Fletcher?
Dr. Fletcher. Hello, Mr. President. Jim Martin and myself are on the line.
THE PRESIDENT. It's nice to talk to you, Jim Martin.
Let me congratulate Dr. Jim Fletcher, the Administrator of NASA, and you,
the Viking Project Coordinator, for the just wonderful and most remarkable
success in this historic mission. I also think it appropriate to thank the thousands
and thousands of dedicated scientists, technicians, and other NASA personnel
involved across the country, as well as those from universities and private in-
dustry who gave such invaluable assistance over the long period of development
and production.
I think it's amazing to think that in the span of a single lifetime, the explora-
tion of air and space has grown from the dreams of a very, very few individuals to
such a massive cooperative reality. We have gone from a flight of a few seconds
2050
