October 26
[967]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In Europe, we are told that we should not close the door to consultation and
friendship with the Communist leaders of Italy, France, and Portugal. I am
deeply concerned over the impact that such an approach would have upon the
democratic parties that have for decades waged a struggle to preserve freedom
against Communist tyranny.
In the Middle East the alternative appears distinctly hostile to our friendship
with moderate Arab nations. I can tell you from experience that such a total
departure from current policies could drive these countries into the arms of
the Soviets, threatening the stability of the area and eventually inflicting
enormous harm upon the very country that it purports to help—the State of
Israel.
Let us look now at still another basic principle of our foreign policy: to reduce
tensions with our adversaries and reduce the threat of nuclear war. Over the past
2 years, we have taken significant strides down the path toward halting and
reversing the strategic arms spiral. Early in my administration I met with Gen-
eral Secretary Brezhnev in Vladivostok, where we pledged our mutual efforts
to reach a new agreement limiting nuclear armaments. Today, an agreement
embodying the Vladivostok accords is 90 percent complete. I am optimistic that
it can be successfully concluded in the near future and that we can work even
further for reductions in nuclear weapons. When that agreement is reached, the
prospects for reducing the dangers of a nuclear holocaust will brighten around
the world.
But let us never forget, American Presidents have learned that tough talk by
itself is insufficient. It is too easily dismissed as bombast. Our rhetoric must be
backed by substance, a strong national defense, strong alliances, and strong
diplomacy.
In place of a strong defense, the alternative called for in this election is a
weakened defense. In place of strong alliances, we are offered troop pullbacks
and sweeping reviews of America's commitments to its allies. In place of the
strategic arms agreement at Vladivostok-which provides for equal numbers at
a level requiring Soviet reduction-approximately 200-the alternative proposed
is a freeze at current levels. This major step backward would lock us into force
levels, which for the Soviet Union would be higher than agreed to at Vladivostok
and for the United States significantly lower.
In the past, American Presidents have always known they should never say in
advance precisely what course of action this country would take in the event
of an international crisis. The reason for such an approach ought to be very
obvious. When a potential adversary knows what you will and won't do in
2701
