July 22
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
OTHER
INDEMNIFICATION OF SWINE FLU MANUFACTURERS
This proposal is essential to implementation of the National Influenza Im-
munization Program. Current law bars the Federal Government from agree-
ing to indemnify vaccine manufacturers for losses from injuries which may
result from the Federal Government's activities in the immunization program.
The Administration proposal would enable HEW to agree to indemnify the
manufacturers against claims attributable to inoculation with the vaccine, except
claims arising out of the negligence of the manufacturer.
STUDENT LOAN AMENDMENTS
This proposal would correct certain abuses in the Federal guaranteed student
loan program that have resulted in high default rates under that program. Specif-
ically, the proposal would amend Title IV of the Higher Education Act to
eliminate proprietary schools as eligible lenders, and amend the Bankruptcy
Act to make student loans nondischargeable in bankruptcy during the five-
year period after the first installment becomes due. The proposal would also
prohibit borrowers who default on guaranteed loans from receiving a basic edu-
cational opportunity grant or any further guaranteed loans.
FEDERAL IMPACT AID AMENDMENTS OF 1976
This bill would reform the impact aid program by targeting funds only on
those school districts that are truly adversely affected by Federal activities. It
would provide support to local education agencies only for those children
whose parents both live and work on Federal property. These people do not pay
property taxes, and the Administration believes that the Federal Government
has a responsibility to help pay the cost of educating their children, but not to
help pay the costs of educating other children whose parents pay local property
taxes.
COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH PROFESSIONS EDUCATION ACT
The Administration's proposal would provide Federal support to those medi-
cal and dental schools that agree to meet certain conditions. Unlike prior pro-
grams of Federal assistance which were directed toward increasing the aggregate
numbers of doctors and dentists in the Nation, the Administration proposal
would shift the emphasis of Federal support for health professions schools from
merely increasing enrollments to addressing national problems of medical
2077
