[763]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Northeast Coalition. What can you say to them were you to send a message to
them? They are concerned about industry leaving the Northeast. They are
concerned about—I heard what you said to Aldo [Aldo B. Beckman, Chicago
Tribune Press Service]-but they are concerned about joblessness, not people
with jobs. They are concerned about urban plight. What do you say to that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have a good program to try and rehabilitate our
major urban cities all throughout the United States, including the Northeast-
our revenue sharing program, our community development program.
I signed, after a great deal of work with the Congress, a mass transit bill that
is very helpful and beneficial to major industrial centers throughout the United
States. We will be glad to work with any group geographically or otherwise,
including the Northeast group, to try and help in that regard.
Q. They also say, Mr. President, they are not getting a fair share of the Fed-
eral dollars. You mentioned mass transportation. They say that they are getting
15 percent of the dollars whereas there was 40 percent for mass transportation
in the Northeast.
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with those particular statistics but those
funds are released based on laws by the Congress. So, if there is a problem
in that regard, I think the basic law has to be amended.
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES
[13.] Q. Mr. President, how do you evaluate the debates as a factor in the
campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. The American people will be the winner. And I am anxious
that they get started as quickly as possible, and as I indicated earlier, I proposed
the first one be held today.
PRICES OF INDUSTRIAL GOODS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, a related economic question. The steel companies
have rescinded a price increase on flat rolled steel, which is a principal com-
ponent of automobiles. Would you like to see this followed by a similar reduc-
tion or rescission of the increases in automobile prices recently announced by
the automobile companies?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope that the automobile manufacturers would take
that into consideration.
Q. I would like to ask it in the framework of the fact that although you are
claiming success against inflation, the industrial component of both wholesale
and retail prices continues to rise, and this is the component that once it is up
2216
