[780]
September 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
these motors as articles eligible for duty-free treatment under the GSP has had
on domestic producers of like or directly competitive motors; (b) the probable
economic effect which withdrawal of GSP benefits would have on: (i) The
domestic producers; (ii) the prospective establishment of new or additional
domestic production; and (iii) domestic producers of products that utilize or
incorporate such motors; and (c) which countries, if any, would be eliminated
from GSP benefits by virtue of the "competitive need" provisions of section 504
(c) of the Trade Act of 1974 if items 682.25 and 682.30 were each subdivided
into three new items, as follows: (i) AC motors; (ii) DC motors; and (iii) other
motors.
2. With respect to cast iron household stoves, cast iron parts of household
stoves, and cast iron fireplace grates classifiable in item 653.50 of the Tariff
Schedules of the United States (TPSC GSP case No. 76-25), an investigation
and report on the conditions of competition between imported and domestically
produced articles, with particular attention to the economic effect which the
designation of these articles as eligible for duty-free treatment under the GSP
has had, or is likely to have, on domestic producers. The report should include
information on the volume and trend of U.S. imports and domestic production
in recent years, as well as the factors of competition affecting these articles.
3. With respect to leather wearing apparel classifiable in item 791.75 of the
Tariff Schedules of the United States (TPSC GSP case No. 76-2), an investiga-
tion and report on the current employment and production conditions in the
domestic industry.
I further request that the Commission make every effort to provide the re-
ports as soon as possible but not later than 120 days of the receipt of this letter
with respect to reports 1 and 2 and not later than November 10, 1976 with
respect to report 3.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Will E. Leonard, Jr., Chairman, United States International Trade Commission, Washington,
D.C. 20436]
2248
