September 30
[832]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
832
Remarks Upon Signing Two Veterans Benefits Bills.
September 30, 1976
Distinguished Members of the Congress, representatives of the various veterans
organizations, ladies and gentlemen:
I really enjoy the opportunity to have you down here for this very auspicious
occasion. When I finish my remarks, I will sign the two bills that are before me.
And I am very pleased to have the opportunity to sign both bills, which will
protect pensions and increase disability payments for some 5 million veterans
and their survivors.
The bills will ensure that benefits which these veterans have earned for them-
selves and their families will keep pace with the cost of living. These bills rep-
resent another step in our continuing effort to fulfill the words spoken more
than a century ago, and I quote: "To care for him who shall have borne the
battle and for his widow and for his orphan."
In December 1975, I signed a bill providing a temporary cost-of-living in-
crease in veterans' pensions for the first 9 months of this year. One of the bills
I am signing today will make this increase permanent. It will protect more
than 24 million veterans and their families from having their pension payments
reduced next week. In addition, it will provide a 7-percent cost-of-living in-
crease in pension benefits for the first of next year.
The second bill that will be signed will raise by 8 percent disability payments
for more than 2 million service-disabled veterans. It will also increase some
other special benefit payments.
As Commander in Chief and as a citizen, I salute our veterans organizations,
which played such an important role in developing this legislation. They are
doing a first-rate job of representing the legitimate interests of veterans and
their families.
Our Veterans Administration is also playing its part in making life better
for our veterans in this country. Under the leadership of my good friend Dick
Roudebush, it has made tremendous strides forward. We are going to make
sure that this progress continues. For medical needs in particular, my budgets
for fiscal years 1976 and 1977 have provided more funding, more personnel,
and better facilities to give eligible veterans the highest quality, fastest service
possible.
2373
