October 14
[899]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
raphers, craftsmen, architects, planners, art researchers, historic preservationists,
museums, libraries, educational institutions, and other public and private
organizations.
As House minority leader and as President, I strongly supported the develop-
ment of the National Endowment for the Arts. My budget in 1976 included
$82 million in Federal funds for the Endowment, and I have already requested
$87 million in Federal funds for 1977. The funds designated for the Endowment
provide a small but critical part of the country's total support for the arts. Even
more important, however, they stimulate support from others by providing
grants that must be matched with other moneys. In the past year nearly 4,500
grants were made, reaching a great many local communities in every region of
the country.
Today, I take pleasure in announcing that I intend to seek full funding of the
Cultural Challenge Grant program of the National Endowment for the Arts.
This program would raise the level and broaden the base of on-going financial
support for the arts from non-Federal sources. I will request $12 million for
this program for FY '77, $18 million for FY '78, and $20 million for FY '79—a
total of $50 million over the 3 years. These Federal funds must be matched at
least 3 to 1 by non-Federal funds for the arts. Thus, the Cultural Challenge Grant
program holds out the prospect of $200 million in new funds for cultural insti-
tutions over the 3-year period.
This program will enhance the public and private sector partnership that now
helps support the arts. The program is consistent with my position that the
Federal Government should encourage, but not completely subsidize, the arts.
I fear that total subsidization might bring with it the attendant problems of
control and censorship.
Over the years, my wife, Betty, has been an influence on me in many areas, in-
cluding the arts. She has showed me not only the need for creativity in the arts
but also how the arts can enrich the lives of our children for the rest of their lives.
As a people we have recognized that achievements in the arts are vital to us
all. We must work together to ensure their future. The country's cultural insti-
tutions are critical to this pursuit—providing centers for excellence and inspira-
tion for everyone, but especially for the individual artist of this and future gen-
erations, without whom there can be no art at all. Providing for the long-term
stability of these institutions, enabling them to become even more vigorous, and
extending their activities to an ever larger portion of our people, is strong in the
public interest.
2533
