[831]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
County Republican Committee may have done some advertising on behalf of my
candidacy or the candidacy of other Republican candidates running for public
office. That's their function.
They, just for example, always the last week or so, would have a full-page
ad with the gubernatorial candidate and the senatorial candidate, the congres-
sional candidate, plus some State legislative officers, and so I suppose they
spent their money on that, which is a perfectly proper function of the Kent
County Republican Finance Committee and county organization. No money
ever went to me personally.
Q. Mr. President, does the timing of the Special Prosecutor's investigation
seem strange to you, or do you question the motivation?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not under any circumstances question the motiva-
tion or the timing.
Q. Mr. President, are you holding this press conference because Jimmy
Carter has accused you of keeping silent on these matters?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all.
Q. Mr. President, your staff says they are having some trouble getting records
of all these various golfing trips and what-not. Have you ever asked Mr. Whyte ยน
if he has records?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's my understanding that Mr. Whyte issued a two-
or three-page statement a week or 10 days ago which outlined the circumstances
of the three trips up to Pine Valley and the two down to Disneyland. I under-
stand he issued that.
Q. I mean records of what it cost and who paid and all that sort of thing.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have no access to their records, so they will have to
answer that.
Q. Mr. President, you have said that it's vitally important that the matter
be resolved as soon as possible. Is it your wish that it be resolved before the elec-
tion? It is vitally important so the voters can see the full story, or the true
story.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's more important to me personally that it be cleared
up because I am very proud of my record of personal integrity. And I think
that's more important than any impact it might have on the election.
Q. Mr. President, may I just ask you this question: Those marine unions,
the Seafarers and the Marine Engineers, supported you down through the years.
Then you vetoed a bill that they wanted-I forget the name of it, but I am
sure you recall it. After that they shifted over to Jimmy Carter. Do you have
ยน William G. Whyte, vice president of public affairs of U.S. Steel Corporation.
1
2368
