[944]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
and nonprofit grantees. I am directing OMB to continue to emphasize such
activities.
Subsequent modifications and refinements can be made in these directives
when further operating experience and evaluation suggest they are needed.
Such an evolving set of activities in the Executive branch, a step-by-step process
which learns from experience, is preferable to another lengthy study as re-
quired by this bill.
In view of the extremely complex and changing nature of Federal assistance
programs, I believe that Congress should not legislate categories of Federal as-
sistance relationships, but leave the number and nature of such classifications
to the Executive branch to determine and implement. If experience from the
studies and evaluations now underway demonstrates that legislation is re-
quired, that experience would also provide a better foundation for formulating
legislation than we have now.
Accordingly, I must withhold my approval of S. 1437.
The White House,
October 22, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
945
Statement on Signing the Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation Act of 1976. October 22, 1976
LAST MARCH, my administration proposed legislation to the Congress to
speed the flow of natural gas from our vast reserves in Alaska to consumers in
the lower 48 States. I am pleased today to sign S. 3521, the Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation Act of 1976, which meets the essential objective of that proposal.
Our Nation must develop and produce new sources of this vital fuel. The
North Slope of Alaska, with the largest known U.S. gas reserves, can supply
over 1 trillion cubic feet of gas per year by 1985. This represents reducing U.S.
oil import needs by about one-half million barrels per day. This will be a signifi-
cant step towards energy independence. If the next Congress acts on my proposal
for deregulation of new natural gas policies, long-term relief from natural gas
shortages can be achieved.
Three proposals for transporting Alaskan gas to the lower 48 States have been
filed officially with the Federal Power Commission. This bill establishes an ex-
2618
