[885]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Prime Minister Rabin, who said, and I quote, "The margin between what we
want and what we get is very small." Israel's strength enhances the prospects for
peace. I reaffirm today that as we pursue peace there will be no imposed solution.
There will be no one-sided concessions.
I have met with Prime Minister Rabin and other Israeli leaders in Washington
on many occasions since I became President. In my next term, I intend to visit
Israel and other Middle Eastern countries whenever such a trip would contribute
most to a just and lasting peace.
My record as a friend of Israel speaks for itself. My record is one of realism, not
rhetoric. My record is one of experience, not expediency. My record is one of
performance, not promises.
I recall the timeless question asked by a great Jewish prophet, and I quote,
"What doeth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and
walk humbly with thy God?" As I visit with citizens like yourself and neighbor-
hoods like this, I am reassured by the goodness of the United States of America,
a nation which strives to do justice and to love mercy. Let us walk humbly
together in brotherhood with God as our guide.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Senators Jacob K.
Javits and James L. Buckley, Louis J. Lefkowitz,
attorney general of New York, Representatives
Peter A. Peyser and Benjamin A. Gilman, Richard
Rosenbaum, chairman of the New York State Pres-
ident Ford Committee, Fred Goldschmidt, president
of Yeshiva High School, Mrs. Yatta Eliach, direc-
tor, Center for Holocaust Studies, and George Klein,
deputy director, Jewish National Campaign.
Following his remarks, the President met with
Jewish community leaders and then greeted the
high school students at the succah.
886
Remarks During a Motorcade Tour of Brooklyn, New
York. October 12, 1976
BOROUGH PARK (2:30 p.m.)
LET ME say a word for just a minute, if I might. It is a great privilege and a
very high honor to have the opportunity of being in Brooklyn with Senator
Javits and Senator Buckley and to have an opportunity to thank you all for the
very warm reception. Over the years I have had many, many opportunities to
come to this great city and know intimately many of the fine people in Brook-
lyn, New York City.
We have a great country. We must keep strong within our country by making
2492
