[685]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
(10 percent in the case of elderly households). The amendment would require
exclusions only for the number of minor children in the household and for the
extent of medical or other unusual expenses. This would promote equity be-
tween tenants and public housing authorities and between tenants and Federal
taxpayers.
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION AMENDMENTS
This proposal would expand coverage under the regular unemployment in-
surance system to additional groups of workers and would make urgently
needed changes to strengthen the financing of the system. The permanent ex-
tended unemployment insurance program would be made more responsive
to changes in the economy. A National Commission on Unemployment Com-
pensation would be established to comprehensively study the system and pro-
posed changes, and make recommendations for further improvements.
VETERANS
MEDICAL INSURANCE FOR VA HOSPITAL CARE
Many veterans who receive free medical care at VA hospitals have health
insurance. This proposal would require the insurance companies to reimburse
the VA for hospital care provided to veterans who do not have disabilities result-
ing from active military service. The proposal reflects the Administration's
belief that the Federal taxpayer should not bear the cost of treating people with
no service-connected disabilities when to do so will benefit only third parties,
including insurance companies, who are legally liable for the disability or injury
necessitating such treatment.
TERMINATION OF VETERANS EDUCATIONAL BENEFITS
This proposal would terminate VA education benefits for those men and
women who decide in the future to enter the peacetime All-Volunteer Force.
The educational assistance programs for veterans, from their inception, were
designed as readjustment benefits for those who served during wartime. They
were never intended to be a continuing benefit and both the World War II
and Korean conflict GI Bill programs were terminated within a reasonable
period after the cessation of hostilities. The Vietnam conflict officially ended in
May 1975; the draft, in June 1973. With the advent of a peacetime, All-Volun-
teer Force, GI Bill educational benefits are no longer appropriate for those who
enter military service in the future.
2076
