October 27
[972]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
glad to report that as a result of Secretary of Transportation Coleman's analysis,
he has recommended, and the Ford administration has decided, to put $50 mil-
lion into this facility here in this area.
So, any allegations by anybody-for political benefit-to the contrary is just
inaccurate. The facts are the Ford administration is keeping it here, a $50
million decision which will lead to about 1,800 construction jobs and it will also
lead to about 2,000 more jobs in the facility itself as it expands. So, I want that
record clear and very well understood. The Ford administration did it.
Now I would be glad to answer a few questions. May I first get some questions
from the local press? Any questions?
REPORTER. Mr. President, Jimmy Carter says that your political organization
is slandering he and his family by publishing a cartoon in the Heartland PFC
publication in the Midwest, showing him holding a Bible in one hand and a
Playboy magazine in the other. Is that the kind of advertising you would
sanction?
The President. It is my understanding that everything in that pamphlet was
in the public domain. It was nothing that was generated by the President Ford
Committee. It was material that was already published by other sources in
the public domain.
Q. Including the cartoon?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it is. That is true.
Q. Mr. President, in a town that is a week away from a statewide referendum
on gambling, just for Atlantic City-this is strictly for Atlantic City-do you
have anything to say on that?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a decision, of course, for the voters of this area or the
State of New Jersey. Although I have reservations about legalized gambling, I
would not want to interject myself into a strictly local issue.
Q. Mr. President, how would you assess your chances now, sir? Do you
think you have it locked up?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have lots of momentum. The traveling press
that have seen the wonderful crowds we have had in California, in Oregon, in
Washington, culminating in an unbelieveable, fantastic crowd in Chicago last
night of about 40,000 to 50,000, can't help but be impressed with the fact that
we have the momentum.
It reminds me just a bit of the kind of momentum that one of my idols, a
Democrat, Harry Truman, experienced in the final days of his campaign. We
have the momentum going, the people are interested, and I think we are
going to surprise some folks.
2719
