[766]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Just as B'nai B'rith honors a sacred Covenant, so does our Nation at home and
abroad. Ours is a covenant with freedom. As descendants of those who found
sanctuary and fulfillment in this great land, we know that freedom is indivisible.
Tyranny and terrorism abroad endanger freedom at home. We are our
brother's keeper.
Our own Bicentennial Independence Day was enhanced by an event that day
at Entebbe Airport in Uganda.¹ That action of liberation freed our own hearts
to fuller understanding of the universal meaning of independence—and the
courageous action sometimes required to preserve it.
A free people must never capitulate to terrorism. That is why I long ago asked
for mandatory prison sentences for airplane hijackers. Certainty of punishment
prevents crime. I have strongly urged international action to stamp out terrorism
wherever it occurs.
America has always been a land of new beginnings. Our ancestors who came
to these shores made a new beginning. They saw America as a promised land.
As we approach the Jewish New Year, many Americans know that we are
making a new start in our national life.
Something wonderful happened to America in the last 2 years. Together,
we overcame a time of torment at home and abroad, military involvements and
economic threats, assassinations and wrongdoing in high places. We recaptured
the spirit of 1776.
We believe in the hopes of our revolutionary founders and our immigrant
ancestors. We found new meaning in their vision of free men and free women
enjoying limited government and unlimited opportunity. We renew our com-
mitment to those less fortunate than ourselves. We know that the United States
of America is sound. We are secure. We are on the march to full economic
recovery and a better quality of life for all Americans.
America's salvation is not in a revival of outdated social experiments financed
by you who pay the taxes and obey the laws. I see no excuse whatsoever for
arbitrary quotas on the basis of race, religion, or national origin in employment
or education. In the name of justice for some, we must not do injustice to others.
Opportunities should be open to all Americans on an equal basis. That is basic
to the finest American principles of liberty and justice for all.
When I became President 2 years ago, I pledged to be President to all of the
people. I renew that pledge today and support it, not with vague plans and
vacillating promises, but with a proven record of performance.
1
See Item 648.
2224
