September 5
[755]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to Taxes on Income and the Encouragement of International Trade and Invest-
ment, together with a related exchange of notes.
There is no convention on this subject presently in force between the United
States and Korea.
The Convention follows generally the form and content of most conventions
of this type recently concluded by the United States. Its primary purpose is to
identify clearly the tax interests of the two countries to avoid double taxation
and to help prevent the illegal evasion of taxation.
For the information of the Senate, I also transmit, a covering report of the
Department of State with respect to the Convention.
This Convention would promote closer economic cooperation and more active
trade between the United States and Korea.
I urge the Senate to act favorably at an early date on this Convention and its
related exchange of notes and to give its advice and consent to ratification.
The White House,
September 3, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive P (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
755
Remarks for Labor Day. September 5, 1976
[Recorded September 1, 1976. Released September 5, 1976]
LABOR DAY has a special significance in our Bicentennial Year. This year we
Americans discovered a renewed spirit of confidence and unity, a spirit built
in large measure upon the efforts and dreams of America's workers.
America has always been more than a nation; it has been the fulfillment of
promises, because Americans of every generation rolled up their sleeves and went
to work. Because of that, we grow stronger every day.
Labor Day stands for America's greatest natural resource-not its minerals,
its timber, or its farmland, but its people: Americans who get up early every
day and go home tired every night, quietly creating a better life for their families
and fellow citizens.
Today 88 million Americans are on the job—more than ever before in our
Nation's history. But we cannot be satisfied until every American who wants
to work has a meaningful and productive job. With the help of the dynamic
American labor force, we will achieve that goal of full employment.
2203
