[925]
October 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
has taken any affirmative action. And I think the way that Mr. Carter stated
it was a reflection on previous Presidents who I know felt as strongly as he does
that an Arab boycott is contrary to the philosophy that we as Americans have.
Q. If you are saying that previous Presidents did nothing about it, aren't
you, in effect, making the same accusation against them?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I said he said they had not done anything about it.
Q. You have said the Ford administration is the only one that has done
anything.
THE PRESIDENT. Anything that's required that companies put their name on
the line that they participated or had received information, that is correct.
ARAB OIL EMBARGO
[9.] Q. During your last debate with Jimmy Carter, Mr. Carter stated that
if there was another Arab oil boycott, and he was President of the United States,
he would break that boycott by countering it with a boycott of our own.
Mr. President, do you think this is a realistic possibility? Could the United
States break down an Arab oil boycott-or embargo, by penalizing them by
refusing to sell materials to them? And secondly, even if it is realistic would it
be in the best interest of the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. My answer would be that I would not tolerate an Arab oil
embargo. But I add very quickly, in the current atmosphere, because of the
leadership of the Ford administration, you aren't going to have an Arab oil em-
bargo. Let me tell you why.
In 1973, we had the Yom Kippur war. That was settled. We had the Sinai I
agreement, followed by the Sinai II agreement.
This administration, in the Sinai II agreement, was able to expand the peace
effort in the Middle East because the Arab nations on the one hand and Israel
on the other trust the Ford administration.
You won't find among Arab nations today the same attitude that prevailed at
the time of the Yom Kippur war, and you won't find the possibilities of another
Middle East war today that you had in 1973. So, the probabilities of an Arab
oil embargo are virtually nil because of the leadership of this administration.
Now, furthermore, I do not agree with the proposed recommendation of Mr.
Carter, if there was one. He said he would cut off food, he would cut off trade,
he would cut off military arms. I think we can avoid any Arab oil embargo and
not have to resort to cutting off food that American farmers have produced and
sell abroad in order to help our economy here at home.
2590
