September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
line that you requested. What is your intention on that bill since it doesn't
meet your requirements? Do you plan to sign that bill?
THE PRESIDENT. That tax bill does not entirely meet the criteria that I estab-
lished. I think the Congress should have added another $10 billion reduction
in personal income taxes, including the increase of personal exemptions from
$750 to $1,000. And Congress could have done that if the budget committees
of the Congress and the Congress as a whole had not increased the spending
that I recommended in the budget. I am sure you know that in the resolutions
passed by the Congress, they have added about $17 billion in more spending
by the Congress over the budget that I recommended. So, I would prefer in that
tax bill to have an additional tax cut and a further limitation on Federal
spending.
Now, this tax bill that hasn't reached the White House yet—but is expected
in a day or two-it's about 1,500 pages. It has some good provisions in it; it
has left out some that I have recommended, unfortunately. On the other hand,
when you have a bill of that magnitude, with those many provisions, a Presi-
dent has to sit and decide if there is more good than bad. And from the analysis
that I have made so far, it seems to me that that tax bill does justify my signa-
ture and my approval.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter, your response.
MR. CARTER. Well, Mr. Ford is changing considerably his previous philos-
ophy. The present tax structure is a disgrace to this country. It's just a welfare
program for the rich. As a matter of fact, 25 percent of the total tax deductions
go for only 1 percent of the richest people in this country, and over 50 percent
of the tax credits go for the 14 percent of the richest people in this country.
When Mr. Ford first became President in August of 1974, the first thing he
did in October was to ask for a $4.7 billion increase in taxes on our people in
the midst of the heaviest recession since the Great Depression of the 1940's.
In January of 1975, he asked for a tax change, a $5.6 billion increase on low-
and middle-income private individuals, a $6½ billion decrease on the corpora-
tions and the special interests. In December of 1975, he vetoed the roughly $18
to $20 billion tax reduction bill that had been passed by the Congress. And
then he came back later on in January of this year, and he did advocate a $10
billion tax reduction, but it would be offset by a $6 billion increase this coming
January in deductions for social security payments and for unemployment
compensation.
The whole philosophy of the Republican Party, including my opponent,
has been to pile on taxes on low-income people, to take them off on the corpo-
2287
