August 27
[742]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Number four, crime. As I said in the acceptance speech, we will not tolerate
the kind of crime rate increases that have taken place over the last 3 or 4 years.
And we will have not only a reiteration of what I have said in three or four
speeches on the crime issue but also some new thoughts and ideas that will be
announced during the campaign.
The last, in the domestic area, recreation. Some-or, I hope, all-of you are
going with us to Yellowstone Park on Sunday. We will have some announce-
ments at that time that I think will show we are interested in the increased
quality of life.
They really incorporate five points: jobs, ownership, quality health care, a
reduction in crime, and better recreation facilities, and one other that falls
under that category, and that is in the field of education.
But there's one other point that has to be made because it is sort of all-
encompassing-peace throughout the world. As I said in the acceptance speech,
we want peace at home and peace throughout the world.
Those will be the thrusts, those will be the emphases, those will be the objec-
tives we will try to convey to the American people, that the Ford-Dole admin-
istration in the next 4 years will emphasize.
I have got with me here today four very close and very good friends of mine.
And I would like each of them to make a comment or two, and then we will
try to answer your questions.
The Vice President?
VICE PRESIDENT Rockefeller. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
I think that John and I came out here-we haven't been in touch in the last
few days. I have been tremendously impressed with the speed with which the
organization of this campaign has crystallized, the clarity and the character
and the objectives of the organization itself and the issues. This is terribly
important. It's been done, and now the campaign has to roll.
I'm particularly pleased with what the President said. He's going to every
voter in every State throughout the country.
I would just like to say that those rumors about New York-forget them. He
said what he feels about New York, and I just want you to remember that New
York is a place where people care. They care about people, they care about
the future of this country, and they care about President Ford, because that's
what he cares about, people and the future of this great country-future free-
dom, future peace.
He's got a record of 2 years that nobody thought was possible, and with the
vision he has for the 4 years that lie ahead, when he spells it out, I think you are
2181
