[814]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal spending is to veto some of that bad legislation that the Congress
sends up to the White House. As a matter of fact, they've sent 58 bills to the
Oval Office; we've vetoed them. Forty-two have been sustained, but in the
process we have saved the taxpayers of this country $10 billion. That's progress.
What we want to do is to keep the rate of spending down so that we can give
more tax relief to the taxpayers of this country. The best way for America to
move ahead is for you, the individual citizens who have worked hard in your
factories or in your port or in your schools or in the farms around here-the
best way for you to make headway is to have that money that you have earned
in your pocket and not for some bureaucrat to spend in Washington, D.C.
But as we move ahead what we want, among many other things, is to have
all of you to have a greater opportunity for recreation. And as I have traveled
from New Orleans to here this morning, I have seen some of the wonderful
places where you are the beneficiaries of fishing and hunting. Speaking of
hunting, let me just make a comment. The law-abiding citizens of this country
should not be deprived of the right to have firearms for their own protection,
and if you want to go hunting, you should not have to go down and register
your firearms with some Federal official.
As we drove in I saw this wonderful Seabee unit out there giving me a warm
welcome. I want to congratulate them for the superb job that they've done, not
only in their Navy capacity but in doing everything they possibly could fol-
lowing Hurricane Camille.
But speaking of national defense, this is where an area of decided difference
exists between me and my opponent. In the 2 years that I have been President,
I have submitted to the Congress the two largest defense budgets in the history
of the United States. We had to do it, because Congress had slashed our defense
budgets in the last 10 years by an accumulated total of $50 billion. We've turned
it around. My opponent wants to cut the Defense Department budget by $5
to $7 billion. That would be disastrous. We need to keep America number one,
and under a Ford administration we will. You don't stand up to the pressures
around the world by having less power; you need more power, and we are
going to keep it that way.
One final comment. I know all of you here in Gulfport celebrated, like other
people did all over the United States on the Fourth of July, our 200th birthday.
I was privileged to travel to a few States and to see literally thousands and thou-
sands and thousands of people. It was the most inspiring day that I've ever spent
in my life, because I found that the divisiveness that we had had in America over
the last 10 years had been healed. The people from all walks of life were getting
2334
