October 6
[853]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
853
Exchange With Reporters in San Francisco, California.
October 6, 1976
REPORTER. Mr. President, as Jimmy Carter was leaving the auditorium here
he said that he thought that your insensitivity towards blacks for not apologiz-
ing for the Earl Butz affair made that a legitimate issue for this foreign
policy debate. How do you answer that?
The President. Well, it seems to me that Governor Carter ought to think
back to his comment about ethnic purity, which was interpreted to be a slur
against blacks, and his subsequent apology. So, I don't think his record
is clear in itself. I think we took the appropriate action in the way we handled
the Butz matter.
Q. No apology was appropriate, then?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Earl Butz did apologize. Earl Butz did get a repri-
mand by me. That was done several days before his resignation. But I think
it's appropriate to bring up the fact that a few months ago Governor Carter,
with his ethnic purity comment, did slur blacks, and he apologized. Earl Butz
did likewise.
Q. Mr. President, Jimmy Carter says that when you two debate tonight,
you will be debating as equals. Do you agree with that?
THE PRESIDENT. I will let the American people decide that.
Q. Mr. President, some of your aides have indicated that you, as President
of the United States, will have more constraints on you tonight than Jimmy
Carter will. I don't understand why this is so. Can you explain? Or do you
believe that?
The President. I will speak very frankly. I believe that a President, under
these circumstances, who has got a good record can speak forthrightly, straight-
forwardly, and frankly. And I intend to do that.
Q. So you see no constraints?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see any.
Q. Do you plan to make any new announcements tonight in terms of foreign
policy and defense initiatives?
THE PRESIDENT. Listen carefully.
Q. That's a hint, Mr. President, isn't it?
Q. Are you going to be more aggressive tonight than you were at the other
debate?
2407
