December 31
[1042]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1041
Statement on Proposed Statehood for Puerto Rico.
December 31, 1976
IN OCTOBER 1975 the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Puerto Rico, appointed
jointly by the President of the United States and the Governor of the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico, recommended a new Compact of Permanent Union
between Puerto Rico and the United States, to provide maximum self-govern-
ment and self-determination for Puerto Rico.
The proposed Compact would institute fundamental and far-reaching
changes in the relationship between Puerto Rico and the United States, and its
provisions would affect a wide array of Federal programs and interests.
Members of my Cabinet have thoroughly analyzed the proposed Compact
and made recommendations to me. After studying their comments and rec-
ommendations and giving deep thought to this important proposal, I have con-
cluded that the proposed Compact, significant and important though it is, does
not advance as rapidly as it might freedom and opportunity for the American
citizens of Puerto Rico.
I believe that the appropriate status for Puerto Rico is statehood. I propose,
therefore, that the people of Puerto Rico and the Congress of the United States
begin now to take those steps which will result in statehood for Puerto Rico.
I will recommend to the 95th Congress the enactment of legislation providing
for the admission of Puerto Rico as a State of the Union.
The common bonds of friendship, tradition, dignity, and individual free-
dom have joined the people of the United States and the people of Puerto Rico.
It is now time to make these bonds permanent through statehood in accord-
ance with the concept of mutual acceptance which has historically governed
the relationship between Puerto Rico and the United States.
NOTE: The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
1042
Exchange With Reporters in Vail, Colorado, on
Proposed Statehood for Puerto Rico. December 31, 1976
Reporter. I just missed the announcement this morning about your proposal
that statehood come for Puerto Rico. Why did you—why are you going to make
that recommendation?
2881
