[1079]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
humanistic knowledge-institutions or research, education, and dissemination.
It is a national paradox that at the same time public recognition and use of the
humanities—history, literature, archaeology, ethics—is increasing, the Nation's
cultural institutions-libraries, museums, historical societies, colleges and uni-
versities, public radio and television—are finding it increasingly difficult to keep
their doors open and their programs alive. This has been a matter of deep
concern to me for some time.
In the Arts, Humanities and Cultural Affairs Act of 1976, the Congress re-
cognized the Federal responsibility and provided authorization for a Challenge
Grant Program, to encourage a broader base of private support to such institu-
tions. The private sector must assume the major responsibility for sustaining
these institutions, but it is the Federal role to exercise leadership, to point the
way. That is what a “challenge grant” mechanism enables us to do.
In my budget just submitted to the Congress, I specifically requested that this
Challenge Grant Program be implemented this year, with a supplemental ap-
propriation of $12 million for the Humanities Endowment in fiscal 1977 and
$18 million to be appropriated in fiscal 1978. When matched three for one by
private citizens, foundations, corporations, States, muncipalities, labor, and civic
groups, the $12 million will provide $48 million this year, and the $18 million an
additional $72 million next year, for the cultural institutions of the Nation and
the citizens they serve.
The regular grantmaking activities of the Humanities Endowment for specific
projects will, of course, continue. However, it is important to note that separate
Challenge Grant moneys are designed to provide institutions with basic operat-
ing support: defraying deficits, renovation of facilities, maintenance, acquisition
of equipment and materials, maintenance and conservation of collections, and
design and development of fundraising efforts, among other expenses.
I can think of no better cause for Federal involvement. I wish the National
Endowment for the Humanities success in this undertaking.
1080
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Philippines Convention on Income Taxation.
January 19, 1977
To the Senate of the United States:
I submit herewith, for Senate advice and consent to ratification, the Conven-
2970
