July 24
[689]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Through long, long months and years of trial, you have been sustained by the
love of your missing men and by your love of the country those men defended.
I am proud of you, and I am proud of your men. But my admiration is not
enough; the gratitude of this Nation is not enough. You and your loved ones
must be assured of a continuing commitment from your Government to obtain
a full accounting of those missing in action or still listed as prisoners of war.
Let me reemphasize this from me, as well as from your Government: This is
a firm, unequivocal commitment; it is a longstanding commitment; it is still
an active commitment, and for me, as I said a moment ago, it is a very personal
commitment, and that is why I am here tonight.
When I came home from the Pacific, roughly 30 years ago, I joined—as many
of us did—several veteran organizations. And then, a short time later, I had
the good fortune to become a Member of the House of Representatives. During
my service as a Member of the House of Representatives, I can recall vividly
working on MIA problems on an individual, a case-by-case basis, during both the
Korean and the Vietnam conflicts.
As a Congressman, as many of you know, I met with members of the Na-
tional League of Families here in Washington and back home in my com-
munity of Grand Rapids, Michigan. I did not forget you then, and I have not
forgotten you now.
One of my very last meetings as Vice President was a meeting with your board
of directors. A year ago, as President, I attended this convention and shortly
thereafter met with your board of directors in the Cabinet Room in the West
Wing of the White House. Let me assure you, we are employing every effective
means to account for your loved ones. Let me assure you, without any hesitation
or reservation, that I will continue that effort.
We must be honest with ourselves. This is a frustrating, painstaking, difficult
process. It is a tragic fact—and it makes me, as well as you and millions and
millions like you, very, very sad—that every missing man or information con-
cerning that individual may never be available, regardless of any superhuman
effort by the most and the best in our Government.
Furthermore, as all of you know, we are dealing with a Government that has
demonstrated very little concern for your feelings. The Vietnamese claim to
have established agencies to search for the missing, but thus far they have
withheld this information, totally without justification.
We have offered to carry out the searches ourselves or to enlist a neutral
government or the Red Cross in this humanitarian search. Thus far, none of
2085
