October 27
[978]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that we cut the rate of growth of Federal spending, I said for every dollar we save
in Federal spending, I recommend a dollar in tax reduction.
I put two main points in that tax reduction program. I said, number one, the
middle-income people in this country have been shortchanged. These middle-
income people—who really are 50 percent of the taxpayers in America—could
get the best tax relief by a suggestion of increasing the personal exemption, which
is now $750 a year, to $1,000 a year.
The other day I was visiting a factory and talking to some workers, and one
of the men said, "Well, Mr. President, what will you do for my family under your
tax proposal or tax reduction recommendation?" I said, "Well, how many chil-
dren do you have?" He said, "I have three, and a wonderful wife.” I said, “All
right, if Congress had done the job instead of going off in the wrong direction in
tax reduction,” I said, “next April when you figured out your income tax return,
you could have had, with three children, a wife, and yourself, $1,250 more in
personal exemption." He said, "Gosh, how could the Congress be so stupid not
to do that?"
Well, anyhow, let me say this: We're going to submit it to them in January.
We'll give them another crack at it, because the middle-income taxpayers need
that relief.
But in order to create the jobs that are essential and necessary in America—
and we have about 2,000,000, 2,500,000 that are coming into the labor market
from our younger people that are finishing school-industry has to have an
incentive to expand in their locations where they may be, or to build a new plant,
to buy better equipment. So, I think the business community ought to get some
tax relief so they can create the jobs that are so important if we are going to give
job opportunities in the private sector. Oh, I know some people in Congress
advocate putting everybody on the Federal payroll. That is a dead-end, no-
advancement area. What we need is a job in the private sector, where people can
work with certainty and with an opportunity for advancement.
Now one final point: Nothing pleases me more that we can say, and say with
honesty: There's not a single young American fighting or dying on any foreign
battlefield tonight. But to maintain that, we have to be strong enough to convince
our allies that we are prepared to work with them to preserve the peace in the
free world. We have to be strong enough so when the President sits down and
looks the head of government of an adversary nation straight in the eye, he
has to know that America is strong and that America has the will, America has
the courage and fortitude to do what's right. The only way you can have that
2743
