[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe we can all work together to make the individuals in the future have
more, and all of us working together can build a better America.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, President Ford. Thank you, Governor Carter.
Our thanks also to the questioners and to the audience in this theatre. We much
regret the technical failure that caused a 28-minute delay in the broadcast of
the debate. We believe, however, that everyone will agree that it did not
detract from the effectiveness of the debate or from its fairness.
The next Presidential debate is to take place on Wednesday, October 6, in
San Francisco, at 9:30 p.m., eastern daylight time. The topics are to be foreign
and defense issues. As with all three debates between the Presidential candi-
dates and the one between the Vice-Presidential candidates, it is being arranged
by the League of Women Voters Education Fund in the hope of promoting a
wider and better informed participation by the American people in the elec-
tion in November.
Now, from the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia, good night.
NOTE: The debate began at 9:31 p.m. at the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia, Pa. It was broadcast
live on radio and television.
804
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Philadelphia. September 23, 1976
Senator Schweiker, my distinguished friends on the platform, all of you won-
derful people from Pennsylvania, Delaware, and New Jersey:
On July 4 I was in Philadelphia to participate in our Bicentennial birthday
anniversary. I came back to Philadelphia today for a new experience. I didn't
come back to write history; I came back to talk about what we're going to do
to make a better America in the next 4 years under a Ford administration.
Q. [Inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know, because I haven't seen all of the polls, but from
what I've heard we did all right in that debate. And when we get to the next
one, which talks about national defense and foreign policy, we'll do even better.
We have a turning point in this campaign. The polls are going our way, the
momentum is on our side. The basic reason is that in the last 2 years, under
most difficult circumstances, we have done a good job for America, and in the
next 4 years we will do a better job.
The issues are with us. The American people know that we have established
a base for a healthy, prosperous economy. The American people know that we
2312
