[975]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
975
Remarks at Villanova University in Villanova, Pennsylvania.
October 27, 1976
Jim Nolan, Father Driscoll, members of the Pennsylvania congressional delega-
tion, students, faculty and guests:
May I express my deep appreciation for the opportunity to accept the invitation
of the political union and particularly you, Jim. I understand that this organiza-
tion has a background as a political debating society. Well, following the three
debates I had with my opponent, I was asked on several occasions, would I make
suggestions for the future or comments on the past. I said, "Well, I hope they
do become institutionalized in our political future," and then I said—as I re-
flected on the debates—that I would make two observations. One, I hope that
Jimmy Carter would answer his questions—[laughter]—but I also said I thought
I ought to question my answers. [Laughter]
But as you have noticed, I have three very special guests here today that are
close to me and have been very helpful. One you have met, our son Jack. Then I
also have another special guest who has been working with me and traveling to
help the cause, and I think it is especially appropriate in an educational institu-
tion with the great reputation that you have here at Villanova. One of the out-
standing Members of the House or the Senate for 19 years was a Democratic
Member of the Congress, Representative Edith Green. Edith Green, I can tell
you, was a formidable opponent and a welcome ally. We worked together on
many, many programs. We seemed to understand and try to do things in con-
junction on educational matters. But Edith Green of the great State of Oregon,
who retired 2 years ago, has been helping me. I just want you to know Edith
Green is with me and helping in my ideas and recommendations concerning
education. Edith, will you please stand up.
But there is another guest that has been going with us. You recognized him
when he walked in. But let me tell you, when I was very young, as a matter of
fact, it was part of my ambition to be a baseball player. Obviously, I didn't suc-
ceed. [Laughter] But then after I came back from World War II, I was trying
to practice a little law, and I was doing a little high school football broadcasting.
Obviously, I didn't succeed. [Laughter]
But we have here Joe Garagiola.¹ Maybe I shouldn't say this about Joe's career,
but I think Joe feels it is good to be on a winning team for a change. [Laughter]
¹ NBC sports commentator.
2728
