August 19
[732]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
12 points in the polls. I say that to indicate his great help and also the fact that
you can catch up if you are behind.
The Vice President, of course, was one of my earlier supporters in Kansas.
And he came to Kansas, I think, to visit Alf Landon, and while he was there
I had him do a little work for me. And that was very helpful, too.
One of my other great supporters was Governor Reagan. He came to Wichita
and did an outstanding job on my behalf. He is a great Republican, and I am
certainly pleased that he has indicated that I will be all right. [Laughter]
So, I am just very pleased to be here. I am very proud to be on the ticket with
President Ford for many, many reasons that I will go into as I go along the cam-
paign trail.
I think he has an outstanding record. I am realistic. I know there is work to be
done between now and November-in fact, only about a little over 8 weeks—but
I want to be a part of a winning combination.
It is my opinion that we can win based on his leadership. I am not certain
what I can add to the ticket, but I will work hard and do the best I can, not just
for the Republican Party but because I think America needs President Ford's
leadership for 4 more years.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. We have on the podium, just to indicate and to show the unity
that has come out of a tough struggle and very hard competition, some people
that I think will be extremely helpful and beneficial in the 74 days between now
and November 2.
Of course the Vice President has, himself, been a tower of strength in the 2
years that I have been President. He has not only done a great job as Vice Presi-
dent but he has been of inestimable help to me in making some decisions. He
fully supports this choice. He was in on the final decisionmaking.
But, I think, in addition to that kind of support, we are fortunate to have here
two outstanding United States Senators who, for the last few months, have
been on the opposite side, but who have, while they were performing their sena-
torial duties, worked together on many occasions. I think the fact that Senator
Paul Laxalt, who was chairman of Governor Reagan's campaign, and Senator
Bob Griffin, who has been a long-time friend and supporter of mine and the mi-
nority whip in the United States Senate, can be here indicates their joint efforts.
And I think it would be nice if Bob and Paul came forth and maybe said a word
together or individually.
Bob.
SENATOR GRIFFIN. Paul and I have been very good, close friends in the United
2155
