October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
work. We've got an extraordinarily high unemployment rate among down-
town, urban ghetto areas; particularly among the very poor and particularly
among minority groups, sometimes 50 or 60 percent.
And the concentration of employment opportunities in those areas would
help greatly not only to reestablish the tax base, but also to help reduce the ex-
traordinary welfare costs. One of the major responsibilities on the shoulders of
New York City is to finance welfare. And I favor the shifting of the welfare
cost away from the local governments altogether and, over a longer period of
time, let the Federal Government begin to absorb part of it that is now paid
by the State government. Those things would help a great deal with the cities,
but we still have a very serious problem there.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me speak out very strongly. The Ford administration
does have a very comprehensive program to help our major metropolitan areas.
I fought for, and the Congress finally went along with, a general revenue shar-
ing program whereby cities and States-the cities, two-thirds, and the States,
one-third-get over $6 billion a year, in cash, with which they can provide
many, many services, whatever they really want.
In addition, we in the Federal Government make available to cities about
$3,300 million in what we call community developments. In addition, as a
result of my pressure on the Congress, we got a major mass transit program
over a 4-year period-$11,800 million. We have a good housing program that
will result in cutting the downpayments by 50 percent and having mortgage
payments lower at the beginning of any mortgage period. We are expanding
our homestead housing program.
The net result is, we think, under Carla Hills, who is the Chairman of my
Urban Development and Neighborhood Revitalization program, we will
really do a first-class job in helping the communities throughout the country.
As a matter of fact, that committee, under Secretary Hills, released about a 75-
page report with specific recommendations, so we can do a better job in the
weeks ahead.
And in addition, the tax program of the Ford administration, which pro-
vides an incentive for industry to move into our major metropolitan areas, into
the inner cities, will bring jobs where people are and help to revitalize those
cities as they can be.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Nelson, your question next to President Ford.
MR. NELSON. Mr. President, your campaign has run ads in black news-
papers saying that "for black Americans, President Ford is quietly getting the
2635
