[1045]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
cial attention: advanced energy technologies, energy conservation in lieu of in-
creased production, abandoning nuclear fission energy or coal, and oil company
divestiture. All four are likely to receive Congressional consideration this year.
Contribution of Advanced Technologies
There are repeated claims that fusion, solar or geothermal energy, or some
other advanced technology, will soon provide a virtually risk-free answer to our
energy needs. Such claims warrant and have been given very careful considera-
tion because new technological developments have helped us solve many
problems in the past.
There are three common myths about fusion, solar and geothermal energy:
-That major contributions to our energy supplies can be expected soon
from these sources.
-That there are no serious economic, safety, technological or environmental
problems to be overcome before these technologies are available for wide-
spread use.
—That the remaining problems can be quickly resolved by greatly increasing
Federal funding for R&D.
The facts are that major economic, safety and environmental problems must
be solved and major technological breakthroughs are needed before these
emerging technologies will be available for widespread commercial use.
Practical and economic applications are already available in the case of energy
from geothermal steam. However, geothermal steam resources are geographi-
cally limited, and major technical, environmental and economic hurdles must be
overcome before other sources of geothermal energy will be available for practi-
cal application.
Heating with solar energy is expected to become economically competitive
soon in some areas with electrical heating by electricity-but not by oil and
gas. Costs will have to be reduced substantially before solar heating and cool-
ing systems will be competitive for widespread use. Major breakthroughs are
needed before fusion and solar energy will produce economical electric power.
Costs must be reduced and problems of safety and environmental impact must
be solved.
Advanced technologies cannot contribute significantly to our energy supply
in the near or mid-term. Even with intensive efforts to achieve necessary break-
throughs, solar, geothermal and fusion energy are expected to provide no more
than one percent of our total energy supplies by 1985 and no more than five-
seven percent by the year 2000. Until these advanced technologies are available
2890
