October 25
[959]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
person you've seen a good many times-Betty and I've watched "Mission: Im-
possible" more times than I can count-it's a pleasure for me to introduce
Peter Graves. Peter.
I'm especially pleased to be here in Boeing country and to thank you for the
very warm welcome. This city and, of course, this State have long demonstrated
a very special active interest in protecting your environment.
One of the major threats to our environment is noise pollution. We must re-
duce the noise pollution around American airports and bring quiet back to the
skies throughout our country. We must free aviation from arbitrary and unneces-
sary restrictions and regulations so that the airlines themselves can pay the cost of
quieting aircraft noise.
We should create an economic climate which will stimulate valuable and
lasting jobs in our aircraft industry. I know how important this is to the city
of Seattle, which has long been a leader in military and commercial aircraft.
I've directed the Secretary of Transportation to instruct the Administrator
of FAA to extend its noise standards to all domestic U.S. commercial aircraft to
become effective January 1, 1977, and to be phased in over an 8-year period. I'm
also directing the Secretary of State to initiate negotiations with the Interna-
tional Civil Aviation Conference to reach agreement on noise standards for all
international aircraft flying into the United States. And I'm putting the Con-
gress on notice that I will not accept its failure to act on aviation regulatory
reform. Congress must adopt the airline regulatory measure that I proposed in
1975. Passage of this legislation will mean lower air fares, a stronger aviation
industry, which is more able to pay for new, quieter aircraft, and jobs for our
aerospace workers-and we didn't plan that plane flying over. [Laughter]
I want the Members of Congress on both sides of the political aisle to know that
aviation regulatory reform will be on their doorstep when they come back in
January. Congress must act within 90 days after the new session opens on Janu-
ary 3, 1977. With congressional action, we can make certain that U.S. airlines
will meet noise standards and, at the same time, continue to be a healthy and
competitive industry serving some 200 million Americans.
I have directed the Secretary of Transportation to schedule open public hear-
ings before the end of this year, to consider whether financing provisions may be
necessary to ensure that the air carriers can meet those noise requirements. The
Secretary will consider and will evaluate the financial condition as well as the
needs of the airline industry, the costs of meeting the new noise standards, and
alternative sources of funds to pay these costs. And I'm directing the Secretary
of Transportation to report his findings to me by March 3, 1977.
2677
