August 4
[714]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
public service, whether it's in elective office, serving in the executive branch, or
serving in the judiciary. The American dream cannot continue without your
serious commitment to it, not on a 1-day-a-year basis, when you vote, but on
a total 365 days a year commitment. And this commitment can be at the local
or the State or the national level, but it has to be a real commitment.
Now, after closely examining government at all levels—and I know you have
had that opportunity—you may have learned that our system isn't perfect. But
I hope you realize now that it is perfectable, that it is worth your personal in-
volvement, as I said a moment ago, and you can contribute significantly.
To be truly representative, government must serve all of the people. To do that
effectively, it must be sensitive, it must be responsive, and it must be close enough
to the people to understand, so that they feel that you have a feeling toward
them and they, in return, have a feeling toward you. This means that we must,
that we can encourage smaller local units of government to take responsibility
back from big government as we see it here in Washington. What can be
handled by the individual, in my belief, should not be usurped by government.
What can be accomplished by localities should not be taken over by the Federal
Government.
I might say, historically we find that the first 100 years of this country involved
the process of our forefathers making a system of government that worked, that
didn't fall apart, that met the stresses and the strains. The second 100 years of our
history in this country gave us the opportunity to develop the greatest industrial
nation in the history of mankind. The third century is our responsibility to see
that it becomes the century of the individual, the right of the individual to be
different from mass government, mass education, mass labor, mass business, so
that each of you can develop, to the best of your abilities and dedication, your
opportunities in this great Nation.
What we really need is a better balance, where individual freedom is protected,
not stifled; where productive capacity is encouraged, not strangled through over-
regulation; where human problems are solved with compassion, not bound in
redtape; where integrity is a reality, not just a political slogan. Such a system
would ensure that the renewed faith our people have found during this Bicen-
tennial Year will continue in our third century as a nation.
The third century is your century. So, you will have problems, and you will
have responsibilities; you will have opportunities. I think you have already dem-
onstrated your great capacity for leadership, or you wouldn't be here. And be-
cause of you, as I look in the eye of each and every one of you, I know that
2129
