[1077]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
war,
all those individuals and families who were personally involved in the Vietnam
from those who felt they could not serve to those who lost a child, a
husband, or a father. I thus have decided to maintain my position on earned
clemency and hope you will understand. Within my clemency program, how-
ever, I have directed that the other than honorable discharges received by
former service members who were wounded in combat or received decorations
for valor in combat in Vietnam each be reviewed and upgraded to discharges
under honorable conditions, unless there is a compelling reason to the contrary
in any case.
Betty and I want to convey again our deep condolences to you, your children,
and to the entire Hart family on the loss of Phil.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
1078
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Energy Independence
Authority Legislation. January 19, 1977
MORE THAN three years have now passed since the Arab oil embargo of
1973 dramatically illustrated our ever-increasing dependence on foreign oil.
Despite several positive legislative steps during this period, our vulnerability has
increased. In my recent energy message and State of the Union address, I out-
lined a number of energy areas that require the most immediate attention of
the Congress and the new Administration, including a number of proposals
I put forth two years ago in the proposed Energy Independence Act. Among the
important energy issues which must be promptly addressed is the need to sup-
plement and encourage investment in new energy technologies not yet in wide-
spread commercial operation.
It is estimated that the capital requirements for energy independence will
total about $600 billion over the next ten years. Risks are such in many of the
projects necessary to develop domestic energy resources and reduce consump-
tion that private capital markets will not provide necessary financing. The un-
certainties associated with new technologies inhibit the flow of capital.
America cannot permit the excessive delays associated with the commercial-
ization of unconventional energy technologies. New production is essential. Our
national security and economic well-being depend on our ability to act de-
cisively on energy.
2968
