September 30
[834]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and will increase a number of other special benefit payments based on service-
connected disability.
Federal benefit payments to veterans and their survivors have been regularly
adjusted over the years to reflect changing economic conditions. The enactment
of these bills into law provides continuing recognition of our commitment to as-
sure that the benefits to which veterans and their families are entitled keep pace
with the cost of living.
Our Nation's veterans served well when their country called, and we have a
duty in return to provide adequately for their disability and retirement needs.
I believe these bills are positive steps toward meeting those needs of the men
and women who have served in our Armed Forces.
I am pleased to sign both bills into law.
834
Statement on Signing the Military Construction
Authorization Bill. September 30, 1976
I AM today signing H.R. 14846, the Military Construction Authorization Act
for fiscal year 1977. H.R. 14846 provides a comprehensive construction program
for fiscal year 1977 keyed to recognize military requirements.
Three months ago, I vetoed its predecessor, H.R. 12384, because it contained
highly objectionable provisions that would have delayed for at least a year al-
most any action to close or realign a major military installation. Such unneces-
sary delay would have wasted defense dollars which are needed to strengthen
our military capabilities and would also have substantially limited my powers as
Commander in Chief over our military installations. This was obviously un-
acceptable and Congress sustained my veto.
The bill which I am signing today represents a substantial compromise on
behalf of the Congress and refreshes my faith in the system of checks and bal-
ances established by our Constitution. The requirement of a year's delay, which
I vetoed, has been replaced in H.R. 14846 by a 60-day waiting period. While I be-
lieve that current procedures provide adequate time for the Congress and other
interested parties to review base realignment actions, the 60-day waiting period
represents a compromise which I accept.
Since the 60-day delay is imposed after the completion of required studies and
the announcement of the official realignment decision, further delay would
2375
