August 24
[737]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for the Congress to act upon my restraint proposals so that this large additional
January submission will not be necessary. Once again, I urge the Congress to
act. If the Congress does not take the necessary action, the additional funds
will be required and I will request that the Congress provide them.
In withholding my approval from the Military Construction Authorization
Bill (H.R. 12384), I noted several points that are also germane here. Section
612 of that Bill would impose severe restrictions and delays upon base closures
or employment reductions at certain military installations. As I stated at that
time, the nation's taxpayers rightly expect the most defense possible for their
tax dollars. Provisions such as Section 612 would add arbitrarily and unneces-
sarily to the tax burden of the American people. We must have the latitude to
take actions to cut unnecessary defense spending and personnel. Congress should
reenact this otherwise acceptable legislation without the objectionable base
closure provision.
As I have consistently indicated, I am determined that the national security
efforts of the United States shall be fully adequate. This message indicates what
is necessary to ensure that adequacy. It is up to the Congress to act promptly
to provide the resources necessary to do the job.
The White House,
August 23, 1976.
737
GERALD R. FORD
1
Exchange With Reporters in Vail, Colorado. August 24, 1976
GOOD MORNING. It is my very strong conviction that the American people
have a right to know where I stand on the issues and where my opponent stands
on the issues. I challenged my opponent to a series of debates. I feel very strongly
that the first debate should come a day or two after Labor Day, and I suggest
perhaps September 8, September 9, and September 10.
I think there should be four debates, and each debate should involve no
less than 90 minutes on each occasion. The subject matters, of course, are those
issues that the American people will want to know where my opponent stands,
where I stand. They have a right to know.
I feel, for example, the first debate ought to involve national defense. The
other three issues would be domestic policy, foreign policy, economic policy.
With that overall format and with the debates starting as quickly as possible,
2173
