October 8
[867]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
this to say, and I quote: “Britain for too long has lived on borrowed time,
borrowed money and borrowed ideas. We will fail if we think we can buy our
way out of our present difficulties by printing confetti money and paying our-
selves more than we earn.” Those are strong words by a man who leads a coun-
try whose past has been great but whose crisis is serious.
Let me say from the bottom of my heart that this country is strong, but we
have those who are running for the Presidency who want to borrow more
money, spend more money, have higher taxes, and lead us down the road to
more and more inflation.
Let me say very specifically to each and every one of you, as long as Jerry
Ford is President of the United States, we will not have that kind of a govern-
ment. We will have a strong government at home with less taxes, less inflation,
less Federal spending, and we will have a government that's strong enough to
preserve the peace and to maintain our deterrent forces and to look at each
other and say we're proud of America.
I come before you as a President who wants to serve you for the next 4 years,
and to come back to Oklahoma, to Lawton, and say I have kept my promises.
I want, I need your support. I won't let you down. Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:40 p.m. at the Lawton Municipal Airport. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Mayor Wayne Gilley of Lawton.
867
Remarks in Lawton, Oklahoma, Upon Signing a Proclamation
for the Observance of Native American Awareness Week.
October 8, 1976
BEFORE SIGNING the proclamation [4468], I would like to make some ad-
ditional remarks. I would like to say a few words about a very important issue.
No State in the Union has more residents who are Native Americans than
the great State of Oklahoma. No domestic matter has given me greater pride
than my administration's record of turning about the discrimination and neglect
that all Indians faced for so many years.
In January of 1975, I signed the Indian Self-Determination Act,¹ a magna
carta for Indian people. Today, we recognize Indian tribal governments, includ-
ing those in Oklahoma, as vital government organizations in their own right.
¹ For the President's remarks upon signing the act, see the 1975 volume, Item 10.
2469
