[906]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mondale-we are at peace, and our foreign policy has achieved it and will main-
tain it. And the comment you made to the effect that not a single American is
fighting or dying on foreign soil tonight ought to give great reassurance to the
American people that our policy of peace through strength is the highest policy
of morality in foreign policy.
SENATOR DOLE. Mr. President, I meant that, and I tried to say it as best I could.
And I think a great deal of that credit goes to you. We are at peace for the first
time in a long time. We are having the election at peace. And I think it means a
great deal to Americans, mothers and fathers and young people, and it is due
to your leadership, Mr. President.
I wish I had thought of some of the other things you mentioned, but you
always think of things—[laughter]—
The President. Let me say, Bob, you thought of a lot of very effective points.
And you have some great friends here from the State of Illinois-we are in
Joliet-Chuck Percy, Bob Michel-
SENATOR DOLE. I can hear Chuck laughing. Hi, Chuck, how are you doing?
THE PRESIDENT. John Anderson is here, and you have the Illinois delegation
standing tall and strong with you, and we are all very proud. And the best
to Elizabeth.
SENATOR DOLE. I have Governor Connally-he is standing upstairs talking
to Fred. And Mrs. Connally and Elizabeth went upstairs to proclaim victory.
THE PRESIDENT. I think you did.
SENATOR DOLE. If they didn't do it, I was going to do it. [Laughter] Thank
you very much, Mr. President. Goodby.
THE PRESIDENT. You were great, Bob. Goodby.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 p.m. from the
Sheraton Joliet Inn in Joliet, Ill., to Senator Dole,
who was in the stage manager's office at the Alley
Theater in Houston, Tex.
907
Remarks During an Illinois Whistlestop Tour.
October 16, 1976
[1.] JOLIET (9:11 a.m.)
Thank you very, very much, George. Senator Chuck Percy, your next Governor,
Jim Thompson, other distinguished Members of the House, and some wonder-
ful guests who are going to be traveling with us through the heartland of
Illinois:
2546
