August 25
[740]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
outstanding organizational capability, and he will be the chairman of the Presi-
dent Ford Committee.
Arrayed behind me you see the people that will be the heads of various parts
of the President Ford Committee under Jim Baker. We have Stu Spencer, who
will handle the politics. We have Bob Teeter, who will be in charge of the re-
search. We have Bill Greener, who will head the communications operation.
We have John Deardourff and Doug Bailey, who will be in charge of the adver-
tising. I will have Dick Cheney representing the White House in that group. I
think that takes care of everybody, doesn't it?
I think it's a great team. They are all experts in their respective fields. They
all work together well, and they are all ready and anxious to go.
We have had two strategy sessions—yesterday morning for about 2 hours and
again 2 hours this morning. So, we have the team, we have the organization, we
are ready to go with the other things that we will be announcing from Vail
between now and Saturday.
QUESTIONS
REPORTER. Mr. President, why isn't Governor Reagan coming in?
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Reagan and myself had one very indepth discussion
at Kansas City. He certainly was very strong in his support, as he so indicated
at the convention. He, like myself, has had a pretty rugged campaign for the last
8 months, so his not being here, I think, reflects, one, his indication of support
and, number two, his desire to get some rest and relaxation.
Q. Mr. President, have you written off the South, including Texas? Some of
your insiders are saying you have written off the South.
The President. I'm the only one that makes that decision, Helen [Helen
Thomas, United Press International], and we are not writing off the South. We
expect to make an active campaign in the South, as I said, along with the rest of
the United States.
Q. What about Texas?
THE PRESIDENT. Texas is a vitally important State, and we'll be working with
the Texas organization, and we'll have an active campaign there.
Q. Mr. President, when will Dean Burch and Ruckelshaus get together with
the Carter people?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Dean Burch and Bill Ruckelshaus will be getting to-
gether in Washington, I think, today or tomorrow, and they will be available
to negotiate with the Carter people and any of the other parties involved.
2177
