October 27
[973]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and I think the people of New York or elsewhere ought to have a chance to vote
for him if they feel it is the right decision.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:18 a.m. at the
National Aviation Facilities Experimental Center.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
973
Remarks in Atlantic City, New Jersey. October 27, 1976
Fritz Haneman, Senator Case, Mayor Lazarow:
May I say I am deeply grateful to Dorothy and her warm welcome. She comes
from Minnesota; that is Gopher country. I come from Michigan, and that is
Wolverine country. And when a Gopher and a Wolverine get together, boy, you
can't beat 'em.
But I do want to recognize Charlie Sandman, Tom Kane, Web Todd. And I
have two very close and very dear friends who have been traveling with me for
the last several days, people you know, people you respect, and people that I ad-
mire, respect, and appreciate. First, I want to introduce to you Joe Garagiola.
I was going to introduce former Democratic Congresswoman Edith Green,
who was, I think, one of the outstanding Members of the House of Representa-
tives for 19 years. While we were in the Congress together, she was on the
Democratic side and I was on the Republican side. But I understand that some-
where between the plane and here, Edith didn't quite make it. I understand that
she is not feeling well. But she has been campaigning with us and, believe me, to
have that kind of superb support from a really outstanding Member of the Con-
gress on the Democratic side, I am deeply grateful and very appreciative.
Now let me say it is great to be back in New Jersey. I was here a week or 10
days ago. When I was here several weeks ago, I saw a sign that said "Jersey loves
Jerry.” It has gotten bigger since I was here before—[laughter]—but let me say
that Jerry loves Jersey, and I mean it from the bottom of my heart.
It seems that the enthusiasm in New Jersey has gotten even greater than it
was when I was here a few weeks ago. But let me give you all a special invita-
tion, because I know that we are going to carry New Jersey, we are going to win
the election. But I invite each and every one of you to come to Washington on
January 20, 1977, to be there for the inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole.
As we come to the final days, really, of this great campaign, I want to reiterate
where I stand. I stand on your side for limited government, for fiscal respon-
sibility, for rising prosperity, for lower taxes, for military strength that will keep
2721
