October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in San Francisco. An estimated 100 million Americans are watching on tele-
vision as well. San Francisco was the site of the signing of the United Nations
Charter 31 years ago. Thus, it is an appropriate place to hold this debate, the
subject of which is foreign and defense issues.
The questioners tonight are Max Frankel, associate editor of the New York
Times, Henry L. Trewhitt, diplomatic correspondent of the Baltimore Sun,
and Richard Valeriani, diplomatic correspondent of NBC News.
The ground rules tonight are basically the same as they were for the first
debate 2 weeks ago. The questions will be alternated between candidates. By
the toss of a coin, Governor Carter will take the first question.
Each question sequence will be as follows: The question will be asked, and
the candidate will have up to 3 minutes to answer. His opponent will have up
to 2 minutes to respond. And prior to the response, the questioner may ask a
followup question to clarify the candidate's answer, when necessary, with up
to 2 minutes to reply. Each candidate will have 3 minutes for a closing state-
ment at the end.
President Ford and Governor Carter do not have notes or prepared remarks
with them this evening, but they may take notes during the debate and refer
to them.
Mr. Frankel, you have the first question for Governor Carter.
MR. FRANKEL. Governor, since the Democrats last ran our foreign policy, in-
cluding many of the men who are advising you, the country has been relieved
of the Vietnam agony and the military draft; we've started arms control
negotiations with the Russians; we've opened relations with China; we've ar-
ranged the disengagement in the Middle East; we've regained influence with
the Arabs without deserting Israel. Now, maybe, we've even begun a process of
peaceful change in Africa.
Now, you've objected in this campaign to the style with which much of this
was done, and you've mentioned some other things that you think ought to
have been done. But do you really have a quarrel with this Republican record?
Would you not have done any of those things?
MR. CARTER. Well, I think this Republican administration has been almost all
style and spectacular and not substance. We've got a chance tonight to talk
about, first of all, leadership, the character of our country, and a vision of the
future. In every one of these instances, the Ford administration has failed. And
hope tonight that I and Mr. Ford will have a chance to discuss the reason
for those failures.
Our country is not strong any more; we're not respected any more. We can
2409
