October 13
[895]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the United States. It will be a great day November 3 for America, 4 more years
of Ford.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:51 p.m. at the Garden State Plaza.
894
Remarks in Union, New Jersey.
October 13, 1976
THANK YOU all very, very much. These wonderful bands, I thank each and
every one of you. Thank you very much.
It's great to be in Union. I saw a sign on the way here, a sign that means a
great deal to me. The sign said, “Jersey Likes Jerry." Let me respond by saying
Jerry likes Jersey. You're great.
I like Jersey because I know good people like Cliff Case, like Bob Kean, who
I had the honor of serving with for a number of years. I like the kind of people
that you have joined with me in my campaign. And I am in New Jersey because
New Jersey is a very important State.
I have heard rumors, I hear talk, I read some stuff that's written that the
American people are apathetic, they're not going to vote, they don't care about
this election. Let me say very strongly, I believe the American people do care.
You care because there is a clear difference between Mr. Carter and myself. He
wants to increase your taxes. I want to reduce and decrease your taxes.
Mr. Carter wants to increase Federal spending. I want to hold the lid on Fed-
eral spending. Mr. Carter wants to undercut our national defense. I think that's
wrong. America has to stay number one, and we will under President Ford.
So, when you come right down to it, there is a choice. The American people are
concerned, they do care. And I say again, Jerry Ford loves Jersey just like Jersey
loves Jerry.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:05 p.m. at the
Town and Campus Inn. In his remarks, he re-
ferred to Senator Clifford P. Case and Representa-
tive Robert W. Kean 1939-59 of New Jersey.
895
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Union, New Jersey. October 13, 1976
THANK YOU, Matt, thank you, Cliff, thank you, Millicent, thank you, Dave,
thank you, Tom Kean, thank all of you. You know, I have said it before, but I
2515
