[975]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am proud of the maturity of the American people who demand more hon-
esty, truthfulness, and candor of their elected representatives. The American
people, particularly young people, cannot be expected to take pride or even par-
ticipate in a system of government that is defiled and dishonored, whether in
the White House or in the halls of Congress. Personal integrity is not too much
to ask of public servants. We should accept nothing less, and the American
people will not do so.
On November 2, the thoughts, the feelings of our Bicentennial will be ex-
pressed in a specific choice: What will we take with us into our third century?
What will we leave behind? What sort of government will help us reach our
goals, not burden us with excess baggage?
Our Nation's founders did not seek to guarantee our happiness, only our free-
dom to pursue happiness in our own way. The government alone cannot make
life meaningful. It can protect your freedom to pursue happiness, but it cannot
make you happy. It can protect your freedom to worship, but it cannot give you
faith in God. It can help you to be healthy and well educated, but it cannot plant
purpose in your mind or in your body.
Only you, the individual, with the help of family, church, and community—
only you can do just that.
Recently we have heard a great deal about the apathy and the frustration of
American voters in this election. But I see hopeful signs in this Bicentennial
election and every day that passes-particularly in the last week-I have become
more and more encouraged. I see not sterile cynicism and skepticism, but the
signs of an new realism emerging all over this great country. Americans are real-
izing that there is only so much the government can do for you, and that every
promise has to have its price.
We have been laying the foundations for a great third century in America, not
on false promises or empty optimism but on a sound and realistic attitude towards
ourselves and towards our system.
For the past 2 years, I have done my best to put this Nation back on an even
keel, to chart a steady course for our country's future. We have come a long, long
way. We have a long way to go to do all the things that this country has the
potential to do.
We can build an America that not only celebrates history but makes it, that
offers limited government and unlimited opportunity that concerns itself with
the quality of life, that proves individual liberty is still the key to common
progress.
I have been very proud to serve as your President. I love this country just as all
2732
