[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
of used nuclear fuel to produce plutonium as a necessary and inevitable step
in the nuclear fuel cycle, and that we should pursue reprocessing and recycling
in the future only if they are found to be consistent with our international
objectives.
We must ensure that our domestic policies and programs are compatible with
our international position on reprocessing and that we work closely with other
nations in evaluating nuclear fuel reprocessing.
-The steps I am announcing today will assure that the necessity increase
in our use of nuclear energy will be carried on with safety and without
aggravating the danger of proliferation.
Even with strong efforts to conserve, we will have increasing demands for
energy for a growing American economy. To satisfy these needs, we must rely
on increased use of both nuclear energy and coal until more acceptable alterna-
tives are developed. We will continue pushing ahead with work on all promising
alternatives such as solar energy but now we must count on the technology that
works. We cannot expect a major contribution to our energy supply from alterna-
tive technologies until late in this century.
To implement my overall policy decisions, I have decided on a number of
policies that are necessary and appropriate to meet our nonproliferation and
energy objectives.
-First, our domestic policies must be changed to conform to my decision on
deferral of the commercialization of chemical reprocessing of nuclear fuel
which results in the separation of plutonium.
-Second, I call upon all nations to join us in exercising maximum restraint
in the transfer of reprocessing and enrichment technology and facilities by
avoiding such sensitive exports or commitments for a period of at least 3 years.
-Third, new cooperative steps are needed to help assure that all nations
have an adequate and reliable supply of energy for their needs. I believe, most
importantly, that nuclear supplier nations have a special obligation to assure that
customer nations have an adequate supply of fuel for their nuclear powerplants,
if those customer nations forego the acquisition of reprocessing and uranium
enrichment capabilities and accept effective proliferation controls.
-Fourth, the U.S. must maintain its role as a major and reliable world sup-
plier of nuclear reactors and fuel for peaceful purposes. Our strong position as a
supplier has provided the principal basis for our influence and leadership in
worldwide nonproliferation efforts. A strong position will be equally important
in the future. While reaffirming this Nation's intent to be a reliable supplier,
2768
