August 5
[716]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am writing to you this afternoon to urge that the House of Representatives
(Senate) move quickly to enact this legislation so that the vaccine can be made
available without further delay.
In conclusion, let me reiterate a point that I made in March and again to
Chairman Paul Rogers on July 23: The threat of swine flu is genuine. Data from
both the scientific and medical communities support the need for an inoculation
program. Clinical tests conducted to date show that the vaccine is both safe and
effective. There is no excuse now to let this program—a program that could
affect the lives of many, many Americans-be delayed any longer. Let's work
together to get on with the job.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable Mike Mans-
field, Majority Leader of the Senate.
716
Remarks to Members of the U.S. Olympic Team and
Presentation of the Presidential Medal of Freedom
to Jesse Owens. August 5, 1976
Distinguished athletes and guests, members of the Commission on Olympic
Sports:
A few weeks ago I had the privilege of seeing all of you at Plattsburg¹ and
being your guest on that occasion. And it is a great privilege and pleasure for
me and Mrs. Ford to welcome all of you here in the East Garden of the White
House.
At that time in Plattsburg, I congratulated you on making the American
Olympic Team. I wished you good luck before you left for Montreal, and I am
very happy to welcome you all back and to congratulate you once again—this
time for having done a magnificent, a superb job.
I hope the athletes have had an opportunity in the last few days to rest up a
bit. Let me say that you were not alone in your feats of stamina and strength.
Millions of Americans, including myself, are now recovering from the mara-
thon sessions with their TV sets. [Laughter]
We watched you and your teammates rack up 94 medals, a truly outstanding
performance. You won gold, silver, and bronze. Some of you set records. You
See Items 658 and 659.
2131
