October 23
[949]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Give me your mandate, and we will create a tax structure that is fair to all, that
will preserve the family home, the family business, the family farm, and give
our industry an opportunity through tax incentives to provide jobs by mod-
ernization, building new factories, competing abroad, so that America's economy
will be healthy and strong for the betterment of all.
Give me your mandate, and we will expand the recreational opportunities
and restore the healthy environment of this great country as our legacy to future
generations.
Give me your mandate, and I will lead this Nation on the path of peace
through strength, and we will live in peace and freedom in the United States of
America. I have no fear for the future of America. The future to all of us is a
friend. And as we go forward together, I promise you once more what I promised
you before—to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me to see
the right, and to do the very best that I can for America.
God helping me, I will not let you down.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 a.m. on the
State Capitol grounds. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Lt. Gov. John N. Dalton of Virginia and
William M. Tuck, Governor of Virginia 1946-50
and U.S. Representative from Virginia 1953-69.
1
949
Remarks at the North Carolina State Fair in Raleigh.
October 23, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Holshouser, Liddy Dole, Dave Flaherty,
distinguished officials, and guests:
It's great to get together with one of my family again, our third son, Steve
Ford.
I also wish to express my deep appreciation for the fact that an old and very
dear friend of mine, Congressman Jim Broyhill, is here. Jim.
For many, many reasons, it's a great privilege and a very high honor to be
back here in the Tarheel State. And I thank you for the wonderfully warm and
hospitable welcome.
In Kansas City, I promised not to concede a single vote or a single State. I
meant it. And let me give you where I've been to prove the point. Some people
have said, well, I've been spending my time in the Rose Garden. Some people
have been saying I've been hiding out. Well, here is the itinerary.
Today, I was in Virginia, now in North Carolina, later in South Caro-
2653
