[949]
October 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
and to do the very best that I can for America. God helping me, I will not let
you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. at the
Dorton Arena. In his opening remarks, he referred
to David T. Flaherty, Republican gubernatorial
candidate of North Carolina.
950
Remarks at the South Carolina State Fair in Columbia.
October 23, 1976
LET ME thank all of you for the opportunity to come to Columbia, to South
Carolina to this great State Fair.
I would just like to introduce a member of our family who went to the fair
while I went to the football game. I'd like to introduce our son, Steve Ford.
Two weeks ago, I went to the Texas State Fair. This morning I stopped at the
North Carolina State Fair. Here I am at the South Carolina State Fair. I love
fairs. [Applause] Thank you very, very much. But what I like best is those
figures up there.
But let me be serious, if I might. We have a great campaign that's about to
come to its conclusion on November 2. The issues are very important. We keep
hearing that only about 50 percent of the people are going to vote. I hope
that's not true, because the course or the direction of this Nation could well be
decided on November 2, and that course and that direction for the next 4 years
and perhaps for the next century
Let me tell you where I stand. I stand for a strong national defense. America
must be number one and will be number one. We have the best Army, the best
Navy, the best Marine Corps, the best Air Force, and, under President Ford,
we're going to keep it that way.
But we also have to have a strong economy, and that means not only an indus-
trial economy but it means a strong agricultural economy. We believe very
strongly that American agriculture is probably one of the most important seg-
ments of our society, and we're going to keep agriculture in America strong
under President Ford for the next 4 years.
I think a few of you may have heard the debate last night. I'm not going to
ask you who won, but I do want to repeat one or two things that I believe are
very important for us to remember.
Two years ago, in August, this country was in serious trouble. Today, we
2658
