July 22
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
CLEAN AIR ACT AMENDMENTS
The Administration favors legislation which would stabilize auto emission
standards at the levels specified by EPA for model year 1977 for three years and
imposes stricter standards for two years thereafter. With respect to significant
deterioration and stationary source standards, changes are needed to achieve a
better balance among environmental, energy and economic needs.
DEFENSE
Proposed changes to the Defense budget will be transmitted to the Congress
in a separate message. These changes will include revised authorization and
appropriation requests. These changes will:
1. Request approval of vital Defense programs deleted in Congressional ac-
tion thus far.
2. Request deletion of unneeded increases the Congress added to the Defense
program.
3. Request approval of a series of legislative proposals which would produce
major economies without impairing our national defense capabilities.
In addition to changes in the Defense budget, the Congress should enact the
following legislation.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION APPROPRIATION AUTHORIZATION, FISCAL YEAR 1977
This legislation authorizes fiscal year 1977 appropriations for new construc-
tion for Defense, the military departments and the Reserve Components. On
July 2, 1976, H.R. 12384 was vetoed because it contained a provision which
would have seriously restricted the Executive's ability to carry out certain mili-
tary base closures and reductions. Congress should reenact this otherwise accept-
able legislation without the objectionable base closure provision.
UNIFORMED SERVICES RETIREMENT MODERNIZATION ACT
The Administration's legislation proposes substantial revisions to the uni-
formed services nondisability retirement system designed to increase its effec-
tiveness both as an element of the compensation system and as an element of
the personnel management system. These revisions would be phased in grad-
ually with appropriate provisions for saved-pay. Major features of the proposal
include:
-increased multipliers for members with long service (over 24 years).
—an early retirement annuity for members who retire short of a full career
2069
