September 16
[787]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we will board a Mississippi river boat, the Natchez, and we will go on a river-
boat trip from that point in Louisiana down to New Orleans, spend the night
in New Orleans. And on Sunday, the 26th, we will drive from New Orleans
through Mississippi, through Alabama, and we will get to Florida Sunday night,
the 26th. And we will stay overnight in Florida that night, and on the following
Monday morning, I will speak to the National Association of Police Chiefs,
in Miami, I believe.
I think this is the best evidence that what I said, I meant—that we would
have a national campaign; we were going to seek full support from the States
in the South. And here, alongside of me, are the Republican State chairmen
from those Southern States.
We have with us Paula Unruh, the State chairman of the State of Oklahoma.
But before I leave-and Paula and the others will answer questions-let me just
say we will see you on the boat.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:29 p.m. to reporters
assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
Following the President's remarks, a news
briefing on the meeting was held for reporters by
Charles Pickering, Mississippi State Republican
chairman, Paula Unruh, Oklahoma State Republican
chairman, and Harry Dent, adviser for Southern
politics, President Ford Committee.
787
Remarks at the Bicentennial Dinner of the Italian-American
Foundation. September 16, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Jeno. Senator John Pastore, Congressman Pete
Rodino, Congressman Dominick Daniels, Judge Sirica, reverend clergy, dis-
tinguished platform guests, ladies and gentlemen:
First, let me thank the members of the Italian-American Foundation and your
national chairman, Jeno Paulucci, for inviting me to be a part of this very special
evening. In many ways, my good friend Jeno Paulucci symbolizes the magic
of America. His first great success was a company called Chun King. What
could be more American than a business built on a good Italian recipe for
chop suey? [Laughter]
This Bicentennial dinner pays tribute to the extraordinary contribution Italian
Americans have made to our country. The men you are honoring tonight are
the distinguished offspring of a culture that was once transplanted, but is now
deeply rooted in American soil to the benefit of all Americans.
Long before we were a nation, Italians began making new lives for themselves
in America as teachers, merchants, craftsmen, artists, musicians, and writers.
2259
