September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
programs, there would not be anything more than a surplus of $5 billion by 1981.
Conservative estimates of your programs would be that they'd be about $85 to
$100 billion. So, how do you say that you are going to be able to do these things
and balance the budget?
MR. CARTER. Well, the assumption that you have described that's different
is in the rate of growth of our economy.
Ms. DREW. No, they took that into account in those figures.
MR. CARTER. I believe that it's accurate to say that the committees to whom
you refer, with the employment rate that you state and with the 5 to 5½ percent
growth rate in our economy, that the projections would be a $60 billion in-
crease in the amount of money that we have to spend in 1981 compared to
now.
And in that framework would be fit any improvements in the programs.
Now, this does not include any extra control over unnecessary spending, the
weeding out of obsolete or obsolescent programs. We will have a safety version
built in with complete reorganization of the executive branch of Government,
which I am pledged to do.
The present bureaucratic structure of the Federal Government is a mess.
And if I am elected President, that's going to be a top priority of mine-to
completely revise the structure of the Federal Government to make it eco-
nomical, efficient, purposeful, and manageable for a change. And also, I am
going to institute zero-base budgeting, which I used 4 years in Georgia, which
assesses every program every year and eliminates those programs that are
obsolete or obsolescent.
But with these projections we will have a balanced budget by fiscal year
1981 if I am elected President, keep my promises to the American people. And
it's just predicated on very modest, but I think accurate, projections of employ-
ment increases and a growth in our national economy equal to what was ex-
perienced under Kennedy, Johnson, before the Vietnam war.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. If it is true that there will be a $60 billion surplus by fiscal
year 1981, rather than spend that money for all the new programs that Gover-
nor Carter recommends and endorses and which are included in the Demo-
cratic platform, I think the American taxpayer ought to get an additional tax
break, a tax reduction of that magnitude. I feel that the taxpayers are the
ones that need the relief. I don't think we should add additional programs of
the magnitude that Governor Carter talks about.
It seems to me that our tax structure today has rates that are too high. But I am
2289
