[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
ernor, in specific terms what your first step would be next January, if you are
elected, to achieve that?
MR. CARTER. Yes. First of all it's to recognize the tremendous economic
strength of this country and to set the putting back to work of our people as a
top priority. This is an effort that ought to be done primarily by strong leader-
ship in the White House, the inspiration of our people, the tapping of business,
agriculture, industry, labor, and government at all levels to work on this project.
We will never have an end to the inflationary spiral, and we will never have a
balanced budget until we get our people back to work.
There are several things that can be done specifically that are not now being
done: first of all, to channel research and development funds into areas that
will provide large numbers of jobs; secondly, we need to have a commitment in
the private sector to cooperate with government in matters like housing. Here,
a very small investment of taxpayers' money in the housing field can bring large
numbers of extra jobs, in the guarantee of mortgage loans, in the putting for-
ward of 202 programs for housing for older people and so forth, to cut down the
roughly 20-percent unemployment that now exists in the construction industry.
Another thing is to deal with our needs in the central cities where the unem-
ployment rate is extremely high-sometimes among minority groups, those who
don't speak English or who are black or young people-a 40-percent unemploy-
ment. Here, a CCC [Civilian Conservation Corps]-type program would be
appropriate, to channel money into the sharing with private sector and also
local and State governments to employ young people who are now out of work.
Another very important aspect of our economy would be to increase produc-
tion in every way possible, to hold down taxes on individuals, and to shift the
tax burdens on to those who have avoided paying taxes in the past.
These kinds of specific things, none of which are being done now, would be
a great help in reducing unemployment.
There is an additional factor that needs to be done and covered very succinctly,
and that is to make sure that we have a good relationship between management,
business on the one hand and labor on the other.
In a lot of places where unemployment is very high, we might channel
specific, targeted job opportunities by paying part of the salary of unemployed
people and also sharing with local governments the payment of salaries, which
would let us cut down the unemployment rate much lower before we hit the
inflationary level.
But I believe that by the end of the first 4 years of the next term, we could
have the unemployment rate down to 3 percent-adult unemployment-which
2284
