July 30
[704]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
where I think the Congress has done badly, any candidate that embraces that
legislative record is vulnerable, and he must be held to account.
A good many people have said to me, “Well, Governor Carter, what philoso-
phy does he have?" I have not really been able to detect any uniformity in philos-
ophy-[laughter]—except when he selected Senator Mondale as his running
mate and indicated there was a high degree of compatibility ideologically.
[Laughter] I think it identified very clearly that his views are those fundamen-
tally of Senator Mondale. Some time—just for interesting reading—I suggest that
you look at the voting record of Senator Mondale. I have some suspicion that
that voting record would not coincide with the philosophy of the people of
Mississippi.
So, to sum it up, we will campaign affirmatively and vigorously. We will
identify the voting record, the philosophy of our opponents, and we will work
to help elect more Republicans from the courthouse to the statehouse to the Con-
gress. And I am absolutely convinced that we can win in November, and I will
give 110 percent in that regard.
Betty and I again thank you all very, very much. We have just had a great time.
We appreciate your hospitality.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:05 p.m. in the Empire Room at the Ramada Inn. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Clarke Reed, Mississippi State Republican chairman.
704
Exchange With Reporters in Jackson, Mississippi.
July 30, 1976
WE HAD a wonderful day and, I think, a very successful one.
REPORTER. Do you think you have got the Mississippi delegation now in your
chest pocket, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I would never categorize my visit in those terms. We had a
good day, very successful, a warm welcome. It could not have been better.
Q. Mr. President, do you have to have the Mississippi 30 delegates to get the
nomination, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. We had more than 1,130 10 days ago. We are very, very opti-
mistic about additional votes in the Mississippi delegation. We have more
delegates today than we had 10 days ago.
Q. Why did you find it necessary to come here, sir, then?
THE PRESIDENT. I like the people of Mississippi.
2111
