October 27
[974]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
society, and I congratulate you. You serve without pay, but you carry tremen-
dous responsibilities for the betterment of America. I think you do a great job.
Congratulations.
You and all the school board members represent really the essence of democ-
racy. For young Americans, you represent the first contact that they have with
formal government. School board members, elected or chosen under the system
in each community responsible for the education of young people within that
community, are fundamental and unique to our country's system of education.
The local control that you represent is not only an American tradition, it makes
awfully good sense.
Educational problems, as well as educational priorities, are different not only
between States but within individual States. Firsthand experience gives you
the special sensitivity to understand the concerns of the people that you represent
and to respond to them in an affirmative way.
You may remember how I dealt with a recent Federal ruling that would
have prohibited father and son, mother and daughter school events. Let me
assure you, I will stay on guard against such unwarranted Federal instrusion
into community affairs. I am a firm believer—and have been all of my political
life-in local control of community schools. The course of American education
must be chartered in our Nation's communities, not in Washington, D.C.
In the past decade, America has responded to the problems of education
with a wide variety of Federal programs designed to meet special and specific
needs through assistance to State and local school agencies. Each new program
was aimed at educational problems of particular segments of our population.
As a result, the proliferation of narrow, categorical programs has caused con-
fusion, duplication, as well as waste. Local citizens and administrators are
buried under an avalanche of forms, applications, and reports, generated by no
less than 110 separate and frequently overlapping Federal aid to education
programs.
I think it is unbelievable—and I certainly understand those hard-working
administrators—but it must seem to them as if the explosion of knowledge is
only exceeded by the explosion of paperwork. [Laughter]
As President, the first piece of major legislation that I signed, shortly over
2 years ago, was the Omnibus Education Act. It improved the distribution of
Federal education funds. It unclogged the administration of Federal education
programs.
Earlier this month, I was very pleased to sign the Education Amendments
of 1976. These amendments will make it possible for State and local school
2725
