[734]
August 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
734
Remarks at a Republican National Committee Breakfast in
Kansas City. August 20, 1976
Ray and Bob and Elizabeth, all the wonderful people here from the national
committee:
I talked a little long last night, and I have got to save my voice for Russell,
Kansas. [Laughter] But I did want to say a few things.
Ray was mentioning some of our past relationships with the national com-
mittee, and Ray became national chairman in 1965. We went through some real
tough times rebuilding in 1965–1966, and because we all stuck together and
worked together, we came back magnificently in 1966 and laid the groundwork
for the success of 1968.
As Bob was speaking, I couldn't help but reminisce a bit in my mind. Back
in January of 1965, I had the audacity to challenge for the Republican leadership.
And I can recall Bob coming in with three other very important and influential
Members of the House of Representatives from Kansas, and I did my utmost to
sell them on why I should be the minority leader. They went out—no commit-
ment. They are pretty cozy negotiators. [Laughter] But anyhow, the next day
or 2, we had the vote, and I won by the landslide margin of 73 to 67. Ever
since then Dole has been saying Kansas did it. [Laughter]
But then that also was a very distinct part of the momevent that we have
followed in trying to rebuild the party and to make it the kind of a party that
not only holds the White House but holds the city hall, the courthouse, state-
house, and the Congress of the United States.
We had a tough process, as all of you know, in going through the day-to-day
operations. I was very pleased to have an opportunity to meet a number of you
who served on the rules committee or the platform committee. I was just over-
whelmed by the tremendous warmth and reception of last night.
I think we have conducted ourselves here in Kansas City in a superb way.
The impression the American people will have will be that of a party that is
able to compete, able to work out responsibly and properly compromises that
are needed and necessary. We can act like real zealots but also great Americans.
I think we ought to take a look at some of the things the national committee
can do between now and 1980. And let me assure you, Ray and Mary Louise,¹
my past interest in and support for the national committee will not fade away.
Mary Louise Smith, Republican National Committee chairman.
2164
