January 18
[1072]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that the United States will continue to provide leadership in solving the critical
issues of today and the unforeseen developments of tomorrow.
The White House,
January 18, 1977.
NOTE: The President's message, together with the
annual report of the Council on International Eco-
nomic Policy, is printed in the "International Eco-
GERALD R. FORD
nomic Report of the President, Transmitted to the
Congress January 1977" (Government Printing
Office, 194 pp.).
1072
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Airline Industry
Regulatory Reform Legislation. January 18, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Solving the airport noise problem is an environmental imperative for the
millions of Americans who live in neighborhoods around our major airports.
One reason U.S. commercial airlines have been unable to meet FAA noise
standards is that some airlines could not afford to under the regulatory con-
straints of the present regulatory system.
On October 21, 1976, therefore, I took the following action:
First, I directed the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to
promulgate a regulation requiring domestic commercial aircraft to meet Federal
Noise standards in accordance with a phased-in time schedule, not to exceed
eight years.
Second, I put Congress on notice that my aviation regulatory reform proposal
of 1975, which they had failed to pass, would be resubmitted in January, 1977.
On January 13, 1977, I submitted to the Congress a separate message outlining
my recommendations for major aviation regulatory reform. Only by enactment
of these recommendations can we achieve long-term financial strength in the air-
line industry necessary to meet these and future noise requirements.
Third, I directed Secretary Coleman to hold public hearings and report to me
on whether further financing arrangements might be necessary to ensure that
all U.S. carriers can meet the noise standards within the prescribed time schedule.
The Department of Transportation has now issued a comprehensive statement
on Aviation Noise Abatement Policy; the Federal Aviation Administration pub-
lished on December 23, 1976, regulations responding to my directive; and the
2959
