August 19
[730]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
platform. They have embraced the record of the Democratic Congress. Both are
very vulnerable, and I don't think they coincide with the views, the philosophy
of the American people today. And we are going to go out and campaign against
them as candidates, against the Democratic platform, and against the Demo-
cratic congressional record. And I think the American people will support us
and defeat them.
Q. Will you debate Jimmy Carter, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. We don't rule it out.
Q. Mr. President, you haven't said whether you have or have not made up
your mind yet about a Vice-Presidential candidate.
THE PRESIDENT. I have not.
Q. Can you tell us who is on your Vice-Presidential list?
THE PRESIDENT. I will tell you who the choice is tomorrow.
Q. What time?
THE PRESIDENT. How early do you want it? [Laughter]
Q. Now. It is past 2 a.m.
THE PRESIDENT. We will advise you at the appropriate time.
Q. Mr. Reagan, do you consider your philosophy almost identical with that
of the President?
GOVERNOR Reagan. I think basically it has to be pretty much the same philos-
ophy-as I said it was when I picked Senator Schweicker—or we wouldn't be in
the same party. I think there are differences. I think we have different approaches
to a number of things but, I think, basically, a basic philosophy, yes.
Q. Would you be willing to serve in the Ford administration?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. I had the honor of having that offered to me once and
turned it down because there was something else that I thought I would rather
do. And I still believe that I would rather take up again what I was doing
before I became a candidate, which was in the communications field.
Q. If the convention were to draft you, sir, would you reject any move by
the convention?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. Well, I just said that that is a hypothetical question. I
haven't seen any signs of such a thing happening. I will answer when I see
any such signs.
Q. As hard as this campaign has been fought, do you think you would have
any trouble selling Mr. Reagan to the American people, I mean, as bitterly as
you have contested him?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think our fight has been a bitter one. It has been a
very hotly contested campaign. I happen to think the campaign was beneficial.
2151
