October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
reaffirms and further defines the concept of multiple-use, sustained-yield man-
agement and outlines policies and procedures for land management planning
in the National Forest System. Emphasis throughout the act is on a balanced
consideration of all resources in the land management process.
Of equal importance, this act guarantees the public full opportunity to par-
ticipate in national forest land and resource planning. Finally, it recognizes the
importance of scientific research and cooperation with State and local govern-
ments and private landowners in achieving wise use and management of the
Nation's forest resources.
In my consideration of this legislation, a statement made in 1907 by Gifford
Pinchot, the first Chief Forester of the Forest Service, was brought to my
attention. Mr. Pinchot said:
There are many great interests in the National forests which sometimes
conflict a little. They must all be fit into one another so that the machine runs
smoothly as a whole. It is often necessary for one man to give way a little
here, another a little there. But by giving way a little at the present, they
both profit by it a great deal in the end.
This National Forest Management Act of 1976 is the product of diverse and
often conflicting interests. Officials of the Department of Agriculture and its
Forest Service, conservation organizations, the timber industry, labor, profes-
sional foresters, and Members of Congress have worked for months to develop
sound legislation. The Nation has profited as a result of their efforts. On
balance, I find this act to be a reasonable compromise of the many competing
interests which affect the National Forest System.
Therefore, in this Bicentennial Year of our Nation and in this centennial
year of Federal forestry, I am very pleased to sign into law S. 3091, the National
Forest Management Act of 1976.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3091, approved October 22, 1976, is Public Law 94-588 (90 Stat. 2949).
947
Presidential Campaign Debate of
October 22, 1976
THE MODERATOR. Good evening, I am Barbara Walters, moderator of the last
of the debates of 1976 between Gerald R. Ford, Republican candidate for
President, and Jimmy Carter, Democratic candidate for President.
Welcome, President Ford, welcome, Governor Carter, and thank you for
joining us this evening.
2621
