[739]
August 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment fiscal assistance trust fund in the Department of the Treasury has been
increased by $1.4 million.
The details of each revised deferral are contained in the attached reports.
The White House,
August 24, 1976.
NOTE: The text of the message was released at
Vail, Colo.
The attachments detailing the revised deferrals
GERALD R. FORD
are printed in the Federal Register of August 30,
1976 (41 FR 36614).
740
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters in Vail, Colorado. August 25, 1976
I HAVE several very important announcements this morning.
First, I have coming in on Thursday afternoon for a working dinner and a
working session on Friday, Vice President Rockefeller, Senator Dole, and John
Connally. As I said, we will have a working dinner on Thursday night. We will
have a working session on Friday morning, and there will be an announcement
following their appearance here at Vail on that occasion.
Number two, I am announcing that Dean Burch and Bill Ruckelshaus will
represent me as my negotiators for these debates. As I said yesterday, I think time
is of the essence. We feel very, very strongly that there should be a debate as
early as possible—the 8th or 9th or 10th of September-and the subject matters,
of course, were the ones I announced yesterday. But Dean Burch and Bill
Ruckelshaus will represent me in the negotiations with the Carter people or any
of the others.
The final announcement this morning involves some changes in the President
Ford Committee. First, I would like to thank Rog Morton for doing a superb
job under very difficult circumstances. He has been loyal, he has been dedicated,
he has been effective, and I can't thank him enough for the fine job that he has
done.
I am announcing this morning that Rog will take over the chairmanship of a
very important steering committee. The membership of that steering commit-
tee will be announced within the next few days, but Rog will be chairman of it.
The head of the PFC will be Jim Baker. Jim, as you know, was a very accu-
rate counter in the preconvention process. Jim has demonstrated to me a very
2176
