[1061]
January 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
1061
Remarks Upon Presenting the Presidential Medal of
Freedom to Henry A. Kissinger. January 13, 1977
Mr. Ambassador, Mr. Vice President, Secretary Kissinger, Mr. Secretary-General,
ladies and gentlemen:
Both Mrs. Ford and myself are deeply grateful for the invitation to participate
in this farewell reception in honor of my very close and personal friend, the
Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger.
During the tenure of the Secretary of State, we have had many tasks, many
challenges, many problems involving the building of a better world. While I
will not suggest what might have been, it is my judgment that Henry's legacy
provides rich testimony to his wisdom, to his brilliance in working toward
solutions to some of the most difficult problems in our postwar history.
The United States, the world is greatly indebted to this superior person. I
believe I speak for all of us when I say that Secretary Kissinger, whom we are
honoring tonight, we have been impressed by our association with him on a
personal basis, impressed by his intellect and his insight, and thankful for his
mighty efforts for the cause of peace for mankind on a worldwide basis. He is,
so far as this American is concerned, the greatest Secretary of State in the history
of our Republic. His superb record of achievement is unsurpassed in the annals
of American history.
But let me mention just a few examples: the agreement that brought our men
home from Vietnam; the historic beginning of our relationship with the Peo-
ple's Republic of China; the foundation and the first building blocks of the
strategic arms limitation talks; the turning point in the modern history of the
Middle East, and the first steps toward peace; the breakthrough toward peaceful
settlement in southern Africa; the closest friendship among the North Atlantic
allies in a generation; the linking of Japan, our permanent friend, into the com-
munity of the industrial democracies; the new dialog with Latin America; the
Seventh Special Session of the U.N. General Assembly, a milestone in world
economic history.
In every case Secretary Kissinger has worked mightily for peace, and in
every case the cause of peace has been advanced by his efforts. He led the way in
awakening the industrialized nations, the industrialized world, to the changes
that must be made if the poor of the world are to know hope and prosperity. He
has been the architect of a new and productive relationship with our adversaries.
2930
