September 26
[816]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the crime problem solved, and we are making headway in that regard. We want
the best health care for your people so they can afford what is available. There's
no reason why anybody in this country should go broke just to get well.
And as I look at the next 4 years and see what you have done in Mississippi,
what they have done in 49 other States, what 215 million Americans can do
working together, I'm a tremendous optimist. On the Fourth of July of this
year, we celebrated our 200th birthday. It was a great occasion. And the net
result is there's a new spirit in America—a spirit of togetherness, a spirit of
enthusiasm.
We have the most wonderful opportunity in the next 4 years to lay the foun-
dation for a great third century. We'll do it working together. And I want the
opportunity to be your President during that period of time.
Can I ask you one question? I want, of course, you to reelect Trent Lott and
Thad Cochran. You should do it for yourself, but also for your country. But let
me ask you one other question. Jerry Ford wants your vote. Can I get it down
here in Biloxi?
Thank you very much. It's great to be here. We've had a wonderful day. I
thank you from the bottom of my heart. Good luck, and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:25 p.m. at Mavar's
Cannery. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Representative Trent Lott and Mayor Jerry O'Keefe
of Biloxi.
816
Remarks in Pascagoula, Mississippi. September 26, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Trent, Bill Colmer, Jack, Mr. Levy:
We've got a couple of good Alabamians here, Jack Edwards and Bear Bry-
ant-it is great to have them. And we are going into Alabama very shortly.
But let me say to the people of Mississippi, we started in Bay St. Louis, we
went to Gulfport, we went to Biloxi, and we are now here in Pascagoula. It's
been a wonderful day.
At the convention in Kansas City, I said that we would not concede a single
State, we would not concede a single vote, and that we would campaign from the
snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy soil of Georgia, And we are here, and we
are here to win.
It has been a great experience coming along the coast to see all the wonder-
ful recreation areas that you have where you can fish, where you can hunt,
where you can really spend a wonderful time after you work or go to school.
2337
