[674]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
PRESIDENT FORD'S DELEGATE SUPPORT
[15.] Q. Mr. President, what do you feel your major problems are now to
hold the nomination?
THE PRESIDENT. Getting a few more delegates.
Q. Where specifically are the problems?
THE PRESIDENT. There are around 100 uncommitted delegates on a pretty wide
geographical basis. Of course, Hawaii has 18, Mississippi has 30, and the others
are spread through a number of other States. So, we are going to make a maxi-
mum effort to convince individual delegates who are uncommitted as well as
those two major States that have not yet committed themselves.
U.S.-CHINA TRADE AGREEMENTS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, a question on international trade. The American
textile industry is very concerned about the increase in imports of textiles from
the People's Republic of China. They would like you to negotiate a bilateral
agreement with Peking. What is your view on that? Are you doing anything
about it?
THE PRESIDENT. I made a statement ยน about 3 months ago that fully covers that.
If you will refer back to that, it will give you a detailed answer.
SELECTION OF VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[17.] Q. Mr. President, can you share with us some of the criteria that you
will be using in selecting a Vice President? You have said here today that you
will choose the Vice-Presidential nominee only on his basis to become President
should something happen to you, but will there be other criteria as well?
The President. That is the principal one, of course, and any other criteria
would have to be secondary to that. But other criteria might be age, compatibility
with my own philosophy, the experience both in domestic and international
affairs. There are a whole raft of potential criteria that I think have to be put
into the formula.
Q. Let me ask you, if I can, then, about the process. As you know, Jimmy
Carter had a well-publicized audition, if you will, of various candidates. Will you
ask the people that you have in mind to meet with you either here at the White
House or a place of their choice so you can discuss with them their philosophy
of government and any personal differences that you may have?
THE PRESIDENT. Over the years I have done that with all or most of the people
1 See Item 260.
2036
