August 31
[746]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It will enable us to improve facilities and to increase dedicated personnel at
existing national parks. It will make available $200 million for urban parks,
bringing the benefits of nature to those who live in our communities. And
it will accelerate the development of parklands and sanctuaries now delayed
for lack of manpower and of money.
This national commitment is one of the soundest investments in the future
of America. We must act now to prevent the loss of treasures that can never be
replaced for ourselves, for our children, and for the generations in the future.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:57 p.m. at a ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
746
Special Message to the Congress Transmitting Proposed
Bicentennial Land Heritage Legislation. August 31, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today submitting to the Congress the Bicentennial Land Heritage Act.
This proposal establishes a 10-year national commitment to double America's
heritage of national parks, recreation areas, wildlife refuges, urban parks, and
historic sites. The Bicentennial Land Heritage Act would authorize and appro-
priate funds for the acquisition, improvement, rehabilitation, and maintenance
of the National Parks System and National Wildlife Refuge System and increase
grants to communities to improve park and recreation facilities.
Enactment of my proposal would establish a $1.5 billion program to:
-provide $141 million to be used to acquire lands for parks, wildlife refuges,
and recreation areas, and historic sites.
-provide $700 million to develop new and existing parklands and refuges
into recreation and conservation resources ready to serve the public.
-provide $459 million for upgrading and increased staffing for the national
parks and wildlife refuges systems.
-provide $200 million for grants to cities to upgrade present park areas in
disrepair.
This bill also contains a supplemental budget request for appropriations
totalling $1.32 billion for fiscal year 1977, $1.30 billion to remain available for
obligation until 1986.
The Bicentennial Land Heritage Program will significantly influence the
future of the 31-million acre National Park System. The System, with its 287
areas, contains outstanding natural features and historical sites. These areas often
2193
