January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to inflation. Since 1974 our dependence on imports, particularly from Arab na-
tions, has grown by a million barrels per day, so that an interruption of supply
today would be even more disruptive of our economy than the 1973-74 embargo.
Another cost of energy dependence is the outflow of U.S. dollars to pay for
imported oil, totalling about $34 billion in 1976 or $160 for each American,
eleven times that in 1972.
Still another cost is the limitation on our freedom of action in international
affairs due to our vulnerability to the threat of another interruption.
Realistic Energy Goals
In my first State of the Union Message two years ago, I outlined a compre-
hensive energy program for the Nation with goals of:
-Halting our growing dependence on imported oil.
-Attaining energy independence by 1985 by achieving invulnerability to dis-
ruptions caused by oil embargoes, by reducing oil imports to between 3 and
5 million barrels per day with an accompanying ability to offset any supply
interruption with stored petroleum reserves and emergency standby
measures.
-Mobilizing our technological capability and resources to supply a significant
share of the free world's energy needs beyond 1985.
These goals do not mean that we should seek to eliminate all energy imports,
because generally it will be in the Nation's best interest to continue importing
energy when it can be obtained at lower cost-as long as we have the ability to
withstand interruptions of supply from insecure sources.
The goals do mean that we should reduce and then eliminate our vulnerability.
In the longer term, we should better use our resources and technological
capability to regain our ability to assure the reasonableness of energy prices.
Whether the date I set for achieving energy independence and the level of
imports I proposed are realistic has been the subject of considerable debate. I
believe the goals could be attained if the Congress approved the critical legisla-
tion I proposed, but that is not the major point. The essential point now is that
we recognize that our excessive dependence and vulnerability are costly and that
it is in the Nation's best interest to solve the problem as soon as possible.
AVOIDING ILLUSIONS
A number of well-intentioned proposals have been advanced for dealing with
our energy problems which, when evaluated, are found to have far less potential
or merit than is claimed by their proponents. Four such proposals warrant spe-
2889
