September 26
[815]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
together celebrating America's 200th birthday—a great, great occasion-but we
are going to keep that upbeat moving.
We have to work together in the future to make America a better place for
our children and our grandchildren. It's an opportunity for all of us in Missis-
sippi and Michigan, Alaska and Florida, New York and California, to give to
us, and mainly to our children and grandchildren, the kind of America that
we inherited, but a better America. We will, and we will do it in the next 4
years and during the next 100 years.
I thank all of you for coming out here today. It is just wonderful.
Can I ask something else of you? On November 2, are you going to support
Jerry Ford?
Thank you, and we won't let you down. It's wonderful to be here. Thank you
very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. at the Main
Post Office. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Mayors Arthur Lang of Gulfport, Sam Maxwell of
Long Beach, and Steve Saucier of Pass Christian,
Miss.
815
Remarks in Biloxi, Mississippi. September 26, 1976
Trent, Congressman Thad Cochran, Mayor O'Keefe, my very, very good friend,
your former Governor and my colleague in the House of Representatives, John
Bell Williams, distinguished guests:
It is wonderful to be here in Biloxi. I thank you very, very much.
I love seafood. I just came from a wonderful seafood lunch, and despite what
some people say, nobody works harder than shrimp pickers. [Laughter]
When I was in Kansas City and making an acceptance speech, I made a
commitment. I will not concede a single State; I will not concede a single vote.
We are going to have a national campaign, and we are delighted to be down
here in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. We want your help, and
we are going to win.
I made another commitment. We were going to campaign from the snowy
banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia. And we are just started
because we want every one of the States in the South to be a part of the Ford
victory, and Mississippi can be number one. We want it that way.
As we drove across the great State of Mississippi this morning from New
Orleans, I could not help but see some of the greatest recreation areas that you
2335
