[820]
September 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
group and the Office of Consumer Affairs will provide technical support for the
development, dissemination and use of education and information provided by
the Federal Government to our schools and communities. It also prevents
duplication within that program. To further this work, each Department and
Agency shall support and participate to the extent they are charged with a
consumer education and information function. Further, I am directing my
Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs to coordinate this activity, encourage the
participation of independent agencies outside the immediate Executive Branch
Departments and Agencies, and provide me with an annual summary of the
Federal Government's efforts in the area of consumer education and information.
6. To meet a special need of an important segment of our population, each
Department and Agency shall cooperatively make every effort in regional and
field offices to have available bilingual personnel, fluent in an appropriate
language for the non-English speaking consumers who are regularly in need of
contact with that office. Similar efforts shall be made, as appropriate, by head-
quarters offices in Washington, D.C. When a policy matter significantly affecting
these segments of our population in their role as a consumer is proposed, Depart-
ments and Agencies shall make extra effort to reach these citizens through
multi-lingual notices and all other appropriate means.
7. In order to assure dialogue on specific and general consumer concerns
throughout the country, the Federal Executive Boards and the Federal Regional
Councils shall establish, as appropriate, programs to help assure Federal liaison
with individual consumers, as well as community and State and local consumer
organizations. I am directing my Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs, in
coordination with the Office of Management and Budget, to develop guidelines
for this effort within thirty days.
8. After reviewing the functions of the Office of Consumer Affairs in the
Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and the Consumer Information
Center in the General Services Administration, I have decided each of their
strengths in serving the consumer interest would be enhanced by a more con-
solidated approach. Therefore, I am directing my staff to seek methods that
will strengthen that relationship, and to seek to accommodate the consolida-
tion of staff, resources and functions of the Consumer Information Center with
the Office of Consumer Affairs.
I believe these eight actions universally applied across the Executive Branch
will enhance the Consumer Representation Plans which follow. The plans are,
at this point, policy statements, and I am instructing each Department and
Agency, where they have not done so, to implement them at once. In addition,
2352
