October 13
[888]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
888
Statement on Signing the Education Amendments of 1976.
October 13, 1976
I HAVE approved S. 2657, the Education Amendments of 1976. I have done so
with some reluctance, because parts of the legislation are unwise and others con-
tain authorization levels which we cannot realistically expect to meet. I have
signed the legislation, however, because of the positive elements it contains and
because most of its worst elements are readily susceptible to corrective legisla-
tion in the next session of Congress.
S. 2657 makes a number of positive changes to our education laws. I applaud
the steps taken toward program consolidation in the Vocational Education
Amendments. This is fully consistent with my broader effort to achieve con-
solidation of educational programs. I hope the incentives provided in this bill to
increase State participation in the Guaranteed Student Loan program will fulfill
their potential, and that the experimental program which consolidates at the
State level the student application process of the Federal Basic Educational Op-
portunity Grant program with that of similar State grant programs will demon-
strate the merit of returning such responsibilities to the State and local level.
Numerous administration initiatives designed to curb fraud and abuse in
student assistance programs, particularly the Guaranteed Student Loan pro-
gram, were adopted. Other needed administration recommendations to reduce
sex-stereotyping in vocational education programs were also adopted.
However, I particularly regret the inclusion of the so-called trigger mechanism,
which operates to divert funds from student assistance to clearly undesirable
forms of institutional assistance, which the Congress itself has not recently
funded in a substantial way.
In raising the maximum Basic Educational Opportunity Grant from $1,400
to $1,800, effective in the 1978-79 school year, the Congress may well have con-
tinued its penchant for promising more than we can responsibly provide. I am
committed to the basic grant program, but I could not at this time reasonably
expect that in 2 years we could fully fund this program at the new level.
There are other features in the bill which, I believe, are objectionable and
which should be changed.
Although it is generally the practice of Congress to consider and pass major
educational legislation only when the previous authorizing legislation termi-
nates, I would ask that such not be the case with this legislation. S. 2657 has
serious deficiencies. I intend to forward to the first session of the 95th Congress
2501
