[900]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Martha and I, as well as Betty, decided that we wouldn't try to pin this medal
on her tonight, but we did think you might like to see it, and it will be hers. And
we are honored that you're here, and it's a great tribute to you. And all Ameri-
cans are deeply grateful for your many, many contributions, Martha.
MISS GRAHAM. Mr. President and my dear, very dear Betty, this is an over-
whelming moment, and there is very little to say even if you have an Irish tongue
that my grandmother said was hung in the middle. [Laughter]
It's a little difficult for me to talk on such an occasion, but America has stood
with me. I did not leave; I did not go to any country until I felt I had something
to say from here, and there is one woman here tonight who gave me my first
chance. She signed a conote. She was a comaker on a bank, the National City
Bank. Her name is Frances Steloff.
I had to have two comakers, and then I paid it off. And it was $1,000, and it
was a tremendous amount of money. And then, about 2 years later, I had only
one comaker. Then I didn't have to have any. And then, finally when I didn't
borrow any more, they came and asked me why I didn't borrow. [Laughter]
But when the President said this lady had said, “How long will you keep this
up, Martha?"—it is dreadful, dreadful. She had seen me in Denis-Shawn ¹ during
the floating period. And I am deeply grateful to that period, but time does not
stand still. She said this to me. I said, “I will keep it up as long as I have an
audience."
I am dependent on those people to support me, and I can only say that they
have, individually and my Government. And I am so happy about your news to-
night and your endowment of the arts, because there is a saying in Asia, “They
had no poet so they died." In other words, the city, the country had no one to
sing or to dance their imagination and their dreams and their faith, so they dis-
appeared from the memory of man.
And I like to feel that those of us who are dancers have contributed toward
a singing voice that will go on for a long time, and this is the first wonderful
big step, and I thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. May I offer a toast on behalf of Betty and myself to our super-
star and a person that truly deserves the Medal of Freedom-Martha Graham.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:13 p.m. at a ceremony in the State Dining Room at the White House.
1 Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, American dancers and choreographers.
2536
