[1034]
December 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
well as to the Nation. The staging of an exposition requires substantial construc-
tion activity and produces a wide variety of other employment opportunities.
Expo '81 will attract tourists from across the Nation and around the world who
will also visit many of the other attractions throughout that beautiful part of
the country. This "world's fair," which will be held on the site of the Ontario
Motor Speedway on the outskirts of Los Angeles, will celebrate the 200th an-
niversary of the founding of the city of Los Angeles.
With the support of the American people and the residents of southern
California, Expo '81 will be a great success and a cornerstone marking the be-
ginning of America's third century. I look forward to having the opportunity
to visit Expo '81.
1035
Statement on the Death of Mayor Richard J. Daley of
Chicago. December 20, 1976
BETTY and I would like to express our sorrow over the unexpected death of
Richard J. Daley, mayor of the city of Chicago. Mayor Daley has been a domi-
nant force in American politics for many years. His career of public service at
the State and city level and his participation in national legislation and policies
reflect his strong belief in and dedication to the vitality of the American cities.
Though controversial at times, he has been a towering figure in the American
scene and will be long remembered by the people of Chicago, of Illinois, and of
the Nation.
NOTE: Mr. Daley was mayor of Chicago from 1955
until his death.
Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller served as
Personal Representative of the President at funeral.
services in Chicago on December 22, 1976.
The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
1036
Statement on the Oil Spill Off the Coast of
Massachusetts. December 22, 1976
I AM deeply concerned by the serious threats to New England's shoreline,
wildlife, marine resources, and fishing industry, posed by the oil spill off the
coast of southeastern Massachusetts.
I have directed Federal agencies to do all that is possible to contain the slick,
2876
