October 28
[981]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
most of my time in the last 2 years working for peace, and I am determined to
keep America out of war in the next 4 years.
And what does that mean? That means that America's young people, like the
many young people I see in this great audience here today, can go to school and
get a good education. That means they can plan their careers confidently, buy
a home, raise a family, and look forward to a great life.
I pledge, as I said a moment ago, that in the next 4 years, because we are
strong militarily, because we are skillful diplomatically, that America will be at
peace, and we will keep it that way. Thank you for that support on that key
issue.
But here in this great part of southern Ohio, you make a substantial contribu-
tion to our military weaponry that is so essential. I refer here to the contribution
to the B-1 bomber program where GE puts those engines together so we can
have replacements for our aging B-52's. We need the B-1. There is no right—it
would not be fair to send our young pilots in the years ahead to do a job for you
and for me in an aircraft, a weapons system that is older than they are, and that
won't be the case under President Ford.
We not only have to keep ourselves strong militarily and skillful diplomat-
ically, we have to keep our economy strong. I know Ohio believes, as I do, in
growth and in progress. I announced this morning at the airport a very impor-
tant decision, which is particularly important to southern Ohio. My new policy
is designed to keep America number one in the nuclear energy field in order to
maintain our world leadership in that area. We must maintain our position as
a major reliable supplier of fuel for nuclear power, not only in the United States
but around the world.
The diffusion plant near Portsmouth, Ohio, has played a leading role in sup-
plying enriched uranium for electric powerplants in the United States and for
the rest of the world. Last May, I announced that we will build an add-on plant
in Portsmouth, Ohio. The Energy Research and Development Agency [Admin-
istration] is now asking for bids for further design work on this add-on plant.
The construction-listen to this-the construction on this important addition
at Portsmouth is to begin next year, early 1977. This is a $4,400 million con-
struction project, and it means 6,000 construction jobs right here in southern
Ohio.
America needs more good productive jobs like that created by a healthy, grow-
ing economy. My policies have brought up America from the depths of its
worst recession in 40 years, and with your support we can continue the march to
a sound and sustainable prosperity. With your support, I will continue the
2753
