[930]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
inflation, allow interest rates to drop, and restrain pressures for increases in
housing costs. Further evidence that these policies are succeeding is provided by
the recently announced reduction in the interest rate on mortgage loans in-
sured or guaranteed by the Federal Government. This rate is now lower than
it has been since April 1975, making it easier for middle-income families to
become homeowners. I have also recommended reductions in downpayment
requirements on FHA-insured loans.
4. Transportation. There must be swift and convenient transportation within
and into our cities and communities. We have provided several billion dollars
in Federal funds as our part in the working partnership with State and local
governments to provide urban transportation.
5. Crime. I am determined to lead a Federal, State, local, and community
effort to make the streets and homes of America safe for every man, woman,
and child. We must get the career criminals off the streets and into jails. We can
do this with the certain sentences for Federal crimes I have proposed to Congress
as a model for State and local governments. One of my top priorities in the first
100 days of the new term will be to rally all America behind Federal anticrime
legislation.
6. Jobs. I am dedicated to the principle that every American who wants a job
can find a job. Millions of Americans have been trained through the CETA pro-
gram and other Federal programs, but we need to do more. Last January, I
proposed a job creation program in high unemployment areas, but Congress
failed to act. We must also find a way to provide for young Americans the
training and experience they need to practice a trade or a craft or a practical
business skill. We must put all of America to work.
7. Education. The goal of my administration is a quality education for every
young American. We need reforms in Federal and State education procedures
to make certain that teachers can spend more time teaching instead of filling
out government forms. We need diversity and competition in education. We
need to preserve our nonpublic schools and to make our public schools better.
8. Neighborhoods. My policy toward the cities recognizes and will build
upon a great source of strength: the rich variety of urban neighborhoods—
neighborhoods where Americans have built family, personal, cultural, eco-
nomic, religious, and political relationships that form true communities. This
is the American tradition at its best. And we will work with citizen groups
throughout the country to preserve and improve the quality of life in these
neighborhoods.
9. Vigorous Economy. Most of all, our cities and neighborhoods need a
2600
