[778]
September 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
The thrust of the speech in Ann Arbor will be, first, to point out that in the
last 2 years we faced some tough problems. We have restored trust in the White
House; we have turned the economy around, we are going in the right direc-
tion; and, finally, we have achieved peace, and we have the capability and the
will to maintain it. But now that we have consolidated the situation here at
home and abroad, it's my intention to point out the vision and the road that
we will take in the next 4 years under a Ford administration.
We will talk about the domestic problems-jobs, homeownership, better
health, better crime control, more recreation, better education-and then we will
point out some of the things that we are doing and must do in the area of foreign
policy.
MR. BROKAW. That's a pretty full menu, Mr. President. Will there be new,
specific proposals from the Ford administration unveiled tomorrow night?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there will be some surprises, but I hesitate to pre-
empt it, Tom, this morning. We want a little interest coming tomorrow in Ann
Arbor.
MR. BROKAW. You don't want to hesitate too much. We would be glad to have
you share it here on the "Today" show.
THE PRESIDENT. We will try. You better make sure that you have your people
out there.
[2.] MR. BROKAW. I think there is a fair chance we will have you covered
there, probably.
PRESIDENTIAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND CAMPAIGN SCHEDULE
Mr. President, there has been, as you know, some criticism of your campaign
schedule so far. What happens after Ann Arbor? Do you come back to the
White House and be very Presidential again, appearing in the Rose Garden
signing bills and appearing in the various forms that remind everyone that you
are the Chief Executive?
THE PRESIDENT. Tom, I feel that I have a very important obligation to stay
in Washington primarily as long as Congress is in session. We have to balance
the activity, or lack of activity, in the Congress with the responsibility of being
President.
Somebody has to be in the Nation's Capital to make sure that the Congress
doesn't go off on the deep end. And of course, the American people expect their
President, while he is in office, to primarily carry out Presidential responsibilities.
When we do have an opportunity, following the time when Congress adjourns,
we certainly will be campaigning. But right now, with Congress in session, it
2242
