[667]
July 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
economy measures or to provide the additional funds necessary would mean a
severely unbalanced defense program, which would be unacceptable.
I am determined that the U.S. national security be fully adequate. It is up to
the Congress to act promptly to provide the necessary funds.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (H.R. 12438), approved July 14, 1976, is Public Law 94-361 (90 Stat. 923).
668
Remarks of Welcome to Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of
the Federal Republic of Germany. July 15, 1976
Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Schmidt, ladies and gentlemen:
I am delighted to welcome back to Washington a very steadfast ally, distin-
guished statesman, and an esteemed personal friend. Mr. Chancellor, the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany honors us through your presence in Washington as
we celebrate our 200th anniversary of our independence.
Throughout the United States the Bicentennial celebrations of 1976 have re-
kindled our traditional optimism, strengthened our national unity and our pride
as a people, and generated a new spirit of confidence and inspiration as we look
to the challenges of America's third century.
Mr. Chancellor, as the American adventure continues to unfold for us, we are
ever more mindful that we live in an interdependent world. Accordingly, we at-
tach the greatest importance to our international responsibilities. The United
States takes immense satisfaction in having in the Federal Republic of Germany
a true friend and ally who shares our deep commitment to liberty, democracy,
and human freedom.
Just 30 years ago, the world had witnessed the development in Germany of a
democratic state which stands as a model of stability, social justice, and economic
well-being. Americans admire the achievements of the Federal Republic and the
vital role that you play within the Atlantic Alliance.
The close ties between our countries have this year been dramatically reaf-
firmed. On behalf of the American people, let me express to you, Mr. Chancel-
lor, our heartfelt appreciation for the Federal Republic's generous participation
in our Bicentennial anniversary. We are especially honored that over 4,000
events devoted to America's Bicentennial are being held in the Federal Republic
this year.
The Federal Republic has given exceptional Bicentennial gifts to several
American institutions. Among them is your establishment of the Albert Einstein
Spacearium of the Smithsonian's Air and Space Museum, which you will
2016
