October 1
[839]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Since the adoption of the National Environmental Policy Act, Americans have
made measurable progress in safeguarding, nurturing, and redeeming our nat-
ural heritage. Many other countries have joined in recognizing that misuse and
irresponsible exploitation of the globe threaten the well-being of humanity. Yet,
progress has been neither even nor universal.
A higher consciousness-even spiritual awareness—must evolve if humanity
is to live in harmony with nature. We are grateful that the process of awakening
has started.
In this first year of our third century, I am optimistic that growing American
recognition of the respect and reverence that we must accord to earth, water
and air will light the way to a new era. We must and will pass on to future
Americans the magnificent legacy of nature as well as our cherished heritage of
political freedom.
The White House,
October 1, 1976.
NOTE: The message is printed in the report entitled
"Environmental Quality, the Seventh Annual Report
GERALD R. FORD
of the Council on Environmental Quality-Septem-
ber 1976" (Government Printing Office, 378 pp.).
839
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
National Science Board. October 1, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress the eighth annual report of the Na-
tional Science Board, Science at the Bicentennial—A Report from the Research
Community.
This report reviews the history of research in the United States and sum-
marizes the results of a survey conducted by the Board in 1975 which sought
the opinions of research managers on the problems facing basic research in
universities, industry, Federal laboratories and nonprofit institutes.
The report reflects the pride of the research community in the tremendous
accomplishments resulting from the scientific research effort in the United
States, particularly since World War II. The report shows concern about a
number of problems facing research institutions in 1975. It also shows the ex-
pectations for many more contributions in the future from science-contribu-
tions which will be important to the strength and well-being of our Nation.
2383
