July 13
[665]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The exchanges are educational. By living here, you grow to understand us and
we learn to understand you. False impressions are corrected. In a very real sense
they help to relax international tensions. They are enjoyable for all concerned.
The best reason for you being here is the promise that you represent as the future
leaders of each of your countries, and I know that you will.
Over the years, while I was in the Congress and while I was Vice President
and while I have been President, I have had the great pleasure of visiting many
of the countries that you represent. In each of those countries, I have met men
and women in positions of high leadership who have experienced American life
through the American Field Service program. And I expect you to do the same.
Here at home in the United States, in our Congress, in our statehouses, in the
State legislatures, in local government, I met many, many young men and
women now serving our country who have lived abroad under the auspices
of the American Field Service. The result is, and will continue to be, the de-
velopment and fostering of an increased awareness of our interdependence.
As we in America enter our third century as a free nation, we are ever
cognizant of America's leadership responsibilities in global affairs. We, in the
United States, are totally committed to the cause of cooperation on an equal basis
between all nations, whatever their stage of development. The United States
bears a heavy, heavy responsibility to promote the stability upon which freedom
and peace depends. Therefore, we must provide you and young people every-
where the hope of a better future by mastering the great economic and social
problems—the social and economic challenges of building a new, equitable, and
productive relationship among all nations.
The problems faced by each of our countries have never been more inter-
related. We must unite in understanding that our greatest concerns cannot be
resolved by hasty actions aimed at short-term solutions. Instead, we have, and we
will continue to follow, a sure and steady course aimed at producing and pro-
viding long-range answers in dealing with such vital concerns as the economy,
the environment, energy, population growth, and arms reduction.
You have visited us here in America as we celebrate our Nation's 200th birth-
day. You have seen the fireworks, you have listened to the patriotic speeches,
you have watched the parades and looked on as we all considered the mean-
ing and the significance of our two centuries of independence.
But, fortunately, you have seen much more than displays and bell ringing.
You have seen a more important display-the reaffirmation of the traditional
American spirit of unity and solidarity. We have rediscovered that America has
2011
