[700]
July 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
700
Message to the Senate Transmitting United States-Soviet Treaty
and Protocol on the Limitation of Underground Nuclear
Explosions. July 29, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Treaty between the United States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Limitation of Underground Nuclear
Weapon Tests, and the Protocol thereto, referred to as the Threshold Test Ban
Treaty (TTB Treaty), and the Treaty between the United States of America and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on Underground Nuclear Explosions for
Peaceful Purposes, and the Protocol thereto (PNE Treaty). The TTBT was
signed in Moscow on July 3, 1974 and the PNE Treaty was signed in Washing-
ton and Moscow on May 28, 1976. For the information of the Senate, I transmit
also the detailed report of the Department of State on these Treaties.
These Treaties together establish procedures for the conduct of all under-
ground nuclear explosions by the United States and the Soviet Union. All nu-
clear explosions other than underground nuclear explosions are prohibited by
the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space
and Under Water (the Limited Test Ban Treaty) of 1963. The TTB Treaty
and PNE Treaty are the first agreements since the Limited Test Ban Treaty to
impose direct restraints on nuclear explosions by the Parties and, as such, con-
tribute to limiting nuclear arms competition.
These two Treaties represent approximately two years of intensive effort. Ne-
gotiation of the TTB Treaty began in the Spring of 1974 and was completed in
July of that year. However, the question of the relationship of underground nu-
clear explosions for peaceful purposes to limitations on nuclear weapon testing
was not then resolved. As a result, Article III of the TTB Treaty provided that
the Parties would negotiate and conclude an agreement governing underground
nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes. Work on the PNE Treaty began in the
Fall of 1974 and after six lengthy negotiating sessions was completed in April of
1976.
The TTB Treaty and the PNE Treaty are closely interrelated and complement
one another. The TTB Treaty places a limitation of 150 kilotons on all under-
ground nuclear weapon tests carried out by the Parties. The PNE Treaty simi-
2102
