[1002]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
my good friend Woody Hayes, I think, will be there to give us a little boost-
and then we go on to Detroit for a big rally because we have to win Michigan.
And then Betty and I are going to land in Grand Rapids and they tell me
they have a 2-hour parade all squared away there. At 7:30 Tuesday morning
we're going to cast our ballots, and those are going to be two ballots that I will
be glad to cast, because I think it will reflect what we want for America-peace,
trust, and prosperity.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. at the
Nassau County Veterans Memorial Coliseum restau-
rant. In his remarks, he referred to Joseph M. Mar-
giotta, Nassau County Republican Party chairman,
and Woody Hayes, head coach of the Ohio State
University football team.
1003
Radio Address on Future Goals for America.
November 1, 1976
WE ARE nearly at the end of a long campaign. As I have moved about our
country during the past few weeks, many people have told me, "Mr. President,
we know where you stand on jobs, and we think you are right. We know where
you stand on inflation, and we agree with you. We know where you stand on
foreign policy, and we agree with you there, too. But we are not quite sure
what it all adds up to. We are not quite clear where you are aiming to lead
America."
So today, I want to talk with you about my concerns and my hopes for
America as we enter our third century.
My vision of America is a nation that is strong and good, a nation that feels
the need for constant improvement, a nation whose people care about each
other and want to retain their own special sense of identity. Beyond that—a
nation in which basic human rights are respected and maintained: the right
to speak our minds; the right to choose the men and women who enact and
enforce our laws; the right to stand equal before the law, regardless of sex, race,
or religion; the right to bargain freely in the economic marketplace; the right
to worship as we choose.
We have been through a lot in recent years—a war, a recession, runaway
inflation, riots, scandals-a collection of troubles that shook America's con-
fidence and left our people exhausted. In the past 2 years, I have done my best
to put America back on even keel, to chart a steady course for the future.
2820
