[697]
July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
other three deferrals are reported because there will be delays in the use of
available funds.
The White House,
July 28, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescissions and deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of
August 2, 1976 (41 FR 32376).
698
Joint Statement Following Meetings With Prime Minister
J. Malcolm Fraser of Australia. July 28, 1976
AT THE invitation of President Gerald R. Ford of the United States of America,
the Right Honorable Malcolm Fraser, M.P., Prime Minister of Australia, made
an official visit to Washington on 27, 28, and 29 July. This was Prime Minister
Fraser's first visit to the United States since assuming office. During his visit
the Prime Minister held talks with the President, the Vice President, and cabinet
secretaries, and met senior members of Congress. The Prime Minister and the
President agreed that the visit reemphasized and strengthened the cordiality
of the relationships between the Australian and American people, and reinforced
the close ties between the two governments.
The President and the Prime Minister recognized that all nations should treat
each other as equals despite differences in power, size and circumstances. The
President expressed the view that there was a significant role for countries of
Australia's material wealth and power in influencing opinion in the world. The
President said that the United States intended to work closely with her friends
and allies, with those of common philosophical commitment, to achieve a greater
unity of purpose and understanding between such nations, large and small. In
this respect the President and the Prime Minister agreed that relations between
nations reflected more than factors of power. National interests, common prin-
ciples, frankness of expression and mutual trust were also very significant in
determining relations between nations. The President reaffirmed the determina-
tion of the United States to pursue a policy of peace through strength, to relax
tensions where it was possible without sacrifice of interests or principles and to
build a stable world order. The President and the Prime Minister agreed that
shared democratic values and the goal of peace linked the international aims of
Australia and the United States.
2098
