[864]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
too large, too powerful, too costly, too remote, and too deeply involved in your
daily lives. I want to make government your capable servant but not your
meddling master. That is why I am a candidate for the Presidency on
November 2.
As Glendale celebrates its proud past, I ask you to think about your children's
future and your country's future. I ask for your help on that fateful day of
November 2. I ask for your support, your vote.
And let me conclude by saying: Jerry Ford hasn't and won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. at the
Glendale City Hall. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Mayor Warren Havercamp and Jerry
Keithley, city manager of Glendale.
The "Days of the Verdugos" is a festival held
865
every October to celebrate the Spanish heritage of
the Verdugo Valley.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters in Glendale, California. October 8, 1976
LET ME make an observation or comment. Perhaps I could have been more
precise in what I said concerning Soviet domination of Poland.' I, fortunately,
had the opportunity of being in Poland in 1975. No Democratic President has
ever visted Poland while in office, so I had the opportunity to see the Polish
people, to get their reaction from an American President. And I was there for
the purpose of indicating to the thousands and thousands of Polish people that
the United States believes in their desire for freedom and independence. I recog-
nize that there are Polish—or in Poland there are Soviet divisions, but anybody
who has looked straight in the eye at thousands of fine Polish people knows that
their desire for liberty and freedom is just as great as the desire for liberty and
freedom of the American people.
It is tragic that the Soviet Union does have some divisions in Poland. It is a
tragedy that I hope in the future the Poles will be able to find another solution
because the unquenchable spirit of the Polish people is something that I admire
and respect.
I join the Polish Americans in this country who know that their ancestral
home is the home that where for centuries there was freedom, and we want
freedom for their relatives and their loved ones and their people in the land that
they came from.
1
¹ See item 854, page 2408.
I
2464
