September 26
[817]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
need a first-class Air Force; we've got one. We need a superb, first-class Army;
we have one. We need an outstanding Marine Corps; we've got one. And we've
got a swell, first-class Navy, and you are a big part of it.
I am very proud of the fact that I sent to the Congress in the last 2 years the
two largest defense budgets in the history of the United States, and I will submit
one next year that will be the third largest military budget in the history of the
United States. I am not going to cut the defense budget just to appeal to some
people. Anybody who says you can cut $5 or $7 or $10 or $15 billion out of the
defense budget does not know what he is talking about. The United States is
number one, and under the Ford administration we are going to keep it number
one, period.
One final comment. I will bet all of you in Pascagoula had a tremendous
Fourth of July celebration when we celebrated our Nation's 200th birthday.
Wasn't it a great day? Wasn't it wonderful?
Well, we are now in our third century, and we have got a new spirit. We are
going on the offensive. That is what Bear knows how to do with those good
ball teams he has. But let me say this: We are healed. We are going forward.
We are on the upbeat. America is going someplace, and it is all to the good.
Let's work to build a better America in our third century.
Now let me ask one question—one question. I have had a wonderful day in
Mississippi, I am looking forward to going to Alabama. You people in
Mississippi have such a strong patriotism. I love being down here. It has been
a great day. Let me ask one favor of you. Will you vote for Jerry Ford on
November 2? All right, that's a compact. You vote for me--I won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:05 p.m. at Beach
Park. In his opening remarks, he referred to Repre-
sentatives Trent Lott of Mississippi and Jack Ed-
wards of Alabama, former Representative William
817
M. Colmer of Mississippi 1932-73, I. G. Levy, mayor
pro tempore of Pascagoula, and Paul (Bear) Bryant,
head coach of the University of Alabama football
team.
Remarks in Mobile, Alabama. September 26, 1976
Thank you very much, Congressman Jack Edwards, Governor Wallace, Con-
gressmen Dickinson, Buchanan, and of course your great coach, Bear Bryant,
and all of you wonderful people from Mobile and the State of Alabama:
What a grand conclusion of a super day, and I thank you from the bottom of
my heart.
i
2339
