September 8
[763]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I don't expect the campaign on behalf of President Ford to run
into a dry gulch. We are making good headway. I think the polls reflect it, and
we expect to win.
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS FROM ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
[20.] Q. Mr. President, sir, the reports of your campaign committee during
the primaries indicate that approximately 100 Federal officials gave campaign
contributions to the President Ford Committee, and some of them have sub-
sequently said that they did so in response to solicitation letters from Mr. Mos-
bacher and other officials of the committee. Do you think it is proper for the
President Ford Committee to keep those contributions, or should they be sent
back?
THE PRESIDENT. I was not familiar with any solicitation of any Federal official
on behalf of the President Ford Committee. And when I was shown that some
individuals of this administration had voluntarily given to the President Ford
Committee, I did not know that they had done so beforehand. So, I am sure there
was no pressure, certainly none from me.
PARDON OF FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[21.] Q. Mr. President, today, I believe, is the second anniversary of the
pardon of Richard Nixon. I know you said in the past, under the same circum-
stances you would issue the pardon again. I wonder if you have any thoughts
you would share with us about the impact the pardon will have on the election
and how you plan to respond to any charges that are made?
The President. If it is made a political issue, either subtly or directly, it is
going to be very difficult to anticipate what the public reaction will be. But
I made that judgment 2 years ago today on the basis of the circumstances at
that time.
I thought it was in the national interest that I concentrate on the international
problems, which were serious, and domestic problems, which were critical.
And I felt at that time I should devote 100 percent of my time to the problems
both at home and abroad. And I think if the same circumstances prevailed
today, I would do the same.
GRANTING ASYLUM TO SOVIET MILITARY DEFECTOR
[22.] Q. Mr. President, this question is in two parts. Has the Soviet Union
contacted you personally or this Government with regard to the pilot who has
defected and asked for political asylum? And, secondly, are you concerned that
2219
