October 30
[995]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
be precluded from offering himself as a prospective candidate in New York
State.
Texas is crucial. I think we have got some good news that has been coming.
It's getting better. And when you look at how well we're apparently doing in
California, how well we're doing in some other States, as I said a moment ago,
we're going to surprise some people.
Q. Mr. President, this had been a grueling campaign for you. Are you look-
ing forward to the end of this on Tuesday night?
THE PRESIDENT. Do I look tired? [Laughter] I tell you, I get stronger every
day, and for good reason.
Q. How far behind do you see you are at this point, and is there time left to
catch up?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we're neck-and-neck. And when you've got momen-
tum, and the opposition is trying to put their finger in every dike to try and
stop the erosion-obviously, we've got the momentum going and they are
frantic and frustrated and frenzied. And, gee, I just feel good about it, just
wonderful.
Thank you all very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 3:40 p.m. at the William P. Hobby Airport.
995
Remarks at a Rally in Houston, Texas. October 30, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, my dear friend, John Connally. May I say
at the outset that John and Nell Connally are the kind of people that Betty and
Jerry Ford like, because they are great citizens of Texas, wonderful citizens of
the United States, and we love them, and so do you.
But it's a pleasure to be here in Houston and the great State of Texas and to
have an opportunity to wish my very, very best to Bill Archer, to Ron Paul, and
to Alan Steelman and to say that with a rally like this in Texas, I think we're
going to win and win overwhelmingly.
On behalf of Betty and myself, I'm going to issue a very special invitation
to all of you here to come on down to Washington on January 20 and par-
ticipate in the inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole.
Let me reiterate in my own way the working relationship that John Con-
nally and I have had for 20 years. I sat in the House of Representatives, first as
2795
