[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
billion. And the cost in unemployment compensation, welfare compensation,
and lost revenues has increased $23 billion in the last 2 years. This is a typical
attitude that really causes havoc in people's lives. And then it's covered over by
saying that our country has naturally got a 6-percent unemployment rate or
7-percent unemployment rate and a 6-percent inflation. It's a travesty. It shows
a lack of leadership. And we've never had a President since the War Between
the States that vetoed more bills. Mr. Ford has vetoed four times as many bills as
Mr. Nixon, per year, and 11 of them have been overridden. One of his bills that
was overridden-he only got one vote in the Senate and seven votes in the House
from Republicans. So, this shows a breakdown in leadership.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter, under the rules I must stop you.
Mrs. Drew.
Ms. DREW. Governor Carter, I'd like to come back to the subject of taxes. You
have said that you want to cut taxes for the middle- and lower-income groups.
MR. CARTER. Right.
MS. DREW. But unless you are willing to do such things as reduce the itemized
deductions for charitable contributions or home mortgage payments or interest
or taxes or capital gains, you can't really raise sufficient revenue to provide an
overall tax cut of any size. So, how are you going to provide that tax relief that
you are talking about?
MR. CARTER. Now we have such a grossly unbalanced tax system, as I said
earlier, that it is a disgrace. Of all the tax benefits now, 25 percent of them go to
the 1 percent of the richest people in this country. Over 50 percent-53 to be
exact—percent of the tax benefits go to the 14 percent richest people in this
country.
We've had a 50-percent increase in payroll deductions since Mr. Nixon went
in office 8 years ago. Mr. Ford has advocated, since he has been in office, over
$5 billion in reductions for corporations, special interest groups, and the very,
very wealthy, who derive their income not from labor, but from investments.
That has got to be changed. A few things that can be done: We have now a
deferral system so that the multinational corporations, who invest overseas, if
they make $1 million in profits overseas, they don't have to pay any of their taxes
unless they bring their money back into this country. Where they don't pay
their taxes, the average American pays their taxes for them. Not only that but
it robs this country of jobs because instead of coming back with that million
dollars and creating a shoe factory, say, in New Hampshire or Vermont, if the
company takes the money down to Italy and builds a shoe factory, they don't
have to pay any taxes on the money.
2302
