[1045]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
lated and that no nation can be truly economically independent in the world to-
day. Many of our allies, and particularly the developing countries, do not have
major undeveloped energy resources and therefore are even more dependent
upon imported energy than is the United States.
Much progress has been made in strengthening energy cooperation among
the industrialized nations through the International Energy Agency. Together
we have coordinated efforts to reduce our collective vulnerability by estab-
lishing a long-term program for conservation and development of new energy
sources, and an energy-sharing program to safeguard against supply interrup-
tions. It is in the best interests of the United States to continue to work with and
assist other energy-consuming countries in meeting their energy needs-by rein-
forcing their conservation efforts, accelerating development of conventional and
new energy sources, and encouraging the application of practical new energy
technologies.
Such efforts will help to achieve our objective over the long term of a better
equilibrium between energy supply and demand in the world, so that no one
group of nations will be able to impose its will on others. Unless we are will-
ing to cooperate with others, and provide adequate assistance in this area, con-
tinued dependence by many nations on a few countries for energy supplies will
remain a major source of world political instability, uncertainty, and economic
hardship.
At the same time, of course, we must continue our efforts to strengthen rela-
tions between oil-importing and exporting nations, recognizing that coopera-
tion is important to the future well-being of both.
ACHIEVING BALANCE AMONG CONFLICTING OBJECTIVES
In recent years, we have been faced more and more with the dilemma that
actions taken to achieve one important objective conflict with efforts to achieve
other objectives. For example, we learned that tough standards and deadlines
applied in the early 1970's to reduce pollution from automobiles and improve air
quality resulted in lower gasoline mileage and higher gasoline consumption,
poorer vehicle performance and higher consumer costs.
Conflicting objectives are becoming more and more apparent as we recognize
that the easy solutions are illusions and that there are major dangers in expand-
ing the Federal role. The Nation must, therefore, face up to the task of achiev-
ing a balance among conflicting objectives involving energy.
2896
