November 1
[1005]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
elections in the history of the United States; it is the election that will set our
course for the first 4 years of our third century-I want you to know where I
stand. I stand for lower taxes, more jobs, a balanced budget, lower Federal
spending, beating inflation, a clean environment, peace and liberty for the
United States of America. From your ranks I come, and with you I stand.
In the last 2 years our great country, faced with adversity, has made an
incredible comeback. When I spoke to you and to the American people in
Kansas City, I said I would not concede a single vote, I would not concede a
single State.
Ohio is going to be on the right side. We are counting on that Buckeye State
to be with us tomorrow. With our momentum, let's do it, a homerun.
I love that enthusiasm and applause, but take just a minute-let's hear a
pin drop-because I want to talk about some of these, or at least two of the
critical issues where I strongly differ with my opponent.
First, taxes. In the first debate my opponent said that we could anticipate
a $60 billion surplus in the Federal Treasury. He said in that debate that he
would spend that $60 billion for more programs, piling one on top of another.
In that debate I said if there is a $60 billion surplus, I think it ought to go for a
tax reduction to the middle-income taxpayer.
I can stand here and say with good conscience that President Ford stands
for the little taxpayer and President Ford is against the big tax spender.
Within the last several days Mr. Carter has been pressed. Does he want a tax
reduction or not? He says, if, perhaps. President Ford has been on the line,
talking straight from the shoulder saying, yes, the middle-income taxpayer
has been shortchanged.
I recommended to the Congress in January that we ought to have a $28
billion tax reduction along side of a $28 billion restraint on Federal spending—
for every tax dollar in reduction, a dollar reduced in the rate of growth of
Federal spending. The Congress gave you half a loaf. They didn't go along
with my proposal to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
Now let me tell you what that means. It means that the middle-income tax-
payer-50 percent of those that pay our taxes-would get, and let me illustrate
it with an incident that happened: I was in a factory the other day, down a
production line, and one of the men said to me, “President Ford, where do
you stand on taxes?" I told him how I wanted to increase the personal exemp-
tion. I said, “How many children do you have?" He said, “I have got three.” I
said, “If you have a wife, three children, and yourself, if Congress had acted
responsibly, next April when you made out that income tax return, you would
2827
