[720]
August 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
720
Remarks at the Conclusion of the International Eucharistic
Congress in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. August 8, 1976
Your Eminence Cardinal Knox, papal legate for His Holiness Pope Paul, Your
Eminence Cardinal Krol, distinguished clergy from all over the world, dear
friends:
I am deeply honored by your invitation to be with you for the conclusion of
this 41st International Eucharistic Congress and to reiterate on behalf of all the
people of the United States of America our most heartfelt welcome to our many
guests from all over the world.
It is an inspiring demonstration of all the world's hunger for peace and under-
standing that these Congresses are able to unite citizens of more than 100 nations
in common purpose and common prayer.
It is fitting that you gather here in the City of Brotherly Love, where 200 years
ago my country declared its national independence with a firm reliance on the
protection of divine providence. That reliance has never failed us and has been
reinforced by the equally firm devotion of Americans to freedom of worship
and freedom of conscience for all who have come to us throughout the centuries.
These fundamental freedoms are not only written into our Constitution and
our laws but they are written in our hearts as well.
On this occasion we celebrate the church's contribution to building a more
peaceful world. We salute you for giving depth and direction to the world com-
munity in every age. For millions of men and women, the church has been the
hospital for the soul, the schoolroom for the mind, and the safe depository for
moral ideals. It has given unity and purpose to the affairs of man. It has been
a vital institution for protecting and proclaiming the ultimate values of life
itself.
We are rightly concerned today about the rising tide of secularism across the
world. I share your deep appreciation (apprehension) about the increased irrev-
erence for life. The supreme value of every person to whom life is given by God
is a belief that comes to us from the Holy Scriptures confirmed by all the great
leaders of the church.
Our commitment to the unique role of the family relationship is also basic
to our faith. There are no adequate substitutes for father, mother, and children
bound together in a loving commitment to nurture and to protect. No govern-
ment, no matter how well intentioned, can ever take the place of the family in
2138
