December 6
[1024]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ing from Italy to participate on an equal footing
in the construction of your great democracy.
One of the Americans of Italian extraction who
has succeeded in obtaining a position of promi-
nence in this country is John Volpe, Ambassador
of the United States [to Italy], who is with us.
In thanking him for the constant and passionate
contribution he has given to the cause of friend-
ship and solidarity between our two countries, I
wish to pay a well-deserved tribute to the whole
Italian-American community.
Italy is at present going through one of the
most challenging periods of her recent history.
The international economic crisis has hit our coun-
try at a time when it was attempting to correct
some of the most serious imbalances, typical of
an accelerated expansion, between the different
social strata and the different regions in order to
meet the expectations of a society which wants to
be more just and better balanced. Obviously, the
crisis has exacerbated those contradictions which
the dynamics of development had hidden or at
least attenuated, putting them now in sharper
focus and making them, let's face it, more dramatic.
The Italian people as a whole have responded
to these events with a deep sense of responsibility.
The majority of the political parties, the trade
unions and employer's organizations are aware of
the seriousness of the situation, and they know
that in order to surmount our difficulties, sacrifices
are required of all of the Italians. This common
will to overcome the crisis. this pervasive convic-
tion that without a collective effort the country
will not be able to get back on its feet, sustain the
minority government which I lead and encourage
it to move with determination in the complex
political, economic, and social climate of the
country.
If in these difficult hours we Italians succeed.
in stressing what binds us rather than what di-
vides us, I am convinced that we will be able to
recover and resume our economic and social
progress.
Turning our attention to foreign policy, we be-
come aware that there has been an increased ac-
ceptance of the major objectives which Italy pur-
sues on the international scene. In our country there
are no longer reservations about Italian participation
in the European and Atlantic communities. The
support which is now publicly expressed on the
guidelines of our foreign policy must therefore be
viewed as an indication of the growing popular
consensus on the national goals and interests.
Italy's foreign policy has not suffered from the
adverse effects of economic crisis or of the political
difficulties. It does show unwavering continuity and
total adherence to its commitment. We are deter-
mined, Mr. President, to enforce our friendly re-
lations with all peoples, to seek wider and far-
reaching avenues of agreement with the developing
countries, to contribute actively to détente with
the East.
I wish to emphasize that all these goals stem
from a steady political platform, namely our par-
ticipation in the process of European integration
and our membership in the Inter-Atlantic Alliance.
These two goals are in no way contradictory, for
the European identity is not defined in opposition
to the United States, but rather as an additional
factor to the solidarity which binds us.
Mr. President, the problems before the Italian
Government today have a dimension that goes
beyond the boundaries of our country and, there-
fore, cannot be solved purely on a national basis.
We are convinced, however, that an adequate solu-
tion to these problems must be found first of all
in the will and the ability for recovery that Italy
has always shown throughout her history. We
are deeply aware that it is first and foremost
through our sacrifices that we will recover. What
we ask of our friends is that they trust us as we
trust them and that they believe in our commitment
and in our determination.
Mr. President, allow me, please, to conclude on
a personal note. This visit of mine takes place at
a time when your administration, which has been
marked by a strengthening of the cooperation
among Western countries, is drawing to a close.
Your tenure has confirmed the continuity of a
strong and positive relationship based upon mutual
friendship and trust between the United States and
Italy. We Italians have consistently found in you,
Mr. President, a sincere friend. We know that we
can continue to rely on your friendship and under-
standing.
It is with this conviction that I raise my glass
to make a toast to your personal happiness, to that
of Mrs. Ford and of all of your family, to the
prosperity of your great country, and to the pro-
found friendship between the United States and
Italy.
2855
