[772]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
side persons having an interest in matters being considered before a regulatory
body. Furthermore, the Freedom of Information Act has been amended by
narrowing the authority of agencies to withhold information from the public.
The Government in [the] Sunshine Act is in keeping with America's proud
heritage that the government serves and the people rule. This afternoon, I am
delighted to sign this legislation and to reaffirm that heritage and let the sun-
shine in.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. at a cere- As enacted, S. 5 is Public Law 94-409 (90 Stat.
mony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
1241).
773
Statement on Signing the Government in the Sunshine Act.
September 13, 1976
I HAVE today signed into law S. 5, known as the Government in the Sunshine
Act. I strongly endorse the concept which underlies this legislation—that most
of the decisionmaking business of regulatory agencies can and should be open
to the public.
Under this new law, certain agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Civil Service Commission, and the National Science Board-
approximately 50 in all-are required to give notice in advance and hold their
business meetings open to public observation, unless the agency votes to close a
session for a specific reason permitted by the act. Verbatim transcripts would
be required to be maintained and made available to the public for many of the
closed meetings.
Communications between agency officials and outside persons having an
interest in a statutorily required hearing or an adjudication are prohibited.
Furthermore, the provision of the Freedom of Information Act which permits
an agency to withhold certain information when authorized to do so by statute
has been narrowed to authorize such withholding only if the statute specifically
prohibits disclosure, or establishes particular criteria for the withholding, or
refers to particular types of matters to be withheld. The new act also amends
the Federal Advisory Committee Act to permit the closing of such committee
meetings for the same reasons meetings may be closed under this act.
I wholeheartedly support the objective of government in the sunshine. I am
concerned, however, that in a few instances unnecessarily ambiguous and per-
haps harmful provisions were included in S. 5.
2236
