[741]
August 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
of Federal Indian programs and services. I request that priority attention be
given to coordination of these efforts among the Departments and Agencies
and within the Executive Office of the President.
In addition, I request you continue to insure that when Federal actions are
planned which affect Indian communities, the responsible Indian leaders are
consulted in the planning process.
NOTE: The memorandum was released in Vail, Colo.
GERALD R. FORD
742
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
Following a Meeting With Republican Leaders in Vail,
Colorado. August 27, 1976
I AM sure you all know that we have had some extensive meetings since the
Vice President, Governor Connally, Senator Dole, and Rog Morton have been
out here. Let me give you some idea of the schedule. We had a working dinner.
We had a meeting that lasted until about 11:30 last night. We have met for
some 2 hours this morning.
I would like to make two points. First, under no circumstances is it accurate
to say that the Ford-Dole campaign is going to be regional. The Ford-Dole
campaign is going to be national. And I want to be very categorical in saying
we are not writing off New York State, and we will have a spokesman in a
minute who will reemphasize it. And we are not writing off Texas and the
South, and have another emphatic spokesman who I think will likewise reiterate
that. Our campaign is national, and we believe—as I said in the acceptance
speech, we concede no State, we concede no vote.
Secondly, we have refined the areas that we think are important for this
campaign to emphasize:
Number one, jobs, and we mean meaningful jobs with an opportunity for
advancement.
Number two, an accelerated home ownership program. That is something
more Americans are more interested in today than almost anything, as we look
at all the polls that have been taken and the surveys that have been made.
Number three, quality health care that is affordable to the American people.
We have to keep pressure on the costs of health care and make sure that the
quality of health care that they're getting today will be continued and expanded.
2180
