[1076]
January 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
combat in Vietnam and subsequently received other than honorable discharges.
As Commander-in-Chief and consistent with the spirit of reconciliation of
my clemency program, I am hereby directing that you take all necessary action
to insure that the discharges of these former service members who were wounded
in combat or who received decorations for valor in combat in Vietnam and who
applied to the clemency program be reviewed on an individual basis.
I am further directing that these discharges be recharacterized as under hon-
orable conditions, unless you find a compelling reason to the contrary in any case.
By a separate memorandum, I have requested the Attorney General to assist
you in the identification process by providing the names and service numbers
of all former service members who applied to the Presidential Clemency Board
program and whose records indicate that they were wounded in combat or re-
ceived decorations for valor in combat.
GERALD R. FORD
Memorandum for the Commandant of the Coast Guard; Through the Secretary
of Transportation
Under Proclamation 4313 of September 16, 1974, which established a Vietnam
era clemency program for draft evaders and military deserters, approximately
13,589 former military service members who had been discharged for desertion
and approximately 5,555 undischarged deserters applied for clemency. As Presi-
dent, I have a continuing concern over the welfare of these people, particularly
those who were wounded in combat or who received decorations for valor in
combat in Vietnam and subsequently received other than honorable discharges.
As Commander-in-Chief and consistent with the spirit of reconciliation of my
clemency program, I am hereby directing that you take all necessary action to
insure that the discharges of the former Coast Guard service members who were
wounded in combat or who received decorations for valor in combat in Vietnam
and who applied to the clemency program be reviewed on an individual basis.
I am further directing that these discharges be recharacterized as under hon-
orable conditions, unless you find a compelling reason to the contrary in any
case.
By a separate memorandum, I have requested the Attorney General to assist
you in the identification process by providing the names and service numbers
of all former Coast Guard service members who applied to the Presidential
Clemency Board program and whose records indicate that they were wounded
in combat or received decorations for valor in combat.
GERALD R. FORD
2966
