[1074]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
1074
Letter to Congressional Committee Chairmen on Federal
Compensation for Federal Reserve Board and Office of
Management and Budget Officials. January 18, 1977
I AM writing to you about a matter of unfinished business which I believe de-
serves the early consideration of the Congress.
As you know, the Quadrennial Commission on Executive, Legislative and
Judicial Salaries recently issued a comprehensive report which covered a wide
range of problems in the present system of Federal compensation. In a discus-
sion of existing, serious anomalies in the Federal pay structure, the Quadren-
nial Commission stated:
"By any standard, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board has responsi-
bilities that one could argue are roughly equivalent to the Secretary of the
Treasury. His position has many aspects of a career job-given the fourteen
year tenure. Thus, it does not offer the prospect of a short government career.
The internal relationships within the "government" banking institutions are
more than anomalous. They are incomprehensible. The President of the New
York Federal Reserve Bank is paid $97,500 versus the $44,600 Level II salary
of the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
An equally irrational classification result is the enormously important job
of Director of the Office of Management and Budget who constantly nego-
tiates with Cabinet members on critical budget matters on behalf of the Presi-
dent, yet is still classified as Level II; i.e., at the level of an Undersecretary."
I would urge that immediate steps be taken to correct these two serious de-
fects in the classification structure.
With regard to the Federal Reserve Board:
-Those who control our monetary policy have a more pervasive impact on
the economy and society as a whole on a day-to-day basis than any other com-
parable group in any department or agency.
-The Federal Reserve Board has an extraordinary set of conflict of interest
rules. Unlike other members of the government, its members are even barred
from investing in government bonds. There are also existing, severe constraints
on the jobs that can be accepted upon departure from the Board.
-Historically, the Chairman of the Board and the members of the Board
were paid at the Cabinet level. In 1949, however, the Congress reduced the
Board's pay levels.
2962
