October 14
[896]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
faith, a deep inward feeling that the American people want to go the direction
we want to take them. And, therefore, I come to the great State of New Jersey
to ask for your help and your support. New Jersey is a key State. New Jersey
can make the difference whether we have enough electoral votes on November 2
to win.
And so,
let me just conclude by saying I know we will win in New Jersey.
Jerry loves Jersey, and I have a good feeling that Jersey loves Jerry like Jerry
loves Jersey.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:20 p.m. at the
Town and Campus Inn. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Representatives Matthew J. Rinaldo and
Millicent Fenwick, Senator Clifford P. Case, David
F. Norcross, Republican senatorial candidate, and
Thomas Kean, chairman of the New Jersey Pres-
ident Ford Committee.
896
Memorandum of Disapproval of the Bill Providing for the
Relief of Day's Sportswear, Inc.
October 14, 1976
[Dated October 13, 1976. Released October 14, 1976]
I AM withholding my approval from H.R. 4654, a bill “For the relief of Day's
Sportswear, Incorporated.”
H.R. 4654 appears to relate to the same claim as presented in B.A. McKenzie
and Co., Inc. v. United States, United States Customs Court #74-6-01520.
Another known similar claim on behalf of another importer is pending in
the case of George S. Bush and Co., Inc. v. United States, United States Customs
Court #73-9-02693.
The United States Government is presently defending these two cases and
the United States Customs Court is expected to rule. Briefly, the litigation
involves the applicability of certain customs duties.
I believe that the courts should be permitted to rule in these cases in due
course. I am also concerned that my approval of H.R. 4654 could inappro-
priately predispose the court's ruling. Further, H.R. 4654 would constitute
preferred treatment of one importer against others having similar claims against
the Government.
Finally, I believe that private relief legislation is appropriate only after all
other avenues of available administrative and legal recourse have been pursued.
2519
