September 15
[784]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Next, I proposed to the Congress last spring a major reform in Federal health
programs. We should combine 16 overlapping and confused Federal health
programs, including the scandal-ridden Medicaid program, into one $10 billion
program that distributes the Federal funds more equitably among the States
and ensures that those who need these services get first-class care. It's sad but true,
America is still awaiting action by the Congress on this urgently needed
legislation.
Now, let's turn to an area of special concern to this audience-education.
One of the most urgent problems is to create a climate in every classroom where
teachers can teach and students can learn. Quality education for every young
American is my administration's goal. Major reforms are necessary in the re-
lationship between the National, State, and local units of government, so that
teachers can spend their time teaching instead of filling out Federal forms.
Federal aid is necessary, but Federal aggraviation must stop.
Nine months ago, I proposed to the Congress that we replace 24
paper shuf-
fling educational bureaucracies with a single Federal program which would
provide $3,300 million in direct aid to elementary and secondary schools
throughout this country. The Congress has not acted.
Once again this Congress has shown itself to be sitting dead in the water and,
I might add, addicted to the status quo. The American people deserve better
representation than that, and they will demand it on November 2.
We must ensure that low-income students have access to higher education.
We must also find ways through the tax system to ease the burden on families
who choose to send their children to nonpublic schools and to help families cope
with the expenses of a college education. In this administration the education
need of America's middle-income families will neither be forgotten or forsaken.
Education is the key to a better life.
The prevention of crime is essential to making our lives secure. The Con-
stitution demands that we ensure domestic tranquility, and that is what I called
for in my crime message to the Congress about a year ago. Most crimes are
committed by hardened, career criminals who know no other life than the life
of crime. The place for those people is not on our streets but in the jails. The
rights of the law-abiding society, the rights of the innocent victims of crime
must be fully protected.
And finally, we must give Americans the chance to enjoy America. I have
outlined a $1,500 million program to expand and to improve our national park
system over the next 10 years. This means more national parks, more recreation
areas, more wildlife sanctuaries, more urban parks and historic sites. Let's
2255
