[846]
October 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, Pete, thank you. I thank all of you.
Why don't we take a few minutes and say hello and let me chat with each of
you individually.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. in the State Dining Room at the White House.
847
Remarks Upon Signing the Tax Reform Act of 1976.
October 4, 1976
TODAY I am signing the Tax Reform Act of 1976. It includes many provi-
sions which I supported for a long, long time. It includes a few which I oppose.
On balance, however, the legislation is sound, positive, and long overdue.
This bill raises the minimum tax paid by high-income persons and elimi-
nates or restricts many tax shelters. These actions are consistent with my firm
support of measures designed to close the loopholes and ensure that each tax-
payer bears his or her fair share of the overall tax burden.
I am also gratified that the Congress has adopted my program of estate tax
relief. This includes my proposals to increase the basic estate tax exemption
from $60,000 to the equivalent of $175,000 and to liberalize the marital deduc-
tion for the transfer of property between spouses. It also provides special relief
to the owners of family farms and family businesses so that their heirs are not
forced to liquidate these enterprises in order to pay estate taxes.
Despite the many pluses of this bill, it fails to make several important and nec-
essary changes in our tax structure. First, the best kind of tax reform is tax reduc-
tion. Low- and middle-income Americans currently pay excessive Federal taxes.
This act does temporarily extend the tax reductions I initiated last year, but it
fails to include my proposals for permanent, deeper tax cuts.
In particular, I am disappointed that the Congress did not reduce individual
income taxes by the additional $10 billion that I recommended. Equivalent re-
ductions in spending, which Congress was unwilling to make, would have en-
abled them to pass those permanent cuts. Accordingly, I will again urge Con-
gress next year to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
Second, increased investment through appropriate tax incentives is absolutely
essential to create productive jobs in the private sector. Such tax incentives can
help focus investment in those areas where new jobs are needed most.
I will again propose that Congress grant special tax benefits in the form of
2396
