October 21
[926]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for some very specific economies, improved efficiency in the Defense Depart-
ment. And the net result is, Congress wouldn't go along with it. They wouldn't
change the laws. But we are going to send up a budget in January for the Defense
Department that will provide for the necessary funding to keep the peace, but
we will also send up the kind of economy, efficiency recommendations that we
made last January.
REPORTER. Thank you.
The President. Thank you all very much. How do you like the afternoon
show? [Laughter]
NOTE: President Ford's thirty-ninth news conference began at 2 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
926
Statement on Signing Amendments to the Bretton Woods
Agreements Act.
October 21, 1976
I HAVE approved H.R. 13955, an act "to provide for amendment of the Bretton
Woods Agreements Act, and for other purposes.” This legislation authorizes
United States acceptance of amendments to the Articles of Agreement of the
International Monetary Fund and United States consent to a proposed increase
in its quota in the Fund.
The reforms of the international monetary system which the United States
accepts through these amendments are the culmination of years of debate and
negotiation following the breakdown of the Bretton Woods par value system in
1971. This new international monetary system recognizes that development of
stable underlying economic and financial conditions is in essential prerequisite
to the achievement of international monetary stability. At the same time, the new
system will provide the increased flexibility, resilience, and reliance on market
mechanisms which today's monetary relationships require, replacing the ex-
change rate rigidity and gold emphasis of the Bretton Woods system.
In the post-World War II era, we have increasingly recognized the importance
of a smoothly functioning international monetary system to American jobs,
production, and growth and to the maintenance of a prosperous and stable world
economy. The attainment of the international economic as well as political and
national security objectives of the United States depends in large measure on
our success in maintaining a strong and healthy world economy, and that, in
turn, requires a sound, smoothly functioning, and equitable international mone-
tary system.
2595
