August 27
[742]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Chicago Tribune Press Service]? I didn't recognize you in that gear there.
[Laughter]
Q. I would like to address this to Governor Connally.
Governor, you said you were willing to do anything you could for the Presi-
dent. Would you tell us why you didn't accept the chairmanship of the National
Committee?
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Because I think I can do more effective work, frankly,
campaigning across the country. I think the Republican National Committee
is going to be extremely important and extremely critical. They have their jobs
to do, but their course is fairly well set, it seems to me.
Mary Louise Smith is a superb chairman. I thought it was not in the interest
of the party or in the President's interest or that we even talk about such a change.
And I have made it abundantly clear that I didn't want anything except to try
to help. I love campaigning. I am going to campaign all across this country, and
I didn't want any—and still don't want any-administrative duties or respon-
sibilities that will preclude that.
Q. Mr. President, what role do you specifically see for Senator Dole in your
campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Senator Dole has gotten off to a great beginning. His
fantastic speech in Seattle and his excellent speech in Des Moines, Iowa, I think
give a very good indication of the kind of a role that Senator Dole will perform.
While he's here between now and Saturday, we will put together the final touches
on what his role will be in addition to what he's already undertaken.
Q. Is he going to be the hatchet man?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, we aren't going to have any hatchet man. We're just going
to lay the record out, the record of what we've done, the indecision and the
flip-flops that my opponent and his running mate have performed.
There's no hatchet man involved here. The record is clear-what we have
done and what they have promised to do. We can't really find out what they
have promised to do.
Q. Mr. President, why is there not in this group one of the Republican leaders
who had a great deal of influence over the Republican Convention? Why isn't
Governor Reagan here?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said yesterday, Ann [Ann Compton, ABC News], Gov-
ernor Reagan and I had an indepth meeting the day that I accepted—the night
after the nomination—and we saw him, as you all saw, his very, very warm par-
ticipation at the night of the acceptance speech. We certainly expect that he will
be helpful. He gave me every indication that he would.
2185
