[836]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
The second title of this bill will require parties to large mergers to give the
Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission advance notice of the
proposed mergers. This will allow these agencies to conduct careful investiga-
tions prior to consummation of mergers and, if necessary, bring suit before often
irreversible steps have been taken toward consolidation of operations. Again, this
proposal was supported by my administration, and I am pleased to see it
enacted into law.
I believe these two titles will contribute substantially to the competitive health
of our free enterprise system.
This legislation also includes a third title which would permit State attorneys
general to bring antitrust suits on behalf of the citizens of their States to recover
treble damages. I have previously expressed serious reservations regarding this
"parens patriae" approach to antitrust enforcement.
As I have said before, the States have authority to amend their own antitrust
laws to authorize such suits in State courts. If a State legislature, representing
the citizens of the State, believes that such a concept is sound policy, it ought
to allow it. I questioned whether the Congress should bypass the State legisla-
tures in this instance. To meet in part my objection, Congress wisely incorpo-
rated a proviso which permits a State to prevent the applicability of this title.
In price-fixing cases, this title provides that damages can be proved in the
aggregate by using statistical sampling or other measures without the necessity
of proving the individual claim of, or the amount of damage to, each person
on whose behalf the case was brought. During the hearings on this bill, a variety
of questions were raised as to the soundness of this novel and untested concept.
Many of the concerns continue to trouble me.
I have also questioned the provision that would allow States to retain private
attorneys on a contingent-fee basis. While Congress adopted some limitations
which restrict the scope of this provision, the potential for abuse and harass-
ment inherent in this provision still exists.
In partial response to my concerns, Congress has narrowed this title in order
to limit the possibility of significant abuses. In its present form, this title if
responsibly enforced, can contribute to deterring price-fixing violations, thereby
protecting consumers. I will carefully review the implementation of the powers
provided by this title to assure that they are not abused.
Individual initiative and market competition must remain the keystones to
our American economy. I am today signing this antitrust legislation with the
expectation that it will contribute to our competitive economy.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 8532, approved September 30, 1976, is Public Law 94-435 (90 Stat. 1383).
2380
