[996]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
particularly to our older people who live on fixed incomes, that they are going
to have more and a better opportunity to live their lives in retirement. It means
that people are going to invest; that it will be easier to buy a home, particularly
for the young person. Yes, we have cut the rate of inflation by better than 50
percent. But let me make a commitment to each and every one of you. I won't
be satisfied until we win the battle against inflation 100 percent, period.
Yes, we have gone through a serious recession, the worst in 40 years. But
in the last 18 months we have added 4 million jobs, primarily in the private
sector. We have 88 million people working today—an alltime history, the tops.
I am not satisfied. I won't be satisfied until every person who wants to work has
a job. And I pledge to you that will be our goal and we will make it in the
next 4 years.
I think the record is clear that we have restored the trust of the American
people in the White House itself. I have been open, I have been candid, I have
been frank, I have been forthright. And I again make a solemn pledge to each
and every one of you that in the next 4 years, you can trust the President who
has been open, frank, honest with you in the last 2 years. We will do it in the
next 4 years, as well.
Doesn't it make you feel good that I can say—and you know it is true—
that not a single young American is fighting and [or] dying on any foreign
soil tonight, and no young American is facing the prospect of the draft or
selective service? We have an Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines that are
number one, and we are going to keep them number one under Jerry Ford.
I know from my experience in the White House that to keep the peace we
have we must remain strong. That will encourage our allies; it will warn our
adversaries. And that peace, that came so hard, is a peace we can keep because
we are united in America.
The Congress is now supporting the kind of defense budget that will buy us
the best weapons, give us the best military personnel. Because of our military
strength and our diplomatic skill, America has the peace, and we are going to
keep it so that we can live a better quality of life here at home, a quality of life
with peace and freedom.
But what does that mean? It means that we have to stimulate the economy,
and the best way to do that is by a tax reduction. The best tax reform I know
is tax reduction.
Last January, when the Congress reconvened, I submitted to them a tax
reduction program that would have done two things: One, it would have in-
creased your personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
2800
