[850]
October 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
850
Message to the Congress Reporting on Administration
Efforts To Settle the Cyprus Conflict.
October 5, 1976
[Dated October 4, 1976. Released October 5, 1976]
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Public Law 94-104, I am submitting my sixth periodic report on
the Cyprus negotiations and the actions which this Administration is taking to
assist in the search of a lasting solution to the problems still facing the people
of the Republic of Cyprus.
In my last report I reviewed recent steps taken by the Administration to bring
about further progress in the Cyprus talks, and I emphasized the need for the
parties to set aside procedural problems and move on to discussions of key
substantive issues.
Our efforts during the past sixty days have been directed to encouraging
the resumption of such negotiations. We have been in close contact with our
major Western allies regarding new ideas which might contribute to progress
in the Cyprus talks and have continued to work closely with United Nations
Secretary General Waldheim. Secretary of State Kissinger met with Mr. Wald-
heim in New York in late August to discuss the Cyprus question. Following
that meeting Secretary General Waldheim asked the chief Cypriot negotiators
from both sides to come to New York for individual consultations with him on
how the negotiations might best be resumed. These consultations developed
into a series of joint meetings at which both sides discussed the issues which were
blocking further progress. After these meetings, the two Cypriot negotiators
agreed to continue their consultations in Nicosia, under the chairmanship of the
Secretary General's Special Representative for Cyprus. It is my hope these talks
will lead to resumption of meaningful discussion on the main issues.
In his meetings with the Foreign Ministers of Greece and Turkey at the
United Nations last week, Secretary Kissinger urged their strong support once
again for a new round of talks. We will continue to work as closely as possible
with the Governments of Greece and Turkey, with the UN Secretary General,
with our Western allies, and with the parties themselves, to insure that every
opportunity is seized in pursuing a just and lasting settlement on Cyprus.
To focus the world's attention on the need for rapid progress, Secretary
Kissinger stated anew the position of my Administration in his speech before
the UN General Assembly on September 30 when he emphasized that our
2400
