[676]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
676
Message to the Senate Transmitting the Convention Abolishing
the Requirement of Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents.
July 19, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith a certified copy of the Convention Abolishing the Require-
ment of Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents adopted at the Ninth
Session of the Hague Conference on Private International Law on October 26,
1960. The Convention, which was opened for signature on October 5, 1961, is
presently in force in twenty countries.
This is the third convention in the field of international civil procedure pro-
duced by the Hague Conference on Private International Law to be sent to the
Senate. It complements the Conventions on the Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents in Civil and Commercial Matters and on the Taking
of Evidence Abroad in Civil and Commercial Matters which are already in
force for the United States to assist litigants and their lawyers in civil proceedings
abroad.
The provisions of the Convention contain short and simple rules which will
reduce costs and delays for litigants in international cases. The provisions would
eliminate unnecessary authentication of documents without affecting the integ-
rity of such documents. They would also free judges and other officials, who
presently certify signatures, from the time-consuming and unnecessary adminis-
trative process presently required.
The Convention has been thoroughly studied by the bench and bar of the
United States. Its ratification is supported by the Judicial Conference of the
United States, by the American Bar Association, and by other bar associations
at the state and local level.
I recommend that the Senate of the United States promptly give its advice
and consent to the ratification of this Convention.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
July 19, 1976.
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Exccutive L (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
2048
