October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE MODERATOR. Gentlemen, at this time we have time for only two very
short questions. Mr. Frankel, a question for Governor Carter.
MR. FRANKEL. Governor Carter, if the price of gaining influence among the
Arabs is closing our eyes a little bit to their boycott against Israel, how would
you handle that?
MR. CARTER. I believe that the boycott of American businesses by the Arab
countries, because those businesses trade with Israel or because they have Ameri-
can Jews who are owners or directors in the company, is an absolute disgrace.
This is the first time that I remember in the history of our country when we've
let a foreign country circumvent or change our Bill of Rights. I will do every-
thing I can as President to stop the boycott of American businesses by the Arab
countries.
It's not a matter of diplomacy or trade with me; it's a matter of morality.
And I don't believe that the Arab countries will pursue it when we have a strong
President who will protect the integrity of our country, the commitment of our
Constitution and Bill of Rights, and protect people in this country who happen
to be Jews—it may later be Catholics, it may later be Baptists—who are threat-
ened by some foreign country. But we ought to stand staunch. And I think
it is a disgrace that so far Mr. Ford's administration has blocked the passage
of legislation that would have revealed by law every instance of the boycott, and
it would have prevented the boycott from continuing.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford?
THE PRESIDENT. Again, Governor Carter is inaccurate. The Arab boycott
action was first taken in 1952. And in November of 1975, I was the first President
to order the executive branch to take action-affirmative action through the
Department of Commerce and other Cabinet Departments—to make certain
that no American businessman or business organization should discriminate
against Jews because of an Arab boycott.
And I might add that my administration—and I am very proud of it—is the
first administration that has taken an antitrust action against companies in
this country that have allegedly cooperated with the Arab boycott. Just on Mon-
day of this week, I signed a tax bill that included an amendment that would
prevent companies in the United States from taking a tax deduction if they have,
in any way whatsoever, cooperated with the Arab boycott.
And last week, when we were trying to get the Export Administration Act
through the Congress-necessary legislation—my administration went to Capi-
tol Hill and tried to convince the House and the Senate that we should have
2433
