[812]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
future. In the next 4 years, in the first 4 years of our third century, we want a job,
as I said a moment ago, a good job for everybody who wants to work. I promise
that we will get an additional 2,500,000 jobs each year in order to satisfy the
young people coming into the labor market.
Our second objective is to make it possible for every family, particularly the
young who want to save and buy a home, to have a home in a decent
neighborhood.
Some of us are deeply concerned, as you are, about the crime rate in this coun-
try, but we've made some progress. Two years ago, the crime rate was 18 percent.
Last year it was 9 percent, and for the first 6 months of this year the crime rate
is 3 percent, and that's a lot of progress. And we can take some credit for it, and
we will.
In the next 4 years, we will increase the educational opportunity for young
people; we will make our health facilities and services much more available.
There is no reason whatsoever why anybody should go broke in this country to
get well. And they won't under the Ford administration.
I've been talking about the quality of life, and that's what we want to give to
our country in the months ahead.
Let me take one quick minute to talk about some things we have tried to do that
I think give you some concrete indication of what we are going to do in the
future.
Less than a year ago, I recommended a $28 billion tax decrease, 75 percent
for the individual taxpayers and 25 percent for business. Included—and this is
what is meaningful to you—I recommended that we increase the personal ex-
emption from $750 to $1,000. And for a family of four that means a tax saving
(deduction) of $1,000. The middle-income people have been shortchanged, and
under the Ford administration we are going to give them the equity they deserve.
Let me thank you all. Just a comment or two about our long-range goal and
future.
On the Fourth of July, we had a tremendous, exhilarating experience. We
celebrated our 200th birthday. The length and the breadth of this country there
was a new spirit, a new vision.
I think because we have the character of our people, because we have the kind
of government that is surpassing any kind in the history of mankind, we have
the opportunity to give to our children and our children's children the blessings
that we inherited from our predecessors.
And I pledge to you that the first 4 years of this next century under a Ford
2330
