[983]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
early in my life by a wonderful Sunday school teacher that the beauty of Joseph's
coat is its many colors. The strength of our great country is the fact that we are
all different, that we share that same great hope for freedom and liberty not only
for ourselves but for mankind.
You share a deep, deep devotion to your family and your churches and your
neighborhood. These are the best American values. They are the values that really
keep America united. They are my values. You are my concern, and I know that
America is your concern.
My administration has been working to ensure that what you have earned,
what you have built for yourself—your homes, your churches, your local groups,
your social club—will be here tomorrow for them, your children, to enjoy.
We must ensure that your families will have the healthy neighborhoods like
this one. Ralph Perk 2 told me that he was born a house or two away from where
he now lives and the neighborhood has retained its great strength and character.
We must keep, across this Nation, not just in Cleveland, this kind of a neigh-
borhood so that people can build a decent and better life for themselves.
A family needs a neighborhood that is safe. A family needs a neighborhood
that is stable. A family needs a neighborhood of local churches, local shops, and
local schools. The first day of this year, January 1, I signed into law—some of you
may remember—the Mortgage Disclosure Act to prevent redlining and neigh-
borhood decline. Two months ago, I met with ethnic leaders to see what more
we could do and, as a result of that meeting—and Ralph Perk, as I recall, was
there I created a President Ford committee of urban development and neigh-
borhood revitalization.
I charged that committee with developing a sound fiscal policy, a sound Fed-
eral policy to help preserve our neighborhoods. That policy will be based on
local initiative and local control, and I will see that that policy is carried out over
the next 4 years.
I am deeply aware of another issue that troubles many of you, especially those
of you from Eastern Europe. This Bicentennial Year, as you celebrate, as we all
celebrate American liberty, you are concerned to see that your friends and rela-
tives abroad who do not share all of your freedoms, your friends and relatives
are not forgotten.
America cares today as it has always cared. We stand for freedom and inde-
pendence in 1976 as we stood for freedom and independence in 1776. My posi-
tion during my total political career in the Congress, as Vice President, and now
2 Mayor of Cleveland.
2758
