[670]
July 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
with the Federal Government within the framework of the Self-Determination
Act, which I signed in January of 1975.
Indian tribes, if they desire, now have the opportunity to administer Federal
programs for themselves. We can then work together as partners. On your
part, this requires initiative and responsibility as you define your tribal goals
and determine how you want to use the Federal resources. On the Federal
Government's part, self-determination for Indian tribes requires that Federal
programs must be flexible enough to deal with the different needs and desires
of individual tribes.
In the past, our flexibility has been limited by the lack of effective coordination
among departments and agencies offering a wide variety of programs and
services to the Indian people. Programs serving both reservation and non-
reservation Indians are spread across half a dozen different Cabinet departments
involving agencies ranging from the Economic Development Administration
to the Federal Aviation Administration.
As many of you know, this is Ted Marrs' last day on the White House staff.
Ted's service as White House Liaison for Indian Affairs has been invaluable to
me as President and to the Cabinet officers and, I am confident, to the Indian
community. With his departure, I will announce shortly the name of a person
who will assume Ted Marrs' duties in the Office of Public Liaison in the area of
Indian affairs. This appointee will be an individual with responsibility to work
with the Cabinet officers, with the Office of Management and Budget, with the
Domestic Council, and with my legal office to encourage the improved coordi-
nation of the various Federal agencies and programs that currently serve the In-
dian population.
As an additional step in this direction, I am also sending a memorandum to
the heads of all Cabinet departments with Indian responsibilities, directing them
to give priority attention to the coordination of Indian programs. These two ac-
tions will help to ensure that $12 billion spent annually on Indian programs and
services will be spent efficiently, with cooperation, and without duplication.
An important task we can help you with is the challenge of economic develop-
ment of your lands. I congratulate you on the initiative that you have shown. I
pledge encouragement. I pledge help in your efforts to create long-term eco-
nomic development.
Many Indian reservations contain valuable natural resources. There must be
the proper treatment of these resources with respect for nature, which is a
traditional Indian value. My Attorney General has established an Indian re-
2022
