[889]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
important, it undermines our medical schools' admission policies by imposing
Federal law to override an individual school's admission criteria.
Finally, I object to the unduly harsh penalties assigned to those scholarship
recipients who fail to fulfill their service obligation in the National Health Serv-
ice Corps. With respect to these people, the bill requires them to pay back three
times the amount of the scholarship plus interest, with adjustment for any por-
tion of a service obligation performed, within 1 year of the breach of this obli-
gation. In my view, a penalty of twice the amount provided, plus interest, would
be more than sufficient.
As I indicated earlier, I plan to recommend action to remedy these problems
as soon as Congress reconvenes. Despite the drawbacks of the bill, however, I
believe this legislation is necessary. Many of the problems which are contained
in this bill have been without authorizing legislation since June 1974. Further-
more, the bill addresses the important problems which we identified last year.
In weighing all of these factors, I believe that it is in the best interest of the Ameri-
can people to sign this measure into law.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 5546, approved October 12, 1976, is Public Law 94-484 (90 Stat. 2243).
890
Remarks in Yonkers, New York, Upon Signing the State
and Local Fiscal Assistance Amendments of 1976.
October 13, 1976
Dick, Senator Javits, Senator Buckley, distinguished Members of the Congress,
Governor Wilson, Mayor Martinelli, Monsignor Head, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
Today marks a major milestone in our continuing effort to make govern-
ment work better for the American taxpayer. In just a moment, I will sign into
law a bill extending what we call general revenue sharing for another 3¾¼ years.
Many of you here in this group this morning played a very leading part in
the passage of the original revenue sharing bill back in 1972. No one had a
more significant role than two former Governors of the great State of New
York-Vice President Rockefeller and your own hometown friend, Malcolm
Wilson. Malcolm, congratulations.
In 1972, as the Republican leader of the House of Representatives at that
time, I led the fight in the House of Representatives for the revenue sharing
concept. In 1976, as President, I led the fight for the renewal of the general
2504
