September 16
[787]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
totalitarian societies. And let me add, if I might, a comment or two on that
subject.
Italy and the United States share a firm dedication to democratic government
and the principles of freedom and liberty. We, in America, value the role of
Italy in the world itself, Italy's contribution to the Atlantic Alliance, and Italy's
contribution to a stronger and more cohesive Europe, working with the United
States.
We have been hearing a lot recently about the new character of some Com-
munist parties in Western Europe, that they believe in democratic, multiparty
government, that they are independent, nationalist parties with no loyalties
or affiliations beyond national borders.
Lest we succumb to this beguiling message, I remind you that we were hear-
ing these same reassuring messages from the heads of Communist parties in
Eastern Europe right after World War II. We all know what happened when
these parties actually came into power in the late 1940's. It's a history lesson
we should not forget.
The history of our own country teaches us another important lesson-the
value of diversity as well as unity among our people. At a meeting in the White
House last month, Italian-American leaders spoke to me of our need to encour-
age cultural pluralism without diminishing Americanism. I agree completely.
Our neighborhoods are the place to start. On the first of this year, I had the
privilege of signing into law a bill passed by the Congress called the Mortgage
Disclosure Act, to prevent redlining.* Last May, I met with a group of ethnic
leaders to see what more could be done. As a result of that meeting, I created
the President's Committee on Urban Development and Neighborhood Revi-
talization. I charged that Committee with developing a sound Federal policy
to preserve our neighborhoods and to prevent urban decay.
Our policy will be based upon local initiative and local control. I was very
pleased and very encouraged the other day when I read in the New York Times
about major new efforts, including proposed new zoning rules to revitalize
New York City's Little Italy. As I read from that article, the City Planning
Commission and a neighborhood group spent some 2 years coming up with
this plan. I wish them every success. I hope other groups and other communi-
ties will follow their example.
But let me say with emphasis and reemphasis: I am committed to maintain-
ing the strength and vitality and the unique contributions of America's com-
munities. In my search for Americans to help us with this very major task,
* See Item 3.
2261
