[1057]
January 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
This gathering symbolizes the constitutional foundation which makes con-
tinued progress possible, synchronizing the skills of three independent branches
of Government, reserving fundamental sovereignty to the people of this great
land. It is only as the temporary representatives and servants of the people that
we meet here, we bring no hereditary status or gift of infallibility, and none
follows us from this place.
Like President Washington, like the more fortunate of his successors, I look
forward to the status of private citizen with gladness and gratitude. To me,
being a citizen of the United States of America is the greatest honor and privilege
in this world.
From the opportunities which fate and my fellow citizens have given me, as
a Member of the House, as Vice President and President of the Senate, and as
President of all the people, I have come to understand and place the highest
value on the checks and balances which our founders imposed on government
through the separation of powers among co-equal legislative, executive, and
judicial branches. This often results in difficulty and delay, as I well know, but
it also places supreme authority under God, beyond any one person, any one
branch, any majority great or small, or any one party. The Constitution is the
bedrock of all our freedoms. Guard and cherish it, keep honor and order in your
own house, and the Republic will endure.
It is not easy to end these remarks. In this Chamber, along with some of you,
I have experienced many, many of the highlights of my life. It was here that I
stood 28 years ago with my freshman colleagues, as Speaker Sam Rayburn ad-
ministered the oath. I see some of you now-Charlie Bennett, Dick Bolling, Carl
Perkins, Pete Rodino, Harley Staggers, Tom Steed, Sid Yates, Clem Zablocki—
and I remember those who have gone to their rest. It was here we waged many,
many a lively battle-won some, lost some, but always remaining friends. It was
here, surrounded by such friends, that the distinguished Chief Justice swore me
in as Vice President on December 6, 1973. It was here I returned 8 months later
as your President to ask not for a honeymoon, but for a good marriage.
I will always treasure those memories and your many, many kindnesses. I
thank you for them all.
My fellow Americans, I once asked you for your prayers, and now I give you
mine: May God guide this wonderful country, its people, and those they have
chosen to lead them. May our third century be illuminated by liberty and blessed
with brotherhood, so that we and all who come after us may be the humble
servants of thy peace. Amen.
2926
