[800]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
800
Remarks Upon Signing the Department of Defense
Appropriations Act, 1977. September 22, 1976
Secretary Rumsfeld, distinguished Members of the House and Senate, members
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, leaders in military-oriented and veterans organiza-
tions, ladies and gentlemen:
I am about to sign into law the defense appropriation bill for fiscal year 1977.
This legislation represents substantial progress toward meeting the essential
national defense requirements that I recommended to the Congress in January.
This bill helps to reverse a steady decline in the real resources devoted to na-
tional security, which had become a pattern. After 8 years of decline we are
providing for real growth in defense spending.
I believe this bill reflects a new awareness that this country can no longer
shortchange our national defense efforts. I commend the Congress and its
leadership for joining with the administration in reversing this trend. I am
convinced that this new pattern must and will be sustained in future years, and
I am personally, fully committed to it. I will ensure that America's military
forces remain unsurpassed, as they are today. But while this bill represents
real progress, there is more to be done.
First, I have directed a number of actions to achieve major economies in the
operation of the Defense Department. Other economies which would have saved
approximately $16 billion over a 5-year period required affirmative legislative
action. Unfortunately, the Congress has thus far failed to act on a majority
of these issues,
Second, Congress has failed to authorize certain programs that are essential
to our long-term defense policy. This is particularly true in the shipbuilding
area.
Third, Congress has added funds for programs which I did not request in
fiscal year 1977, funds which should be used instead for more important pro-
grams that Congress rejected. That is why, on August 23, I found it necessary
to resubmit authorization requests totaling $2.4 billion to cover what I con-
sidered critical programs which were not approved by the Congress. At the
same time, I also asked for the deletion of programs totaling $584 million in
this fiscal year, suggesting that these funds be applied against the programs
that I had requested.
I am very pleased that the conferees in the House and Senate for the legis-
2280
