October 13
[889]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tion of the existing program of financial support to health professions schools
through capitation grants. However, a significant new condition is attached to
the receipt of these grants. Medical schools would be required to provide annu-
ally an increasing percentage of residency positions for individuals in primary
care specialties, i.e., pediatrics, internal medicine, and family medicine.
The bill authorizes funding for numerous special projects relating to the edu-
cation and training of physicians and allied health personnel. Special grants are
authorized for programs in family medicine and the general practice of dentistry.
In addition, grants for programs for the training of physician extenders and
expanded function-dental auxiliaries were authorized. Such programs are
designed to enhance the overall capacity of physicians and dentists to deliver
health care.
Finally, the bill revises and extends the existing National Health Service Corps
program—a program which has made significant strides in alleviating the prob-
lem of inaccessibility to health care services in medically underserved areas. This
program currently has more than 600 professionals working in shortage areas.
It is estimated that by next year, this number will grow to almost 700. And, with
the authorizing legislation before me now, we expect the capabilities of this
program to increase dramatically during the following 3 years.
As I noted, however, the bill is not without some defects. Because I am par-
ticularly concerned about the potential impact of some of these troublesome
provisions, I intend to submit legislative recommendations to remedy these prob-
lems as soon as the Congress returns.
Primarily, these concerns relate to the levels of spending authorized by the leg-
islation, provisions which deal with medical school admission requirements for
Americans returning from foreign medical schools, and payback conditions for
students who do not fulfill their obligations under the National Health Service
Corps scholarship program. I am convinced that the authorization levels attached
to this program are excessive. I believe that the desired results can be attained at
a much lower cost. I particularly object to the provision which creates an auto-
matic funding "trigger" for the scholarship program and which penalizes other
programs authorized in the bill if certain scholarship funding levels are not met.
Not only does this provision impose unwarranted sanctions but it distorts the
entire congressional appropriations process.
Furthermore, I have reservations about the capitation condition which requires
medical schools to accept a certain number of American citizens who have been
students in foreign medical schools and who meet certain criteria. Not only does
this requirement potentially create administrative problems but, equally as
2503
