October 26
[967]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in Pittsburgh. I would like to ask a question of a somewhat different nature,
with the debates so fresh in our minds.
As a representative of the television media, my station contributed 6 hours
of prime time as a public service for the Presidential and Vice-Presidential de-
bates which, incidentally, as we all know, were carried by all three TV networks,
really leaving the television viewer with very little alternative. Also, many think
that these debates have even set a precedent that all future Presidential candidates
will feel obliged to follow.
Do you really think the debates are worth all this either to you as a candidate
or to the American public? And, in retrospect, would you have preferred a
different format allowing more direct confrontation with Governor Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. Number one, I think the debates should be institutionalized
in our Presidential campaigns. I think they could be improved, and I made a
comment the other day after the-I guess it was the second debate, that they
would be improved if Mr. Carter would answer the questions and I would
question my answers.
But to be serious, I do feel that we now have another 4-year period, and
experts in the media, experts in the academic world, experts from other areas
of our society ought to sit down and maybe consult with my advisers, Mr. Car-
ter's adviser's and maybe get a thought or two from either one of us. And I
think they should be a part of the political system every 4 years.
But I am confident there can be improvement in the mechanics and some
of the other aspects that I think would help to educate and stimulate the
American voter.
Q. Mr. President, Gene Cookson, senior vice president, C. S. McKee and
Company. Many people in our country, including myself, are somewhat con-
fused as to the exact state of unemployment in this country. Governor Carter has
stressed repeatedly that the unemployment is the highest in the Nation's
history, while you have stated more people are employed today than ever before.
Could you clarify these seemingly contradictory statements?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we are both probably right. But I think in order
to understand what appears to be a conflict, people must recognize that we have
the largest work force in the history of the United States. So, when I say we have
88 million people gainfully employed, an alltime high in the United States,
that is accurate because we have more potential people in our work force than
we have ever had before.
And when Mr. Carter says the unemployment numerically is the highest, he
is quoting a statistic, which is likewise accurate, but only because we, again,
2705
