[920]
October 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
920
Remarks Upon Receiving the Golden Helmet Award
From the American Veterans of World War II.
October 19, 1976
Mr. Commander, Doris Shrake, Paul Welch, distinguished guests, previous com-
manders and others:
As you were speaking of the Hewitt-Madigan Post, it brought back many fine
memories of my many opportunities to get together with my former comrades
in that post and my long association with that particular organization in the
AMVETS. And I thank you, and I hope you will transmit it to them, my
appreciation for that opportunity over the years.
I am also, Mr. Commander, deeply grateful for this honor this morning. As
a life member of the AMVETS, it's a very special privilege and pleasure to
receive the Golden Helmet Award, the finest tribute you can pay to a President
of the United States. I thought I was very fortunate back in 1971, Commander,
to have gotten the Silver Helmet Award. And then to have this-it really over-
whelms me, and I can't express adequately my appreciation.
I have always held the AMVETS in the highest regard, because I know from
personal experience that organization has never faltered—or wavered, I might
add-in your support for a strong, sturdy America.
There have been times during our recent history—and I cite the period of the
Vietnam war as an example-when many of our fellow citizens, I think, con-
scientiously, grew weary of our leadership role and wanted to sharply reduce
America's presence and strength throughout the world.
Fortunately, these voices never really prevailed. The Congress regrettably
listened too much, and our defense budgets were cut too much, but over the
years we managed to maintain a military force capable of meeting any threat to
our security, and we continue to be a forceful leader in international diplomacy
today.
And today, the pendulum is swinging back the other way, I am glad to
report. As I travel about the country-and perhaps as you travel about the coun-
try—I find growing public support for our Armed Forces and a growing public
awareness that in order to keep the peace, we must be willing to invest in a first-
class fighting force. That growing support is due in no small measure to the un-
2580
