[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
agreement that the Russians have dominance in Eastern Europe; we bailed out
Soviet agriculture with our huge grain sales, we've given them large loans,
access to our best technology, and if the Senate hadn't interfered with the Jack-
son Amendment, maybe you would have given them even larger loans. Is that
what you call a two-way street of traffic in Europe?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that we have negotiated with the Soviet Union since
I've been President from a position of strength. And let me cite several examples.
Shortly after I became President, in December of 1974, I met with General
Secretary Brezhnev in Vladivostok. And we agreed to a mutual cap on the bal-
listic missile launchers at a ceiling of 2,400, which means that the Soviet Union,
if that becomes a permanent agreement, will have to make a reduction in their
launchers that they now have or plan to have. I negotiated at Vladivostok with
Mr. Brezhnev a limitation on the MIRVing of their ballistic missiles at a figure
of 1,320, which is the first time that any President has achieved a cap either on
launchers or on MIRV's.
It seems to me that we can go from there to the grain sales. The grain sales
have been a benefit to American agriculture. We have achieved a 534-year sale of
a minimum of 6 million metric tons, which means that they have already bought
about 4 million metric tons this year and are bound to buy another 2 million
metric tons, to take the grain and corn and wheat that the American farmers
have produced in order to have full production. And these grain sales to the
Soviet Union have helped us tremendously in meeting the cost of the additional
oil and the oil that we have bought from overseas.
If we turn to Helsinki—I am glad you raised it, Mr. Frankel in the case of
Helsinki, 35 nations signed an agreement, including the Secretary of State
for the Vatican. I can't under any circumstances believe that His Holiness the
Pope would agree, by signing that agreement, that the 35 nations have turned
over to the Warsaw Pact nations the domination of Eastern Europe. It just isn't
true. And if Mr. Carter alleges that His Holiness, by signing that, has done it,
he is totally inaccurate.
Now, what has been accomplished by the Helsinki agreement? Number one,
we have an agreement where they notify us and we notify them of any military
maneuvers that are to be undertaken. They have done it in both cases where
they've done so. There is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe, and there
never will be under a Ford administration.
MR. FRANKEL. I'm sorry, could I just follow-did I understand you to say,
sir, that the Russians are not using Eastern Europe as their own sphere of in-
fluence and occupying most of the countries there and making sure with their
2416
