[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
taxpayers' obligations to the Federal Government. Jimmy Carter says he will
increase them. So when you go to that ballot box, think about how you can get
a fair shake in the Federal tax payments that you have to make.
One other point: I think we've got to put the lid on Federal spending. Jimmy
Carter has embraced 60-some spending programs that will add $100 billion to
$200 billion annually to the Federal expenditure.
Jimmy Carter also says he wants to reorganize the Federal Government.
Let me point this out: When he was Governor of the State of Georgia, 4 years,
he increased the number of State employees by 25 percent or more; he increased
the spending by the State of Georgia by 50 percent or more; he increased the
bonded indebtedness of the State of Georgia by over $200 million. Can you
trust him with that record to reorganize the Federal Government? I don't
think you can.
Let me say this: Jimmy Carter, on two occasions, has made public state-
ments that he would cut defense spending by $15 billion. Of course he denied
it, but the facts are he did say it. He wants now to cut defense spending $7 to
$9 billion, or $5 to $6 billion. At the same time, he says the United States is
not strong enough. Now, he can't have it both ways.
And let me remind you of a statement made by a great President of the
United States, Teddy Roosevelt, who once said, "Speak softly and carry a
big stick." With the kind of cutbacks in defense spending that Jimmy Carter
wants to make, Jimmy Carter, in effect, is saying speak loudly and carry a
flyswatter. [Laughter]
Jimmy Carter has said that the United States, our country, is not respected
anymore around the world. That's an inaccurate statement. Every single leader
in the free world has said that relations between the United States and their
country is good, never been better. And when Jimmy Carter says that your
country and my country are not respected, Jimmy Carter is slandering 215
million Americans and the United States of America, and we shouldn't stand
for it and we won't.
And so I say to you, Betty and I are delighted to be in the Land of Lincoln,
here in Pontiac, Bill Harris' hometown.
I urge you to elect Jim Thompson, your next Governor. I urge you to elect
Bill Harris. I urge you to elect Tom Cochran. I urge you to give the support
to the kind of record of performance that we have given to you in the last 2
years. And I say Betty and Jerry won't let you down during the next 4 years.
Thank you very much.
2550
