September 26
[813]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
administration will open the floodgates to blessings that we haven't had, blessings
that we can get, blessings for a better America.
That's what this administration is all about, and that's why I want your vote
November 2. We need it. We can carry Louisiana, and we can win the election.
Thank you very much.
813
Remarks in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi.
September 26, 1976
Congressman Trent Lott, Governor Finch, Mayor Carver, Mayor Longo,
distinguished guests, all you wonderful Mississippians:
It is great to be in Bay St. Louis and Hancock County, the State of Mississippi.
As we were driving from New Orleans here to Hancock County, it was very
obvious to me that you have the most wonderful outdoor recreation area I have
ever seen. I congratulate you. You have fishing and hunting.
Speaking of hunting, I don't believe that the law-abiding citizens of this great
country should be deprived of the right of freedom of arms, period. And I don't
think if you want to go hunting you have to go and register your firearm.
But in Kansas City, I said that in this great campaign I would not concede a
single State, I would not concede a single vote, and that we would campaign
from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia. And we
are in Mississippi to prove it. We want to win in Mississippi.
But let me take just a minute to thank your Congressman, Trent Lott. Trent
has done a super job. Send him back. We need him, and so do you.
As you will all recall, in August of 1974, just a little over 2 years ago, this
country was in trouble. The American people had lost faith in their government.
We were in serious economic circumstances. Inflation was high, over 12 percent.
We were on the brink of a recession, the worst in 40 years. We were still involved
in Vietnam, and this country had to turn it around.
We have in the last 2 years made incredible progress, and we are going to make
more in the next 4 years. We have restored trust and honor to the White House.
We have made significant progress in reducing inflation from over 12 percent
to under 6 percent, but we are going to make more.
And let me say this: The best way to win the battle against the cost of living
is to reduce the cost of Federal Government. There are some people running for
2331
