September 26
[817]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
country, that the people who commit the crimes go to jail so that we can protect
the innocent victims of crime in America.
Well, it's just great to be here in this wonderful State of Alabama. As I was
coming into the airport, I was looking forward to seeing Governor Wallace.
You know, in 1972 Governor Wallace went up to the State of Michigan. He got
involved in the primary on the Democratic ticket. Everybody was saying he
didn't have a chance. But you know what he did? He got 51 percent of the
vote. I think I will take him to Michigan to help me in 1976.
We've had a wonderful Bicentennial anniversary. How many of you felt
better on July 4 when we celebrated our 200th birthday? I know I did. I went
to Valley Forge; I went to Philadelphia; I went to New York. I had the
opportunity to see people of all walks of life in many States just get a new
faith in America—a rebuilding, a rekindling of this great, great spirit that made
America grow from 13 poor, struggling Colonies 200 years ago to a nation of
215 million builders, people who today-whether they live on the East Coast,
the North or the South or the East or the West—we're builders, and we've got
that spirit.
This is what made America great. This is what will keep America great.
And each of us must pledge—regardless of our political faith or belief—our
dedication to a better America. I know you will-I will—and I know that
America in the next 4 years and the next century will be a greater and greater
country just because of us.
Now just one final question. I've had a great time, and we came over from
the Mississippi and Alabama line, saw so many friendly faces, and to see this
tremendous crowd here-can I ask you a favor? We've got a big election
November 2. I want your support. Can I have it?
Thank you very, very much. It's been great to be here. I won't let you down.
Thank you Governor Wallace. Thank you very much Bear. Thank you Jack
Edwards. Thank you Bill Dickinson. Thank you John Buchanan. Elect them;
I need them, you need them, we all need them in Washington representing you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:13 p.m. at Bates
Field at the Municipal Airport. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Gov. George C. Wallace of
Alabama, Representatives William L. Dickinson and
John Buchanan, and Paul (Bear) Bryant, head coach
of the University of Alabama football team.
2343
