September 8
[763]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
was that of being President of the United States. And I intend to carry out that
responsibility. Secondly, we have a campaign strategy that will unfold in the
days and weeks ahead. It is a strategy that we will adhere to, and it is one that
has been thoroughly worked out and definitely determined. And you will see
how it evolves in the time ahead.
LOCATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, was it your suggestion that the first debate be held in
Philadelphia and, if so, why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, I wanted the debates to start today, and we
weren't too particular where the location might be. We are certainly in agree-
ment with Philadelphia being the first site.
THE CANDIDATES' POSITIONS ON ABORTION
[5.] Q. Mr. President, Jimmy Carter said today that your position on abor-
tion and his are fundamentally the same. Do you agree with that? And, secondly,
do you think the issue should be debated at all in the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. First, the Democratic platform and the Republican platform
on the issue of abortion are quite different. I subscribe to the Republican plat-
form, and Governor Carter subscribes to the Democratic platform. His position
and mine are not identical. My position is that of the Republican platform, and
I will stick with it.
Q. But that was not your position before.
THE PRESIDENT. I think—if I might correct you, Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas,
United Press International]—the Republican platform is my platform. It is one
that coincides with my long-held views.
Q. Do you think there should be a constitutional amendment against abortion?
The President. I have had the position for some time that there should be a
constitutional amendment that would permit the individual States to make
the decision based on a vote of the people of each of the States.
Mr. Rodgers [Walter C. Rodgers, Associated Press Radio].
SALT II NEGOTIATIONS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, are we any closer to a second SALT agreement with
the Russians, and if so, what are the prospects for such an agreement before the
election?
THE PRESIDENT. We are continuing to work on the negotiations for a SALT
II agreement. A good agreement would be in the best interest of the American
2213
