October 28
[987]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
intent for the supply of nuclear fuel to current and prospective customers will-
ing to accept such responsible restraints.
—In addition, I am directing the Secretary of State to enter into negotiations
or arrangements for mutual agreement on disposition of spent fuel with con-
sumer nations that adopt responsible restraints.
Where appropriate, the United States will provide consumer nations with
either fresh, low-enriched uranium fuel or make other equitable arrangements
in return for mutual agreement on the disposition of spent fuel where such
disposition demonstrably fosters our common and cooperative nonprolifera-
tion objectives. The United States seeks no commercial advantage in pursuing
options for fuel disposition and assured fuel supplies.
Finally, the United States will continue to expand cooperative efforts with
other countries in developing their indigenous nonnuclear energy resources.
The United States has proposed and continues to advocate the establishment
of an International Energy Institute, specifically designed to help developing
countries match the most economic and readily available sources of energy to
their power needs. Through this Institute and other appropriate means, we will
offer technological assistance in the development of indigenous energy resources.
IV. Strengthening the U.S. Role as a Reliable Supplier
If the United States is to continue its leadership role in worldwide nonprolif-
eration efforts, it must be a reliable supplier of nuclear reactors and fuel for
peaceful purposes. There are two principal actions we can take to contribute to
this objective:
-I will submit to the new Congress proposed legislation that will permit
the expansion of capacity in the United States to produce enriched uranium,
including the authority needed for expansion of the Government-owned plant
at Portsmouth, Ohio. I will also work with Congress to establish a framework
for a private, competitive industry to finance, build, own, and operate enrich-
ment plants.
U.S. capacity has been fully committed since mid-1974 with the result that no
new orders could be signed. The Congress did not act on my full proposal and
provided only limited and temporary authority for proceeding with the Ports-
mouth plant. We must have additional authority to proceed with the expansion
of capacity without further delay.
-I will work closely with the Congress to ensure that legislation for improv-
ing our export controls results in a system that provides maximum assurance
that the United States will be a reliable supplier to other nations for the full
period of agreements.
2771
