January 18
[1070]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
!
The costly lessons of the past decade are inescapable. High and variable infla-
tion rates are incompatible with sustainable growth. Overly expansionary policies
contributed to the very high inflation rate and, in turn, to the deepest worldwide
recession since the 1930s. Policy changes and adjustments will doubtless be
needed in 1977 and thereafter. But policies must hold to a reasonably steady and
predictable course. In particular, the measures we select to further our economic
expansion must not raise the risk of future inflation.
The growing recognition among nations of their interdependence has helped
to create the cooperation that is now apparent among members of the industrial
community. The mutuality of the policy goals of the developed and develop-
ing countries needs to be better understood on each side. For this reason the dis-
cussions between developed and developing countries during 1976 have at-
tempted to foster a climate in which our joint interests and our diverse concerns
can be freely expressed. Although the progress so far achieved has disappointed
some, it has helped us avoid the sometimes easier but mutually destructive course
of trade restrictions.
ENERGY POLICY
Energy matters retain their troublesome hold among the problems threatening
the Nation's long-run prosperity. The sharp increases in oil prices in 1973-75
imposed major costs upon our economy. We have done much to accommodate
the new higher prices for energy, but some aspects of energy policy have
hampered the adjustment. The Congress has continued to hold prices for domes-
tically produced oil and natural gas well below world market levels. These
lower energy prices have encouraged the inefficient use of energy and discour-
aged efforts to expand domestic supplies and improve the energy efficiency of
the overall capital stock.
The recovery has heightened the demand for energy and thus resulted in
greater imports of oil. In consequence the United States now depends even more
heavily upon imported petroleum and is even more vulnerable than a year ago
to future price manipulation and interruptions in supply. Now that the problems
of recession and inflation are receding, we can more vigorously address this diffi-
culty. The energy program that I have presented before is designed to answer
the longer need.
First steps are under way toward creating a strategic oil reserve which will
help shield us from disruptions in supply. The OPEC pricing decisions of Decem-
ber were a forceful reminder of the Nation's growing need for protection against
2949
