October 31
[1001]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have restored confidence and trust in the Oval Office in the White House.
I have done it by being open, candid, frank, straightforward, and let me assure
you that in the next 4 years we will do just as well because the American people
want to believe their President. And they can believe President Ford.
I am honored that I am the first President since Dwight D. Eisenhower who
can seek election and say to the American people, our great country is at peace,
and we are going to keep it that way. There isn't a single young American
fighting or dying on any foreign soil tonight. And we are at peace because
America is strong. We are strong militarily. We have the finest weapons, the
best leadership. We have the greatest capability to deter aggression, to meet
any challenge.
I have been able to turn the Congress around and convince them that their
President, if he is dealing with our allies on the one hand, they feel strengthened;
or if he is dealing with our adversaries, they respect him. And I pledge to you
that we are going to keep the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines
number one during the next 4 years. But that requires that we buy the best
weapons systems, not for war but to maintain peace.
But I want to thank the people of Nassau County for their contribution.
You have in the Grumman Company one of the finest performers with the
F-14 and other weapons systems.
So, we have trust, we have peace, we have growing prosperity. But now,
what other things must we do? Number one, we have to keep our economy
moving in the right direction, and here is an area where there is a difference
between myself on the one hand and my opponent on the other.
From the very beginning-in fact, in January of last year, I recommended
to the Congress that we ought to have a tax reduction primarily aimed at
helping the middle-income taxpayer who has been given short change in the last
10 years. I recommended that we ought to increase the personal exemption
from $750 to $1,000.
A few weeks ago I was going through a plant, stopped and talked to some
of the working people, and one of the men said, "What are you going to do
about my Federal taxes?" I said to him, "Well, I recommended to the Congress
that they bump up your personal exemption." I said, “How many kids do
you have?" "Oh,” he said, “I have three." I said, "You have your wife, three
children, and yourself.” I said, "If the Congress had acted responsibly, if the
Congress had done what they should have done, next April when you were
making out your income tax return you could have claimed $1,250 more on
your income tax return."
2817
