October 25
[964]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
MacAvoy's proposal and whether its goals will receive your active support if
you are elected?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that report came to me roughly 3 or 4 months ago, as I
recollect. I was not satisfied with that report. I told the group to go back and to
reevaluate the overall situation and to report back to me when they had, in my
opinion, made recommendations that I felt were more in line with my own
views. That group has not yet reported back to me—and I can't tell you when
they will—but I did not approve of the one that was submitted to me.
Q. What future role do you see for the Office of Telecommunications Policy
under your continuing leadership?
THE PRESIDENT. The Office of Telecommunications is currently more or less
the telecommunication adviser to the President himself. There is a division of
opinion in the administration. One group advises me that it ought to be folded
into a reasonably comparable unit within the Department of Commerce, the
feeling being that those two were duplicating one another. Others feel that the
Office of Telecommunications ought to be maintained as the communications
adviser to the President, and probably expanded in some respects.
I anticipate that between now and January I will make a decision, and I ex-
pect to have an option paper from the two differing views within the adminis-
tration. I don't think it's proper for me to make that judgment today, pre-
empting the hard work that I know both are doing. But I will make a judg-
ment before January and make that recommendation to the Congress.
Mr. Wasilewski. Mr. President, I think your schedule is
THE PRESIDENT. Let me take three more. I'm enjoying this.
Q. Past administrations have been highly critical of our free enterprise broad-
cast system. And since you've had the opportunity in your world travels to see
how other countries operate theirs, how would you compare our system to theirs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my observations in the numerous foreign countries
that I have visited-it's my strong conviction that our radio-television system
here is far preferable to what I've seen overseas. On the other hand, I think it's
proper for me to say that I have given more support, financially and other-
wise, to public broadcasting than any other President. I think public broad-
casting plays a very important role in our society, and I am pleased with the
management and the content that I've personally observed.
But I think we basically want the free enterprise part of broadcasting to con-
tinue its very vital role, and I would vigorously oppose any nationalization of the
electronic media in this country. Competition from public broadcasting is
healthy, and it performs a certain function. But to have a totally monopolistic
2691
