October 27
[978]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
indicated that we were really on the upswing. And what does that mean?
It means that people are willing to invest, they have a little extra money for
that down payment, they can gamble on those monthly mortgage payments.
So we're going to try and help them, my administration. We're going to cut
the down payments by 50 percent. We're going to make sure that if a person
has a 20- or 30-year mortgage, that the monthly payments are less when a young
couple is earning less. And the monthly payments will be higher when a person
has more money as he advances up the salary scale. But the strength of this
country is the home and the family, and we want those neighborhoods preserved.
And then, of course, we want good health care. I think the American people
do get good health care, but we have to make positive that it is health care
they can afford. And we owe a very special obligation to the older citizens of
this country—some 33 million, as I recall the figure—people who have worked
hard, saved, mainly living on retirement incomes. We owe them an obliga-
tion. That obligation, I think, is to make certain that if any one of them has
an extended, prolonged, expensive illness, that instead of having their savings
depleted by the kind of costs that to occur—and I venture to say in this room
tonight, everybody here knows of that kind of a serious tragedy in any family.
So, that's why I proposed to the Congress last year what is called catastrophic
health insurance, so that any one of our older citizens, senior citizens, cannot
have any more than a $750-a-year bill for hospital or medical expenses. That
relieves them and gives them the kind of security that I think would be better for
their frame of mind and, certainly, for their savings that they're earned over
the years.
But speaking of the senior citizens—and I know there are some here—there
are other things that we must do: cut the rate of inflation. We've done quite
well, but we're going to do better-from over 12 percent to under 6 percent.
That's better than a 50-percent rate of progress. But we have to get it down, and
we will.
Then we have to make sure that the cost-of-living escalator for social security
payments are there for them to count on. But I have to say that we owe an obliga-
tion, likewise, to make sure that that Social Security Trust Fund is sound
financially. I proposed a method that I think was fair to achieve that. Congress
didn't respond. But we have an obligation to those who are retired and those
who will shortly be retired so that trust fund is available and they don't have
to worry about it.
And then, of course, of all the people in this great country who need most
the protection from crime—it's our older senior citizens. So, we've got to do
2741
