October 30
[997]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
January 20, 1977. Betty and Jerry Ford invite you to the inauguration on Janu-
ary 20, 1977.
You know, as we come to the final countdown, and that is where we really
are, I think you know but I want to reemphasize it—I stand on your side for
limited government, for fiscal responsibility, for rising prosperity, for lower
taxes, for military strength, and for peace in the world.
I am the first President to seek election since Dwight D. Eisenhower who can
go to the American people and say America is at peace. And I remind you that
not a single young American is fighting or dying on foreign soil tonight and
they won't under the Ford administration.
But as we talk about things that are good, things that we have done, I can't
help but let my mind drift back to 26 months ago when I became your Presi-
dent and stood in the East Room of the White House-never having sought
election as President—becoming President under the most unusual circum-
stances, but I found that this country was in tough shape at that time.
Unemployment was beginning to rise. We were on the brink of a serious
recession. Inflation was over 12 percent. The American people had lost faith and
confidence and trust in the White House itself. We were still engaged in Viet-
nam. It was a tough and troubled country.
But as I stood there and took the oath of office and then had a few words to
say, I said, “Although you have not selected me by your ballots, I hope you will
confirm me with your prayers." And over the long sweep of 26 months, those
prayers have helped. We put the ship of state on a steady keel. We had a firm
and commonsense hand at the tiller, and the net result is we made substantial
progress. We have cut the rate of inflation by more than half. We have gained
4 million jobs in the last 18 months. We have 88 million people gainfully
employed in this country, an alltime high. And I think we have restored honor
and trust and confidence in the White House by being frank, forthright, talking
straight from the shoulder. I don't believe in promising more than I can pro-
duce, and I believe in producing everything that I promise.
But we've got a long way to go. I'm not satisfied. I won't be satisfied until
every American who wants a job will have a job. We can do it in the next
4 years.
I won't be satisfied until every young American, with his wonderful
wife, can afford to buy a house in a decent neighborhood because that's the
bulwark of our society—a home where you raise fine children, where you live
in security and safety. And we are going to make it possible by lowering down-
payments, by adjusting mortgage payments, and by lowering the problems of
inflation. We are going to give this new spirit to the younger generation on the
2803
