[732]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
States Senate, and one of the great experiences of my participation in this cam-
paign is to work with a counterpart like Paul Laxalt, who is always straight-
forward, who is always responsible, and whose word was as good as gold.
Paul, you have been a great leader of the opposition. We are so happy that we
are going to be working together from now on.
SENATOR LAXALT. Thank you, Bob, very much.
We worked for months in an effort to have a harmonious convention, and I
think we achieved that. And it has been due, in great part, to Bob Griffin.
I might say, also, that I couldn't be more delighted than to hear the news this
morning about Dole's selection. In my judgment he is going to make a tremen-
dous candidate. He is sound philosophically. My daughter and others consider
him to be a fox. [Laughter] And he is going to bring to the campaign, I think,
a delightful sense of humor which we are going to need in the next 8 weeks.
I think we have in these two men the potential of a winning combination, and
I am looking forward to working with both of them in the next several weeks.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Last, but not least, as I said, a man who has done a super job
as Vice President. I would like to introduce to all of you, so he can indicate his
feelings, the Vice President of the United States.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, Vice President-designate, dis-
tinguished ladies and gentlemen:
To me, this is a very important moment for every American and for the world,
because the United States has been through, as have other countries of the world,
a most difficult period. If we think back 2 years ago where this country was and
where the world was and think what President Ford has done to restore the con-
fidence of the American people in government, to restore the vitality and dyna-
mism of our economy, to stop inflation, to move forward on employment, to re-
gain the confidence of the leaders of the world, of the people of the world in
America, America has been waiting and the world has been waiting for this
decision. I think we are fortunate, ladies and gentlemen, that the people of this
country and, therefore, the people of the world are going to have the chance
to select these two leaders to carry on the kind of responsible government in
which America and the world can have trust and confidence to preserve freedom,
respect for dignity, and equality of opportunity for all.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I thought you might like to get a picture of the beauty of the
Ford-Dole team, and I think both Bob and I couldn't be happier to have them
2156
