[1085]
January 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
work on a convention to limit chemical weapons, and will soon be considering a
U.S. initiative to ban radiological warfare.
This 16th annual report on the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency
completes the record of activities and developments in the arms control field for
calendar year 1976. But it is more than a backward look at the record. It also
reflects the need for forward planning. In an age of rapidly advancing technolo-
gies, arms control must look at the future as well as the present. Arms control
must be pursued vigorously and imaginatively, based upon balanced agree-
ments and buttressed by mechanisms to preserve confidence in the viability of
those agreements.
It is particularly important to realize that arms control is a complex matter
and success can be attained only through diligent and sustained attention. Prob-
lems will persist, but we must remain dedicated to continued and determined
efforts for the control and balanced reduction of armaments.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 39-page report is entitled "16th Annual Report to the Congress, 1976, U.S. Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency."
1086
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Withdrawing the Designation of the People's Republic
of the Congo as a Beneficiary Developing Country for the
Generalized System of Preferences. January 20, 1977
IN ACCORDANCE with the requirements of section 502(a)(2) of the Trade
Act of 1974, I herewith notify the House of Representatives/Senate of my inten-
tion to withdraw the designation of the People's Republic of the Congo as a
beneficiary developing country for purposes of the Generalized System of
Preferences.
The considerations that entered into my decision were based upon the provi-
sions of sections 504(b) and 502(b)(4) of the Trade Act. Section 504(b) of that
Act states:
"The President shall, after complying with the requirements of section 502
(a)(2), withdraw or suspend the designation of any country as a beneficiary
2978
