November 1
[1010]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
around. America has made incredible progress in the last 2 years. But we are
just moving. We are going to get better. We are going to make America what
our forefathers said it would be.
When I was sworn in, I asked for your prayers. I said you hadn't elected me.
But tomorrow all of you in this great area of western Michigan can really de-
cide the election. You can decide the election in Michigan.
In Kansas City I said I wouldn't concede a single vote, I wouldn't concede
a single State—and I don't concede Michigan to the opposition. Western Michi-
gan can turn the tide. Western Michigan can decide the fate of the next 4 years
in this country. It will make the difference in Michigan. It will make the differ-
ence in the election.
And so, I say to you calmly, from the depth of my appreciation: Tomorrow,
yes, I want your prayers for confirmation, but tomorrow I ask that
you confirm
me with your votes, and I won't let you down. I promise that.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. at the Pantlind Hotel, following a parade motorcade from the
Kent County Airport.
1010
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Gerald R. Ford
Health and Physical Education Building at Grand Rapids
Junior College. November 1, 1976
Thank you very much, Phil, Congressman Guy Vander Jagt, Mr. Godfrey, rev-
erend clergy, students, faculty and guests:
You don't know how much it means to Betty and to myself to come home
and see this wonderful turnout. Of course, the welcome we received from the
airport to the Pantlind Hotel will be indelibly impressed on our minds. I saw,
as Betty did, literally thousands of people that we grew up with. She went to
Central, and I went to South, but we get along pretty well and have for 28
years.
But mainly to see the great changes that have taken place in Grand Rapids
since we were young-this is a great and growing community. It has the same
strong character that it has always had, but it has changed with the times.
I can vividly recall when I got through South High in 1931. Those were
tough times. A few of you can remember them. I literally almost had an op-
portunity to come to Grand Rapids Junior College, and I knew what a great
2837
