[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
would you, as you said earlier, return whatever surplus you got to the people
in the form of tax relief?
THE PRESIDENT. We feel that with the programs that I have recommended,
the additional $10 billion tax cut, with the moderate increases in the quality of
life area, we can still have a balanced budget, which I will submit to the Con-
gress in January of 1978. We won't wait 1 year or 2 years longer, as Governor
Carter indicates.
As the economy improves, and it is improving our gross national product
this year will average about 6-percent increase over last year—we will have a
lower rate of inflation for the calendar year this year, something slightly under
6 percent; employment will be up; revenues will be up. We will keep the lid
on some of these programs that we can hold down, as we have a little extra
money to spend for those quality of life programs, which I think are needed
and necessary.
Now, I cannot and would not endorse the kind of programs that Governor
Carter recommends. He endorses the Democratic platform which, as I read it,
calls for approximately 60 additional programs. We estimate that those pro-
grams would add $100 billion minimum and probably $200 billion maximum
each year to the Federal budget. Those programs you cannot afford and give
tax relief.
We feel that you can hold the line and restrain Federal spending, give a tax
reduction, and still have a balanced budget by 1978.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, Mr. Ford takes the same attitude that the Republicans
always take. In the last 3 months before an election, they are always for the
programs that they fight the other 32 years. I remember when Herbert Hoover
was against jobs for people. I remember when Alf Landon was against social
security. And later President Nixon—16 years ago—was telling the public that
John Kennedy's proposals would bankrupt the country and would double the
cost.
The best thing to do is to look at the record of Mr. Ford's administration
and Mr. Nixon's before his.
We had last year a $65 billion deficit, the largest deficit in the history of our
country, more of a deficit spending than we had in the entire 8-year period
under President Johnson and President Kennedy. We've got 500,000 more
Americans out of jobs today than were out of work 3 months ago. And since
Mr. Ford has been in office, in 2 years we've had a 50-percent increase in un-
employment, from 5 million people out of work to 2½ million more people
2296
