September 26
[817]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the right principles we are going to surprise some people down here in these
States.
Let me tell you why. As Coach Bryant said, on August 9, 1974, when I became
President, there was a pretty dark cloud in this country. We had gone through
some traumatic experiences. The people were divided. There was great unhap-
piness. We had had riots in our streets and riots on our campuses. We were
facing a serious economic problem. There had been a loss of trust and faith in
the White House itself. We were still involved in Vietnam. It wasn't a very
pleasant time.
As Coach Bryant said, we were back about on our own goal line. But we
found in the next 2 years that the American people had the kind of character,
the American people wanted to work together, and that we had the kind of
government that gave to us the opportunity to bring our country forward.
And what has happened? We have restored faith and trust in the White
House. We have turned the economy around from inflation of over 12 percent
to under 6 percent. We have added 4 million jobs from the depth of the
recession in the last 17 months, meaningful jobs with a chance for advancement.
We are going to do better. And I won't be satisfied, as your President, until we
get a job for everybody who wants to work and will work and will look for
work.
Then we have extricated ourselves from Vietnam. We have peace. We have
the military strength and the diplomatic skill to keep the peace. We don't do it
through the draft, we do it through an all-volunteer military force. And we
are going to keep the peace not only at home by doing a better job in solving
our problems of crime but we are going to give the leadership throughout
this whole world to keep the peace that is so essential so the blessings of America
can be spread beyond our own shores.
But let me make a comment about our military strength. And I am so
pleased that in the background, if the light was such, that we could see the Coast
Guard Aviation Training facility. You should be complimented on the fine job
they do, and we are proud of them.
That brings up the subject that I think is of vital importance. I am very
proud of the fact that in the last 2 years I have submitted to the Congress and
to the American people the two largest military budgets in the history of
America-not for the purpose of making war, but for the purpose of preserving
peace. And we have turned the situation around so that now Congress, after
cutting defense expenditures for the last 10 years some $50 billion-we have
convinced the Congress that it's important, it's vital, it's essential that America
2341
