[793]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
793
Remarks Greeting Directors of the National Farm
Credit Bureau. September 20, 1976
Mr. Secretary, members of the Farm Credit Directors group:
First, let me welcome you to the Rose Garden on this beautiful day. It is a
great privilege and honor for me to have an opportunity of saying a few
things this morning concerning agriculture, and I hope that I have the op-
portunity to shake hands and say hello to many of you.
I won't take a lot of your time because I know the Secretary of Agriculture
is going to speak to you later today, but I would like to make an observation or
two.
I was just told by the Secretary that last year this group loaned some $33
billion to American farmers and ranchers. That's a tremendous accomplish-
ment, and I congratulate you for your constructive contribution to the outstand-
ing record of American agriculture.
I know that we've got some rather serious problems in some areas of the
country that will involve credit. We have a drought in our upper Midwest
area. We know that that will undoubtedly bring about some added need for
additional credit, and I am sure that Secretary Butz and myself will work with
you to make certain and positive that there is adequate credit available for
our American farmers and ranchers.
As we look down the road to a longer problem, we obviously will have to
have greater credit availability as our population increases and as our export
markets increase with the growing population around the world. But I am
absolutely confident that people like yourselves, working with the responsible
people in the Federal Government, will be able to meet the needs of additional
credit for our agricultural community in the United States.
Earl Butz frequently says, and I totally agree with him, that the American
farmer is the miracle-man of this 20th century. I was looking at some statistics
the other day. I was obviously pleased to see that the American farmer today—
one farmer produces enough for 56 people in our country or abroad—an in-
crease of some 16 in the last 10 years.
This proves to me that American agriculture is the most productive segment
of our total society, and the statistics indicate that American agriculture pro-
ductivity has gone up far, far greater in the last 10 years than any other segment
of our society.
2270
