January 12
[1057]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The United States can never tolerate a shift in strategic balance against us or
even a situation where the American people or our allies believe the balance is
shifting against us. The United States would risk the most serious political con-
sequences if the world came to believe that our adversaries have a decisive
margin of superiority.
To maintain a strategic balance we must look ahead to the 1980's and beyond.
The sophistication of modern weapons requires that we make decisions now
if we are to ensure our security 10 years from now. Therefore, I have consistently
advocated and strongly urged that we pursue three critical strategic programs:
the Trident missile launching submarine; the B-1 bomber, with its superior
capability to penetrate modern air defenses; and a more advanced intercon-
tinental ballistic missile that will be better able to survive nuclear attack and
deliver a devastating retaliatory strike.
In an era where the strategic nuclear forces are in rough equilibrium, the risks
of conflict below the nuclear threshold may grow more perilous. A major, long-
term objective, therefore, is to maintain capabilities to deal with, and thereby
deter, conventional challenges and crises, particularly in Europe.
We cannot rely solely on strategic forces to guarantee our security or to deter
all types of aggression. We must have superior naval and marine forces to main-
tain freedom of the seas, strong multipurpose tactical air forces, and mobile,
modern ground forces. Accordingly, I have directed a long-term effort to
improve our worldwide capabilities to deal with regional crises.
I have submitted a 5-year naval building program indispensable to the Na-
tion's maritime strategy. Because the security of Europe and the integrity of
NATO remain the cornerstone of American defense policy, I have initiated a
special, long-term program to ensure the capacity of the Alliance to deter or
defeat aggression in Europe.
As I leave office I can report that our national defense is effectively deterring
conflict today. Our Armed Forces are capable of carrying out the variety of
missions assigned to them. Programs are underway which will assure we can
deter war in the years ahead. But I also must warn that it will require a sustained
effort over a period of years to maintain these capabilities. We must have the
wisdom, the stamina, and the courage to prepare today for the perils of tomor-
row, and I believe we will.
As I look to the future—and I assure you I intend to go on doing that for a good
many years—I can say with confidence that the state of the Union is good, but
we must go on making it better and better.
2925
