October 25
[958]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
America is back at peace again. There's honor in your White House again.
Four million new jobs in 17 months, and inflation cut in half.
Things are getting better. That's why we're feeling good about America. We
know we still have a lot of work in front of us. But we remember where we've
been, and we know how far we've come.
We've all fought the battle against inflation. We know that the enemies are
Government spending and drastic changes in policy. Let's stay on our steady
course.
With it we can welcome America's third century with a new generation of
freedom in which Government controls its excesses, its taxes, its spending to
let you enjoy the fruits of your own hard work. I think that is what freedom is
all about.
NOTE: The President's remarks were broadcast over
the Mutual Radio Network.
The text of the address was released at San
Diego, Calif.
958
Remarks in San Diego Announcing the Establishment of the
Southwest Border Economic Development Region.
October 25, 1976
I HAVE an announcement this morning before taking off for Washington
and Oregon.
I'm pleased to announce that the Secretary of Commerce will designate 36
counties along our border with Mexico—in California, Arizona, New Mexico,
and Texas-as the Southwest Border Economic Development Region. This
region is being established in response to a request by Governor Brown, together
with the Governors of New Mexico, Arizona, and Texas.
The request has been analyzed by the Department of Commerce, which has
recommended establishment of this development region to me. I'm convinced
that organization of a regional commission, as authorized by an amendment to
the Public Works and Economic Development Act, passed in 1975, will make a
major contribution to promoting economic development in the border counties.
California counties to be included in the development region are San Diego,
Riverside, and Imperial. As an economic development region, the Southwest
border area will become eligible for Federal assistance in organizing projects
to develop local economic resources. This ties in with my personal philosophy
2675
