October 26
[968]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
solve our economics problems and to ensure the kind of economic prosperity
that we want.
MODERATOR. Mr. President, I am afraid our time is running short. The city
of Pittsburgh must get to work, and I understand you have a steel mill to visit.
On behalf of our members, guests, officers, and directors, I would like to
thank you very much for attending this meeting with us this morning.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:57 a.m. Ballroom I
at the Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Jim Burnham, president of the
Pittsburgh Economic Club, and Mayor Peter Flaherty
of Pittsburgh.
968
Remarks in Chicago, Illinois. October 26, 1976
Thank you very much, Chuck Percy, Ron Bukema, Governor Ogilvie, Edith
Green, Joe Garagiola, Senator Carl Curtis:
It is great for President Ford to be in Ford City. Thank you. Let's make all
of Illinois Ford country November 2.
With this kind of enthusiasm and the wonderful welcome that we had a
week ago Saturday in downstate Illinois, I can say with confidence that we are
going to carry the State of Illinois November 2. Are we?
While I am here in Ford City, let me extend to all of you a very special invi-
tation next January to come to the inauguration in Washington, D.C., of Jerry
Ford and Bob Dole.
Let me say you are here because you want to know where I stand on the issues.
I stand on your side for limited government, for fiscal responsibility, for rising
prosperity, for lower taxes, for military strength, and peace throughout the
world. Not a single young American is fighting or dying on foreign soil today,
and we are going to keep it that way.
After so many years in which America's defense needs were shortchanged,
I proposed the two largest defense budgets in the history of the United States,
and I was able to convince the Congress to stop slashing away at military
spending.
After so many years of runaway inflation and runaway growth in the Federal
budget, I submitted a budget to the Congress last January that cut the rate of
growth in Federal spending by over half.
I have held the line on Government spending with 66 vetoes and saved you-
and I emphasize “you”—the hard-pressed taxpayers more than $9 billion.
2707
