[710]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing Congress, S. 2447 would serve principally to prevent Maryland from levy-
ing such taxes on Members of Congress. However, it is one thing for a taxing
jurisdiction voluntarily to exempt Members of Congress from its income tax
laws and quite another for Congress to mandate a Federal exemption on a
state income tax system. I believe such Federal interference is particularly
objectionable where, as is the case in Maryland, a portion of the income tax is
collected on behalf of counties to pay for local public services which all residents
use and enjoy. It should also be noted that this bill would in effect freeze the
exemptions now provided by Virginia and the District of Columbia, and they
would then be powerless to change their tax laws in this regard.
Since this bill benefits a narrow and special class of persons it violates, in my
view, the basic concept of equity and fairness by creating a special tax exemp-
tion for Members of Congress while other citizens who are required to take up
temporary residence in the Washington area—or elsewhere-do not enjoy a
similar privilege.
Finally, those who assert that there is a Constitutional infirmity in applying
a state income tax to Members while attending Congress may present the issue
to the courts for resolution.
As the end of this session of Congress approaches, the American people
would be better served if Congress would direct its attention to the important
laws that should be passed this year-to cut taxes and spending; to expand cata-
strophic health care programs; to limit court ordered school busing; to attack
crime and drugs; and to address many other important matters of concern
to the American people—rather than by enacting legislation such as S. 2447.
For these reasons I am returning S. 2447 and asking Congress to reconsider
this bill.
The White House,
August 3, 1976.
711
GERALD R. FORD
Toasts of the President and President Urho Kekkonen
of Finland. August 3, 1976
Mr. President, distinguished guests:
Mrs. Ford and I are greatly honored to have all of you as our guests on this
auspicious occasion.
2122
