October 23
[949]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
wonderful State have helped make America the most advanced technological
and educational society in the history of mankind.
Just this week, America made a clean sweep in the Nobel Prizes for eco-
nomics, chemistry, physics, medicine, and literature. This is the first time in
history that a single country has been the home of all of these winners. I am
proud to be a citizen of the great United States of America, and you and I can be
proud of what has been done, and we can be proud of the progress we are going
to make in the future.
We have our problems, but in the last 2 troubled years we've come a long,
long way. Our long national nightmare is over; 4 million new jobs have been
created in less than 2 years; inflation cut more than half; trust has been restored
in the White House; America is at peace at home as well as abroad; we are
putting our old angers aside; we are putting our old problems behind us and
healing our wounds.
It is a record I am proud to run on, a record of the people of North Carolina
and concerned citizens—Democrats, Independents, and Republicans-through-
out America will support on November 2. Give me your mandate, and we will
reduce the growth of government still more. Give me your mandate, and we will
ensure the integrity of the social security system. We will improve Medicare so
that our older citizens can enjoy the health and happiness that they have so
richly earned. There is no reason that they should have to go broke just to get
well.
Give me your mandate, and we will make sure that this rich and wonderful
Nation does not neglect its citizens who are less fortunate than ourselves, but
provides for their needs with compassion and with dignity. Give me your man-
date, and we will create a tax structure that is fair to all, that will preserve the
family home, the family business, the family farm, and give industry in Amer-
ica the opportunity to modernize, to expand, so that we can create more jobs for
the young who are coming into the labor market.
Give me your mandate, and we will expand the recreational opportunities and
restore the healthy environment of this great country so that we can leave a
legacy to future generations of America. Give me your mandate, and I will lead
this Nation on the paths of peace through strength, and we will live in peace and
freedom in the United States of America.
I have no fear for the future of America, The future is our friend, and as we
go forward together, I promise you once more—as I have promised you before—
to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me to see the right,
2657
