[967]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
have more people working—I mean, more people who are eligible or desire
work in this country.
Now, there's one point that bothered me—and I cite this as a historical fact,
not making any comment as to who was right or who was wrong, or whether
there was any political blame assessed—but when Mr. Carter says that the unem-
ployment in the early fifties was far, far lower than it is today—and it was—
I think it is also very legitimate for me to say because it is historically accurate,
that we had 3,500,000 young men and women in the military engaged in a
military conflict and today we have 2,100,000 young men and women in the
Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines.
It is 1,400,000 fewer than we had 2 years ago. It is the smallest active duty
military force since Korea, and if we had another 1,400,000 on active duty, which
we don't have, we could significantly claim that our unemployment figure was
quite a bit less.
But I don't think that is the way to achieve unemployment or to improve the
statistics. We have enough men in the four services—men and women—to do
the job to keep the peace. And I want that 1,400,000 out in the labor market
trying to get a job or working at a job in our civilian economy. And we are
still going to take care of the job opportunities of about 2 to 2½ million new
ones every year because we are going to have an expanding economy, primarily
in the private sector.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Glen Beeson, professor of economics, Duquesne Uni-
versity. Most economists recognize that plans such as the Humphrey-Hawkins
bill, some forms of national economic planning, will necessitate wage-price
controls. Would you advocate under any circumstances wage-price controls
and, if so, what would be sufficient cause?
THE PRESIDENT. Early in my administration, I took a firm stand—which has
not changed, which will not change—against wage and price controls, including
standby wage and price controls. I don't think they work. Our neighbor to
the north, Canada, has had them now for what-18 to 24 months? Their eco-
nomic recovery has been slower than ours with many more dislocations than we
have had as we have come out of the recession.
Some of our Western European countries to one degree or another have tried
them in recent months and their recovery in each case is slower than ours,
with the possible exception of West Germany. So, I strongly disapprove of wage
and price controls, even on a standby basis.
Our true competitive economic system is the best way, in my judgment, to
2706
