October 24
[955]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
like the B-1 bomber. It would slow down our ship construction program. It
would do serious damage in some of our other research and development pro-
grams. It might be just closing defense plants throughout the United States,
including some right here in the great State of California. We aren't going to
let that happen. America must stay number one.
After so many years of runaway inflation, runaway growth in the Federal
budget, I submitted a budget for the third fiscal year which will cut the rate of
growth in Federal spending by 50 percent. I have held the line on Government
spending with 66 vetoes and saved you, the hard-pressed American taxpayer,
$9 billion. And each family in this country has been saved $200 by those tough
vetoes, and we are going to have more and more if the next Congress is as bad
as this Congress. Because I said no on these 66 bills, we will be able to submit a
balanced budget to the American people and to the next Congress in 1978. And
we will have another tax reduction, in addition.
My idea of tax reform is tax reduction. I proposed, for example, raising your
personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. The middle-income taxpayer in this
country has been shortchanged, and we are going to change it in the next
Congress.
The other day I was out to a factory talking to some hard-working people who
put in their 8 hours a day, who work hard, pay their taxes, and they asked me
about tax reduction. I said, "How many children do you have in your family?”
This man said three. He has five exemptions. I said if the tax reduction that I pro-
posed goes through-and we are going to get it next time—it would mean that
you, when you fill out your income tax return, will be able to take a $1,250
more tax exemption in your next return. That helps the middle-income taxpayer,
and that is what we are going to get.
After so many years of uncontrolled inflation, I am proud to say that we have
cut inflation by 50 percent in the past 2 years, and I pledge to you we will do bet-
ter in the next 4 years. After the worst recession in 40 years, we have added 4
million new jobs in the American economy, not by creating dead-end jobs for
those that want to work, jobs created at the taxpayers' expense, but by stimulating
jobs with a future in the private economy where five out of those six jobs exist
today.
Too many people are out of work. I recognize that. We are not satisfied with
the progress we have made, but more Americans were on the job in 1976 than
ever before in the history of this great country-nearly 88 million people—and
that is a tremendous comeback from where we were just a year and a half ago.
After suffering—and I say this with sadness—after suffering a tragic betrayal
2671
