October 25
[962]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Our great veterans hospitals must be the finest that medical skill, compassion,
and dedication can create. The VA medical and nursing care system for the
older veteran must become a showcase for the entire Nation. We must render
the best possible service to all veterans, regardless of age or the wars in which
they served.
To meaningfully commemorate Veterans Day and to pay tribute to our
Medal of Honor winners, those great heroes, we must keep America strong in
willpower, strong in character, strong in spiritual values as well as strong in
national defense.
The trees we plant here and all across America today show our dedication
to the values personified by the American veteran. I salute all those who we
honor here today and ask God's blessing for them, those who gave so much.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:45 p.m. In his opening remarks, he referred to Jerome R. Dolezal, director
of the hospital.
962
Remarks on Arrival at Portland, Oregon.
October 25, 1976
Thank you very much, Bob Packwood:
Really, I feel very humble coming to the great State of Oregon and to have
the endorsement of Edith Green, the endorsement of Mrs. Tom McCall, and
the endorsement of such a prestigious group as you see on my right.
I think Oregon is extremely well-served by the two fine Senators that it has
in Mark Hatfield and Bob Packwood. Of course, it was great to see my good
friend, Wendell Wyatt.
I'm delighted to be here and have an opportunity to come back and renew
acquaintances in the State of Oregon. And I can assure you that in the remain-
ing days of this campaign, I will try, in a very constructive way, to point out the
significance of this election, the fundamental differences that exist, and why,
in my judgment, there ought to be a selection of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole as
our leaders for the next 4 years. I can assure you that what we've done in the
past 2 years will simply be a forerunner of the kind of progress that I think
America can make and will make in the first 4 years of our third century.
Nothing was more inspirational to me than that wonderful Fourth of July,
when America celebrated its Bicentennial. I found all over America-and it
2683
