[871]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me say this very seriously: The best tax reform that I know is tax reduc-
tion for the American taxpayer.
The middle-income taxpayers in this country, that are the strength of America,
are the people that have gotten shortchanged in the last 10 or 15 years in our
tax legislation. They are the people that pay the taxes, obey the laws, give us
the strength and the inspiration in this great country. They have been short-
changed, short shrift. The best way I know to give them the kind of a fair
tax break is to increase the personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000.
That's what we ought to get, and that's what we will get, under a Ford
administration.
Let me make one other observation. I think everybody in this great gathering
this afternoon, if they look back over the great, great Presidents of the United
States, they would say that Teddy Roosevelt was pretty high on the list-Teddy
Roosevelt, one of the Rough Riders, one of the individuals who really did what
he said he was going to do. Teddy Roosevelt made a tremendous comment that
I think is very apropos to the circumstances today. Teddy Roosevelt said, “We
should speak softly and carry a big stick." If you look at the record of Jimmy
Carter, what he wants to do to our Defense Department, how he wants to
weaken the national security of the Uniter States in the next 10 years-Jimmy
Carter, he wants to talk loud and carry a flyswatter. [Laughter]
In Kansas City I said that we would not concede a single State, we would
not concede a single vote; we were going to campaign from the snowy banks
of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia. We are doing it. And when I see
at this tremendous crowd, when I hear about the wonderful effort that you
make in the Dallas area, when I see how enthusiastic you are, when I know of
the record you have made in the past, let me say the momentum is with us.
We are going to carry Texas and thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:55 p.m. at the Apparel Mart. In his remarks, he referred to William
McKenzie, Dallas County Republican chairman.
872
Exchange With Reporters Following a President Ford
Committee Reception in Dallas. October 9, 1976
Reporter. Hi, Mr. President. What kind of day has it been for you?
THE PRESIDENT. It has been a tremendous day in Texas. I don't think we could
have had a better day. The response from literally thousands and thousands of
2476
