[812]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Your President believes that the Federal Government spends much too much
money. Your President tried to cut the rate of growth of Federal spending by
50 percent. We made a little headway. But in the next 4 years, we will do even
better, so you can have more money in your pocket and not in the Federal
Treasury.
I believe that by holding the rate of spending down, we can give to the tax-
payers of this country the kind of tax reform that makes sense. It makes sense to
you. And that is why I recommended a $28 billion tax decrease with an increase
in the personal exemptions from $750 to $1,000, so you will have more of your
hard-earned cash in your pockets.
All of you, I know, from talking to Congressman Dave Treen and Congress-
man Henson Moore, that you are as concerned as I am that the United States be
strong militarily. Let me say that in the 2 years that I have been your President,
I have recommended to the Congress the two strongest military budgets in the
history of this Nation. And we are going to keep America number one, period.
One way we have tried to hold down the spending of the Federal Government
is to veto 56 [58] bills passed by the Congress. Forty-two of those vetoes have
been sustained, and we have saved you, the taxpayers of this country, $9 billion.
And I might add a postscript: The Vice-Presidential candidate on the other side,
who is a big spender, has voted to override every veto that I have made, which
proves, without any doubt, he is the biggest spender in the United States Senate.
On the Fourth of July, we had a wonderful celebration of America's 200th
birthday. We have had a tough 2 years. We were divided. We have healed those
divisions, and America today has a new spirit, a new spirit that has given us
the capability to move out of our troubles into brighter skies.
Now we have some new problems to solve to improve the quality of our lives:
a job for everybody who wants to work, a house for everybody who will work
and save so he can have that home in a decent neighborhood, the best health
care in the world, the solution to the problem of crime, and greater opportuni-
ties for recreation. Those are the visions and the goals of all of us in Lutcher, in
Gramercy, in Louisiana, in Michigan, California, and in Texas.
We have the greatest form of government in the history of mankind. I have
faith in the character and the strength of the American people. And if we work
together, then we can have the brightest 100 years ahead of us this country has
ever had.
Thank you. I want your vote.
I want to thank the Governor's wife, Elaine Edwards, who has, and I am
proud to say, indicated publicly that she thinks President Ford will be a good
2324
