[1023]
December 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
firms, through the frequency of our meetings, the
spirit of close and sincere friendship between the
United States and Italy. And I equally thank you
for the warm words you just expressed about
my country and myself.
The United States and Italy are bound by ties of
alliance and cooperation, by harmonious ideals
of democracy, and by choices of peace, freedom,
and development. The Atlantic Alliance, which
binds our two nations in a common objective of
defense, represents a guarantee of security for the
Western World to which we belong for historical
vocation and on account of political choice, which
proves to be an essential element of the interna-
tional strategic balance, a basic condition for a
détente policy which will create the basis of a
long-lasting peace.
With the same objectives of peace and progress,
Italy is engaged, together with its partners of the
European community, in a policy of unity which
will permit Europe to contribute to the creation
of a more just and stable world.
Many elements unite us-the interest in social
and cultural progress, in the advancement of sci-
ence, in respect of men, in the choice of a style of
life which guarantees and protects, to the greatest
extent, the development of capabilities and poten-
tial for initiative of the individual; the awareness,
both political and moral, of a necessary interrela-
tionship and solidarity among all nations; the search
for international order, which emphasizes at the
same time the rights of men and those of na-
tions; a vision of international relations which aim,
to quote the unforgettable words of George Wash-
ington's farewell speech, to observe good faith
and justice toward nations and cultivate peace and
harmony with everybody.
But beyond these common ideals, our two coun-
tries are joined by the presence in this hospit-
able country of America of a large community of
Italian Americans who, through their work and
human qualities, honored their land of origin and
contributed to the increased prosperity and greatness
of their new country.
The Bicentennial of the Declaration of Independ-
ence of the United States reminds us of the ideals
of the Founding Fathers who are both yours and
ours, founders of the United States and those of
major instruments of an era of Western history
which brought man and his freedom to the cen-
ter of our civilization.
The American Revolution is an element of the
continuity of Western history and also renews it.
It allows the Western World to accept the chal-
lenges of science, technology, industry, and to
carry out a social transformation which is of
paramount importance within the framework of
a humanistic society, inspired in the values redis-
covered by the Renaissance men. This era of the
Western World's history cannot be considered com-
plete. Its motivations and hopes are still alive.
The ideal thrust must renew itself through a con-
stant critical search for the most adequate objec-
tives in order to accept present and future challenges.
To this purpose, we are stimulated by the com-
mitment and the concerns of the new generation.
Mr. President, during the scheduled meetings
we will deal with many issues, because the pres-
ent circumstances present many problems and they
require an effort of imagination and understanding.
But the guarantee of their success is given by the
spirit of openness and sincerity which always char-
acterized the Italian-American relationships during
the past 30 years.
Mr. President, on behalf of the President of the
Italian Republic, of the Italian Government, and
conveying the feelings of the Italian people, I bring
you warm and friendly greetings which I extend
to Mrs. Ford and to your entire family.
1024
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister
of Italy. December 6, 1976
Giulio Andreotti of Italy.
Thank you all very, very much Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished Italian
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
President Leone was the first state visitor that I had the high honor and rare
privilege to welcome as President of the United States. Tonight we are once
again celebrating the official visit of a very distinguished Italian leader, our
guest tonight, Prime Minister Andreotti. These two visits symbolize the very
2852
