[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
if he should ever become the President of the United States, with his vast experi-
ence as a Member of the House and a Member of the Senate, as well as a Vice
President, I think he would do an outstanding job as President of the United
States.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Kraft, your question to President Ford.
MR. KRAFT. Mr. President, let me assure you and maybe some of the viewing
audience that being on this panel hasn't been, as it may seem, all torture and
agony. One of the heartening things is that I and my colleagues have received
literally hundreds and maybe even thousands of suggested questions from
ordinary citizens all across the country who want answers.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a tribute to their interest in this election.
MR. KRAFT. I will give you that. But let me go on, because one main subject
on the minds of all of them has been the environment, particularly curious
about your record. People really want to know why you vetoed the strip mining
bill. They want to know why you worked against strong controls on auto emis-
sions. They want to know why you aren't doing anything about pollution of the
Atlantic Ocean. They want to know why a bipartisan organization such as the
National League of Conservation Voters says that when it comes to environ-
mental issues, you are—and I am quoting—“hopeless."
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me set the record straight. I vetoed the strip mining
bill, Mr. Kraft, because it was the overwhelming consensus of knowledgeable
people that that strip mining bill would have meant the loss of literally thou-
sands of jobs, something around 140,000 jobs. Number two, that strip mining bill
would have severely set back our need for more coal, and Governor Carter has
said repeatedly that coal is the resource that we need to use more in the effort
to become independent of the Arab oil supplies. So, I vetoed it because of a loss
of jobs and because it would have interfered with our energy independence
program.
The auto emissions-it was agreed by Leonard Woodcock, the head of the
UAW, and by the heads of all of the automobile industry-we had labor and
management together saying that those auto emission standards had to be
modified.
But let's talk about what the Ford administration has done in the field of en-
vironment. I have increased, as President, by over 60 percent, the funding for
water treatment plants in the United States, the Federal contribution. I have
fully funded the land and water conservation program; in fact, have recom-
mended, and the Congress approved, a substantially increased land and water
conservation program.
2632
