[749]
September 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
that
Like all of you, I value the peace that America enjoys in 1976, the peace
finds no Americans in combat anywhere in the world today. We possess and
we must maintain the diplomatic skill and the military might which can keep
the peace and protect our national security.
I will not lead the American people down the road to needless danger or
senseless destruction. We will march ahead on the path of peace through
strength and give America and our freedom a new dimension in the United
States of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 a.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Maj.
Gen. Duane L. Corning, adjutant general of South
Dakota and president of the National Guard Asso-
ciation, and James T. Lynn, Director of the Office
of Management and Budget.
750
Exchange With Reporters on the Presidential Campaign
Debates. September 1, 1976
I AM very, very pleased to announce that I feel very happy about the fact that
the League of Women Voters has concluded the negotiations that will give the
American people the opportunity to have three Presidential debates and one
Vice-Presidential debate.
I am enthusiastic about the opportunity to discuss in detail before the Ameri-
can people the four subjects that I suggested-foreign policy, defense policy,
domestic policy, and economic policy.
It seems to me that with the three debates between myself and my opponent
and between the two Vice-Presidential candidates, the American people will
see firsthand, hear firsthand the views of the four of us. And this is the way I
believe this campaign can best be decided.
I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, do you feel that the arrangement gives any particu-
lar advantage to one party or the other, one candidate or the other?
The President. I believe the negotiations turned out well for the American
people. We have the four subjects I suggested. We will have ample time in the
first debate to discuss in depth and in detail domestic and economic policy.
Our whole approach was how we could get the debates on as quickly as pos-
sible with broad subject matters, and I think the negotiations ended very well.
Q. Mr. President, do you consider the debates to be crucial and the most
2198
