January 19
[1082]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1082
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting Proposed Predator
Control Reorganization Legislation. January 19, 1977
EACH YEAR animal predators destroy large numbers of livestock in many
areas of the Nation. Sheep are especially vulnerable to kills by coyotes.
Since 1931 the Federal government has assumed a degree of responsibility
of controlling animal predation—on both public and private lands. This func-
tion was originally established in the Department of Agriculture, then trans-
ferred to the Department of Interior in 1941.
I believe that it is now appropriate to return this function-except for migra-
tory bird control-to the Department of Agriculture. Accordingly, I am here-
with transmitting the necessary reorganization bill.
This legislation would reestablish most of the animal damage control activi-
ties of the Federal government in the department generally responsible for
protecting the Nation's crops and livestock from various forms of damage―
the Department of Agriculture. That Department already conducts predator
research. It is close to the Nation's farmers and ranchers. At the same time, the
Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior will be relieved
of a function at times inconsistent with its broader objective of protecting and
enhancing the wildlife resources of the Nation.
I am committed to solving the predator problem by environmentally accept-
able means. Increased research will be devoted by the Department of Agricul-
ture to selective and humane ways of dealing with predators. Control activities
will continue to be regulated under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act, as administered by the Environmental Protection Agency.
No additional budget outlays would be required as a result of this proposed
legislation.
An identical letter has been transmitted to the President of the Senate.
Sincerely,
NOTE: The letters were addressed to the Honorable
Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of the House of
GERALD R. FORD
Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A. Rocke-
feller, President of the Senate.
2973
