[818]
September 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Coun-
criminals, are the models for youngsters to look up to. I have directed my
cil on Physical Fitness and Sports, in partnership with State and local authori-
ties and private organizations, to promote team play rather than foul play, and
we will.
The Federal Government shares direct responsibility for organized crime,
white-collar crime, and official corruption. The Department of Justice has made
great strides in combating this kind of crime.
To ensure that this Federal effort is fully coordinated, I will establish an inter-
agency council on crime. It will include the heads of all Federal agencies oper-
ating programs involved with crime. It will be directed by the Attorney General
of the United States, who will do a first-class job. One of the first jobs of the
council will be to review the policies of major domestic agencies and recom-
mend changes to lower the crime rate. The council will develop a comprehen-
sive 5-year plan for crime control and criminal justice through the Federal
Government.
We all know, tragic as it is, as much as one-half of all street crime today is
committed by drug addicts to support their habit. Since taking office, I have
reorganized our programs and priorities to make maximum use of our antidrug
resources at the Federal level. I met with the heads of state of Mexico, Colom-
bia, and Turkey to secure their cooperation in the international war on drugs. I
proposed legislation which would close the loopholes that permit drug traffick-
ers to prey on the young. I directed the Internal Revenue Service to reinstitute
and emphasize a tax enforcement program aimed at high-level drug traffickers.
Since then, the IRS, aided by the Drug Enforcement Administration, has identi-
fied over 375 suspected bigtime pushers for intensive investigation and action.
And I called for more than three-quarters of a billion dollars in a year, a
single 12-month period, to finance the fight against drug abuse.
For every young person who dies of drug overuse-and there were almost
5,000 of them last year—there are thousands more who did not die but can only
go through the motions of living. We are making progress. Total Federal seiz-
ures of drugs and arrests of drug traffickers are up sharply over previous years.
Cooperation among Federal agencies is far, far better.
But our ability to deal with drugs depends, to a large extent, on the coopera-
tion of other governments to work with us. Because Mexico today is the major
source of heroin entering the United States, the first foreign head of state with
whom I discussed narcotic-control cooperation was the President of Mexico.
And last Friday, I met with the new President-elect of Mexico. He has assured
me that during his 6-year term as President of that country, he will give the
2348
