July 10
[659]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is a book that shows that the United States over the years has done extremely
well in the Olympics. But as this book also shows, every 4 years the competi-
tion gets tougher and tougher, and the problems more rugged, the individuals
tougher to compete against.
But let me say, in 1976 in Montreal, even though the competition is going to
be tough and rugged, from competitors of 120-some nations, as I understand it,
I am confident that all of these fine young men and women are going to come
back with their full share of gold, silver, and bronze medals. And we will be
very proud of them. If I could give a little friendly advice: Save enough room
in your luggage to bring back that loot. [Laughter]
You go, every one of you, to Montreal with the very best wishes of all of the
American people. But I think it is significant that as we entered this Bicenten-
nial there was an inspirational day just a few days ago, on the Fourth of July,
when we celebrated our 200th anniversary. You could feel it where I went, in
Valley Forge or Philadelphia or New York, and as it was reported by the
press nationwide, the American people seemed to have a new spirit.
I think we recognize that over the last 10 years we have had our moments
of division. We have had some disharmony. We have been pessimistic. But as
we went from the second century into the third, all thoughout this country,
every one of the 50 States, there was a new spirit of harmony, of optimism,
a spirit that I think we can, in all honesty, indicate was a rebirth of American
patriotism.
And as every one of you go to compete in your respective area of excellence, I
am absolutely certain that you will do better because I happen to think that this
spirit began to emerge just last winter when our Winter Olympic Team was in
Innsbruck.
There were some people who surprised some of our opposition. They did
better than they expected. And I can tell you the reports are that more Americans
watched the winter Olympics than any time in the history of the United States.
Why? Because we believe in you. We believe in our country, and we want you
to win, and you are going to win.
We will be back in the States, and you will be up in Canada, but you will
have a hometown support by proxy. You are going to run, jump, shoot, ride,
swim, box, wrestle, and you are going to have an opportunity to get out there and
show not only us on television but the other competitors that this new American
spirit really means something. It is the way to kick off our third century in the
United States.
But let me add another dimension, a thought that I hope you will carry with
2001
