October 8
[862]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But before doing so, I'd like to give you some very straight talk on the question
of taxes. I say straight talk, because if we could put a tax on empty rhetoric in
this political year, we'd have the national debt paid off in a week. [Laughter]
When we talk about taxes, we are actually talking more than just about
money. Every tax dollar represents your time, your energy, and your individual
hard work. Those tax dollars ought to work just as hard for you as you work
for them.
Mr. Carter's platform calls for new Government programs that could cost
at a minimum of $100 billion each year. And if you take a further analysis, those
programs would add up to $200 billion in additional Government expenditures
every year. He never puts a price tag on those programs. He just says he'll soak
the rich, close the loopholes, and everything will be just fine.
If we put a 100-percent tax on all personal income over $50,000 a year in
America, it would produce less than $9 billion per annum. I ask, in all honesty,
where is the other $191 billion coming from if you use his minimum cost of
those new programs? There are two choices: One, Mr. Carter can have a $191
billion deficit; two, he can do what he said he would do and raise taxes on
every American family above the median income of $14,000 per person. I say
there is a better way-cut spending, cut taxes, keep more of your own money.
To me, tax reform means tax reduction.
For 10 years now Federal spending has grown at an alarming rate. The facts
are, it's grown at a rate of about 11 percent per year, thanks to an overtaxing,
overspending, overbearing Congress. The budget that I submitted to the Con-
gress in January of this year-I proposed a cut in the rate of growth of Federal
spending by half, from about 11 percent to 5½ percent.
I asked for a $28 billion tax reduction; unfortunately, Congress gave about a
$10 billion tax reduction. I asked for an increase in the personal exemption from
$750 to $1,000; Congress refused to act. And just the other day, I was talking to
some employees in a plant in the Washington, D.C., area, and one of the ques-
tions that they asked me: What about tax reduction at the Federal level? I said,
"How many children do you have?" He said three. If you took the tax reduction
proposal that I recommended—an increase of the personal exemption from $750
to $1,000-it would mean that that individual with three children, a wife, and
himself, would get a $1,250 additional tax exemption in his Federal income tax
return. That's understandable, that's equitable, and it's right. And we are going
to submit it to the Congress again in January of 1977.
But in addition, I asked for tax incentives to increase business investment in
high unemployment areas. Again Congress refused.
2449
