October 18
[911]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
also provides that the Secretary of State will initiate negotiations with Mexico
and Canada to develop appropriate bilateral agreements for the protection and
conservation of whales.
Although much is known of the habits of whales, the vastness of the oceans
and the mobility of these mammals make it very difficult to monitor adequately
their many species. This legislation will allow the collection of scientific informa-
tion that will permit us to determine the most appropriate means of prevent-
ing the exploitation of whales and thus avoid their extinction.
The United States has placed great emphasis on multilateral efforts with other
nations through the International Whaling Commission to achieve effective
conservation of whales throughout the world. The negotiations with Mexico
and Canada directed by this bill will reinforce the efforts of our three nations
within the Commission.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15445, approved October 17, 1976, is Public Law 94-532 (90 Stat. 2491).
911
Memorandum of Disapproval of the Bill Providing for
Mandatory Inspection of Rabbit Meat.
October 18, 1976
[Dated October 17, 1976. Released October 18, 1976]
I AM withholding my approval from H.R. 10073, “An Act to provide for the
mandatory inspection of domesticated rabbits slaughtered for human food, and
for other purposes."
This bill would make applicable to domesticated rabbits, with minor excep-
tions, the provisions of the Poultry Products Inspection Act. It would require
the Secretary of Agriculture to implement a mandatory inspection program for
all domesticated rabbit meat sold in commerce, with certain exemptions related
to type and volume of operations.
It should be noted that the Food and Drug Administration now inspects
rabbit meat to ensure that it complies with Federal pure food laws. Thus, there
is no health protection reason for requiring mandatory Agriculture Depart-
ment inspection of rabbit meat.
The effect of this Act would be to substitute a mandatory taxpayer-financed
Agriculture Department inspection program for a voluntary one that is now
provided under another law and paid for by the processors and consumers of
rabbit meat. Since the voluntary program already provides a means for certify-
2571
