[716]
August 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
gave your utmost effort, and on behalf of all Americans, we were very, very
proud of you.
Your achievements are more impressive, in my judgment, for the fact you
were up against some of the athletes whose training is subsidized in various ways
by their governments. In this country it has always been up to those with talent
to make their own way in training and in preparing for the highest level of com-
petition. Our belief in the independence of the athlete and the importance of
the amateur tradition has held us back from all-out government support.
As one of your teammates said, and said so well, “I wouldn't trade any of my
personal freedom for all the records in the world." At the same time I believe
the Federal Government can do more to help athletically talented young people
achieve their very, very best in the Olympic competition.
2
Earlier this year I proposed to provide funding for the permanent winter
sports facilities at Lake Placid, New York, to be used for the 1980 Winter Olym-
pics and thereafter to train future American champions. We can do more than
that in the long run. Therefore, I am asking the Congress to extend the life of
my Commission on Olympic Sports until January of next year. In that time I
am asking the Commission not only to address the problem of sports organiza-
tion in the United States but also to recommend effective mechanisms for fund-
ing training and development of our Olympic competitors.
Other countries have found creative ideas other than government funding.
I am confident we will find ways in which American athletes can be provided
the means for Olympic training and development, while preserving their bona
fide amateur status.
This year's Olympic games, as you all know, had their share of controversy.
International politics sometimes threatened to overshadow athletic achieve-
ments. In the last week or two, we have even heard some people calling for the
Olympic flame to be permanently extinguished. I strongly disagree. I am con-
fident that the Olympic games can be freed from world politics in the future,
reviving the spirit of sacred armistice which prevailed at the original games
hundreds of years ago.
I am confident that in the long run the larger view will prevail—that a great
athletic performance is a personal achievement before it is a national achieve-
ment. Whatever their nationality, all athletes are working against the same
physical and mental constraints of the human body, of gravity and time. The
challenges that all athletes face in common are more important than the
boundaries that divide them. That is the true spirit of the Olympic games.
2 See Item 438.
2132
