October 22
[946]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
pedited process so that the President and the Congress can make a decision on a
route expeditiously.
The bill will mandate the prompt issuance of all necessary certificates, permits,
leases, rights-of-way, and other authorizations to expedite the initial construction
of the route chosen. To ensure adequate environmental safeguards, no final deci-
sion will be made unless all appropriate Environmental Impact Statements have
been completed. The bill also limits to some degree the scope and timing of
judicial review, consistent with constitutional safeguards, so that the gas will flow
as soon as possible.
The Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Act of 1976 contains several proce-
dural sections which are significantly different from those proposed by the
administration. If it appears that these provisions will hinder the purposes of
the bill, I will seek legislative remedies.
The passage of this act is one of the early steps ultimately leading to the build-
ing of a natural gas pipeline—the largest private construction project ever to be
undertaken. The building of this pipeline exemplifies the role that the private
sector must take as we continue our efforts to increase our energy supplies. The
role of the Federal Government in this case is to ensure an expeditious decision so
that construction delays will be avoided.
In my 1975 State of the Union Message, I set forth this Nation's first energy
goals and comprehensive program for achieving energy independence. Since
that time, I have proposed over 20 specific measures to promote energy conserva-
tion and develop our domestic energy resources.
With the signing of this piece of legislation, nine of my energy proposals are
now law. While there is still much to be done, we have made substantial prog-
ress-and we will build upon it.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3521, approved October 22, 1976, is Public Law 94-586 (90 Stat. 2903).
946
Statement on Signing the National Forest Management
Act of 1976. October 22, 1976
TODAY, I am pleased to sign S. 3091-the National Forest Management Act of
1976-an act of great significance to the conservation and management of this
Nation's natural resources.
This act is another important milestone in the evolution of forest policy and
conservation law governing our stewardship of a major part of this Nation's
great natural heritage, the National Forest System.
2619
