September 27
[819]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
United States full cooperation in this problem. And the record shows that with
the continuing and growing support of the Government of Mexico, we can dras-
tically curtail this source of drugs in the next year, and in the next year.
I call upon States and local governments to move forward with us until we
bring the drug traffic under control. And I believe as I see the response of this
wonderful organization here, representing not only local but State and interna-
tional chiefs of police, we have a great opportunity to work together to do the
job for the people throughout this world, and let's do it.
You know better than I, because you see it every day on the streets of your
cities or in the areas of your States, crime is a terrible, terrible enemy to all of us.
But we can beat it, and we will beat it.
But victory requires a continued, clear, and predictable policy. It requires
real reverence for the law. I know that I can count on you and millions of
others—millions and millions of law-abiding Americans—who believe with
you and me, with us, that by fighting crime we are building freedom for all
Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 a.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Fontainebleau Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Chief Richard C.
Clement, president of the association, Clarence M.
Kelley, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, and Mayor Harold Rosen of Miami Beach.
819
Remarks at the Villa Maria Nursing and Retirement Center
in North Miami, Florida. September 27, 1976
I WANT to thank the administration and the diocese. I think the Villa Maria
Nursing and Retirement Home epitomizes what kind of opportunities we want
for all of our older citizens and all of those who are disabled and need the best
care and attention.
History judges a nation on how well it takes care of its older people, and the
United States of America has an obligation to do the maximum, because as I
look around this room and have the opportunity to say hello and to express my
best, I know how much all of you and your generation have done to make this
country what it is today.
And so those of us, and younger generations than myself, have a moral obliga-
tion to make certain and to make positive that you have wonderful facilities like
this, and that you have kind people like the nurses and the doctors and the ad-
2349
