[841]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Federal Government. The Congress wrote language in this bill which enables
employees in Civil Service grades 16, 17, and 18, and some at grade 15, to be
paid higher salaries than the Commissioner of Education, the Commissioner of
Food and Drugs, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the Administrator of the
Farmers Home Administration, the Director of the National Park Service, and
the Archivist of the United States. Many other officials will receive lower salaries
than their subordinates.
The Congress has made a bad situation worse.
I seriously considered returning this bill to the Congress without my approval.
However, I am signing this bill because the Congress will have an opportunity
to remedy the situation early next year, when I present my recommendations
after reviewing the proposals of the Quadrennial Commission on Executive,
Legislative, and Judiciary Salaries.
I am also signing this bill because the Congress did take action on an admin-
istration initiative of some importance—the elimination of the so-called 1-percent
kicker from increases provided Federal annuitants. The 1-percent kicker was
originally intended to compensate for the delay in providing cost-of-living
adjustments. However, as a result of compounding, there has been overcom-
pensation. Since the 1-percent add-on was adopted, the cost of living has
increased 58 percent, while the 1-percent kicker adjustments have totaled 71
percent. Although the new cost-of-living adjustment system which this legisla-
tion establishes does not conform entirely to my recommendations, it never-
theless should maintain an appropriate balance between protecting Federal
annuitants from inflation, while preserving the fiscal soundness of Federal
retirement programs.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14238, approved October 1, 1976, is Public Law 94-440 (90 Stat. 1439).
842
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
United States Participation in the United Nations.
October 2, 1976
[Dated October 1, 1976. Released October 2, 1976]
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress the 30th annual report on United States
participation in the United Nations and its many subsidiary bodies.
This report shows how the United States worked to advance its interests
2386
