[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
only be strong overseas if we're strong at home, and when I become President,
we'll not only be strong in those areas but also in defense—a defense capability
second to none.
We've lost, in our foreign policy, the character of the American people. We've
ignored or excluded the American people and the Congress from participation
in the shaping of our foreign policy. It's been one of secrecy and exclusion.
In addition to that, we've had a chance to become now, contrary to our long-
standing beliefs and principles, the arms merchant of the whole world. We've
tried to buy success from our enemies, and at the same time we've excluded from
the process the normal friendship of our allies.
In addition to that, we've become fearful to compete with the Soviet Union
on an equal basis. We talk about détente. The Soviet Union knows what they
want in détente, and they've been getting it. We have not known what we've
wanted, and we've been out-traded in almost every instance.
The other point I want to make is about our defense. We've got to be a nation
blessed with the defense capability that's efficient, tough, capable, well or-
ganized, narrowly focused fighting capability. The ability to fight if necessary
is the best way to avoid the chance for or the requirement to fight.
And the last point I want to make is this: Mr. Ford, Mr. Kissinger have
continued on with the policies and failures of Richard Nixon. Even the Repub-
lican platform has criticized the lack of leadership in Mr. Ford, and they've
criticized the foreign policy of this administration. This is one instance where I
agree with the Republican platform.
I might say this in closing, and that is, that as far as foreign policy goes, Mr.
Kissinger has been the President of this country. Mr. Ford has shown an absence
of leadership and an absence of a grasp of what this country is and what it ought
to be. That's got to be changed, and that is one of the major issues in this cam-
paign of 1976.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, would you like to respond?
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Carter again is talking in broad generalities. Let me
take just one question that he raises—the military strength and capability of
the United States. Governor Carter, in November of 1975, indicated that he
wanted to cut the defense budget by $15 billion. A few months later he said he
wanted to cut the defense budget by $8 billion or $9 billion. And more recently
he talks about cutting the defense budget by $5 billion to $7 billion. There is no
way you can be strong militarily and have those kinds of reductions in our
military appropriations.
Now let me just tell you a little story. About late October of 1975, I asked
2410
