October 31
[1000]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the great musicians of all time, Lionel Hampton, and a person who repre-
sents the best in professional athletics, Joe Frazier.¹ Come on up here, fellows.
And then there are two candidates, among many others, but two that can
make a great contribution to not only the best interests of Suffolk County but
the best interests of the State of New York, and even more importantly, the
best interests of the country. I hope that you will send Jim Buckley back to
the United States Senate.
And we need a good man—Joe, get up here. Send Peter down to help us.
There's another person who has made a tremendous sacrifice. He has helped
me. But he is doing it because he feels so strongly about what ought to be done
in the next 4 years to make this country a better place for all of us to live.
I can't express my appreciation and gratitude deeply enough, but one of my
good friends and one of yours, Joe Garagiola. Come here, Joe.
In the last 10 days, I have been in many, many areas in this great State.
Let me just run down the list: Flatbush, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Syracuse,
Buffalo, Rochester, Suffolk, Nassau tonight, and Westchester County. We are
on the momentum to win this great State, and we're going to.
Now I am going to issue you an invitation. I talked to Betty today, and Betty
says, "Tell all those wonderful people from Suffolk County to come to the
White House, come to the inauguration on January 20 when Jerry Ford and
Bob Dole are sworn in."
As I stand here tonight, inevitably my mind goes back to August of 1972
(1974)—and reflect for just a minute. Those were tough times. We had inflation
of over 12 percent; we were on the brink of the worst recession in 40 years; we
were still involved in Vietnam; and the American people had lost faith and
trust in the White House. And I can recall that sad day, because I had never
sought to be your President, but I took the oath of office to be the President
until January 20, 1977. And, with some emotion, in the short remarks that I made
after taking the oath, I said to 215 million Americans: You haven't confirmed
me by your ballots, I ask that you confirm me by your prayers.
And in the next 2 years, which were tough, I had the distinct feeling that
215 million Americans—Independents, Democrats, and Republicans—were
standing with us as we tried to meet the terrible problems that faced this
country.
But because we put the ship of state on an even keel, and we had a firm,
consistent, commonsense hand on the tiller, we started to make that progress
that has culminated in today the rate of inflation being less than 6 percent. We
¹ Professional heavyweight boxer.
2811
