October 28
[987]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The first task in dealing with the problem of proliferation is to understand the
world nuclear situation.
More than 30 nations have or plan to build nuclear powerplants to reap the
benefits of nuclear energy. The 1973 energy crisis dramatically demonstrated to
all nations not only the dangers of excessive reliance on oil imports but also the
reality that the world's supply of fossil fuels is running out. As a result, nuclear
energy is now properly seen by many nations as an indispensable way to satisfy
rising energy demand without prematurely depleting finite fossil fuel resources.
We must understand the motives which are leading these nations, developed and
developing, to place even greater emphasis than we do on nuclear power
development. For unless we comprehend their real needs, we cannot expect to
find ways of working with them to ensure satisfaction of both our and their
legitimate concerns. Moreover, several nations besides the United States have
the technology needed to produce both the benefits and the destructive potential
of nuclear energy. Nations with such capabilities are able to export their technol-
ogy and facilities.
Thus, no single nation, not even the United States, can realistically hope-by
itself—to control effectively the spread of reprocessing technology and the result-
ing availability of plutonium.
The United States once was the dominant world supplier of nuclear material
equipment and technology. While we remain a leader in this field, other sup-
pliers have come to share the international market—with the U.S. now supplying
less than half of nuclear reactor exports. In short, for nearly a decade the U.S. has
not had a monopoly on nuclear technology. Although our role is large, we are
not able to control worldwide nuclear development.
For these reasons, action to control proliferation must be an international coop-
erative effort involving many nations, including both nuclear suppliers and cus-
tomers. Common standards must be developed and accepted by all parties. If this
is not done, unrestrained trade in sensitive nuclear technology and materials will
develop-with no one in a position to stop it.
We in the United States must recognize that interests in nuclear energy vary
widely among nations. We must recognize that some nations look to nuclear
energy because they have no acceptable energy alternative. We must be sure that
our efforts to control proliferation are not viewed by such nations as an act to
prevent them from enjoying the benefits of nuclear energy. We must be sure that
all nations recognize that the U.S. believes that nonproliferation objectives must
take precedence over economic and energy benefits if a choice must be made.
2765
