October 8
[862]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
at about 25 percent. Government spending in Great Britain now accounts for
60 percent of the entire British economy.
Listen to what Prime Minister Jim Callaghan of Great Britain, a very
courageous man in a serious crisis, said just last week—and he made this com-
ment in speaking to his Labor Party convention, a party that has played a very
important role in helping to create the problem. But here is what Jim Callaghan
said, speaking to his own party convention: "We used to think that you could
just spend your way out of a recession and increase employment by cutting
taxes and boosting Government spending. I will tell you in all candor that
option no longer exists and that insofar as it ever did exist, it worked by in-
jecting inflation into the economy, and each time that has happened the aver-
age level of unemployment has risen. Higher inflation, followed by higher un-
employment—that is the history of the past 20 years in Great Britain." Then
the Prime Minister continued, and again I quote, “Each time we did this the
twin evils of unemployment and inflation have hit hardest those least able to
stand them—the poor, the old, the sick."
My friends, that is really what this campaign is all about in America. Mr.
Carter and his party offer more promises, more programs, more spending, more
taxes, more inflation. Jerry Ford says that government is already too large,
too powerful, too costly, too remote, and too deeply involved in your personal
lives.
I want to make your Government your capable servant, not your meddling
master. That's why I am a candidate for the Presidency in 1976. I ask for your
help, your support, and your vote on November 2.
Thank you very, very much. And I'll be delighted to respond to your
questions.
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, the preservation of the Hollywood-Burbank Airport is
extremely important to people in this area insofar as jobs and the transporta-
tion alternatives are concerned. We understand that your administration is in-
volved very deeply in trying to help us to save that airport in providing the
funds and providing the resolution of the problem which is required, an en-
vironmental impact assessment.
All I want to do is to personally, on behalf of the people in the San Fernando
Valley, and my district, thank you for your involvement and your support. We
understand Elliot Richardson is involved, among others.
Thank you.
2451
