[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I hope to have a complete responsibility on my shoulders to help bring
about a fair criminal justice system and also to bring about an end to the divi-
siveness that has occurred in our country as a result of the Vietnam war.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Gannon.
MR. GANNON. Governor Carter, you have promised a sweeping overhaul
of the Federal Government including a reduction in the number of Govern-
ment agencies you say would go down to about 200 from some 1,900. That
sounds indeed like a very deep cut in the Federal Government. But isn't it a
fact that you are not really talking about fewer Federal employees or less Gov-
ernment spending, but rather that you are talking about reshaping the Federal
Government, not making it smaller?
MR. CARTER. Well, I've been through this before, Mr. Gannon, as the Gov-
ernor of Georgia. When I took over we had a bureaucratic mess like we have in
Washington now. And we had 300 agencies, departments, bureaus, commis-
sions-some fully budgeted, some not-but all having responsibility to carry
out that was in conflict. And we cut those 300 agencies and so forth down sub-
stantially; we eliminated 278 of them. We set up a simple structure of govern-
ment that could be administered fairly, and it was a tremendous success. It
hasn't been undone since I was there.
It resulted also in an ability to reshape our court system, our prison system,
our education system, our mental health programs, and a clear assignment of
responsibility and authority, and also to have our people once again understand
and control our Government.
I intend to do the same thing if I am elected President. When I get to Wash-
ington, coming in as an outsider, one of the major responsibilities that I will
have on my shoulder is a complete reorganization of the executve branch of
Government.
We now have a greatly expanded White House staff. When Mr. Nixon went
in office, for instance, we had $3½ million spent on the White House and its
staff. That has escalated now to $16½ million in the last Republican administra-
tion. This needs to be changed. We need to put the responsibilities back on the
Cabinet members. We also need to have a great reduction in agencies and pro-
grams. For instance, we now have in the health area 302 different programs
administered by 11 major departments and agencies. Sixty other advisory com-
missions are responsible for this. Medicaid is in one agency; Medicare is in a dif-
ferent one; the check on the quality of health care is in a different one. None of
them are responsible for health care itself. This makes it almost impossible for
us to have a good health program.
2292
