[794]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
to me, at the commencement of our visit to your
great Nation on this most historic and significant
occasion.
We are gratified that you have paid my country
and Africa the signal honor of this unique invita-
tion to share with you and all citizens of America
at the captivating joys of your historic Bicentennial
celebrations. Impressed as we are by your exhila-
ratingly warm reception of us, we sincerely ask,
in turn, that you accept of us, Mr. President, our
heartfelt appreciation and gratitude.
As we enthusiastically rejoice with you in the
spirit of '76, we salute you and all the great peo-
ple of the United States of America and extend our
hearty congratulations as you enter upon your
third century of dynamic and inspiring nationhood.
The microcosm of the whole world, America has
illuminated the limitless potentials of the human
family when it is free to think, free to decide, and
free to act. America is a viable land of spectacular
and expanding opportunity. The model of resiliency
and renewal, America is an historic land where
challenges are pursued with courage and with
skill. A mosaic of devotion and resolve, the
American people are admired for their ingenious
quests, for excellence in science and statecraft, in
industry and enterprise.
America is indeed a creative land of surging
patriotism and surging proficiency. With her
towering stature and commanding influence in the
comity of nations, she has defended and expanded
democracy around the world, fostering integrity,
spawning opportunities, and endeavoring to sever
the scourge of injustice and indignity from the
noble family of mankind.
The Liberian nation and people are proud to have
traditionally enjoyed with you, Mr. President, and
the great American people a unique and special
friendship during the span of our 130 years of
independence. We have drawn exceptional inspira-
tion from your unrelenting and outstanding lead-
ership in the world for genuine understanding
and productive cooperation, and we embrace the
fervent hope that America's innovative initiative
will be clearly evident in man's continuing search
for peace and in the struggle against poverty, ex-
ploitation, suppression, oppression, injustice, and
human indignity.
It is indeed our deepest wish, Mr. President,
that the essence of the spirit of '76 will enrich
the living conditions of our one world so that all
God's children may obtain a better quality of life
in a framework of equality, of vibrant opportunity,
and of social justice.
We ask that you be so kind as to accept from
the government and people of Liberia, and in
our name, Mr. President, our fondest wishes for
unprecedented heights of happiness and achieve-
ment for the enterprising, most industrious and
illustrious Nation and people of the United States
of America.
Thank you.
795
Statement on Sugar Imports. September 21, 1976
SINCE JULY, the price of raw sugar has steadily declined and is now below
the cost of production for most U.S. sugar producers. At current price levels
many U.S. sugar beet and sugarcane producers are unable to operate profitably.
I have watched these developments with growing concern, mindful of the
important contribution that our sugar industry makes to the national economy.
Consequently, when prices plummeted in August, the interagency Task Force
on Sugar Policy was reconstituted to update the supply, demand, and price out-
look for the remainder of 1976 and to consider the policy implications of these
projections. The task force has now completed its review and has reported to
me its analysis of the problem and the policy options.
After reviewing the work of this task force, and determining the views of
Members of Congress from the affected areas, I have decided to give my full
support to the request of the Senate Finance Committee for an escape clause
2274
