October 16
[909]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
as the State of Missouri under Kit Bond. Kit Bond, as I said a moment ago, has
balanced your budget without any increase in taxes.
But let's talk about Federal taxes. The best tax reform that I know is tax re-
duction. The record shows that the middle-income taxpayers have gotten short-
changed in the last 10 years. I recommended to the Congress in January of this
year that we give a tax reduction to the middle-income taxpayers by increasing
the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's the way to give relief to
those hard-working, law-abiding, fine, decent people who are in the middle-
income brackets, and I am going to pressure the Congress to give that tax re-
lief. If they don't do it next year, we will do it the next year. That's what we've
got to give to those taxpayers who work hard, obey the laws, and do what is right
for this great country. That's my record.
Now, what does Jimmy Carter want to do? A few weeks ago he had an inter-
view with the Associated Press-I almost said another interview-[laughter]—
but he had this interview with the Associated Press, and he said that he would
be in favor of increasing taxes for all people of medium income or above. That
means that 50 percent of the taxpayers of this country would get a tax increase.
[Crowd response] Boy, I like that reaction. Jerry Ford wants to give you tax re-
lief. Jimmy Carter wants to increase your taxes. Who do you want for President?
[Crowd response] Keep it going. Keep it going.
All right. Let's talk about another subject. I have tried to keep the lid on Fed-
eral spending so that we could get our house in order. Jimmy Carter embraces—
in fact, he wrote the Democratic Party platform that calls for 60 new programs,
a minimum annual additional cost of $100 billion, maybe as high as $200 billion
more. Jimmy Carter wants to spend and spend and tax and tax, and add to those
inflationary costs every day.
Now, Jimmy Carter says he is going to do something about reorganizing the
Federal Government. Well, you know you have to look at what somebody has
done to see what they might do. So, let's look at Jimmy Carter's record. Old
Al Smith used to say, "Let's look at the record." So, we take a look at Jimmy
Carter's Governorship of the State of Georgia. When he was Governor of Geor-
gia, he increased the number of employees by over 25 percent; he increased the
spending in the State of Georgia by more than 50 percent; he added to the
bonded indebtedness by over $200 million.
I will just say this: If that's an example of how he is going to run your Fed-
eral Government, I don't think you want Jimmy Carter for the next 4 years.
We all know that the United States is strong militarily. We have an Army, a
Navy, an Air Force, Marine Corps, number one, and because they are, they keep
2569
