[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Jimmy Carter wants to spend more Federal money, your taxes that you've
worked hard [for], earned. Jimmy Carter embraces the Democratic platform
which calls for 60-some new programs that would add $100 billion minimum
per year to expenditures by the Federal Government. Do you want that?
Jimmy Carter says he's going to reorganize the Federal Government. Well,
let's look at his record in Georgia. After 4 years in Georgia, he increased State
employees by over 25 percent, he increased spending in the State of Georgia
by over 50 percent, and he added $200 million to their State indebtedness. With
that kind of a record, can you imagine what he would do to your Federal
Government?
All I can say is, if you like Jimmy Carter, you like to pay taxes. I don't think
you want Jimmy Carter as your next President of the United States.
You all recognize that we have the peace. We have a strong Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Marines. Jimmy Carter wants to cut the Federal budget for the De-
fense Department by $15 billion. I don't think that's the way to keep America
number one. I think that would weaken America in our efforts to maintain the
peace.
Jimmy Carter wants to slash the programs that have kept the peace for us
and will keep it in the future. With that kind of a reduction of spending for
the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines-it reminds me of a state-
ment once made by a great American President, Teddy Roosevelt, who said,
"Speak softly and carry a big stick." Jimmy Carter, with that kind of a reduc-
tion for our military establishment, is speaking loudly and wants to carry a
flyswatter. [Laughter]
Jimmy Carter has said the United States is not respected anymore. Heads of
government from all over the world believe that the United States is number
one, the United States is the leader in the world. When Jimmy Carter says that
the United States, your country and my country, is not respected, he is slander-
ing America, and I don't like it.
So Betty and I are delighted to be with all of you in this great part of the
United States. We have worked hard. We think we have a record of perform-
ance. We are here to ask for your help and to ask for your vote on November 2.
Thank you very, very much.
Let me say, before I have an opportunity to come down and shake hands
with all you wonderful folks from Illinois, that your Senator, Chuck Percy,
is going to introduce some outstanding citizens from all over the country
who have come and joined us at Joliet, who are traveling with us on this trip
from Joliet down south. So, while some of us start over here, Chuck is going
2552
