[675]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ecutor for investigation and, if warranted, prosecution. The Attorney General
could refer to the Special Prosecutor any other allegation involving a violation
of criminal law whenever he found that it was in the best interest of the admin-
istration of justice. The Special Prosecutor could, however, decline to accept
the referral of any allegation. In that event, the allegation would be investigated
by the Department of Justice.
The Special Prosecutor would have plenary authority to investigate and
prosecute matters within his jurisdiction, including the authority to appeal ad-
verse judicial rulings. However, in the event of a disagreement with the Spe-
cial Prosecutor on an issue of law, the Attorney General would be free to pre-
sent his position to the court before which the prosecution or appeal is
lodged.
My proposal would also institutionalize, by statute, the investigation and pros-
ecution of violations of law by government officials and employees which do
not fall within the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor. Title I would also
establish by statute a Section on Government Crimes and an Office of Profes-
sional Responsibility within the Department of Justice.
Title II-Congressional Legal Counsel
I have also proposed a revised Title II that creates an Office of Congressional
Legal Counsel and assigns the powers and duties of that Office. Like S. 495, this
proposal gives Congress the legal assistance necessary to the proper discharge
of its functions, but it does so in a manner consistent with the Constitution of
the United States. Under my proposal, when the Attorney General certifies that
he cannot represent Congress or a congressional entity, Congress or the appro-
priate house of Congress may direct the Congressional Legal Counsel to defend
any legal action, enforce subpoenas, bring described civil actions, intervene in
cases or appear as amicus curiae to defend the constitutionality of any law of
the United States or the powers and responsibilities of Congress. Congressional
Legal Counsel may request grants of immunity under the Organized Crime
Control Act of 1970.
In all of these matters, my proposal like S. 495, provides for exclusive con-
gressional control and direction of the activities of the Congressional Legal
Counsel.
Title III-Government Personnel; Financial Disclosure Requirements
My proposed bill recognizes and protects the public's right to be assured that
public officials, regardless of which branch of government they serve in, disclose
2046
