October 6
[852]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
interest in public affairs, and I am very, very pleased to have Dom DiMaggio
as a member of this group of three.
So, I would like the three of them—Edith, George, and Dom—to come down
here. And we have agreed that we will answer some of your questions con-
cerning the organization or any questions that they might like to respond to.
REPORTER. Mr. President, is this a group for Democrats primarily?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a group that will permit Independents and Democrats,
who wish, to support the Ford candidacy. It doesn't put an emphasis on either
group. It is a citizens committee that will seek to invite and involve non-
Republicans on my behalf.
Q. Mrs. Green, why did you decide to go Republican?
MRS. GREEN. I really did not decide to go Republican. In my own State of
Oregon, I am supporting a good many of the Democrats. By and large I am
supporting Democrats.
If the question is why did I decide to support Ford, the reasons are many.
As the President said, I worked with him in the House of Representatives—I
was going to say 20 years, 19 is correct—and during all of these years we knew
that President Ford-Jerry Ford at that time, as the Minority Leader-was a
very honest, decent, capable guy. We knew that when he got up on the floor he
had done his homework, that he said what he believed in. And he, perhaps, was
not the flamboyant kind of a person as Adam Clayton Powell or maybe Bella
Abzug,¹ but he was a guy to be trusted. And that, very frankly, is the reason that
I am supporting him.
Q. Mrs. Green, did you think you did not have an alternative in the other
candidate? (Inaudible)
MRS. GREEN. I never, in the 20 years that I ran for office, tried to say things ad-
versely about my opponent. And my comments are not against anybody else, but
they are for the President. And I guess I just really do not know Carter. I do not
know what he stands for and, believe me, I tried to find out.
I do know that the record that the President has set, not only during the time
he was in Congress but since, is one where I feel I have confidence in the way
the country would be run.
I might add one other thing: When I was in the House, I was one of those—
some 400 I think, about—who voted for Jerry Ford for the Vice-Presidency. And
I think I do not need to remind you that at that time there were 300 FBI people
who were out investigating everything that he had ever done and said—almost
from the day you were born, I guess—and that was a democratically controlled
1
¹ Former and present Representatives from New York, respectively.
2405
