October 12
[887]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we sort of put a fire under them. They expect to have that all done in the next
30 days, and you will get the go-ahead signal.
But let me take just a few minutes. When I was here on the Fourth of July
to see the Tall Ships, more beautiful sails came to this city, I think, than ever
in the history of any city or any nation. There was promise, conviction, and
hometown pride. It was clearly demonstrated by anybody who came to the
city on that occasion. And that new spirit-as we flew over in the helicopter or
in our aircraft-that new spirit was demonstrated. It was hard earned, and it
was well deserved, and I congratulate you all.
Now, it's been 8 weeks since Kansas City. We've come a long, long way, baby.
[Laughter] We have the facts, we have the issues, we've got the momentum,
and we have got 3 more weeks to go to win a great victory for the American
people.
I said in Kansas City that we wouldn't concede a single State, we wouldn't
concede a single vote; we would campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota
to the sandy plains of Georgia. And we have, and we are going to win on
November 2.
I have a firm commitment from Dick Rosenbaum and Nelson and Jack Javits
and Jim Buckley that we are going to carry New York with its 41 electoral
votes. And I have made a firm commitment to Jim Buckley: We are going
to help him get reelected to the United States Senate from the State of New
York.
It would be very helpful in the next 2 years if we could have a good number
of additional Republican Members of the House of Representatives who would
stand tall and strong when the tough issues come down-people like Jack
Wydler and the others—so do your best in that regard.
2
I also told you in Kansas City that I was ready and eager to debate Mr. Carter
face to face on the real issues. I still am—[laughter]—if I can ever pin him
down. We've heard a lot of doubletalk from Mr. Carter, a lot of make-believe
mathematics, a lot of fuzzy and contradictory policy proposals. I still don't
know where Mr. Carter stands on most issues, and I don't think he does.
One thing is pretty clear: Mr. Carter wants to be President, whatever he has
to say to get there. I can sympathize. I understand it when he says he will have
to take a few years to study national and international problems and get all of
the facts. Let's give Mr. Carter a few more years to prepare himself—
[laughter]-but not on the taxpayer's money.
You know what I will do, because you know what I have done for the past
2 John W. Wydler, Republican congressional candidate from New York.
2497
