September 14
[778]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is vitally important that somebody be here to have a check on their activities.
MR. BROKAW. But Mr. President, I daresay that I recall any number of times
when I was a White House correspondent covering you—and you were travel-
ing around the country a good bit in 1974 and again last year—you were telling
us that you didn't want to be a hostage to the White House, even when people
were taking shots at you in San Francisco, that you felt it was very important
that the President get out and meet with the people, go to the local areas and
discuss the local problems.
So, isn't this a shift in your attitude? Doesn't it represent, really, a campaign
strategy?
THE PRESIDENT. Not necessarily, Tom. The trips that I made in 1975 were
primarily on weekends, and, secondly, they were nonpolitical events when they
were held during the week. You are correct that I went to 11 White House
conferences around the country where we took questions from the audience,
where we answered questions that were asked from all segments of our society.
But the primary responsibility then was to do it in a nonpolitical way and to
carry out those responsibilities in an information-gathering process rather than
a campaigning technique.
But once the Congress leaves town, I think you will see an increased activity
by me because I will have more time to do so, and the Presidential responsibilities
in this office will be less than they are at the present time.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
[3.] MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, I want to ask you about some issues that
are in the news this morning.
There is a good chance, it now appears, that there will be a strike at the Ford
Motor Company. Do you anticipate that it will be necessary for the Government
to get involved in a mediation effort because, after all, as you well know, this
could be critical to economic recovery in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Until midnight tonight, Tom, the labor-management repre-
sentatives will be still negotiating on the Ford-UAW [United Auto Workers]
differences. I think it would therefore be premature for me—until at least the
end of the strike deadline—for me to make any comment one way or another.
I do hope through the normal processes of labor-management negotiations
that labor on the one hand and management on the other will settle them, be-
cause a strike at the Ford Motor Company could have and would have some
unfavorable aspects as far as our economy is concerned.
2243
