October 24
[953]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
cede a single State. And let me say, as I travel across this great country—and this
is my second visit to California since Kansas City—I feel a great momentum
building, which means that I can honestly invite each and every one of you to an
inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole in January 1977.
But let me tell you that the thing that's so impressive as I travel around the
country-we found volunteers in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
yesterday. We found them in Texas and Oklahoma; we find them in New
Jersey and New York; we find them in Pennsylvania and Ohio; we find them in
the Rocky Mountain States. There is this ground swell of deep public concern
not only on the part of Republicans but on the part of Independents and
Democrats who know that this election could be the deciding point as to the
direction of this country for the next 4 years, but, more importantly, the direction
of this country for the next century.
We celebrated a tremendous birthday on July 4. It brought forth all the good
things in America. But we have a new spirit, a new healing among people. And
the American people, as a result, are concerned that they want their country to
be strong at home and to be strong abroad, so that we can have the kind of
quality of life that is so essential not only for ourselves but our children and
our grandchildren. And under a Ford-Dole administration, that's what we'll
have, and I pledge that to you.
But it's vitally important that you not only give the support that I know
you're going to give as great volunteers to Bob Dole and to myself, but we must
have men like John Rousselot and Carlos Moorhead and Dr. Hayakawa back
in Washington, or with us in Washington.
But let me tell you where I stand so there is no question, there is no doubt
whatsoever. I stand for limited government; I stand for restraint on Federal
spending; I stand for tax reduction; I stand for the free enterprise giving to us
the kind of prosperity that's needed and necessary; I stand for a strong America
that will keep the peace. And I remind you today, as I have on other occasions,
because we are strong, there isn't a single American fighting or dying on any
foreign soil today.
We're strong today because of the defense budgets that I have submitted
to the Congress that will keep our strategic forces alert 24 hours a day against
any strikes or aggression, because the kind of defense appropriations that I've
recommended will keep our conventional forces strong to meet any attack or
any aggression.
Now, there are some in this political campaign who wish to cut, to slash, to
make our military forces weaker in the future. That would be a dangerous gam-
2663
