October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, in contrast, Jimmy Carter, in an interview with the Associated Press,
said that he would increase taxes for all medium-income earners. And what
does that mean? That means that all income earners of over $14,000 under
Jimmy Carter will have a tax increase. That's 50 percent of the taxpayers in
this country.
Let me say this: If you like Jimmy Carter, you sure like taxes. If you like
Jerry Ford, you will get a tax reduction.
President Ford, in the last 2 years, has tried to keep the lid on Federal spend-
ing. We've been partially successful, but in the next 4 years we will keep the
pressure on because if you have more and more spending, you will have more
and more inflation and more and more taxes.
Now, Jimmy Carter-he embraces the platform that came from that Con-
vention in New York City. In fact, he wrote it. And that platform calls for
60-some new programs, programs that if they become law-and he has promised
that they will—will add $100 billion a year at a minimum and probably close
to $200 billion.
I don't think the American people want more spending. I think the Ameri-
can people want the kind of a record that I have achieved of keeping the lid
on Federal spending.
Jimmy Carter talks about reorganizing the Federal Government. Let's look
at his record in Georgia. In the 4 years that Jimmy Carter was Governor of
Georgia, he increased the number of State employees by over 25 percent, he
increased the expenditures in the State of Georgia by over 50 percent, and he
increased the bonded indebtedness of the State of Georgia by over $200 million.
Now can you imagine, with that record, what he would do to your Federal
Government if he ever had the opportunity to reorganize it? Is that what you
want for the next 4 years?
Jimmy Carter on two occasions has said he wanted to cut the defense budget
by $15 billion. At the same time, he talks about making America stronger.
Now, he can't have it both ways. But anyhow, he has said that he wants to
reduce the funds for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines by $15
billion. I don't believe that's the way to keep America number one. America
is number one today, and we want America to stay number one.
All of you remember that great President of the United States, Teddy
Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt once said, "Speak softly and carry a big stick."
Jimmy Carter, with his $15 billion reduction in expenditures for the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines-what Jimmy Carter says is speak loudly
2563
