[1066]
January 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
am again proposing real growth for basic research and development programs
this year because I am convinced that we must maintain our world leadership in
science and technology in order to increase our national productivity and attain
the better life we want for our people and the rest of the world.
I am also calling again for an end to the proliferation of new Federal pro-
grams and for consolidation of many of the programs we now have. At last
count there are 1,044 programs identified in the Catalog of Federal Domestic
Assistance. While our Nation has many needs, there is no rational justification
for the maze that has been created.
Overlap and duplication are not the only defects of these programs; nor are
they the most serious. More importantly, the current programs too often fail to
aid the intended beneficiaries as much as expected, rewarding instead those who
have learned how to work the Washington system. Some of these programs fail
to pinpoint responsibility and accountability for performance and too many im-
pose a managerial and operating burden on the Federal Government, diverting
attention from the functions that must be performed at the Federal level and at
the same time usurping the proper roles of State and local governments and the
private sector.
If we could ever afford the "luxury" of this inefficiency and ineptitude, we
can no longer. Federal programs for health services, elementary and secondary
education, child nutrition and welfare, for example, are areas that desperately
need reform. I called for action last year and prepared detailed legislative pro-
posals. Those who truly care about the needs of our people will not let another
year go by without reform. There is no excuse, for example, for the Federal
Government to have 15 different child nutrition programs spending over $3
billion per year and still have 700,000 children from families below the poverty
line who receive no aid. Nor is there any reason to take the money out of the
taxpayers' pockets to subsidize their own children's school lunch.
It will take real courage to correct these problems and the others I have identi-
fied for congressional action without following the all too familiar pattern of
the past—simply adding more programs. But, increasingly, courage is not a
choice; it is an absolute requirement if we are to avoid ever larger, less responsive
government.
The task ahead will not be easy because it will require some fundamental
changes in our expectations for Government. As a start, we need to understand
that income and wealth are not produced in Washington, they are only redistri-
buted there. As a corollary, we need to overcome the idea that Members of the
2940
