January 20
[1086]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
developing country if, after such designation, he determines that as the result
of changed circumstances such country would be barred from designation as
a beneficiary developing country under section 502(b) ... ”.
Section 502(b) (4, of the Trade Act prohibits the designation of any country as
a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the Generalized System of Pref-
erences if such country-
"has nationalized, expropriated, or otherwise seized ownership or control
of property owned by a United States citizen or by a corporation, partnership,
or association which is 50% or more beneficially owned by United States
citizens. . .
unless-
the President determines that—
(i) prompt, adequate, and effective compensation has been or is being made
to such citizen, corporation, partnership, or association,
(ii) good faith negotiations to provide prompt, adequate, and effective com-
pensation under the applicable provisions of international law are in progress,
or such country is otherwise taking steps to discharge its obligations under
international law with respect to such citizen, corporation, partnership, or
association,
or
(iii) a dispute involving such citizen, corporation, partnership, or associa-
tion over compensation for such a seizure has been submitted to arbitration un-
der the provisions of the Convention for the Settlement of Investment Dis-
putes, or in another mutually agreed upon forum, . . . ”.
During 1974, the Government of the People's Republic of the Congo nation-
alized foreign-owned oil companies in that country, including companies that
were 50% or more beneficially owned by United States citizens. Following sev-
eral attempts to commence negotiations with a view to reaching a satisfactory
settlement of the claims arising from such nationalizations, it is my judgment
that the People's Republic of the Congo currently is not meeting the require-
ments set forth in section 502(b) (4) of the Trade Act. Accordingly, as a result
of changed circumstances, that country would be barred from designation at
this time as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of the Generalized
System of Preferences.
A communication is being prepared for delivery to the Government of the
People's Republic of the Congo on or about the same date as that of the delivery
of this letter, notifying that Government of my intention to terminate the
1
2979
