October 12
[883]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
found to present a danger to health or the environment, appropriate regulatory
action can be taken before it is too late to undo the damage.
The legislation provides that the Federal Government, through the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, may require the testing of selected new chemicals
prior to their production to determine if they will pose a risk to health or the
environment. Manufacturers of all selected new chemicals will be required to
notify the Agency at least 90 days before commencing commercial production.
The Agency may promulgate regulations or go into court to restrict the produc-
tion or use of a chemical or to even ban it if such drastic action is necessary.
The bill closes a gap in our current array of laws to protect the health of our
people and the environment. The Clean Air Act and the Water Pollution Con-
trol Act protect the air and water from toxic contaminants. The Food and Drug
Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act are used to protect the food we eat and
the water we drink against hazardous contaminants. Other provisions of exist-
ing laws protect the health and the environment against other polluting con-
taminants such as pesticides and radiation. However, none of the existing statutes
provide comprehensive protection.
This bill provides broad discretionary authority to protect the health and
environment. It is critical, however, that the legislation be administered in a
manner so as not to duplicate existing regulatory and enforcement authorities.
In addition, I am certain that the Environmental Protection Agency realizes
that it must carefully exercise its discretionary authority so as to minimize the
regulatory burden consistent with the effective protection of the health and
environment.
The administration, the majority and minority members of the Congress,
the chemical industry, labor, consumer, environmental, and other groups all
have contributed to the bill as it has finally been enacted. It is a strong bill and
will be administered in a way which focuses on the most critical environ-
mental problems not covered by existing legislation while not overburdening
either the regulatory agency, the regulated industry, or the American people.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3149, approved October 11, 1976, is Public Law 94-469 (90 Stat. 2003).
883
Statement on Signing the Bill Providing for the Relief of
the Survivors of Dr. Frank R. Olson. October 12, 1976
I AM today signing into law S. 3035, a private bill for the relief of the survivors
of Dr. Frank R. Olson.
2487
