September 30
[831]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
any feeling that maybe somebody in the Carter camp may have made some
allegation to the Special Prosecutor and that's what triggered this, or is there
a political motivation in there somewhere?
THE PRESIDENT. Bob [Bob Schieffer, CBS News], I wouldn't make any al-
legations of that kind. I don't think—since I don't know—I don't think I ought
to make any comment.
Q. Well obviously, though, the Special Prosecutor wouldn't open an investi-
gation, I would think, on just the basis of rumors. Somebody had to make an
allegation there.
The President. What impresses me the most is a statement by the former
Special Prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, who has said, as I understand it, publicly,
that before he left the office of Special Prosecutor he looked into such matters,
and he came to the conclusion that there was no reason for action.
Now, that in no way challenges the right or the integrity of Mr. Ruff. But
where any such charges came from, I would have no idea.
Q. Let me just make one followup. If I understand it, Mr. Jaworski said
that he had investigated the Seafarers Union, and I think that was in relation
to a $100,000 contribution they made to Richard Nixon. As far as I know, he's
never said that he looked into MEBA [Marine Engineers Beneficial Associa-
tion]-the Marine Engineers. Do you know in fact whether or not he did?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I can't be that precise.
Q. Mr. President, you said that you instructed that your staff shouldn't make
any contacts to the Attorney General or to the prosecutor. Have there been any
contacts made by any of these agencies to you, so that you have any information
at all either that this is going to be resolved quickly or any information at all?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no information whatsoever.
Q. Mr. President, do you have any information from people back in your
old home district, the fifth district, that may have contacted you, presumably
old friends of yours?
THE PRESIDENT. I read the Grand Rapids Press, which is a good newspaper,
and I read stories concerning this and quotations from people who were former
county chairmen or presently county chairmen, so I know what they've said.
But they haven't talked extensively about the investigation. I guess they felt
that they had testified or made their comments to whoever was investigating it,
and they didn't really say very much.
Q. But you haven't talked to any of them personally?
THE PRESIDENT. NO.
Q. Mr. President, a number of Pentagon military officers have received
2369
