[671]
July 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
May I say to Captain von Stackelberg that you deserve congratulations for
winning the contest between Bermuda and Newport. Mrs. Ford and I had
the opportunity to view by helicopter and, to some extent, from the deck of the
Forrestal, the Operation Sail and the tall ships.
As we looked from the air, particularly, we had the feeling that the many ships
representing many countries gave us the feeling that if you, in a good naval ex-
ercise, could operate in that somewhat limited area without incident and with
success it ought to be an inspiration for those of us in government to do the same
as we try to meet the problems, both at home as well as throughout the globe.
So, I congratulate you on winning, but I also congratulate you, representing
all of the tall ships that participated in Operation Sail in New York Harbor.
Let me conclude by simply saying to you, Mr. Chancellor, it has been my
privilege and pleasure to meet with you on a bilateral basis three times, and it
has been an equally fine experience for us to be together in multilateral experi-
ences eight times.
I can say without hesitation or qualification, the personal relationship, the
relationship on a bilateral basis between your country and mine, couldn't be
better. And I thank you personally, and I thank you on behalf of all Americans
for the close alliance between your country and ours-a friendship, a rapport,
and a dedication which does more for freedom, does more for the good things
in this globe, than any relationship that I know.
May I say to the captain and to his crew and to your country, I hope and trust
that you will have fair winds and a flowing sea.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 8:05
p.m. in response to Chancellor Schmidt's welcoming
remarks on board the Gorch Fock, which was an-
chored in the Baltimore Harbor, Baltimore, Md.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Hans von
Stackelberg, captain of the Gorch Fock. Chancellor
Schmidt spoke as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
I am delighted to welcome you here this evening
aboard the Gorch Fock. We feel highly honored by
the fact that you, Mr. President, and Mrs. Ford
have accepted my invitation, thus underlining the
special character of this ship's presence in Baltimore
as well as the significance of our personal meeting
to mark the Bicentennial.
Let me please answer a question which is always
being asked about this ship. Gorch Fock, whose
proper name was Johann Kinau, died on 31 May
1916 on board the cruiser Wiesbaden in the Battle
of Jutland during the First World War. He is not
so well-known here in America as in my native
city of Hamburg, where he recounted heartwarm-
ing stories of the life at sea.
The title of his most successful book is "Sea-
faring Is Necessary." This motto, under which sea-
ports like Hamburg and Baltimore have become.
great, may today in the age of space travel and
intercontinental missiles appear to have lost some
of its significance. But one thing is certain: Navi-
gation was necessary for the discovery of America,
and it has always featured prominently in the 200-
year history of the United States.
Over the centuries, navigation was the only
means of maintaining the links between the New
World and the old continent. That is why on the
occasion of the Bicentennial I do find it appropri-
ate to mark the bond between Germany and the
United States with a visit to this sailing ship.
Even today, in the age of flying machines, we can-
not imagine the close economic cooperation we all
desire without efficient maritime communications.
The North Atlantic is the most important route
2024
