[763]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
statement, and a second statement that seemed to be contradictory of the first
one.
I hope that Governor Carter understood that Mrs. Kelley at that time was
suffering terminal cancer, and that was a very sad and difficult time for the
Director of the FBI. Number two, I was confused when in either Connecticut
or Brooklyn he said that if he were President yesterday he would fire him, and
then at the next stop he would not indicate whether he was going to fire him
or keep him if he became President on January 21. So, I am confused on the one
hand by his flip-flop on this issue, and I am very disappointed at his lack of
compassion on the other.
Now, the recommendation made to me by the Attorney General after
thoroughly investigating the facts was that the circumstances were such that
the FBI Director should be kept. He has reimbursed the Federal Government
of $35 ($335), I think, for the furnishings for his apartment, and he has done a
good job in my opinion in straightening out a very difficult situation in the FBI.
ABORTION AS A CAMPAIGN ISSUE
[18.] Q. Mr. President, on the matter of abortion, sir, do you feel that this
issue, which is so semireligious and so emotional, is a fit subject for a political
debate, political discussion?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the American people expect candidates for office
to duck any issues just because they are intense, with good people on both sides
having different views. I think the American people ought to get an answer from
Governor Carter and myself on this issue just like on any other issue.
PRESIDENT FORD'S ACTIVITIES DURING THE CAMPAIGN
[19.] Q. Mr. President, what do you think of Mr. Carter's characterization
of you as "timid" in one statement and as “a captain hiding in a stateroom” in
another?
THE PRESIDENT. That brings up an interesting point. I understand yesterday
that Senator Mondale was complaining because I was not campaigning enough,
and on August 4 of 1976, Governor Carter was complaining because I was
campaigning too much. I wish they would get their act together. And it just seems
to me that the American people want me first to be President and do the job
here in the best way possible, and I intend to do it. And I will campaign at the
proper time.
Q. Mr. President, in connection with that, if you find your campaign running
in a dry gulch, won't you change your plans?
2218
