[873]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
good health. This effort is another example of how our pluralistic medical care
system can adapt to the needs and demands of the nation's health consumers
without massive Federal intervention.
Such careful restructuring of the delivery system, while maintaining the
strength of the private sector, is one way to achieve a viable long-term solution
to the rapidly rising costs of medical care.
We must strive to develop other creative private sector mechanisms to accom-
plish these goals so that America's strong private health care system will remain
the best in the world.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 9019, approved October 8, 1976, is Public Law 94-460 (90 Stat. 1945).
The statement was released at Dallas, Tex.
874
Statement on Signing the Sea Grant Program
Improvement Act of 1976. October 10, 1976
I AM signing H.R. 13035, the Sea Grant Program Improvement Act of 1976.
In its 10-year history, the National Sea Grant Program has played an appro-
priate role in developing and coordinating the resources of universities, labora-
tories, and other institutions in furthering the understanding, assessment,
development, utilization, and conservation of our Nation's ocean and coastal
resources. H.R. 13035 would extend the National Sea Grant Program and ensure
that this worthwhile work continues.
Some provisions in H.R. 13035 are unnecessary. The proposed national proj-
ects and international cooperation assistance programs are new categorical pro-
grams authorizing activities that could more appropriately be carried out by
other agencies that have the responsibility to address national marine-related
needs and problems.
Provisions in the bill which provide for the establishment of the position of
Director of the Sea Grant Program and five other supergrade positions outside
the Government-wide quota and without regard to the competitive appointment
provisions of the civil service system are also unwise.
The Sea Grant Program provides a valuable means for bringing the resources
of colleges and universities to bear on the Nation's efforts to make more pro-
ductive use of our ocean resources. I believe that this bill will allow us to
strengthen those efforts.
2478
