[887]
October 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
level in history. Inflation has been running over 25 percent. Government spend-
ing now accounts for 60 percent of the entire British economy.
As Republicans, we are not motivated by the love of government power but
the fear of it, and we should be. We speak for those who work hard, pay their
taxes, obey the laws, and have the right to enjoy their own God-given liberty.
We are totally committed to a policy of peace through strength in a world where
freedom is still threatened by aggressive adversaries. The United States of Amer-
ica must remain number one, and we will, for our protection and for freedom
around the world.
I know how deeply all of you are devoted to the principles that we have been
talking about-Nelson and myself and others—and I thank you from the bottom
of my heart, Gus, and all of you, for your steadfast support.
But there is one more effort that I would like to ask of you. Republicans alone
cannot win this election. The principles we hold are just as dear to millions of
our friends and neighbors who prefer to be Democrats or Independents. Between
now and November 2, I hope that every Republican will persuade just one Inde-
pendent and one Democrat, two concerned citizens who feel as we do about the
direction this country must take, to go to the polls and vote their true conviction
regardless of party label.
If you do this, person to person and friend to friend, we can and we will win
a great victory for the American people and the principles that we all espouse,
regardless of how the label is after our registration.
The only way is to go forward together. There is no way we can lose except by
resting before the last poll closes. And together, not as partisans but as a proud
American, we will get America off to a great start on our third century of this
freedom in the greatest country in the history of mankind.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the New York Hilton Hotel.
He was introduced by Vice President Nelson A.
Rockefeller.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Governor Malcolm Wilson of New York 1974-75,
Louis J. Lefkowitz, attorney general of New York,
Mary Louise Smith, Republican National Committee
chairman, Richard Rosenbaum, chairman of the New
York State President Ford Committee, and Gus Levy,
chairman of the dinner.
2500
