[898]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Ladies and gentlemen, I will be glad to answer your questions.
Fran [Frances Lewine, Associated Press].
QUESTIONS
ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING THE PRESIDENT AND WATERGATE INVESTIGATIONS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, would you also like to set the record straight tonight
on an issue that John Dean ยน has raised? Did you at any time use your influence
with any Members of Congress or talk to lobbyist Richard Cook about blocking
a 1972 Watergate break-in investigation by Wright Patman's House Banking
Committee?
THE PRESIDENT. I have reviewed the testimony that I gave before both the
House and the Senate committees, and those questions were asked. I responded
fully.
A majority of the members of the House committee and the Senate commit-
tee, after full investigation, came to the conclusion that there was no substance
to those allegations. I don't believe they are any more pertinent today than they
were then, and my record was fully cleared at that time.
WEAPONS SALES TO ISRAEL; INCREASE IN WHEAT PRICE SUPPORTS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in the past several days, you've made two major deci-
sions, one to sell Israel concussion bombs, sophisticated weaponry, even though
their request had been hanging fire for many months. You also decided to give
the wheat price support the 50-percent boost, even though the Agriculture De-
partment said the day before that there was no economic justification for these.
Can you state flatly that none of these decisions were designed to enhance you
politically?
THE PRESIDENT. Categorically, those decisions were based on conditions that
I think justified fully the decisions that I made. In the case of the four items
that were cleared for delivery to the Government of Israel, those items have been
on the list for consideration. Those items have been analyzed by the various de-
partments in our Government, and the net result was that I decided, after dis-
cussing the matter with my top advisers, that those items should be cleared for
the Government of Israel.
Q. But on what justification do you give such weapons, and why did you by-
pass the Pentagon and the State Department?
1 Counsel to the President 1970-73.
2522
