September 1
[750]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
important part of the campaign? And, by the way, when does your campaign
start?
THE PRESIDENT. The debates, I think, are very important. I hope that in the
time that will be given to them, the American people will have an opportunity
to see what decisions, what programs my opponent has and, of course, the
American people know my views, my record. But the debates are important
so they can get an honest comparison between the two.
We will announce when my campaign starts very shortly, Helen [Helen
Thomas, United Press International].
Q. Mr. President, are you disappointed that the first debate won't be on na-
tional defense, as you requested?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that is significant. I said a moment ago that the
four subjects that I suggested are included in the first two debates with the final
debate to cover any other issues that have not been covered previously. Our whole
effort was to have a broad subject matter, and those four, plus whatever else comes
up, is fine.
Q. Mr. President, do you have a preference for location for the debates?
THE PRESIDENT. The negotiations are still going on and I think it is premature
for me to make any comment on that.
Q. Do you think an incumbent President has any advantage in something
like these debates because of the wealth of information he has available to him
through, let's say, the Pentagon, the Defense Department, and all the various
Government agencies?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that an incumbent President ought to know all
the subjects and know them very well, and I would hope that any challenger
would, likewise.
Q. But do you think you have an advantage as the incumbent with all of this
information immediately at your disposal?
The President. I don't think I should pass judgment on that. I think the
debates will bring out very clearly just who is going to handle the questions the
best.
Q. Mr. President, you prepared at length for your acceptance speech in Kansas
City. Do you plan to prepare that way for these debates?
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure that I will be ready for the debates and the sooner
they start, the better.
Q. Are you sure you will win?
The President. I think the American people will be the winners, Helen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:55 p.m. on the North Lawn at the White House.
2199
