[998]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
stand for a strong nation to keep the peace. You know where I stand. I am not
all things to all people. I am the same thing to all people.
But we are not satisfied with the progress we have made. I have been a strong
supporter as Senator Javits and Congressman Jack Kemp know of our mass
transit program, which was signed into law after I worked on it with the
Members of Congress in 1974. And I am real pleased of the announcement that
you are going to have a meaningful program right here in Erie County and in
Buffalo. That not only will mean something in the movement of people, but it
will mean something in the way of jobs. Can you get jobs? Yes, with this kind
of a program.
But you also get jobs with an incentive given to business to expand, to mod-
ernize, to build new plants and, therefore, on January—whatever the day is that
they, Congress, convenes-we are going to have a tax reduction package there
that will help the middle-income taxpayer and help business to expand and
modernize so we will have jobs.
Now, as I leave this great organization which you have here in Erie County
and the surrounding areas, I want to leave one thought. I have been very, very
proud to be your President during 2 tough years. I would be very honored to
be your President during 4 years where we can make things better because
America is on the move.
In August of 1974, you couldn't confirm me by your ballots, but you did by
your prayers. And I ask you between now and November 2 to not only confirm
me by your prayers but to elect me by your ballots.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:32 a.m. in the
Golden Ballroom at the Statler Hilton Hotel. In his
remarks, he referred to Richard Rosenbaum, New
York State Republican chairman.
999
Remarks on Departure From Rochester, New York.
October 31, 1976
CAN I ask you, make it so quiet temporarily you can hear a pin drop?
It's great to be in Rochester-Monroe County and the great State of New
York. Thank you. It is my privilege and honor to be here with some of your
wonderful local people, some that represent the whole State. And let me
express my deep appreciation and gratitude to your senior Senator, Jack Javits.
2808
