July 27
[696]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
as well as in ours. Each of us created our own governmental institutions, in-
fluenced by the British parliamentary system. The United States and Australia
are both federations of states founded originally as separate colonies. Each
recognizes the limits of power of the central government.
Such close parallels in the development of our two countries have made
Americans think of Australians as being like us, and we hope that this feeling
is reciprocated. Obviously, Americans feel very much at home in Australia and
with Australians. Nonetheless, Mr. Prime Minister, we fully recognize that
Australia has its own interests, its own perceptions of the world, and its own role
to play.
Our relations with your country have matured over the years to a new
partnership of mutual respect. World War II brought both of us together in a
time of trial. In 1951, we joined with New Zealand and signed the ANZUS
Pact, or treaty. That treaty symbolizes the fundamental interests that we share.
Since World War II, our cooperation in defense and international affairs has
been unusually close. We have reinforced each other's security. We have pro-
moted regional stability. And we have solidified the strength of the free world.
Mr. Prime Minister, your public statements and your conversations with me
this morning made it very obvious that Australia and the United States are
closer together than ever before. We understand, we respect your independent
voice in world affairs, and we applaud you for it. On this basis our collabora-
tion has even a greater meaning and a greater value. We both recognize that
peace in this interdependent world will require even greater cooperation on
economic and social questions.
Advanced democracies, such as our two countries, have crucial roles to play
in strengthening the global economy and creating healthy, long-term relations
between developed countries and the developing countries. We consider
Australia an important partner in all common endeavors in this free world.
Mr. Prime Minister, our talks have enhanced the natural partnership be-
tween Australia and the United States. In the coming years, this partnership will
make an ever-expanding contribution to peace and progress. I am absolutely
certain that our governments will continue to work closely to meet the complex
challenges our two nations will face inevitably in the years ahead.
Mr. Prime Minister, I raise my glass to the Queen, to the health of the Prime
Minister of Australia, and to the continuation of Australian-American
friendship.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. Prime Minister Fraser
responded as follows:
Mr. President, thank you very much indeed for
your invitation to my wife and myself and the
Australian party to join you on this occasion. Thank
2095
