October 18
[914]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tending to all of its people. Throughout our history, this belief has been totally
justified. Time and time again, the results of scientific research have captured
our imagination, bettered our condition, and raised our expectations for the
future. Today, more than ever, a strong national effort in research and develop-
ment is critically important to strengthen our economy and our defense and to
improve the quality of life for all Americans.
While in Congress, as well as President, I have worked to bolster our research
and development programs in order to achieve our national goals. Just about a
year ago, I was struggling with the various Cabinet officers and heads of other
departments and with the Office of Management and Budget as to how we
could meet a temporary fiscal problem within the Government. But despite the
fiscal constraints imposed upon most departments, the fiscal year 1977 budget
included requests for an 11-percent increase in Federal funding for research
and development, one of the few areas within our Government that got an
increase during this temporary fiscal problem that the Nation faces.
Included within were increases for the support of basic research to enlarge
the fund of basic knowledge so necessary for the scientific and engineering prog-
ress. With the strong and very effective support of Vice President Rockefeller,
we now have established a new Office of Science and Technology Policy in the
White House, designed to bring the executive branch of the Government timely
advice on how science and technology can help us deal with our national prob-
lems. And I am personally delighted—and I think the country is fortunate—to
have Guy Stever in that new position of responsibility.
The men and women devoting themselves to science and technology in our
universities, in our industrial laboratories, our private and public research
centers, continue to deserve America's support and encouragement. Therefore,
I am extremely proud and consider it a rare privilege to award these 15 National
Medals of Science today, and I extend my gratitude and my congratulations to
the award winners and to their families.
Dr. Stever, would you please read the names as I present the awards.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. at a
ceremony in the East Room at the White House.
The awards were based on recommendations of
the President's Committee on the National Medal of
Science.
Margaret Ann György accepted the medal on
behalf of her late husband.
The texts of the citations follow:
Biological Sciences
HALLOWELL DAVIS-For fundamental research on
nerve potentials, electroencephalography, and
mechanisms of hearing that have formed the
basis for advances in neurophysiology, neu-
rology, otolaryngology, audiology, acoustics, oc-
cupational health safety, and pediatrics.
PAUL GYÖRGY (Deceased, February 29, 1976)-For
his discovery of three vitamins and related re-
search that have greatly improved human
nutrition.
STERLING BROWN HENDRICKS-For the initiation of
basic research in the physical and chemical prop-
erties of soils and proteins that have profoundly
2575
