[769]
September 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
educational tradition in non-public schools—a tradition for which you deserve
great credit.
A third issue of mutual concern is the policy of the United States toward
relieving hunger and malnutrition in the world. The United States, I am proud
to say, has a strong record of responding positively to this matter, in keeping
with both the tradition of humanitarian concern of the American people and
the sense of responsibility which we who are more fortunate feel toward those
with less.
We have tried to address the two main aspects of the world food problem in
the most constructive way possible:
-First, to alleviate an immediate need for food assistance, the U.S. will be
able to furnish this year about 6 million tons of food assistance, 6 million of the
10 million ton annual food aid target set for all countries at the World Food
Conference in Rome. Through our PL-480 program, we are able to use the
enormous productivity of the American farmer to meet human needs with grain
which the poorer nations could not otherwise afford to import.
-Second, through our foreign assistance program, we are seeking to curb
some of the underlying causes of the food problem by working to improve
agricultural production in the developing countries, particularly those which
suffer major shortfalls in food. This is of critical importance to the prospects
for economic growth.
Private voluntary agencies also play an important role in the overall U.S.
assistance effort, and have made a major contribution in alleviating world
hunger, providing inputs of both food and economic assistance-an inspiring
demonstration of the humanitarian zeal of the American people.
Last year this country proposed the creation of an international system of
nationally held food reserves which would provide against the human and
economic disaster which could result from a global shortfall in grain production.
We are continuing to push for conclusion of an agreement on this proposal in
the International Wheat Council.
Let me add one final note. When I visited the International Eucharistic Con-
gress in Philadelphia last month, I commented that "for millions of men and
women, the church has been the hospital for the soul, the schoolroom for the
mind, and the safe depository for moral ideals. It has given unity and purpose
to the affairs of man. It has been a vital institution for protecting and proclaim-
ing the ultimate values of life itself.” That is a view I have long held. It is one
that I reaffirm now.
2232
