November 18
[1019]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Mrs. Ford joins me in sending our condolences to Mrs. Calder and the
family.
NOTE: The statement was released at Palm Springs, Calif.
1019
Statement Announcing Accomplishments of the Presidential
Management Initiatives Program. November 18, 1976
I AM pleased to announce today results and accomplishments from the Pres-
idential Management Initiatives program first announced by me on July 23,
1976.
As a result of the initiatives, some begun earlier, we estimate specific sav-
ings to the taxpayers in 1976 to be nearly $500 million: $284 million in reduc-
tions in government travel costs; $45 million in energy costs; $40 million in
improved cash management; $12 million in reproduction equipment and sup-
plies; $25 million through better space utilization and field office consolidation;
and several hundred million from improved personnel management opera-
tions. When added up, these and other savings are significant. Widespread
waste and inefficiency are among the factors which diminish the public trust
and confidence in government.
In addition, we point proudly to the millions of dollars saved by reducing
Federal agency paperwork and reporting burdens; by slowing the growth rate
of Government funds expended on automatic data processing; by maintaining
Federal employment ceilings; and by bringing pay for Federal employees into
closer comparability with their private sector counterparts. We also look hope-
fully at the future savings to the taxpayers to be derived from better agency
overhead cost control systems, from greater contracting out of in-house com-
mercial and industrial activities to the private sector, and through major re-
forms taken in the acquisition and procurement activities of Federal agencies.
These billions of dollars in savings, actual and prospective, mean a leaner,
tighter, more efficient and more effective Government.
These initiatives build on a broad range of proposals and actions begun early
on in my administration directed at improving the management of Govern-
ment-such as block grants, regulatory reform, improving management in
connection with the annual budget process, reorganizing and reorienting the
intelligence community. At my direction nearly all departments and agencies
are currently seeking ways to improve their decisionmaking processes and
2847
