[778]
September 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
are substantial, both at home and abroad—and thereby increase the political ac-
tivity on behalf of all Americans.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[8.] MISS MACKIN. Mr. President, unemployment continues to be disturb-
ingly high, and I would think higher than you had hoped it would be as you go
into this election. Isn't this something of an embarrassment to you?
THE PRESIDENT. Cassie, I think you have to put that in proper perspective.
Yes, the unemployment statistic is too high, but bear in mind that we have 88
million people working today, which is an alltime high in the history of the
United States. We have added 4 million people to the payrolls in this country in
the last 15 months, and we have added a half a million more people gainfully
employed in the last 2 months. So although the unemployment statistic is too
high—and we are going to get it down-I take some pride in the fact that we
have added this many new jobs in the last year or so.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, we always measure the rate of unemployment
by the percentage of those out of work, not by the number of those working, so
it remains at nearly 8 percent. Do you foresee any Government action that you
will have to take between now and the end of the year to get it down below
7 percent?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't foresee any dramatic action. We have had a sound
economic course which had a very substantial impact on the rate of inflation,
and by keeping the rate of inflation going down, we have added jobs, added
people on payrolls. So if we can keep the pressure on inflation and keep inflation
going down, I think we will continue to create the atmosphere that means em-
ployment will be going up and unemployment going down.
PUBLIC WORKS BILL
[9.] MR. BROKAW. Very briefly, Mr. President, would you veto that $3½
billion public works bill if it comes back to your desk?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't seen the final figures on it, so I think it's premature
to make any comment, Tom.
Mr. Brokaw. Mr. President, thank you very much for joining us here on
"Today" this morning. We will look forward to covering your campaign in the
coming weeks.
THE PRESIDENT. I have enjoyed it, Tom. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 8:10 a.m. and was
broadcast live on television. The President spoke
from the Oval Office in the White House, and Mr.
Brokaw and Miss Mackin conducted the interview
from their studio in New York.
2246
