October 21
[932]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
attention on the problems and the concerns of older citizens, social security
benefits have risen by 50 percent, a new national network of State and area
agencies on the aging has been established, nutrition projects for the elderly
have been established and are now serving over 300,000 hot meals each day,
special housing programs for older Americans have also been set up around the
country.
This is a good start, but our efforts on behalf of older Americans have only
begun. Our first priority must be to protect the retirement income of older
Americans. Inflation, which hits those on fixed incomes the hardest, is the
foremost threat to the stability and the value of retirement income. We have cut
inflation in half, but if our older citizens are to fully enjoy their later years, it
must be cut further, and it will.
We must, of course, strengthen the financial underpinnings of the social
security system. Congress adjourned without acting on proposals I submitted,
which would have ensured the fiscal integrity of the system. I will urge the
Congress to make this a first order of business in January 1977. I will also urge
the new Congress to enact proposals that I submitted early this year to provide
older Americans with protection against the devastating financial aspects of
extended illness.
Another area of great concern to older Americans is the special threat to their
well-being posed by crime. Our older citizens have earned the right to live
securely and to walk the streets without fear. That is why I was particularly
gratified by a provision in the Crime Control Act, which I recently signed. This
new provision requires that State crime control plans deal specifically and very
firmly with the criminal attacks which are made against our senior citizens.
All Americans can count on the administration and the Federal Council on
Aging to continue to see that these and many other issues which particularly
concern our older citizens are met head-on.
I look forward with great confidence to the leadership of Ms. Adkins, Mr.
Martin, Monsignor Fahey, Mr. Winston, Mrs. Devereux, and Mr. Holland.
They will provide outstanding leadership in the months and years ahead.
And now, Justice Stevens, will you please swear in these distinguished
members of the Federal Council on Aging.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:18 a.m. in the
East Room at the White House. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Marjorie Lynch, Under Secre-
tary, and Arthur S. Flemming, Commissioner of the
Administration on Aging, Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare.
John Paul Stevens, Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court, administered the oath of office to Mrs. John
William Devereux, Msgr. Charles J. Fahey, John B.
Martin, Harry Holland, and Nat T. Winston, Jr.
2603
