[973]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Give me your mandate and we will create a tax structure that is fair to all, that
will preserve the family home, the family business, the family farm; that will
give business the tax incentives to build new plants, to modernize, to create more
jobs for America.
Give me your mandate on November 2 and we will lead this country on the
paths of peace through strength, and we will live in peace and freedom in the
United States of America in the first 4 years of our third century.
I have no fear for the future of the United States. For America the future is
a friend. And as we go forward together, I promise you once more, as I promised
you before, to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me the
right to see the right, and to do the very best that I can for America. God help-
ing me, I won't let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon on the
Boardwalk in front of the Haddon Hall Hotel. In
his remarks, he referred to Howard F. Haneman,
chairman of the Atlantic County Republican Party,
Senator Clifford P. Case, Mayor Joseph Lazarow of
Atlantic City, Dorothy Benham, Miss America,
Representative Charles W. Sandman, Thomas H.
974
Kane, New Jersey campaign manager for President
Ford, Webster B. Todd, Jr., chairman of the New
Jersey Republican State Committee, and Joe
Garagiola, NBC sports commentator.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
Remarks at the State Meeting of the New Jersey School Boards
Association in Atlantic City. October 27, 1976
Mr. Schwartz, Senator Cliff Case, distinguished members and guests of the New
Jersey School Board Association:
First, let me express my deep gratitude and appreciation for Cliff Case, a long
and close friend of mine, for joining me here on this occasion. I had hoped to
bring a longstanding friend of education with me this morning. She was on the
plane, but didn't feel—we have been working her pretty hard—that she could
get here. But I am sure many of you know former Congresswoman Edith Green
of Oregon. She wanted me to express to all of you her best wishes to you and to
the educational system in this great State of New Jersey.
It is a great privilege and pleasure to join you, the largest school board associa-
tion in the whole United States, as you consider some of the very serious chal-
lenges that face you in your responsibilities. Our Nation has, as I understand
it, about 105,000 school board members, the largest group of elected officials in
this whole country.
You are, because of your responsibilities, a tremendous, creative force in our
I
2724
