January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
activities are often far lower than those readily accepted in other human
activities.
Because different Committees of Congress have responsibility for competing
objectives, it is especially difficult to achieve a satisfactory balance among our
national objectives in new legislation. This will be a continuing problem in the
new Congress and I can only urge that each measure affecting energy supply
and demand, which also involves other objectives, be evaluated carefully to
assure that the resulting costs, risks and benefits are truly in the national
interest.
THE NEED FOR SUBSTANTIVE LEGISLATION AFFECTING ENERGY
We have made significant progress over the past two years toward establish-
ing the framework of law and policies that are needed to permit decisions and
actions that will help solve our energy problem.
Nine of the proposals that I submitted have been enacted into law. However,
there remains a long list of requirements for early Congressional action.
Highest Priority
Because of the large number of legislative proposals that need action, I want
to make clear that I believe highest priority should be given to measures which:
-Remove Federal price regulation from new natural gas supplies. This ac-
tion is crucial to increasing domestic production and reducing wasteful and
inefficient uses.
-Revise domestic crude oil price controls to allow greater flexibility in estab-
lishing a pricing formula that will encourage increased domestic production
and assist in phasing out controls. This action is needed to overcome problems
in the current law and to reduce market distortions that have resulted.
-Make clear our determination to expand capacity in the United States,
principally through the efforts of private industry, to enrich uranium needed
to provide fuel for nuclear power plants. This action is necessary to permit
increased use of nuclear power in the U.S. and to assure other nations that we
will be a reliable supplier of uranium enrichment services—a step that is critical
to our nuclear non-proliferation objectives.
-Amend the Clean Air Act to:
-Change the statutory requirements for meeting auto emission standards
so that there can be a better balance among our environmental quality, energy,
economic and consumer price objectives.
2899
