September 9
[766]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
nobody doubts our willingness to use our strength when America's vital inter-
ests are at stake—and we will.
A strong defense is the best insurance for peace. But our strength has never
rested upon arms alone. It is rooted in our mutual commitment to the highest
standards of ethics and morality. Take the Arab boycott as an example. This
involves both moral and legal questions, domestic as well as international
issues. It is easy to escalate emotionally, but not nearly so easy to resolve
rationally.
I opposed Arab boycott practices when I was in the Congress. I have always
opposed discrimination. America was born as a refuge from discrimination.
As President, I have taken the strongest executive action in American history
against foreign economic practices that discriminate against American citizens.
Last November, I set forth a detailed program of administrative orders and
regulations, now in force, which prohibit any discrimination in export trans-
actions based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Our moral and
legal opposition to the Arab boycott of Israel has been made forcefully clear, not
only to foreign governments but to the American business community. This
campaign, together with careful diplomacy and the efforts of individual U.S.
firms, has resulted in the easing of boycott practices and an effective end to open
discrimination.
This morning I reiterate my determination to make further progress, if
necessary by legislation, so that Government officials at all levels and the Ameri-
can people will know that I mean business.
And I can tell you, I will continue to seek further progress on the issue of emi-
gration from the Soviet Union. I raised it personally with General Secretary
Brezhnev. I have discussed it on many occasions with my former colleagues in
the House and in the Senate, with the determination to restore the prior rates of
emigration.
As a government and as a nation, we continue to stress the importance at-
tached by all Americans to the basic human right to live where one chooses in
this world today.
A moral and ethical government promises its citizens no more than it can
deliver and delivers all that it promises. For too long the American people have
been promised panaceas for which we are still paying in credibility and in cash.
My record is one of performance, not promises. My record is one of realism,
not rhetoric. My record is one of experience, not expediency.
Under our system, in a national election candidates will naturally disagree
2 See 1975 volume, Items 689 and 690.
2227
