[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
ence, that knowledge, that know-how. And I think in light of the fact that he
has apologized, would not have justified my asking for his resignation.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you.
Governor Carter, your response.
MR. CARTER. Well, just briefly, I think this is the second time that General
Brown has made a statement for which he did have to apologize—and I know
that everybody makes mistakes. I think the first one was related to the unwar-
ranted influence of American Jews on the media and in the Congress. This one
concerned Great Britain. I think he said Israel was a military burden on us and
that Iran hoped to reestablish the Persian Empire.
I am not sure that I remembered earlier that President Ford had expressed his
concern about the statement or apologized for it. This is something, though, that
I think is indicative of a need among the American people to know how the
Commander in Chief, the President, feels. And I think the only criticism that
I would have of Mr. Ford is that immediately when the statement was revealed,
perhaps a statement from the President would have been a clarifying and a very
beneficial thing.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Nelson, your question now to Governor Carter.
MR. NELSON. Governor, despite the fact that you've been running for Presi-
dent a long time now, many Americans still seem to be uneasy about you. They
don't feel that they know you or the people around you. And one problem seems
to be that you haven't reached out to bring people with broad background or
national experience into your campaign or your Presidential plans. Most of the
people around you on a day-to-day basis are the people you've known in Georgia.
Many of them are young and relatively inexperienced in national affairs. Doesn't
this raise a serious question as to whether you would bring into a Carter admin-
istration people with the necessary background to run the Federal Government?
MR. CARTER. I don't believe it does. I began campaigning 22 months ago. At
that time nobody thought I had a chance to win. Very few people knew who I
was. I came from a tiny town, as you know—Plains—and didn't hold public
office, didn't have very much money. And my first organization was just four
or five people plus my wife and my children, my three sons and their wives.
And we won the nomination by going out into the streets, barbershops,
beauty parlors, restaurants, stores, in factory shift lines, also in farmers' markets
and livestock sale barns, and we talked a lot and we listened a lot, and we
learned from the American people. We built up an awareness among the voters
of this country, particularly those in whose primaries I entered-30 of them,
nobody has ever done that before-about who I was and what I stood for.
2630
