October 21
[935]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We are coming into the homestretch of this great campaign, and tomorrow is
our last debate-only this one is going to be a little different from the others-
Governor Carter is going to answer his questions, and I am going to question
my answers. [Laughter]
I do have a message for Governor Carter. It is about some new security
measures we have taken. We just installed a special lock on the front door of the
White House. It is "Jimmy-proof." [Laughter]
I wish I had time to mention all of the distinguished Americans who are here
this evening. Looking around this head table, I am not sure whether it is Octo-
ber at the Waldorf or Thanksgiving at Hugh Carey's. [Laughter]
Let me just say a word about your exciting senatorial race right here in the
great Empire State. Before the program, I asked Cardinal Cooke what signifi-
cance he would attach to the fact that this year Jim Buckley and Pat Moyni-
han-two good Irish Catholics-are running for the United States Senate.
Cardinal Cooke said it meant only one thing-God answers prayers. [Laughter]
Tonight, rather than talking about what divides us, I would rather focus on
what unites us: a deep belief in the Almighty, a deep belief in the dignity of
human life, a deep belief in the morality of American leadership.
Earlier this week, Cardinal Cooke dedicated a church on Staten Island
which had been destroyed by fire only a few years ago. The people of that
church had rallied and worked together to restore what they had originally
created and so deeply believed in.
Similarly, in the last 2 years, the American people have rallied. We have
restored our belief in ourselves and in our system of government. During our
great Bicentennial celebration this past July, we felt that renewed spirit. The
sight of those tall ships from all over the world made every American stand
taller.
It is one thing to cite the problems that we have in America, to list our
complaints and to note the frustration over things that don't work, the dis-
illusionment with government that has grown so widespread. But we should
do more. Our politics ought to mean more than noting a negative tone or nega-
tive mood in America and becoming its champion. Our politics ought to be
able to capture the hope that there is in America and to find out how to
nourish it in specific ways.
There is a wide range of institutions in between, which can bridge the gulf
between the person and the huge, impersonal institutions of modern life. These
2607
