[954]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
been here several times, and three of our children have visited various parts of
this State. You have given us, as a family, a warm and enthusiastic reception.
But let me reciprocate by saying we admire you, we love you, and we thank
you.
I have a feeling, after being here, that the Ford-Dole ticket will carry Cali-
fornia, November 2. And while I am here, let me extend to all of you a very
special invitation: Come to Washington next January 20 and help us inaugu-
rate the Jerry Ford-Bob Dole ticket for the next 4 years.
You know where I stand. I stand for limited government, for fiscal responsi-
bility, for rising prosperity, for lower taxes, for military strength, and peace
throughout the world. Not a single young American is fighting and dying on
foreign soil today, and we are going to keep it that way.
After so many, many years in which America's defensive needs were short-
changed by the Congress, I proposed the two largest defense outlays in
America's history. And I convinced the Congress during this last session that
they have been playing with fire and that if we were going to keep the peace
that we had, that they could not go through the routine that they followed in
the past. And they went along with the kind of defense spending that I pro-
posed, the kind that means we not only have security today but we will have
it in the years ahead. And let me say, the next Congress, under the Ford-Dole
administration, will have to keep the same commitment to the American
people.
Let me add parenthetically, my opponent in this campaign—and I say this
with some sadness-has proposed a defense cut of at least $5 to $7 billion. That
kind of defense cut would require troop withdrawals from strategic outposts
overseas, delay or cancel many of our new, advanced weapons systems, such as
the B-1 bomber, a slowdown in our ship construction program, or some degree
of damage in all of these areas which means closing defense plants and military
bases right here in the United States and quite possibly in this great State of
California.
You don't want that, neither do I, because America must be strong if we are
to be the leader, if we are to maintain the peace, if we are to repel aggression,
if we are to deter those who would destroy our kind of society.
I pledge to you that in the next 4 years we will keep our defenses strong and
we will keep the peace and freedom that is so dear to all of us.
After so many years of runaway growth in Federal spending, with the Fed-
eral budget escalating much too rapidly, I submitted a budget for this current
fiscal year which cut the rate of growth in Federal spending by 50 percent. I
2666
