October 27
[973]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
next year, we will go back at them again. And if they don't do it in 1978, we
will go to the voters of America, and we will beat those people who won't give
you that kind of a tax reduction. The middle-income taxpayer in this country,
for too long a time, has been shortchanged, and we are going to change that
in the Congress, beginning in January of 1977.
Now, let me say, we have faced the worst recession in the last 40 years in the
last 18 months. We have had unemployment that was far too high. But, at
the same time let me say on the affirmative side we have created 4 million more
jobs and we have 88 million American people working today—an alltime high—
and we have achieved this not by dead-end taxpayer-paid jobs, but by jobs pri-
marily in the private sector where five out of the six jobs are today. And as we
move ahead in the next few months under the Ford administration, we are
going to have more jobs. We are going to have more jobs in the private sector,
because we are going to stimulate the economy with tax reductions for you
and
for business. And that is the way we are going to make America prosperous,
the way you want it.
Two years ago, the American people suffered a tragic betrayal of public
trust. America, I think we can say, with full confidence, has had its faith
restored in the White House. My administration has been open, candid, forth-
right, speaking right straight from the shoulder, and I promise you, I pledge to
you, we are going to keep it that way in the next 4 years.
In every field, America is on the move, on the march. This Nation is sound,
this Nation is secure, this Nation has an opportunity for a better quality of life.
And this administration has earned the trust of the American people for the
next 4 years. I can say with a clear conscience, my record is one of promise—
progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises.
Yes, we have had our problems, but in the last 2 years we have come a long,
long way. At home as well as abroad we are putting our old differences aside,
we are putting our old problems behind us, healing our wounds, and I am proud
to be a citizen of this great country. And I look around this wonderful audience,
and I think every one of you are proud to be an American right now.
So, as we come to the final countdown, give me your mandate and we will
reduce the rate of growth of the Federal Government.
Give me your mandate and we will ensure the integrity of our social security
system. We will improve Medicare so that our older citizens can enjoy the health
and the happiness that they have so richly earned. There is no reason why they
should have to go broke just to get well, and they won't under the Ford
administration.
2723
