October 12
[887]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
887
Remarks at a Republican National Committee Dinner in
New York City. October 12, 1976
Nelson, Senator Jack Javits, Senator Jim Buckley, Governor Wilson, Attorney
General Lefkowitz, distinguished Members of Congress, Mary Louise, Dick
Rosenbaum, Gus Levy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
That concludes my remarks. Thank you very much. [Laughter]
Obviously, Nelson, I am deeply grateful for your more than generous com-
ments, and as I will say in a moment, there is no way that I can adequately
express my appreciation for the superb job that you have done in the last 2 years.
I talked to Betty just before I came down-and Nelson is one of her favorites,
as Happy¹ is one of mine-[laughter]—and she said to give you her very best
and to extend to all of you her deepest gratitude and appreciation. She wanted
to be here, but in the last 5 days she has been in California, the State of Washing-
ton, Colorado, Buffalo, New York, and she is going out to four States in the
next few days. So, she asked me if you would think she was here in spirit if not
in person, and she is, and said to say hello to all of you.
But I do want to pay particular attention to the 13 all-American representa-
tives of the various ethnic groups here, the some 23 nations, as I understand it,
and I am deeply grateful for their support, their dedication, and their under-
standing. Thank you very, very much.
Nelson, it's good to be hiding out in the White House here in New York.
[Laughter] I spent last week hiding out in the White House in California, Okla-
homa, and Texas. I plan to spend the rest of the week in the White House in
Missouri, Iowa, and Illinois. What I'm actually doing is playing hide and seek.
I'm looking all over, trying to find the candidate who used to run around the
country saying, "I will never lie to you." [Laughter] I might say, parenthetically,
he seems to have disappeared. [Laughter]
But wherever I go, I do hear good things about another former Governor.
I hear that he is one of the most enthusiastic, one of the most effective, one of
the most energetic campaigners for the Republican cause in this crucial 1976
election. I hear he describes what we have accomplished in my 26 months as
President a whole lot better than I do. He is Nelson Rockefeller, and his middle
name is loyalty. Thank you.
In politics you can have charisma, you can have eloquence, you can have
1
¹ Mrs. Nelson A. Rockefeller.
2495
