[1045]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
the demands for energy for a growing economy. The only alternative is to
increase our growing dependence on imported oil.
One example will illustrate the point: Nuclear energy now provides about
nine percent of our electrical requirements. If this nuclear energy were not avail-
able and we substituted imported oil, our imports would increase by about
one million barrels of oil per day. If we were to substitute coal for existing
nuclear energy, additional annual production of 100 million tons would be
required.
Divestiture
Some suggest that our energy problem would be relieved by divestiture of
the major oil companies—either by barring investments in other energy sources
(horizontal divestiture) or by barring integrated operations whereby one
company engages in production, refining, and marketing activities (vertical
divestiture). They claim that divestiture would increase competition and thereby
reduce petroleum prices and lead to a more intensive pursuit of alternative
domestic energy resources and alternative energy technologies.
Experience has demonstrated important advantages from vertical integration
in commercial and industrial activities in terms of efficiency of operation. Verti-
cal divestiture may merely mean that petroleum products pass through the hands
of more middle men-resulting in higher consumer costs. Horizontal integra-
tion has helped make private capital and managerial talent available to develop
other alternative energy resources which will be used to supplement our declin-
ing oil and natural gas resources.
Proponents of divestiture have yet to present concrete evidence that divesti-
ture would either increase domestic energy production or provide cheaper and
more secure energy supplies. Such evidence should be required and weighed
carefully along with the evidence against divestiture before the Congress acts.
DANGERS OF EXPANDING THE FEDERAL ROLE IN ENERGY
Much of the dispute over energy legislation has resulted from differing views
as to the appropriate role of the Federal Government.
The primary responsibility for providing the Nation's energy needs has been
and should continue to rest with the private sector. The amount and forms of
energy that are produced and used depend upon literally millions of decisions
reached daily by individuals and organizations throughout the country. Since
energy is such a pervasive component of our economy and our daily lives, special
care must be taken to assure that Federal actions affecting energy—including
2892
