[818]
September 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
818
Remarks at the Annual Conference of the International
Association of Chiefs of Police in Miami Beach, Florida.
September 27, 1976
Chief Clement, Director Kelley, Mayor Rosen, officers, directors of the Inter-
national Association of Chiefs of Police, reverend clergy, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very high honor and a very great privilege to be with the International
Association of Chiefs of Police, and I congratulate Chief Ed Davis, of Los
Angeles, your new president.
Later this week I will sign legislation that reflects the will of a grateful people
and their government. It will demonstrate the esteem of a free society, of its
600,000 sworn law enforcement officers and others entrusted with our public
safety. I refer to legislation, the Public Safety Officers' Benefit Act of 1976, which
will pay $50,000 to the survivors of any public safety officer who loses his or
her life in the line of duty.
No amount of money can fill the void left by the courageous officers who make
the supreme sacrifice. What we will do is to assure their next of kin of appro-
priate benefits for their lifetime. As your President, I will sign this law on behalf
of every grateful American. But let me add, the United States of America salutes
all the men and women who so devotedly serve their Nation and their fellow
citizens.
We must respond to the suffering of all the victims of crime in our society.
Consider the great emphasis is now placed on the rights of the accused, we must
pay more attention to the rights of the victim of crime. I am shocked, I am
angered that our older and least advantaged citizens are too often brutally victim-
ized day after day after day. It is equally shocking that the Congress has failed
to act on my proposal to provide compensation for the victims of Federal crime.
I have urged that similar action be taken by State governments. Seventeen States
have enacted crime compensation legislation, and a number of others are
considering such statutes.
No President and no police chief can preserve domestic tranquility without
cooperation—the cooperation of American citizens, America's neighborhoods,
and America's communities. That is why I address myself to all Americans
who are determined to act against crime.
The cost of crime in America has been estimated at $97 billion a year, almost
as much as the entire defense budget. But even that figure, high as it is, does not
2344
