[730]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
GOVERNOR REAGAN. Yes, as I have said before, and that is what I have always
done and believed in with regard to the party. I will do all I can.
Q. Governor Reagan, your wife said earlier this evening that she would be
happy to get back to the ranch when this is all over. Is that what is going to
happen, sir?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. I want to tell you I will be happy to get back to the ranch,
too, but I don't think we mean to permanently settle down there on the ranch.
But I know what she meant. We are both tired-and I think we are all tired-
having been through this campaign, and we are looking forward to a breathing
spell.
Q. Governor Reagan, are you going to stand by your statement that
not accept the Vice-Presidency?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. I shall stand by that statement, yes.
you
would
Q. Governor Reagan, could you turn down a draft by the convention?
GOVERNOR REAGAN. Well, now you are asking, Barry, one of those hypothetical
questions. I will answer that if and when it comes.
1
Q. Mr. President, why did you send Ben Becker ยน out to California to nego-
tiate the pardon with Mr. Nixon when he was under investigation for criminal
tax fraud at the time?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we are discussing matters that are of much more inter-
est at this time. I have answered it in the past. If you go back and look at the
record, you will find out.
Q. Mr. President, is there a place for Ronald Reagan in your administration?
The President. Of course there is. As came out during the campaign, I
wanted Governor Reagan to be a part of my administration. And there certainly
would be. He is a person whose philosophy is virtually identical with mine, and
he certainly has indicated a great capability as an executive of the largest State in
the Union. The answer is yes.
Q. Mr. President, how long is the Vice-Presidential list?
THE PRESIDENT. We will make the announcement tomorrow.
Q. Mr. President, you now, in principle, have the votes of approximately 20
percent of the electorate. How do you propose to go about getting the votes
of another 31 percent?
THE PRESIDENT. That is very simple. Our philosophy, I think, is believed in by
a majority of the American people today. In my opinion the Democratic ticket,
nominees for President and Vice President, they have embraced the Democratic
ยน An attorney with the law firm of Cramer, Haber, and Becker, located in Washington, D.C.
2150
