[839]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
The thoughtful statements expressed in this report will receive the attention of
my new Office of Science and Technology Policy and the new President's Com-
mittee on Science and Technology, which will soon begin its two-year exami-
nation of the overall context of the Federal science, engineering and technology
effort.
The strength and prosperity of the United States which is so respected through-
out the world is due in large measure to the contributions of scientific research. I
believe this force must be maintained and I have sought significant increases in
Federal funding for basic research in my 1977 Budget, in fact, an increase of
11 percent over 1976 estimates. This increased funding would reverse the decline
in the levels of Federal support for basic research that began in 1967.
The views set forth in this report will enhance our ability to make informed
decisions about the Nation's support of science. I commend it to the attention
of the Congress.
The White House,
October 1, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "Science at the Bicentennial-A Report from the Research Community"
(Government Printing Office, 154 pp.).
840
Statement on Signing the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act. October 1, 1976
I AM signing S. 522, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.
This bill is not without its faults, but after personal review I have decided that
the well-documented needs for improvement in Indian health manpower, serv-
ices, and facilities outweigh the defects in the bill.
While spending for Indian Health Service activities has grown from $128
million in FY 1970 to $425 million in FY 1977, Indian people still lag behind
the American people as a whole in achieving and maintaining good health. I am
signing this bill because of my own conviction that our first Americans should
not be last in opportunity.
Some of the authorizations in this bill are duplicative of existing authorities,
and there is an unfortunate proliferation of narrow categorical programs. Never-
theless, S. 522 is a statement of direction of effort which is commendable.
Title VII of this bill provides for future reports to the Congress from the Sec-
2384
