[989]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
tributed very significantly to whatever circumstances or success that I have had,
and I value their contributions very deeply.
Our teachers, our schools have made it possible for the United States to lead
the world in science and technology, in medicine, in agricultural production,
and in space exploration. With all of the problems, our teachers still have given
us the best educated youngsters in the world today, and I congratulate all of you
for that accomplishment.
But how can we help our teachers meet the awesome demands of the future?
How can we channel more of the $130 billion now spent on education each year
into classrooms to benefit our children and avoid the bureaucratic snarls that
somehow seem to plague too many school systems?
In the past decade, America has responded to the problems of education
with a variety of Federal programs designed to meet specific needs through as-
sistance to State and local school agencies. Each new program was aimed at edu-
cational problems of particular segments of our population. As a result, the pro-
liferation of narrow, categorical programs has reached a point, really a cre-
scendo, where it is causing confusion, duplication and, I think, unnecessary
waste.
Local citizens and administrators are buried under an avalanche of paper-
work, generated by no less than 110 separate and frequently overlapping Fed-
eral aid to education programs, and we have got to do something about it.
My administration will not try to out-promise or out-bid the opposition. You
know that every new program has its price, and every politician who promises
new programs has an obligation to say how much it will cost and who will pay
for it. You are too sophisticated, too experienced, too knowledgeable to simply
throw your weight to the highest bidder. I owe you more than an auction for
Federal education dollars. I am working for meaningful, much needed reform
in Government's whole approach to educational assistance.
As President, the first piece of legislation that I signed back in August of 1974,
over 2 years ago, was the Omnibus Education Act. It improved the distribution
of Federal education funds; it unclogged, to some extent, the administration of
Federal education programs. This was a distinct move in the right direction,
but in a major proposal that I sent to the Congress in March of this year, I urged
the further consolidation of Federal educational programs in the interest of serv-
ice to local schools, effective administration, and bona fide economy.
Under my proposal, 24 categorical grants would be consolidated into a single
block grant program. The States and the communities, not some faceless
2782
