September 11
[770]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I greatly appreciate the opportunity to meet with you today. I look forward
to future discussions with you and with others of every faith.
Sincerely,
[The Most Reverend Joseph L. Bernardin, 29 East 8th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202]
NOTE: The President met with Joseph L. Bernardin,
archbishop of Cincinnati and president of the con-
ference; Terence Cardinal Cooke, archbishop of New
York; James W. Malone, archbishop of Youngstown,
GERALD R. FORD
Ohio; John J. McGuire, archbishop of New York
and treasurer of the conference; and Bishop James S.
Rausch of Washington, D.C., general secretary of the
conference.
770
Exchange With Reporters Following a Meeting With
Secretary of State Kissinger. September 11, 1976
I HAVE asked Secretary Kissinger, as we announced yesterday, to go to south-
ern Africa. It's a very important mission. It has many complicated elements in it.
It involves tremendous risks. But it's my strong feeling that the United States
can play a constructive role. We have to work with the various parties to sort
out the complex issues, and we can be helpful.
There is no assurance of success, but it's worth the risk, I think, for world
peace and a continent that is vitally important to all of us. It seems to me that
this is an area of the world where the Africans should basically settle African
problems without the involvement directly of either the United States, the Soviet
Union, Cuba, or any outside nation.
It's a mission that has high risks but, if successful, will be tremendously impor-
tant in the years ahead for all the peoples of the world, particularly the Africans.
I wish you well, Henry. I will walk you to the car.
REPORTER. Mr. Carter has been saying again in the last couple of days that you
are spending too much time hiding in the White House and not out among
the people.
THE PRESIDENT. My answer is that again he is being somewhat inconsistent.
A few weeks ago, I think early in August, he was complaining because I was
campaigning too much and not spending enough time on Government business.
And now that I'm spending virtually 100 percent of my time on being President,
he is being critical of the fact that I'm not out politicking.
As I said before, I think his positions are inconsistent here as they have been
in many other cases. And I repeat what I have said many times-that the
2233
