July 19
[673]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
State of Connecticut and Lowell and Ron and Stu. Let me thank you for having
them at my side, and believe me, we sure need them back.
But this record of progress over the last 2 years will be the agenda for my ad-
ministration in the next 4 years. These are my goals. This is my pledge—to lead
this Nation forward on the path of peace, prosperity, and trust. Join me, if you
will, on the road to a great victory for the Republican Party and for the United
States of America in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. in the
Bushnell Memorial Hall. He was introduced by
Frederick K. Biebel, Connecticut State Republican
chairman.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Governor John Lodge of Connecticut 1951-55
and entertainer Pearl Bailey.
Prior to his remarks, the President attended a
Republican Party breakfast reception, a reception
for business leaders, and a meeting of Connecticut
delegates to the Republican National Convention.
The receptions and meeting were held in the Hilton
Hotel in Hartford, Conn.
673
Statement on Signing the Bill Extending the Medicare Program.
July 19, 1976
I HAVE signed H.R. 13501, the Medicare extension amendments. Although this
bill would, for the most part, simply extend certain technical provisions of the
Medicare law, other portions of the bill will increase Medicare payments for
physicians' services above the level recommended in my budget without meeting
the urgent needs of Medicare beneficiaries and taxpayers. These deficiencies in
Medicare benefits can be corrected if the Congress will promptly consider and
enact the needed reforms proposed in my Medicare Improvements of 1976 which
was submitted in February.
My proposal would provide catastrophic protection against large medical
bills for all of the 25 million aged and disabled who are insured by the Medicare
program. These beneficiaries would be entitled to unlimited hospital and nurs-
ing home care and would not have to pay any costs above $500 per year for
hospital and nursing home care and $250 per year for doctors' fees. This cata-
strophic protection would reduce payments for hospital or physician services for
3 million persons in 1977. The comprehensive reforms in the Medicare Improve-
ments of 1976 also include moderate cost-sharing to encourage economical use
of services, and a limit on Federal reimbursements for hospital and physician
services in order to help control health cost inflation. In total, my proposal would
2029
