October 13
[895]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
million other Americans, before the election what Mr. Carter really intends to
do about your taxes after the election.
Third, Mr. Carter proposed putting a tax on all church properties other than
the church building itself. He wants to tax church-supported schools, church-
supported hospitals, church-supported orphanages, and church-supported re-
tirement homes. Those activities are just as much a part of the church's work as
the physical place of worship, and we shouldn't let him get away with that
kind of a tax policy.
Fourth, Mr. Carter—his platform that he embraced and many people say he
wrote-calls for between $100 billion and $200 billion in additional Federal
spending, yet he talks about balancing the budget without raising your income
taxes. He can't have it both ways. He can't talk about compassion and not have
compassion for the hard-working, middle-income taxpayers in this country.
The American people have a big heart, but too many politicians mistake that
big heart for a blank check. And I don't think the American people want to give
that kind of authority to a candidate for the Presidency of the United States who
says one thing on Monday, another thing on Tuesday. He is on both sides of the
issue, and he cannot be trusted with this kind of a statement or that kind of a
platform.
We have got to beat him in New Jersey and in Michigan and in 48 other
States. It's not an act of compassion to prevent a young couple from buying a
home because Federal borrowing for deficit spending sends interest rates up. It's
not an act of compassion to put generations of Americans deeply in debt and
mortgage their future before they are born. You worked very hard, every one of
you here and all of those several thousand outside. You worked very hard for the
money that
you earn. Your tax dollars should work just as hard for you as you
worked for them. You know who pays the bill for every campaign promise.
You know when the bills come due you get stuck with them, predicated on false
promises before an election.
In the last 2 years I vetoed some 60 various bills sent down to the Oval Office
from Capitol Hill. My vetoes saved you $92 billion. I am darned proud of that
record. And if we had had more stalwart Republicans up there to help with those
vetoes, we could have saved you another $16 billion. So, that's a good reason why
we ought to change the Congress and get the right kind of a Congress for the
next 2 years.
Mr. Carter talks about tax reform. I think the best tax reform that we can talk
about is tax reduction-cut spending, cut taxes, keep more of your own money.
2517
