[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
at a very low point. The United States today, according to Prime Minister
Rabin of Israel, is at a peak in its influence and power in the Middle East.
But let's turn for a minute to the southern African operations that are now
going on. The United States of America took the initiative in southern Africa.
We wanted to end the bloodshed in southern Africa. We wanted to have the
right of self-determination in southern Africa. We wanted to have majority
rule with the full protection of the rights of the minority. We wanted to pre-
serve human dignity in southern Africa. We have taken initiative, and in
southern Africa today the United States is trusted by the black frontline nations
and black Africa. The United States is trusted by the other elements in southern
Africa.
The United States foreign policy under this administration has been one of
progress and success. And I believe that instead of talking about Soviet progress,
we can talk about American successes.
And may I make an observation-part of the question you asked, Mr. Tre-
whitt-I don't believe that it's in the best interests of the United States and the
NATO nations to have a Communist government in NATO. Mr. Carter has
indicated he would look with sympathy to a Communist government in NATO.
I think that would destroy the integrity and the strength of NATO, and I am
totally opposed to it.
MR. CARTER. Well, Mr. Ford, unfortunately, has just made a statement that's
not true. I have never advocated a Communist government for Italy; that
would, obviously, be a ridiculous thing for anyone to do who wanted to be
President of the country. I think that this is an instance for deliberate distor-
tion, and this has occurred also in the question about defense. As a matter of fact,
I've never advocated any cut of $15 billion in our defense budget. As a matter of
fact, Mr. Ford has made a political football out of the defense budget.
About a year ago, he cut the Pentagon budget $6.8 billion. After he fired
James Schlesinger the political heat got so great that he added back about $3
billion. When Ronald Reagan won the Texas primary election, Mr. Ford added
back another $12 billion. Immediately before the Kansas City convention he
added back another $1.8 billion in the defense budget. And his own Office of
Management and Budget testified that he had a $3 billion cut insurance added
to the defense budget under the pressure from the Pentagon. Obviously, this
is another indication of trying to use the defense budget for political purposes,
which he's trying to do tonight.
Now, we went into South Africa late, after Great Britain, Rhodesia, the black
nations had been trying to solve this problem for many, many years. We didn't
2412
