September 30
[836]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the majority of their funds for education, would have been confronted with the
possibility of severe reductions in school aid; and cities would have had their
already tight fiscal condition further burdened.
I proposed the extension of general revenue sharing on April 25, 1975, and
have worked closely and continuously since then with State and local officials
to secure passage of this legislation. While the bill passed by Congress today is
not all that I and the mayors, county executives, and Governors had hoped for,
it does assure continued growth of this vital program.
Today's action is a most significant accomplishment, and all who participated
in bringing about this victory are to be congratulated.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (H.R. 13367), approved October 13, 1976, is Public Law 94-488 (90 Stat, 2341).
836
Statement on Signing the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust
Improvements Act of 1976. September 30, 1976
AFTER CAREFUL reflection, I am signing into law today H.R. 8532, the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. This bill contains three
titles, two of which my administration has supported and one—the “parens
patriae" title-which I believe is of dubious merit.
Competition and antitrust policies
I am proud of my administration's record of commitment to antitrust enforce-
ment. Antitrust laws provide an important means to achieving fair competition.
Our Nation has become the economic ideal of the free world because of the
vigorous competition permitted by the free enterprise system. Competition
rewards the efficient and innovative business and penalizes the inefficient.
Consumers benefit in a freely competitive market by having the opportunity
to choose from a wide range of products. Through their decisions in the market-
place, consumers indicate their preferences to businessmen, who translate those
preferences into the best products at the lowest prices.
The Federal Government must play two important roles in protecting and
advancing the cause of free competition.
First, the policy of my administration has been to vigorously enforce our
antitrust laws through the Antitrust Divison of the Department of Justice and
the Federal Trade Commission. During an inflationary period, this has been
2377
