[967]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
dent Eisenhower was asked about the goals of the United States foreign policy.
He said, and I quote, "The foreign policy of our Nation is not difficult to state.
We are for peace—peace first, last and always.”
Today, that remains the central purpose of every American foreign policy.
It has been the purpose of every administration since I went to Washington
more than a quarter of a century ago. In fact, looking back over those years
through the terms of six Presidents-three Democrats and three Republicans—
you will find that while the emphasis may have changed from one adminis-
tration to another, the foundations of American foreign policy have remained
essentially the same.
There have been some misjudgments. Sometimes we have made commit-
ments that exceeded our capabilities. Sometimes we have been heavy-handed.
But the record of achievement far, far exceeds that of failure.
Throughout my time as President, I have shaped our foreign policy accord-
ing to these four basic principles: First, we have sought to maintain America's
unquestioned military strength. Second, we have tried to maintain and strength-
en our friendship with our allies. Third, working from a position of strength,
we have sought to reduce tensions in the world and to avert the threat of nuclear
holocaust. Finally, we have tried to act as a leader and as a peacemaker in
resolving the many difficult problems that have arisen within a community of
nations that has been constantly expanding.
There is no better testimony of the wisdom of our policies than the fact that
today America is at peace. Not a single one of our young men is fighting or dy-
ing on any foreign battlefield. The draft no longer hangs over the head of our
younger generation.
Today, America is strong, ready to meet any challenge to our national
security. Our relationsips with our allies have never been better, a point that has
been echoed repeatedly as leaders of other nations have streamed to our shores
in our Bicentennial celebration. And our adversaries respect us, they respect
our commitment to freedom, and they respect the strength and the will to
protect it.
The peace that exists today is directly related to our collective hard work and
skillful diplomacy, and I am very, very proud of what we have accomplished.
I am very proud to be the first President since Dwight Eisenhower to seek elec-
tion with America at peace.
What concerns me is that during the closing weeks of this Presidential cam-
paign, it has become apparent that America is now being asked by my opponent
to make a fundamental change in the direction and the conduct of U.S. foreign
2698
