July 22
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
WORK INCENTIVE (WIN) PROGRAM AMENDMENTS OF 1976
The purpose of the Work Incentive (WIN) program is to help recipients of
Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) shift from welfare to self-
support through employment. The proposed WIN amendments would re-
design the program to help more AFDC applicants and recipients move into
the mainstream of the economy with greater efficiency and less cost to the tax-
payers. It would revise WIN to ensure that employable AFDC applicants and
recipients in WIN areas are exposed to job opportunities, and will actively
search for and accept suitable jobs. The legislation would extend to AFDC ap-
plicants the employment services presently provided only to AFDC recipients—
i.e., direct placement and labor market exposure—and would terminate the less
effective work and training components of the WIN program.
AID TO FAMILIES WITH DEPENDENT CHILDREN (AFDC) AMENDMENTS OF 1976
This proposal would simplify the administration of the Aid to Families with
Dependent Children (AFDC) program and focus the resources devoted to this
program on the most needy. For example, it would standardize the disregard
for work-related expenses, thereby eliminating one of the troublesome in-
equities of the AFDC program, and it would eliminate the dual work registra-
tion requirement for unemployed fathers which would remove an extra burden
on the individual and reduce administrative work. It would also require that
an applicant for AFDC under the unemployed fathers program apply for and
accept any unemployment compensation benefits to which he is entitled. Cur-
rently, as a result of a Supreme Court decision, an individual who is eligible
for unemployment compensation benefits has the option of applying for either
unemployment compensation benefits or AFDC benefits. An individual's first
recourse should be to unemployment benefits for which his employer has con-
tributed and to which he is entitled.
LOW INCOME HOUSING CONTRIBUTIONS
This proposal would amend the definition of “income" used in determining
eligibility and maximum rental charges under the low-income public housing
program, to conform the criteria used in public housing to those used in the
lower-income housing assistance program under section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937. Present law provides for a number of exclusions from
income, among which are exclusions for minor children, extraordinary medical
or other expenses, and a flat deduction of 5 percent of the family's gross income
2075
