[1075]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
even more, the benefit of the questions and answers that were certainly helpful
to me and, I trust, of benefit to the students.
But today's ceremonies mark the historic union of these two fine colleges into
one university. In the years to come, this new institution will be an institution
that will set new standards of excellence for American military education.
General Scowcroft ¹ was telling me as we came over that in February of 1903,
President Teddy Roosevelt laid the cornerstone of the present home of the Na-
tional War College, the building in which we are holding these ceremonies. And
during that ceremony he spoke eloquently of America's awesome responsibilities
in its new position as a world power. He warned, and most appropriately, that
we could not properly bear those responsibilities unless our voice is potent for
peace and for justice with the assured self-confidence of the just man armed.
In 1960, during the final months of the administration of President Dwight
Eisenhower, he came to dedicate the new home of the Industrial College of the
Armed Forces. During that ceremony he declared that our first-priority task
was to develop and sustain a deterrent commanding the respect of any potential
aggressor and to prepare to face resolutely the dangers of any possible war.
Today, national defense—as I said the other night in the State of the Union
Message-national defense remains our first priority. Strong, capable military
and civilian leadership plays a crucial role in maintaining that security. Over the
years and I have been fortunate during my term in the Congress and as Vice
President and as President to have an exposure to military personnel, those who
formerly came before the committee on which I served and those that I have
observed in my previous position and this one—and I can say without hesitation
or qualification that I have admired the high, high caliber of those who serve in
the Armed Forces and those, likewise, who serve in positions of great responsi-
bility in the executive branch.
But in the process of being a Member of Congress, I did, from time to time,
see firsthand the graduates from both colleges of this new university. It was
interesting to me that some 5,600 men and women have already graduated from
the two schools. According to the records, most of your predecessors and your-
selves arrived after 20 years of valuable public service, and most departed to
assume even higher and greater responsibilities. It was interesting to me that over
one-quarter of the military graduates had been selected for flag or general of-
ficer rank, and over one-quarter of the Foreign Service graduates achieved am-
bassadorial rank. This is a tribute to the colleges and to the personnel who
attended each of the two institutions.
¹ Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft, USAF (ret.), Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
2964
