October 21
[931]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
strong and growing economy, a healthy growth in useful, productive jobs in
private industry, and control of inflation. I will continue my commitment to
combat inflation, to restore an orderly, steady growth to the American economy.
Finally, our cities and their neighborhoods will not flourish nor fail because
of what is done by Washington. Their success depends on what the people
in the cities, and their leaders, do for themselves. They are succeeding and will
continue to do so as long as honest and realistic solutions are arrived at locally
and supported nationally. I intend to see that this support is applied with wis-
dom, imagination, and prudence, but, above all, with a conviction that our cities
are irreplaceable resources which shall never be abandoned.
NOTE: The 50-page report is entitled "Interim Re-
port of the President's Committee on Urban Develop-
ment and Neighborhood Revitalization," dated Oc-
tober 1976.
931
Remarks Concerning the Interim Report of the President's
Committee on Urban Development and Neighborhood
Revitalization. October 21, 1976
Secretary Hills:
I am pleased to announce today that I have received from Secretary Hills
the interim report of the President's Committee on Urban Development and
Neighborhood Revitalization. The report deals forthrightly with the problems
of our cities and the strengths of their neighborhoods.
It is a direct result of a White House meeting held last May, which included
city officials and neighborhood and community leaders who have been con-
cerned with the revitalization of our cities and their neighborhoods. Secretary
Hills and her colleagues recommend positive steps toward consolidating and
improving Federal programs and involving citizens in local decisionmaking.
The people of many of our Nation's urban neighborhoods and their elected
officials have taken the initiative in solving the problems of neighborhood
revitalization. Our best course of action-certainly our best course of action in
the future—is to provide as much support as possible for responsible community
and neighborhood leaders to preserve and to improve the quality of life in our
Nation's neighborhoods.
I want to compliment and congratulate Secretary Hills for being Chairman
of this group and congratulate her on the fine job that she and her associates
have done in this report.
2601
