[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
are elected President, and hasn't the country a right to ask whether you can get
along with that Congress or whether we will have continued confrontation?
The President. Well, it seems to me that we have a chance, the Republicans,
to get a majority in the House of Representatives. We will make some gains
in the United States Senate. So there will be different ratios in the House as well
as in the Senate, and as President I will be able to work with that Congress.
But let me take the other side of the coin, if I might. Supposing we had had a
Democratic Congress for the last 2 years and we had had Governor Carter as
President. He has, in effect, said that he would agree with all of—he would
disapprove of the vetoes that I have made and would have added significantly to
expenditures and the deficit in the Federal Government. I think it would be
contrary to one of the basic concepts in our system of government, a system of
checks and balances.
We have a Democratic Congress today, and fortunately, we've had a Republi-
can President to check their excesses with my vetoes. If we have a Democratic
Congress next year and a President who wants to spend an additional $100
billion a year or maybe $200 billion a year, with more programs, we will have,
in my judgment, greater deficits with more spending, more dangers of inflation.
I think the American people want a Republican President to check on any
excesses that come out of the next Congress if it is a Democratic Congress.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, it's not a matter of Republican and Democrat; it's a matter
of leadership or no leadership. President Eisenhower worked with a Democratic
Congress very well. Even President Nixon, because he was a strong leader, at
least, worked with a Democratic Congress very well.
Mr. Ford has vetoed, as I said earlier, four times as many bills per year as Mr.
Nixon. Mr. Ford quite often puts forward a program just as a public relations
stunt and never tries to put it through the Congress by working with the Con-
gress. I think under President Nixon and Eisenhower-they passed about 60 to
75 percent of their legislation. This year Mr. Ford will not pass more than 26
percent of all the legislative proposals he puts forward.
This is government by stalemate. And we've seen almost a complete break-
down in the proper relationship between the President, who represents this
country, and the Congress, who, collectively, also represent this country.
We've had Republican Presidents before who have tried to run against a
Democratic Congress. And I don't think it's the Congress is Mr. Ford's oppon-
ent. But if he insists that I be responsible for the Democratic Congress, of which
I have not been a part, then I think it's only fair that he be responsible for the
2306
