[1011]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
keep the peace is to keep strong, but in order to keep our domestic economy
strong, we need additional tax reduction.
Last January I told the Congress they should cut your personal taxes. I think
the best tax reform is tax reduction. I recommended that your personal exemp-
tion be increased from $750 to $1,000. Congress didn't do its job, but on January
3, when Congress comes back, I will have the tax reduction proposal on their
desks so that they can give the middle-income taxpayer, who has been short-
changed, the kind of tax reduction that that group in our society so badly
needs.
But, in addition, we have some other problems. We will do a better job in
the next 4 years in making certain that the victims of crime are protected and
that the criminal goes to jail. We will do a better job to help our older people,
who have earned our respect and our support. We will do a better job in meet-
ing some of the problems of our major metropolitan areas.
We have a lot of things to do, but we are in shape to do it now that we are
over the hump of the tough last 2 years.
So, we come to the final round in this election. I want your prayers, as you
gave them to me 2 years ago. But I would hope that you would confirm me
this time by your ballots. I promise you, I pledge you, that I will not let you
down.
Thank you, and good night.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded aboard
Air Force One while flying from Houston, Tex.,
to Philadelphia, Pa. The remarks were broadcast on
radio and television.
1012
Remarks While Awaiting Presidential Election Results.
November 2, 1976
IN THESE last hours I'd like to share with you some personal thoughts about
today's election. To all of us, the outcome is important, because the choice is
final.
I believe I offer experienced leadership; you will have to decide whether my
opponent can make the same claim. I think my approach could properly be
called steady and dependable; it is my opinion that, even as I speak to you,
his claims are unclear and untested. To single out just one issue, my course
promises a lid on spending and a tax cut for every American family; Mr.
2840
