October 27
[974]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
American schools, urged that Federal aid to education actually be increased. My
block grant program, which I described just a moment ago, did call for increased
spending in each of the 3 fiscal years after its enactment.
But let me point out another area of deep mutual concern. At Ohio State Uni-
versity 2 years ago—and every time somebody from Michigan mentions Ohio
State we have to be a little careful—[laughter]—he [I] urged that transition
from the world of education to the world of work, a crucial juncture in the life
of every single individual, and [had] to be explored. I said at that time, at a
commencement address at Columbus, that the Nation needs new ways to bring
the world of work and the world of institutions of education together. The
United States Office of Education and the Departments of Commerce and Labor,
private industry and private business, have responded to my challenge in a very
encouraging way.
In the past 2 years, scores of programs have been developed to help high
school students prepare for very worthwhile occupations while completing their
education. These developments are new, they are existing, they are inviting, and
they are a fine, fine example of how government as a helpful servant, rather
than a meddling master in the area of education, can be constructive.
This is the sort of cooperative new effort that is needed across the whole edu-
cation spectrum. School board members, parents, teachers, religious leaders,
government officials, businessmen-we all have to work together to meet the
educational challenges of America's third century.
We had a wonderful celebration on July 4, and a new spirit seemed to be
generated or exposed in America on that great day. I hope and trust, and I
firmly believe, that that spirit will continue in our third century to give to all
of us and those that follow, not only the vision of what we want—freedom,
liberty, responsibility—but will give us the opportunity to make that dream a
reality.
As I close, I pledge my cooperation and my continuing effort on behalf of
American education. With your support, I will keep working to untie the red-
tape that binds you, to continue our American tradition of local education con-
trol, to see that Americans are well-educated and that America is well-prepared
for this exciting future that I foresee.
It has been a pleasure and a very high honor to have the opportunity of join-
ing you this morning, and I thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:28 p.m. at the
Haddon Hall Hotel. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Lawrence J. Schwartz, president of the
New Jersey School Boards Association.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
2727
