October 29
[990]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
them with high principles, with a just fear of God and love of our fellow men,
we engrave on those tablets something which no time can efface and which will
brighten and brighten to all eternity."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 a.m. at the Mecca
Auditorium. In his remarks, he referred to Paul
duVair, president of the association, and Ody J.
Fish, Wisconsin Republican national committeeman.
990
Remarks at a Ford-Dole Committee Reception in Milwaukee.
October 29, 1976
THANK YOU. It's wonderful to be in Milwaukee. It's wonderful to be with
all you great Badgers.
When I left Kansas City, I said we would not concede a single vote and we
would not concede a single State. We don't, and we expect to win Wisconsin.
I want to express my deep appreciation to all of the people, whether they
were in one part of the Republican Party or the other part of the Republican
Party or some other area. I appreciate very deeply the unification and the joint
effort that is being made in the great State of Wisconsin, so that we can go
forward together for a victory on November 2.
I was going to tell Ody and Warren ¹ later today and ask them to express it
to you, but I see so many nice people here I'm going to do it myself—
[laughter]—I'm going to invite every one of you to come down January 20 and
be there for the inauguration of Jerry Ford.
I do want to express my deep appreciation and gratitude to Bob Kasten and
Bill Steiger, who have just been extremely helpful. I need them down there.
You need them down there. We just need to add a few more to the Wisconsin
delegation.
I would like to make one or two comments that I think might be helpful
to you as you work in the next 4 days-we are in the countdown period—to
convince those Independents and those Democrats that they ought to join with
us in what really has become a crusade.
I was so pleased at the tremendous outpouring of warmth and friendship
of the crowd outside of the hotel here. Just wonderful, but it's indicative of what
we are finding all over America.
1 Ody J. Fish, Wisconsin Republican national committeeman, and Warren P. Knowles, Governor of Wis-
consin 1965-71 and Wisconsin President Ford committee chairman.
2785
