December 9
[1025]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
15. But we will also, perhaps, be finalizing some recommendations to the new
national chairman as to the format or the organization of this committee that
I mentioned earlier.
Q. Mr. President, would you want to be the chairman of this committee, the
coordinating committee?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to preempt any position at the present time.
I want to be a participant.
Q. Mr. President, when you look at the November 2 results-
THE PRESIDENT. I've looked at them. [Laughter]
Q.
-the greatest deficiency that your party showed was among black
and minority voters. Now, did that come up today, and do any of the three
gentlemen, including the Vice President, have any suggested remedies about
how to bring black people into your party, where it seems you just got skunked
on November 2?
THE PRESIDENT. We hope to broaden the base of the party, and there is every
reason in the world why members of the black community in the United States
ought to support the Republican Party, because we offer them jobs, whereas the
opposition, in effect, offers them welfare. And I think that's an attractive appeal
that the Republican Party would have to the black community, because they
are interested in jobs rather than welfare. But this is a personal observation.
Q. Mr. Vice President, Newsweek magazine reported among other things
that the President was not very fond of the President-elect. Are you? How do
you feel about that?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. I love this country, and I will do anything I can to help
the President-elect and the Vice President-elect to carry out their responsibilities.
Q. Mr. Vice President, do you share or do you have the hope of serving on
this coordinating committee as President Ford does?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Well, I served on the last one. And I'm interested in
seeing the party have the broadest possible base, appeal for the broadest national
support, and I think that committee needs to have that kind of representation.
If I can add something, I'm delighted. If not, I'd just like to see the committee
function effectively.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the question. I think that it would be con-
structive to have all four of the group that met this afternoon on the committee.
But they would not necessarily numerically dominate the group, because if you
go back to the format of 1965, there were roughly, as I recall, 30 members.
So, I think the four of us could contribute to the work of the committee, but
I don't think we should numerically be in the majority.
2859
