[812]
September 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
promise to you that in January of next year, when I am sworn in as the next
President of the United States, we will recommend another tax reduction.
All of us from wherever we come in the United States are very interested in
our national security. Yes, we have peace, we're not drafting anybody anymore.
But we have to keep our Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps unsurpassed
by anyone. We must keep America number one, and we will under a Ford
administration.
On the Fourth of July, I know you celebrated in Louisiana, like we did all
over the country, the 200th birthday of this great country. In the last 2 years, as
I said, we have had a tough time. But because of the form of government that
we have, because of the strength and character of the American people, we have
turned the ship of state around, and we are now headed upstream so that we
can have a better America in the next 4 years and in the next century. We need
your help. We need your help in the next 4 years so that we can have that better
America when we celebrate our 300th birthday.
I am delighted to be in Reserve. I am delighted to be in Louisiana. And I
love the warm welcome that you've given to Betty and me. We will be down
there to shake hands and to indicate to you our appreciation for all of you coming
out. But let me ask you one favor. On November 2, vote for Jerry Ford and Bob
Dole.
Thank you.
[3.] DESTREHAN (1:54 p.m.)
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Dave Treen, Congressman Hen-
son Moore, Senator Strom Thurmond, Governor Jim Edwards of South Caro-
lina-we have two of my Cabinet officers, Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz
and Secretary of the Treasury Bill Simon.
Let me say to all of you before I make any observations and comments, I
have two beautiful, wonderful ladies with me that I would like to introduce to
you on this occasion. First, my bride, Betty Ford. And now, the wife of your
great Governor Edwin Edwards, Elaine Edwards-Elaine? And, of course,
we have Dave Treen's wife, Dody.
When I made an acceptance speech in Kansas City a few weeks ago, I said
that I would not concede a single State, I would not concede a single vote,
that I would campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy soil of
Georgia. I have come to the State of Louisiana, and we are going to Mississippi,
Alabama, and Florida. We are coming down here to prove that we want the
South to be with us.
2326
