[978]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
is to have an Army, a Navy, an Air Force, and Marine Corps that are number
one.
I don't think that you can cut the Defense Department, as some suggest, and
have our military capability unsurpassed. To deter aggression, to meet any
challenge, to protect our national security, I believe that the President of the
United States has an obligation to see to it that the necessary funds are there to
buy the best weapons, to have the best leadership, to have the best training, to
have the strength that adversaries-respect and allies appreciate. Then America
can keep the peace that we have and be the leader in the world, and we will under
this administration.
One final thought. Faith tells me that the party workers in Delaware County
are the best not only in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania but in the whole
United States. Pennsylvania is a key State in this election. We can win or lose.
We can have the direction of America going one way if Pennsylvania is on ou
side, and the country can go another way if Pennsylvania is on the other side.
It's that very practical result.
So Delaware County is the county that can make the difference. So all 3,000 of
you here, I hope, will maximize your efforts and turn in the biggest vote, a vote
for America, a vote for America's future. We're on the march; we're on the
way. There's a new faith; there's a new spirit.
What you do between now and November 2 when the polls close will make a
significant difference in the third century of America's future. I know you won't
let America down and, as the next President, I won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:58 p.m. at the
Valley Forge Music Fair. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Faith Whittlesey, vice chairman of the
Delaware County Council.
979
Remarks in Indianapolis, Indiana. October 28, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Governor Otis Bowen. It has just been wonder-
ful to have worked with you, and those words were, I hope, deserved. They
certainly were appreciated.
But it's great to see so many old friends here: Congressman John Myers, Bud
Hillis, Bill Hudnut, your fine mayor and, of course, your next United States
Senator, Dick Lugar. Then I understand somewhere in the audience is an old
and very dear friend of mine, Bill Bray. Bill, thank you.
2744
