[684]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
-to attack crime and drugs; and
-to attack many other important matters.
This afternoon, I am sending to the Congress a special message urging
prompt action on 74 proposals that I have sent to the Congress and are still
waiting action.
I am also deeply concerned that at a time when the public's business has be-
come so pressing, some Members of the Congress apparently want to turn the
rest of this legislative schedule in this session into a political test of wills between
one party in the Congress and another party in the White House. I do not think
the Nation will be well served if partisanship is placed ahead of public service
during the rest of this legislative schedule.
The people expect political differences. The people expect a high-level,
spirited, political contest this fall. But our people also expect that those who
have the privilege of occupying public offices and collecting public salaries
should render a full measure of public service.
There must be no holiday on good government. I expect to meet that stand-
ard, and I trust the Congress will also.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
685
Special Message to the Congress Urging Action on Pending
Legislation. July 22, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In the weeks remaining in this session of the 94th Congress there is an oppor-
tunity to write a legislative record of which we can all be proud. Over the past
23 months I have sent legislative proposals to the Congress dealing with many
vital areas of national concern. Some of these proposals have been enacted, some
are nearing enactment, but many others have been stalled in the legislative
process.
Today I am calling on the Congress to turn its full and undivided attention
to this unfinished agenda of legislative business. If you do, the record you will
take to the people will be a good one.
The agenda is long, even though it does not include everything that should
be passed by the Congress before it goes home. For example, I have not included
here the appropriation bills which must be passed. Most of the agenda items
2058
