August 27
[742]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
there is a great deal of fear on the part of those who are knowledgeable about
foreign policy matters and defense matters. There is a great deal of fear that if
he is elected there are going to be more serious cuts in the defense effort. The
Democrats have already cut $50 billion in recent years out of the defense budget.
They are afraid that they will suffer even greater cuts in the real muscle of the
defense effort of this country.
There are a great many people, workers and factory owners alike, in this
country who have a great fear when they see him get up and say he wants to
out-Nader Nader." They are concerned about that. There are a great many
other people who know something about energy in the country who are not only
afraid but alarmed when they hear him say that he doesn't think we need to be
concerned about importing crude oil, that we ought to just quit importing it.
It shows a complete lack of understanding of the energy problems of this Nation.
Those are three categories that I can think of very quickly.
The President. Let me add one point to that. In Governor Connally's very
effective speech at the convention, he made a point which I think does reflect
that fear and apprehension of the American people. Peace abroad is a very criti-
cal issue. I have the distinct feeling—and I think some of the polls indicate it—
that the American people want an individual with experience running our
foreign policy. They don't want a person whose name, as Governor Connally
said, they didn't know a year and a half ago running American foreign policy.
Q. Governor Connally, can we ask you a question, please? There was a story
as recently as this morning in the paper that you were unhappy with President
Ford following the convention and that indeed there was a rift. You have seen
these stories, I am sure. Would you care to set the record straight on that?
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Yes, I will set the record straight. It will probably last
about 24 hours, hopefully, but I am not unhappy with President Ford, never
have been, was not before, during, or after the convention. I am not now. If I
was, I wouldn't be here.
I think he has been an outstanding President. I think, as I said a moment ago,
that it is absolutely essential that all of us do everything we know how to do to
reelect him. And I was here to try to contribute what little I could to the
discussion, and I am going to be around the country contributing what little I
can to see that he and Senator Dole are elected.
Q. What about the story that you had indicated that you thought it was too
late for the President to mount a winning campaign—
2
² Ralph Nader, a consumer advocate and a trustee of Public Citizens, Inc.
2187
