October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sacrifices to preserve the peace-which we have—which means, of course, that
we will have to maintain an adequate military capability; which means, of
course, that we will have to add, I think, a few billion dollars to our defense
appropriations to make certain that we have adequate strategic forces, adequate
conventional forces.
I think the American people will be called upon to be in the forefront in giv-
ing leadership to the solution of those problems that must be solved in the Mid-
dle East, in southern Africa, and any problems that might arise in the Pacific.
The American people will be called upon to tighten their belts a bit in meet-
ing some of the problems that we face domestically. I don't think that America
can go on a big spending spree with a whole lot of new programs that would
add significantly to the Federal budget.
I believe that the American people, if given the leadership that I would ex-
pect to give, would be willing to give this thrust to preserve the peace and the
necessary restraint at home to hold the lid on spending so that we could, I think,
have a long overdue and totally justified tax decrease for the middle-income
people. And then-with the economy that would be generated from a restraint
on spending and a tax reduction primarily for the middle-income people—then
I think the American people would be willing to make those sacrifices for peace
and prosperity in the next 4 years.
MR. KRAFT. Could I be a little bit more specific, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure, sure.
MR. KRAFT. Doesn't your policy really imply that we are going to have to have
a pretty high rate of unemployment over a fairly long time, that growth is going
to be fairly slow, and that we are not going to be able to do very much in the next
4 or 5 years to meet the basic agenda of our national needs in the cities, in health,
in transit, and a whole lot of other things like that?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all.
MR. KRAFT. Aren't those the real costs?
THE PRESIDENT. No, Mr. Kraft. We're spending very significant amounts of
money now, some $200 billion a year, almost 50 percent of our total Federal
expenditure by the Federal Government at the present time, for human needs.
Now, we will probably have to increase that to some extent, but we don't have
to have growth in spending that will blow the lid off and add to the problems of
inflation.
I believe we can meet the problems within the cities of this country and still
give a tax reduction. I proposed, as you know, a reduction to increase the per-
sonal exemption from $750 to $1,000, with the fiscal program that I have. And
2623
