October 28
[984]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But John Collins lived out in East Grand Rapids, which is a suburb like
Shaker Heights in Cleveland. John Collins, every day that he was employed,
walked from East Grand Rapids, rain or snow or sleet, down to his factory
where he was employed. You would drive down and you would say, jump in.
Oh, no, John walked that route for about 50 years every day, about 5 or 6 miles,
home and back. But he was a super mayor because he was interested and con-
cerned with people. And he finally, on the orders of his family and his doctor,
was convinced that he ought not to seek continued public service.
But John is the kind of a person that really ought to get that award, and I feel
honored that he would think that highly of me. But I really accept that award—
and I say this sincerely—on behalf of all of the American people because I find
as I travel around this wonderful, wonderful country where we live, that we are
all good neighbors with one another. We can disagree without being disagree-
able. We can work to keep America moving.
Probably the most inspirational day that I ever spent in my life, certainly as
President, was the Fourth of July last year—this year, I should say—when we
celebrated our 200th birthday. I had the privilege of making a few remarks at
Valley Forge and reminding the people there of the sacrifices that were made on
our behalf by George Washington and that cold and scraggly army, and then
in Philadelphia where it all kind of began, culminating in New York City and
seeing those tall ships from all over the world.
But those three affairs were not the only ones that were held in America to show
the rebirth of our spirit and the rekindling of our faith and the rejuvenation of
what America stands for. We have a new direction. We are in motion. We are
moving forward. All of the anger and divisiveness of a few years ago has
disappeared.
We are all together, and I know that as we enter our third century, we have
an opportunity through good neighborliness, through dedication to our prin-
ciples as a country, not only to read history as we can—and it is the history of
200 years—but to make history in our third century, to make the history that our
forefathers gave to us as their vision, to make it a reality for us but, more impor-
tantly, for our children and our grandchildren.
That is the mission that we have. That is the responsibility that we bear. But
we do it because we are proud of America and proud of what it stands for and
honored to have, each and every one of us, the opportunity to do for America
what we feel so deeply—to make it the reality of the dreams of our forefathers.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:45 p.m. in the Orleans Ballroom at the Marriott Hotel.
2761
