October 26
[967]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Of course, when I asked Congress to cut taxes, I linked that request to a match-
ing cut in Federal spending. Reducing taxes while continuing to increase
spending is nothing but a cruel illusion. Money for that added spending must
come from somewhere. If it does not come from taxes, then it must come from
inflation-the harshest and most unfair tax of all. By standing up to Congress
against increased Federal spending, I have at least been able to preserve the
tax reduction that we put through last year. The opposition party, in contrast,
has promised new programs calling for huge increases in Federal spending
during the next 4 years.
The total cost of these programs would be about $200 billion—requiring a
50-percent increase in Federal taxes. Just four key programs promised in the
Democratic platform, including the Humphrey-Hawkins Federal jobs bill,
would cost just over $100 billion.
A tax increase of this kind would not only place an unfair burden on Ameri-
can taxpayers, it would wreck our economy-raking off funds needed for in-
vestment, driving up inflation, causing a new and deeper recession. We have
seen in Britain the result of excessive taxation and unwise government spend-
ing—inflation, recession, economic stagnation. I am determined to prevent
any similar fate from overtaking our own country.
We Americans have always been prepared to pay our fair share of the costs
of maintaining a free society. We know that taxes are not going to go away.
But we also know that taxes pushed too high become a threat to freedom itself.
The time has come to take a stand. Next Tuesday, with your help, we will check
the growth in Government spending, and pave the way for a new cut in Federal
taxes.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded for
broadcast over the Mutual Radio Network.
The text of the address was released at Portland,
Oreg.
967
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Members of
the Pittsburgh Economic Club in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
October 26, 1976
Thank you very much, Mr. Burnham, Mayor Flaherty:
It is a great privilege and pleasure to have the opportunity this morning to
say a few words and answer a few questions before the Pittsburgh Economic
Club. Some 20 years ago, speaking before the League of Women Voters, Presi-
2697
