July 12
[663]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
York, and Monticello. I could feel a spirit of renewal, a spirit that took hold
across our entire country. That spirit will be remembered.
There was apprehension on the part of some that this Independence Day
would fizzle or maybe explode. Some thought it would be an occasion for some
hollow self-congratulation, or cheapened by commercialism—a Bicentennial
bought or sold. Still others, remembering a past decade of discord, feared the day
would demonstrate national divisiveness rather than national unity.
The fears proved groundless—I had a feeling they would from an experience
that I had about a year ago at the very first Bicentennial event. I went to the great
State of Massachusetts and participated in some of the early Bicentennial experi-
ences. I watched and saw the faces of people who lined the roads from Lexing-
ton to Concord. I could see our great celebration would be a success, as it turned
out to be.
Americans enjoyed their national birthday party. It renewed our sense of pur-
pose. A great tide of rejoicing washed across the land, removing past discords.
Americans felt proud—a pride some thought we had forgotten.
That feeling was summed up in the words of one American who was inter-
viewed as he watched the fireworks at the Washington Monument last Sunday.
He said, "It gave me a feeling of how great this country is, how beautiful the
people are."
Americans realized once again what America is. From the Fourth of July
weekend, I felt a new optimism, a new era of good feeling in America. And as
I watched the television and heard the radio and read the newspapers, not just
in the places I visited but everywhere in this country, the same feeling prevailed.
The pageantry and the fireworks did not create those feelings, they merely pro-
vided the spark for a spirit that was always there waiting to be rekindled. It
blazed across the country on the Fourth of July, and every American felt it.
The day has gone, but the spirit remains. While it still burns brightly, while it
is still there, let's do something about it. We've got plenty to do.
In our third century, we must increase the freedom and the opportunity for all
Americans. We must conquer disease, unlock the secrets of the Earth and the
universe, make our people secure in their jobs, on their streets, and in a peaceful
world.
Local activities and service programs are one way to focus our national en-
ergy on these great challenges.
The National Exchange Clubs have fostered such activities for over 65 years.
Your projects are of national importance, and they are selected and carried out
by local people sensitive to the special needs of the individual communities.
2007
