[973]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
the
peace in the world. And may I say with great emphasis, not a single young
American is fighting or dying on foreign soil today, and we are proud of it.
After so many years where the defense of this country was shortchanged by the
Congress, I proposed the two largest defense appropriations in the history of
the United States. And I convinced the Congress in this last year that it was
good policy, that it was necessary, so that when the United States meets any
challenge in negotiation or otherwise, we have the capability, we have the
wherewithal so that the United States is number one. It is today, and we are
going to keep it that way.
After so many years of runaway inflation, let me say that we have made sig-
nificant progress. We have reduced the rate of inflation from over 12 percent to
less than 6 percent. And I pledge to you in the next 4 years, we are going to do
better and we are really going to win the battle against inflation in this
government.
After so many years of runaway growth in Federal spending, I submitted
a budget last January that cut the rate of growth in Federal spending by over
50 percent. I held the line on Government spending with 66 vetoes and saved
you, the hard-pressed taxpayers of this country, about $9 billion-plus, which
means for each family, a $200 saving in Federal spending. And that is progress.
Because I haven't been afraid to say no to those who want to spend and
spend, it will be possible for me to submit in 1978 a balanced Federal budget.
And we will have another tax reduction at the same time.
I think you in the great State of New Jersey know how risky it is when a
candidate says one thing on the campaign trail and then does something else
when he gets in public office in reference to taxes. You learned what is is like
when a candidate faces the voters with a promise and then turns his back on
them after the election and after the inauguration. You will learn with every
dollar that you pay for your State income tax here in the State of New Jersey.
There's a good alternative to that kind of political acrobatics. You know where
I stand. I am for the little taxpayer and I am against the big tax spender.
My idea of tax reform is tax reduction. I proposed last year, an increase in
the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. What does that mean for a family
of five-three children, husband, and wife? If Congress had had the wisdom to
go along with it, you, as taxpayers next April, would have been able to sit down
when you make out that return, and the family of five would have been able to
have a $1,250 increase in your personal exemption.
Now, Congress wasn't smart enough to do anything about it. But let me tell
you, I am going to submit that to the Congress next year. And if they don't do it
11
2722
