[972]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, why is it that you only made a strong statement about the
Nixon administration in response to a question-you never made that on your
own—about the imperial White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was asked last night the difference between the
Ford administration and the Nixon administration, and I made the very
accurate comment that the Ford administration is not an imperial Presidency.
We don't have the ceremony and the pomp and the dictatorial attitude. As a
matter of fact, I have significantly reduced the power and authority of the
White House staff, and we have turned decisionmaking over to responsible
people like the Secretary of Transportation, Bill Coleman, to the Attorney
General, to the Secretary of HUD.
The White House performs the function that was set up in the Constitution.
And we believe that an imperial Presidency is not in conformity with my own
personal ideas, nor is it in conformity with what I think our Founding Fathers
believed.
Q. Mr. President, in your last comment on the question of the Patman
investigation,¹ you said that you had been cleared by the committees and
the Attorney General. Now, it turns out that the Attorney General made the
most cursory examination—he didn't even talk to Mr. Timmons.² Can you
comment on that?
The President. I have full faith in the total integrity of the Attorney General,
Mr. Edward Levi, and his decision, I think, fully and completely ends that
matter.
Q. Do you think the case is closed on that, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I have full confidence in the Attorney General. He is a man
of great integrity. I think he has done a good job, and I am sure the decision he
made is the right one.
Q. Mr. President, as it stands right now, Eugene McCarthy will be on the
New York State ballot next Tuesday. If this decision is made final, how will
this affect the fight for New York State's 41 electoral votes?
THE PRESIDENT. I am really not the best judge of that. Eugene McCarthy is a
very fine person. I have known him ever since both he and I took the oath of
office on January 3, 1949. We came to the Congress simultaneously. Gene Mc-
Carthy has made a very excellent record in the House of Representatives and in
the Senate. He ought to be on the ballot under State law where it is permitted,
¹U.S. Representative Wright Patman of Texas was Chairman of the House Banking, Currency, and
Housing Committee, which investigated the Watergate break-in.
2 William E. Timmons, Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs 1973-74.
2720
