[790]
September 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
extremely helpful and beneficial. Let me just tick off a few things that we have
done that I think reflects sound leadership as the President of the United States.
First, we submitted to the Congress, in January of this year, the largest mili-
tary budget in the history of the United States in order to maintain our national
security. For the last 10 years, under several Presidents, the Congress has tradi-
tionally slashed the defense budget by anywheres from $3 billion to $8 billion a
year, and over a 10-year period, the accumulated total was $50 billion.
I am glad to report to you, because we showed the kind of leadership that I
think is needed and necessary, the Congress, this year, has made very minor
reductions in the appropriations for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine
Corps. The net result is we have achieved real success in getting the Congress
to recognize that when a President submits a military budget, he means it, and
it is necessary and essential for the national security of this country. And we
can say with pride, “We did it."
And if I might, I would like to add another thing. Fortunately, this country
is at peace. We are not drafting any young men today to participate in the
Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps. We have an all-volunteer military
force, and I am proud of it. But with this kind of leadership in the military,
and with, I think, our military strength overall and our diplomatic skill, we
not only have the peace but the capability to keep it.
And let me add one other comment, if I might. What is more moral in foreign
policy than to have peace with freedom and security.
Finally, I have nothing but great memories of my experience as a Jaycee. I
think this 16th seminar that you are having here is the kind of organizational
programming that is essential for Jaycees throughout the country to see what
your Government is doing, and why.
And probably within a relatively few years, one of you, or maybe more than
one of you, will have an opportunity to participate either in the judicial branch
or the legislative branch or the executive branch. It's a great experience, a wonder-
ful challenge, and I urge each and every one of you to participate in some way,
in a meaningful way, in our Government at the Federal level.
One final comment. Rumor tells me that you had a poll among all of you.
[Laughter] I just hope that the poll, I understand, which reflects your views, will
be indicative of what will happen November 2.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
2266
