[1071]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
International Trade
Although the recession and large balance of payments deficits of the oil con-
suming countries led several of them to move in the direction of new restrictive
trade policies, on the whole, considerable success has been achieved in main-
taining an open world trading system. The growth of world trade resumed in
1976, following a decline in 1975-the first since World War II.
On January 1, the United States joined other developed countries in establish-
ing a Generalized System of Preferences for imports from developing nations.
These preferences apply to more than 2,700 tariff items, giving duty-free access
to the U.S. market to qualified developing countries and affording these nations
the opportunity to diversify their exports and to increase their export income.
The Multilateral Trade Negotiations in Geneva, among more than ninety
nations, made progress in several areas. The United States proposed a formula
for cutting tariffs, and a number of other measures covering tropical products
from developing countries, import safeguards, and quantitative restrictions. Con-
siderable progress was made on a product standard code, and work was started
on improving the GATT framework for international trade and on a code for
government procurement.
This international cooperation in furtherance of open trade was comple-
mented by U.S. action in resolving several domestic complaints of trade injury.
The responsible actions of this country strengthened the resolve of our trading
partners to resist pressures for import restrictions, thus contributing to brighter
prospects for U.S. exports and to an orderly and open international trading
system.
Commodities and Raw Materials
Major developments in the international commodity area during 1976 included
an agreement to expand the IMF Compensatory Finance Facility; adoption by
the UNCTAD IV Conference of a comprehensive commodities resolution; con-
tinued commodity policy discussions at the Conference on International Eco-
nomic Cooperation; and efforts to renew the coffee, tin, and cocoa commodity
agreements.
The United States strongly supported expansion of the IMF Compensatory
Finance Facility, designed to help countries to stabilize their export earnings.
In addition, at the UNCTAD IV Conference, the United States proposed the
creation of a new International Resources Bank to promote production of raw
materials in the developing nations by facilitating investment flows into these
countries.
2956
