September 2
[752]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In its decision, the Court stated that either the Congress or the President might
issue a broad prohibition against the employment of aliens in the civil service,
but held that neither the Congress nor the President had mandated the general
prohibition contained in the regulations of the Commission.
I have concluded that it is in the national interest to preserve the long-standing
policy of generally prohibiting the employment of aliens from positions in the
competitive service, except where the efficiency of the service or the national
interest dictate otherwise in specific cases or circumstances. It is also my judg-
ment that it would be detrimental to the efficiency of the civil service, as well
as contrary to the national interest, precipitously to employ aliens in the com-
petitive service without an appropriate determination that it is in the national
interest to do so. Therefore, I am issuing an Executive order [11935] which
generally prohibits the employment of aliens in the competitive service.
The rights of citizens and aliens are affected by existing statutes which often
discriminate between citizens and categories of aliens with respect to various
rights, duties, and benefits. Those statutes pertaining to the Federal employment
of aliens further discriminate as to specific jobs, agencies, or the nationality of
aliens. I am also aware that many members of the Congress have recently
sponsored legislation which would categorically prohibit the Federal employ-
ment of aliens, a broader prohibition than the various existing statutory re-
strictions of the limitations which I have mandated.
In this regard, I am mindful that the Congress has the primary responsibility
with respect to the admission of aliens into, and the regulation of the conduct
of aliens within, the United States.
While I am exercising the constitutional and statutory authority vested in
me as President, a recognition of the specific constitutional authority vested in
the Congress prompts me to urge that the Congress promptly address these
issues.
Because of the seriousness of the questions raised by the decision of the
Supreme Court, I am directing that a copy of this communication be published
in the Federal Register, along with the Executive order I am issuing. A copy of
that order is enclosed.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
GERALD R. FORD
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
A copy of this letter is printed in the Federal
Register of September 3, 1976 (41 FR 37301).
2201
