October 15
[902]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
901
Statement on Signing Legislation Establishing an Office of the
Inspector General Within the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare. October 15, 1976
I HAVE approved H.R. 11347, a bill that would establish within the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare, an Office of the Inspector General to conduct
and supervise audits and investigations relating to the programs and operations
of the Department.
Secretary Mathews and I share the concern of the Congress and of the Ameri-
can people for the honest and efficient conduct of government programs. Prior
to the passage of this legislation, the Secretary had moved to establish a central-
ized investigative arm within his own office to give effect to this concern. The
new law will now enable me to appoint an Inspector General for the Department.
Under the Secretary's supervision, the Inspector General will lead the De-
partment's investigative activities. He will keep the Secretary and the Congress
appropriately informed on the necessity and progress of action needed to cor-
rect program abuse or assure the economical and efficient management of the
Department's programs.
In implementing this law, I want to emphasize my complete agreement with
the intent of the Congress, as expressed in the bill, that the Inspector General
and his Deputy be appointed solely on the basis of integrity and demonstrated
ability, without regard to political affiliation.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11347, approved October 15, 1976, is Public Law 94-505 (90 Stat. 2429).
902
Letter to the President of the International Olympic
Committee on the 1980 Winter Olympics.
October 15, 1976
Dear Lord Killanin:
The Olympic Games are a major symbol of international goodwill and uni-
versal hopes for world peace. Throughout their modern history, however, the
Olympics have been periodically threatened by narrow political interests. Recent
events portend another era of peril for the Olympic movement.
I assure you that the United States does not condone this abuse of the Olympic
2537
