[869]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me take just a minute to thank you for your Texas hospitality and heart-
warming welcome. I wasn't surprised—I have been here before; it's always
great. But it's wonderful to be among Americans who are just born friendly
and hospitable.
Texans are born patriotic, also. I first got to know a great deal about Texans
when I was, of all places, in the middle of the Pacific. In that war America's sur-
vival and the fate of freedom in the world were in the steady hands of great
Texans and great Americans like Chester Nimitz¹ and Dwight D. Eisenhower.
The Texans that I knew personally on the ship which I served had the same high
caliber of character. On our carrier, we not only had plenty of native Texans
but a lot of men who trained here in the State of Texas and are probably Texans
now. We did everything on that ship except fly the Lone Star battle flag.
When I first went to Congress, I learned the ropes from legislative giants like
Mr. Sam Rayburn and Lyndon Johnson. I made good friends like George
Mahon, George Bush, John Tower, and Tiger Teague, among others from your
great State.
What always impressed me the most was the way Texans put their country
above their political party when America's fundamental interests were at stake.
I saw them time and again rally around the President, whoever he might be,
when he was dealing in the high stakes of peace and war.
The corroboration and support that Speaker Sam Rayburn and Senator Lyn-
don Johnson gave to President Eisenhower when he was Commander in Chief
became my example when President Johnson faced those same tough calls on
foreign policy and national security. And although we had our differences, Lyn-
don Johnson never distorted the truth when discussing the tough issues affect-
ing America's strength.
In the coming weeks and future years, I really hope that this bipartisan tradi-
tion of responsibility and unity beyond the water's edge can survive in Ameri-
can politics. It's an important part of our national strength, as Texans taught
me.
You never heard a Texan tell the world our country is not strong anymore.
You never heard a Texan proclaim that America is not respected anymore.
You never heard a Texan allege that the American people have lost their pride
in America's strength and its moral integrity.
It isn't only the “eyes of Texas" that are upon us. The eyes of the whole
world are on the United States of America this year, not just for the Fourth of
1 Commander in Chief of the U.S. Pacific Fleet 1941-45 and Chief of Naval Operations 1945-47.
!
2472
