October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
recession in the last 40 years; we were still deeply involved in the problems of
Vietnam; the American people had lost faith and trust and confidence in the
Presidency itself. That situation called for me to first put the United States on a
steady course and to keep our keel well-balanced, because we had to face the diffi-
cult problems that had all of a sudden hit America.
I think most people know that I did not seek the Presidency, but I am asking
for your help and assistance to be President for the next 4 years. During this
campaign, we've seen a lot of television shows, a lot of bumper stickers, and a
great many slogans of one kind or another, but those are not the things that
count. What counts is that the United States celebrated its 200th birthday on
July 4. As a result of that wonderful experience all over the United States, there is
a new spirit in America. The American people are healed, are working together.
The American people are moving again and moving in the right direction.
We have cut inflation by better than half. We have come out of the reces-
sion, and we are well on the road to real prosperity in this country again. There
has been a restoration of faith and confidence and trust in the Presidency be-
cause I've been open, candid, and forthright. I have never promised more than
I could produce and I have produced everything that I promised. We are at
peace—not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign soil
tonight. We have peace with freedom.
I've been proud to be President of the United States during these very
troubled times. I love America just as all of you love America. It would be the
highest honor for me to have your support on November 2 and for you to say,
"Jerry Ford, you've done a good job; keep on doing it."
Thank you, and good night.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, President Ford.
Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. The major purpose of an election for President is to choose a
leader, someone who can analyze the depths of feeling in our country, to set a
standard for our people to follow, to inspire people to reach for greatness, to
correct our defects, to answer difficulties, to bind ourselves together in a spirit
of unity.
I don't believe the present administration has done that. We have been dis-
couraged and we've been alienated, sometimes we've been embarrassed, some-
times we've been ashamed. Our people are out of work, and there is a sense of
withdrawal.
But our country is innately very strong. Mr. Ford is a good and decent man,
but he has been in office now more than 800 days, approaching almost as long
2647
