October 7
[860]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a better world than we found, that government will be under our control, a
capable servant and not a meddling master.
We did not throw off the bonds of oppressive government in the 18th century
only to create one for ourselves two centuries later. The greatest danger I see in
America today is the overwhelming of the individual-you and millions like
you in this wonderful country being overwhelmed by the massive institutions
of government, business, labor, communications—yes, even education. I see
government growing too large, too powerful, too costly, too remote, too deeply
involved in our daily lives.
The mounting troubles in Great Britain, our old and honored ally, offer com-
pelling evidence that we cannot keep relying on government alone to solve all
of our problems. Faced with the greatest financial crisis in the history of British
democracy, Prime Minister Callaghan, before a recent convention of his Labor
Party, had the courage to say, and I quote him, “Britain for too long has lived
on borrowed time, borrowed money, and borrowed ideas. We will fail,” he
said, “if we think we can buy our way out of our present difficulties by printing
confetti money and paying ourselves more than we earn." That is advice that I
think in good conscience we should take. We must not let that happen in Amer-
ica now or in the future. We better avoid it; we can avoid it; and as long as I am
President of the United States, we will avoid it.
We must have a new generation of freedom in America—not the freedom to
shirk our responsibilities and to let the Government assume them, but the free-
dom to do what we want to do and what we ought to do. With the Government's
help-but not at the Government's direction—that is the kind of America that I
want. That is why I am a candidate for the Presidency of the United States and
why I come here on this wonderful campus and ask you for your help on No-
vember 2.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:37 p.m. from the
steps of Doheny Library. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Glenn Sonnenberg, student body presi-
dent, John R. Hubbard, president, J. Robert Fluor,
chairman of the board of trustees, and Houston
Flourney, chairman of the Council of Deans, Univer-
sity of Southern California.
2445
