October 21
[930]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
This report clearly shows that the plight of many older cities results from a
combination of complex and interrelated forces: not enough jobs, too many
needy and poor, crime and the fear of crime, and deteriorating housing and
property values. These basic problems, in turn, have brought about declines in
the tax base and higher costs of public services, which result in inadequate
schools, less police and fire protection, and overcrowded mass transportation. In
many cases, conflicting Federal and State programs and redtape have contrib-
uted to the plight of cities by undermining effective local political leadership.
But the conclusion of the report is optimistic. Secretary Hills and her colleagues
found that there is a dynamic spirit of self-help at work in practically all Ameri-
can cities. The people of the cities are self-reliant and eager to come to grips with
their own problems. Their leaders, for the most part, are looking for help in
developing local solutions-not for political promises of magic remedies from
Washington. The people of urban neighborhoods are taking the initiative in
solving their own problems under their own control.
Secretary Hills' report recommends ways we can better utilize the billions
of dollars the Federal Government invests in the cities each year. We will
carefully study these proposals for inclusion in my legislative proposals to the
new Congress.
Since I took office 2 years ago, my administration has followed a clear
urban policy: to provide the cities and their neighborhoods a fair share of
Federal resources and the opportunity and flexibility to solve their own problems
and manage their own growth and progress. To carry out this policy, here are
some of the things this administration has done and will continue to do:
1. General Revenue Sharing. This is the most important program of Fed-
eral assistance to local governments in American history. Since 1972, we have
returned to cities, counties, towns, communities, and States $30.2 billion to
assist the people in meeting public needs. This program has already helped
our cities immensely, and the general revenue sharing extension, which I signed
last week, will provide $25.6 billion more for these purposes over the next 334
years.
2. Community Development. Less than 2 weeks after I became President, I was
proud to sign the landmark Housing and Community Development Act of
1974. Through this act we have provided $8.6 billion in block grants to American
communities for use as they see fit in meeting their local community
development needs.
3. Housing. My goal is a home for every American family in a safe and clean
environment. To reach that goal, I will continue economic policies to hold down
2599
