[979]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Of all the differences between Mr. Carter and me, none is more important than
our differences over economic policy. These differences have a lot to do with our
contrasting views of what the fundamental role of our government should be
in the United States of America.
I was interested to read a recent summary by the National Association of Busi-
ness Economists—60 percent of those professional economists replied that a Ford
administration would be far more likely to pursue economic policies in the na-
tional interest. Only 14 percent gave such a vote of confidence to Mr. Carter.
The Ford administration in the 2 years-plus has earned the confidence of the
American people by addressing our immediate problems while maintaining
a long-term view of economic policy.
When I came to office 2 years ago, the economy was suffering the most disas-
trous consequences of many years of short-term and shortsighted policies. We
had experienced budget deficits in 14 of the last 15 years. Wage and price con-
trols-they burdened us with a tax structure which did not encourage sufficient
capital formation. We all remember what the consequences were. Inflation was
growing, confidence was shrinking among consumers and among businessmen,
and our economy was in the early stages of the worst recession in 40 years.
I don't mind admitting I faced considerable pressure from the Congress and
elsewhere to try the same old short-term solutions. They sounded good on paper
but, believe me, in the 25 years that I have been in Congress and seen us go
through the same experiences, I knew deep in my heart that that was not the
road to travel.
The economic downturn, as you will recall, set off a clamor for huge emer-
gency Federal subsidies for more and bigger Federal programs and higher deficit
spending. I rejected this policy of panic and, I think, we were right.
Instead, I chose policies designed to build long-term, sustained economic
growth without inflation. Instead of trying to buy our way out of the recession
by throwing open the doors of the Federal Treasury, we took steps to revitalize
American business and American industry. The result has been a recovery built
on a very solid base. We've cut inflation by more than half. From the frightening
annual rate of over 12 percent, our latest monthly figures show it running at 4.8
percent. That's real progress.
Equally important, my administration is putting America back to work. Since
the recession low of March 1975, total employment has increased by nearly 4
million people. We have more Americans working today than ever before in the
history of the United States, nearly 88 million.
Unemployment is still too high. Let me point out, however, that its failure to
2746
