October 29
[988]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ernment can serve as a model for law enforcement efforts at the State and local
level. My administration is setting a good example.
First, I have proposed a comprehensive revision of the Federal Criminal Code
to replace the overlapping, contradictory, and outdated statutes now on the
books.
Second, I have proposed strict, automatic prison sentences for those convicted
of such Federal crimes as hijacking and kidnaping and for those who use a
gun or other dangerous weapon in the commission of a crime.
Third, I have proposed unprecedented funding for the Federal Government's
Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, which provides equipment and
training for local police officers.
Fourth, I have proposed tougher laws against drug pushers, for example, per-
mitting judges to deny bail for defendants with a prior criminal record and
imposing mandatory sentences for convicted pushers.
Fifth, I have proposed increasing the number of Federal judges to relieve the
crowding of court dockets and to reduce the delay in bringing criminal cases to
trial.
Sixth, I have recommended four new Federal prisons to relieve overcrowded
or inhumane conditions in our penal system and to give judges no reason to
keep convicted criminals out of jail.
Seventh, I have initiated a career criminal program in 12 key cities through-
out America, and it will be 100 cities by 1978. This program, which began last
year, identifies habitual criminals, sets up special prosecution procedures, and
in 95 percent of the cases, results in conviction and in prison sentences that
average more than 20 years.
We have also established a Public Integrity Section within the Justice Depart-
ment to discover and prosecute official corruption. Furthermore, my administra-
tion is now devoting more resources to combat white collar crime than any other
administration in history.
Most important, I have asked for a new, active spirit of cooperation from you,
the American people, to help us defeat our common enemy-crime.
I have promised America a new generation of freedom: the freedom to walk
the streets in safety, to be secure in our homes and neighborhoods, to trust the
honesty and integrity of public officials.
On July 4 we celebrated the first 200 years of America's history. On Novem-
ber 2, with your help, we will begin a new generation of freedom for all
Americans.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded for
later broadcast over the Mutual Radio Network.
The text of the address was released at Cleveland,
Ohio.
2779
