September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
now. In rebuttal to Governor Carter a little bit earlier, you said that if there
were to be any surplus in the next few years, you thought it should be turned
back to the people in the form of tax relief. So, how are you going to pay for
any new initiatives in these areas you announced at Vail you were going to
now stress?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the last 2 years, as I indicated before, we had a very
tough time. We were faced with heavy inflation—over 12 percent; we were
faced with substantial unemployment. But in the last 24 months we've turned
the economy around, and we've brought inflation down to under 6 percent. And
we have added employment of about 4 million in the last 17 months to the
point where we have 88 million people working in America today, the most
in the history of the country. The net result is we are going to have some im-
provement in our receipts, and I think we will have some decrease in our dis-
bursements. We expect to have a lower deficit in fiscal year 1978.
We feel that with this improvement in the economy, we feel with more
receipts and fewer disbursements, we can, in a moderate way, increase, as I
recommended, over the next 10 years a new parks program that would cost
a billion and a half dollars, doubling our national park system.
We have recommended that in the housing program we can reduce down
payments and moderate monthly payments. But that doesn't cost any more as
far as the Federal Treasury is concerned.
We believe that we can do a better job in the area of crime, but that requires
tougher sentencing-mandatory, certain prison sentences for those who violate
our criminal laws. We believe that you can revise the Federal Criminal Code,
which has not been revised in a good many years. That doesn't cost any more
money. We believe that you can do something more effectively with a moderate
increase in money in the drug abuse program.
We feel that in education we can have a slight increase, not a major increase.
It's my understanding that Governor Carter has indicated that he approves of
a $30 billion expenditure by the Federal Government, as far as education is
concerned. At the present time we are spending roughly $3,500 million. I don't
know where that money would come from.
But, as we look at the quality of life programs-jobs, health, education, crime,
recreation-we feel that as we move forward with a healthier economy, we can
absorb the small, necessary costs that will be required.
Ms. DREW. But, sir, in the next few years would you try to reduce the deficit,
would you spend money for these programs that you have just outlined, or
2295
