[776]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
the power of the Congress over the detailed execution of the laws at the expense
of the President's authority."
At my urging, the Congress has reconsidered and excluded this type of
pro-
vision from the present bill. I commend the Congress for its more responsible
action in deleting the objectionable provision.
Due to the great national loss caused by fires, both in terms of human lives
and property, and because of the challenge of improving fire prevention and
control, I am happy to sign this bill which permits the important government
fire prevention and control effort to continue. With passage of this bill, the Na-
tional Fire Prevention and Control Administration will now have authority
through fiscal year 1978 to carry out its important work of coordinating pro-
grams of fire prevention and control. The Fire Research Center can now con-
tinue to conduct the needed basic and applied research into the fundamental
problems of fire prevention and control.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2862, approved September 13, 1976, is Public Law 94-411 (90 Stat. 1254).
777
Veto of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research,
Development and Demonstration Bill.
To the House of Representatives:
September 13, 1976
I am returning, without my approval, H.R. 8800, the "Electric and Hybrid
Vehicle Research, Development and Demonstration Act of 1976.”
This bill would establish a five-year, $160 million research, development and
demonstration project within the Energy Research and Development Adminis-
tration (ERDA) to promote the development of an electric vehicle that could
function as a practical alternative to the gasoline-powered automobile. One of
the major objectives of the project would be the development and purchase by
the Federal government of some 7,500 demonstration electric vehicles. Such de-
velopment would cover some of the areas private industry stands ready to pursue.
It is well documented that technological breakthroughs in battery research
are necessary before the electric vehicle can become a viable option. It is simply
premature and wasteful for the Federal government to engage in a massive
demonstration program—such as that intended by the bill—before the required
improvements in batteries for such vehicles are developed.
ERDA already has adequate authority under the Energy Reorganization Act
of 1974 and the Federal Non-nuclear Energy Research and Development Act of
2240
