October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
go in until right before the election, similar to what was taking place in 1972,
when Mr. Kissinger announced peace is at hand just before the election at that
time.
And we have weakened our position in NATO, because the other countries
in Europe supported the democratic forces in Portugal long before we did. We
stuck to the Portugal dictatorships much longer than other democracies did
in this world.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Valeriani, a question for Governor Carter.
MR. VALERIANI. Governor Carter, much of what the United States does
abroad is done in the name of the national interest. What is your concept of the
national interest? What should the role of the United States in the world be?
And in that connection, considering your limited experience in foreign affairs
and the fact that you take some pride in being a Washington outsider, don't
you think it would be appropriate for you to tell the American voters, before
the election, the people that you would like to have in key positions such as
Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense, national security affairs adviser at the
White House?
MR. CARTER. Well, I'm not going to name my Cabinet before I get elected;
I've got a little ways to go before I start doing that. But I have an adequate
background, I believe. I am a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, the first
military graduate since Eisenhower. I've served as Governor of Georgia and
have traveled extensively in foreign countries-in South America, Central Amer-
ica, Europe, the Middle East, and in Japan.
I've traveled the last 21 months among the people of this country. I've talked
to them, and I've listened. And I've seen at firsthand, in a very vivid way, the
deep hurt that's come to this country in the aftermath of Vietnam and Cam-
bodia and Chile and Pakistan and Angola and Watergate, CIA revelations.
What we were formerly so proud of—the strength of our country, its moral
integrity, the representation in foreign affairs of what our people are, what
our Constitution stands for—has been gone. And in the secrecy that has
surrounded our foreign policy in the last few years, the American people and
the Congress have been excluded.
I believe I know what this country ought to be. I've been one who's loved
my Nation, as many Americans do. And I believe that there is no limit placed
on what we can be in the future if we can harness the tremendous resources-
militarily, economically—and the stature of our people, the meaning of our
Constitution in the future.
Every time we've made a serious mistake in foreign affairs, it's been because
2413
