September 25
[812]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And Betty and I thank all of you for coming out on a Saturday afternoon
to give us a wonderful Louisiana welcome, and we're deeply grateful for your
hospitality and the friendship and the warmth of your welcome.
But let me talk for just a minute, if I might, about why you and myself and
millions and millions and millions of other Americans should be together on
November 2.
In the first place, we believe that the Federal Government is spending much
too much of your tax dollars that you have worked so hard to earn. As your
President for the last 2 years, I have imposed restraints on the expenditures
from the Federal budget. We cut 50 percent in the rate of growth of Federal
spending, and we would have done far better if we had had a cooperative
Congress.
As many of you know, I vetoed 56 [58] spending bills by the Congress; 42
of them have been sustained by a combination of good Republicans and
sound Democrats. And the net result is, we have saved $9 billion of your tax
dollars that you worked so hard to earn.
Let me add just a footnote: We might have sustained another veto or two if
we had gotten any cooperation from Senator Fritz Mondale, who wants to
be Vice President. Let me tell you a secret: He has voted to override every
veto that I have sent back to Congress. Do you want him as your Vice
President?
But let's talk about taxes. A few months ago I sent to the Congress a proposal
to cut your Federal income taxes by $28 billion, which would mean, as an
example, that when you file your income tax return next April, instead of
having a personal exemption of $750, under the President Ford proposal you
would have had $1,000 personal exemption. Isn't that what you want? And
if you have a family of four, you could have an additional $1,000 personal ex-
emption. That's the kind of tax reform that this administration is for, and we
are going to get it. If we don't this year, we're going to get it next year.
I know of the great historical tradition of the people of Louisiana. You be-
lieve in a strong national defense. You believe that the United States must be
number one in the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines. Since I've
been President, I have submitted to the Congress the two largest military
budgets in the history of this country, in either peacetime or war. And let me
say, as long as I am President, this country is going to have a military capa-
bility second to none. We are going to be number one and stay there.
On the Fourth of July, this country had a tremendous 200th birthday anni-
versary. From Alaska to Florida, from Maine to California, from Louisiana to
2327
