[1057]
January 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
I asked for your prayers and went to work.
In January 1975 I reported to the Congress that the state of the Union was
not good. I proposed urgent action to improve the economy and to achieve
energy independence in 10 years. I reassured America's allies and sought to re-
duce the danger of confrontation with potential adversaries. I pledged a new
direction for America. 1975 was a year of difficult decisions, but Americans
responded with realism, common sense, and self-discipline.
By January 1976 we were headed in a new direction, which I hold to be the
right direction for a free society. It was guided by the belief that successful
problemsolving requires more than Federal action alone, that it involves a full
partnership among all branches and all levels of government and public policies
which nurture and promote the creative energies of private enterprises, institu-
tions, and individual citizens.
A year ago I reported that the state of the Union was better-in many ways
a lot better—but still not good enough. Common sense told me to stick to the
steady course we were on, to continue to restrain the inflationary growth of
government, to reduce taxes as well as spending, to return local decisions to local
officials, to provide for long-range sufficiency in energy and national security
needs. I resisted the immense pressures of an election year to open the floodgates
of Federal money and the temptation to promise more than I could deliver. I
told it as it was to the American people and demonstrated to the world that
in our spirited political competition, as in this chamber, Americans can disagree
without being disagreeable.
Now, after 30 months as your President, I can say that while we still have a
way to go, I am proud of the long way we have come together.
I am proud of the part I have had in rebuilding confidence in the Presidency,
confidence in our free system, and confidence in our future. Once again, Ameri-
cans believe in themselves, in their leaders, and in the promise that tomorrow
holds for their children.
I am proud that today America is at peace. None of our sons are fighting and
dying in battle anywhere in the world. And the chance for peace among all
nations is improved by our determination to honor our vital commitments in
defense of peace and freedom.
I am proud that the United States has strong defenses, strong alliances, and
a sound and courageous foreign policy.
Our alliances with major partners, the great industrial democracies of Western
Europe, Japan, and Canada, have never been more solid. Consultations on
mutual security, defense, and East-West relations have grown closer. Collabora-
2918
