[981]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Bud Brown, Bill Harsha, Gene Snyder, Doc Carter. Well, there is one special
person, too, a former Senator, just resigned as our Ambassador to East Germany,
John Sherman Cooper.
Well, it is just great to be here in Cincinnati, the home of the Big Red
Machine. You didn't concede a single game in the World Series, and we won't
concede a single State or a single vote on November 2.
A few days ago, I understand you had a pretty big celebration here on
behalf of the Reds,ยน and I would, too-back-to-back world champions. Boy,
what a record.
And I am very, very proud to have some of the men here who made that
championship possible. We have Ted Kluszewski. You know, I know something
about Ted. He not only helped the big bats break loose in that World Series
but what a hitter Ted was in his own day. And then Ken Griffey. I have been
trying to run as fast as Ken does when he goes for first base. Then, Pete Rose.
Pete, who plays baseball like that great American spirit: Give us a chance and
we will get there ahead of everybody, period.
But there is another baseball friend of all of yours and a great friend of mine
who is here. He had a little color that he added to the World Series, a great
friend of mine who has been campaigning with me, Joe Garagiola.
But, you know, it is also a great honor and privilege for me to be here on this
platform with some of the great athletes that represent Cincinnati so well, the
champions of some of the sports in our Olympics, the Bengals, the Cincinnati
Stingers. I thank them all for being here and wish them all the very, very best.
But let me extend to all of you a special invitation. On January 20, a pretty
significant day, I invite every single one of you to come to Washington and par-
ticipate in the Jerry Ford-Bob Dole inauguration.
Johnny Grant came in from California. He handled a great rally like this in
Orange County, and thank you, Johnny, very much.
As I said, Jim Rhodes has been a loyal friend, a great Governor, and I want
to express my deep appreciation to him for the job he has done for you, but also
for the help and assistance that he has given me. Thanks very much, Jim.
We are at the countdown, fellows. We are at the countdown where it makes
a difference for all the men and women, the young and the old. On Novem-
ber 2, some big decisions are going to be made.
But let me point out to you, today America is at peace. No American is fight-
ing or dying on any foreign soil, and we are going to keep it that way. Your
lives are not being threatened by war or interrupted by the draft. I have spent
ยน Cincinnati Reds professional baseball team.
2752
