November 1
[1011]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sion. He may not be remembered by the younger, but by some of us he was
a super guy.
of
So, either educationally or athletically, you are number one, we are proud
you,
and I am indebted to all of you for making it possible for my name to
be identified with this great institution and this wonderful facility.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 p.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Phillip E. Run-
kel, superintendent of schools for Grand Rapids,
and Richard Godfrey, president of the Grand
Rapids Junior College Faculty Association.
1011
Remarks on the Eve of the Presidential Election.
November 1, 1976
[Recorded October 30, 1976. Released November 1, 1976]
TOMORROW is a very crucial election. But tonight America is strong, Amer-
ica is free, America is on the move. But 2 years ago America was in deep
trouble. When I became President, inflation was over 12 percent. We were on
the brink of a serious recession, the worst in 40 years. There had been a loss
of trust in the White House itself. We were still involved in Vietnam.
When I took the oath of office in August of 1974, I said I had not been
elected by your ballots, but I asked that you confirm me by your prayers. Those
prayers really helped.
In the meantime America has turned around. I put the ship of state on an
even keel. I held a firm hand on the tiller for a steady course. Today we are
doing much, much better. The rate of inflation has been cut by more than 50
percent. The job picture is getting better. We have added 4 million more jobs
in the last 18 months. Eighty-eight million people are working today. We
have restored confidence and trust in the White House itself, and America
is at peace. Not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign
soil tonight, and I will keep it that way for the next 4 years.
We have two major problems: One, to keep America strong, to meet the
challenge of any adversary, to strengthen our alliances. And I pledge to you
that the United States will remain number one. Our Army, Navy, Air Force,
and Marines will be the best, as they are today. Some people have wanted to
cut the defense budget. That would be a big gamble. I believe that the way to
2839
