July 16
[670]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
you know of my personal concern for the needs of Indians and Native Ameri-
cans. The Federal Government has a very unique relationship with you and
your people. It is a relationship of a legal trust and a high moral responsibility.
That relationship is rooted deep in history, but it is fed today by our concern
that the Indian people should enjoy the same opportunities as other Americans,
while maintaining the culture and the traditions that you rightly prize as your
heritage.
That heritage is an important part of the American culture that we are
celebrating in this great country in our Bicentennial Year. Your contribution
has been both material and spiritual. Your ancestors introduced settlers not
only to new foods and new plants but to Indian ways of life and Indian values
which they absorbed. This is a year for all of us to realize what a great debt
we individually and collectively owe to the American Indians.
Today you are concerned about such serious problems as poverty, unemploy-
ment, crime, poor health, and unsuitable housing on Indian reservations. I
share your concern. I am hopeful about the future and about what we can
achieve by continuing to work together.
The 1970's have brought a new era in Indian affairs. In the last century,
Federal policy has vacillated between paternalism and the threat of terminating
Federal responsibility. I am opposed to both extremes. I believe in maintaining
stable policy so that Indians and Indian leaders can plan and work confidently
for the future.
We can build on that foundation to improve the opportunities available to
American Indians and, at the same time, make it possible for you to live as
you choose within your tribal structure and in brotherhood with your fellow
citizens.
We have already begun to build. My administration is supporting the concept
of allowing Indian tribes to determine whether they and their members, in
addition to being under tribal jurisdiction, should be under State or Federal
civil and criminal jurisdiction. I have directed the Departments of Justice and
Interior to draft legislation which would accomplish this goal efficiently, effec-
tively, and within adequate guidelines. They have solicited the views of the
Indian community in preparing their recommendations, which I will soon
send to the Congress.
I am committed to furthering the self-determination of Indian communities
but without terminating the special relationship between the Federal Govern-
ment and the Indian people. I am strongly opposed to termination. Self-deter-
mination means that you can decide the nature of your tribe's relationship
2021
