December 15
[1029]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the Administrator of General Services, I accept on
behalf of the United States of America the deposit
of your papers and other historical materials and the
conveyance of your rights, title, and interest therein
as stated in your letter of December 13, 1976, to be
administered in accordance with restrictions as to
their use specified in your letter and its accompany-
ing annexes; and I am prepared to maintain and
operate the archives and museum in facilities that
may later be offered to the United States subject to
the consummation of all legal requirements of the
above-cited statute.
JAMES B. RHOADS
Archivist of the United States
December 14, 1976
To the Honorable Gerald R. Ford:
On behalf of the Regents of The University of
Michigan and subject to ratification by the Regents
of The University of Michigan, I accept the execu-
tory interest and other benefits inuring to the Uni-
versity as stated in your letter of December 13, 1976,
for the uses and purposes and subject to the terms
and restrictions as stated, with the understanding
that the University will use its best efforts to raise
the necessary funds for, and to accomplish the design.
and construction of, the contemplated archival
facility.
R. W. FLEMING
1029
Statement on Actions To Provide Emergency Livestock Feed
Assistance in the Midwest. December 15, 1976
THIS PAST summer and fall several States-primarily in the Midwest-
suffered a severe drought which caused major reductions in the amount of feed
grains produced and available for livestock feeding. Because our livestock pro-
ducers had been adversely affected, the Department of Agriculture took steps to
provide drought-stricken farmers with oats from the Commodity Credit Corpor-
ation reserve stocks under its Emergency Livestock Feed Program. However,
the stocks reserved by the Corporation for emergency livestock feed have now
been exhausted, and no further orders for emergency livestock feed are being
processed by the Department of Agriculture.
Because this situation poses an immediate and serious threat to a major seg-
ment of our national livestock industry, I have today directed the Secretary of
Agriculture and the Administrator of the Federal Disaster Assistance Adminis-
tration (FDAA) to cooperate in providing emergency livestock feed assist-
ance payments to protect our threatened livestock. This assistance program will
be administered by USDA and funded by FDAA. This action, which I am tak-
ing today pursuant to my authority under the PL 93-288 grant assistance pro-
gram, will assist livestock producers to make emergency purchases of feed
grains and hay. Initially, this assistance will be provided to producers in South
Dakota, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, whose Governors have already requested
the assistance, but it is expected that additional States where I have declared
emergencies during 1976 due to the drought may become eligible for assist-
ance. As a result of today's action, I am confident that our threatened livestock
will be protected until next summer, when new grain crops become available.
2871
