[736]
August 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
and advanced ICBM technology funds needed to identify the most cost-effective
option for full-scale development.
• $136 million for the F-16 fighter aircraft, to provide full funding for 1977
in accordance with sound budgetary principles. Since Congress approved the
full program, this cut is illusory and would serve only to complicate manage-
ment and make potential foreign buyers less confident of this program.
• $122 million for the Army research and development appropriation to
cover urgent programs such as the Stinger missile, where the Authorization
Act would impair the development effort for an improved target-seeking tech-
nique. This effort is critical to achieving the needed improvements over the
current Redeye missile.
• $211 million for the Navy research and development appropriation to
provide what is needed for several essential programs, in particular the Navy
cruise missile program. The Authorization Act would prevent our moving
forward at the pace needed to assure that sub and surface launch options can be
operational by 1980.
$66 million for production of the US-3A carrier delivery aircraft, necessary
to replace aging aircraft and to provide the necessary numbers of aircraft with
sufficient operating range to support our carrier forces. The Authorization Act
does not meet our military needs, and would provide an uneconomical produc-
tion rate.
• $15 million for the MK-30 mobile target, critically needed for anti-sub-
marine warfare training.
Programs Added by Congress
While the Congress disapproved several programs which are essential to our
national security, $1.1 billion was added to the budget request for items for
which I did not request funds for 1977. Although I continue to believe that all
of these programs are unnecessary at the present time, I specifically urge the
Congress to delete $584 million for the following programs:
• Conversion of the cruiser Long Beach ($371 million) which can readily
be postponed.
• Repair and modernization of the cruiser Belknap ($213 million) damaged
in a collision, for which funds should be authorized in the Transition Quarter
as I have requested.
I proposed that Congress authorize funds for repair of the Belknap in the
current transition quarter, and delete the funds for the Long Beach, which is of
lower priority than the conventionally powered Aegis destroyer and the Strike
2170
