[742]
August 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. That isn't so at all.
Q. Then you don't view him as a loser?
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Of course I don't view him as a loser. I think, you know,
I am a fellow that understands these gaps. When I announced for Governor of
Texas in 1962, the polls indicated that I had 4 percent. So, when you talk about
closing the 10-percent gap, that is no hill for a stepper. [Laughter]
One thing, if I may. Let me impose on you and ask for your indulgence for
one moment longer.
Mr. Ray Hutchison, the chairman of the Republican Party in Texas, Sena-
tor Tower, some of the top people who were very strongly in support of Gov-
ernor Reagan, and I have extended an invitation officially through the chairman,
Mr. Ray Hutchison, to the Vice President (Senator Dole) to come to Texas
on September 10 and 11 to appear at a rally in Austin, Texas, a giant Republi-
can rally the night of the 10th, and speak to the State Convention the morning
of the 11th. He has kindly consented to do so. We are delighted he is, and we
hope we can show him a real welcome there.
Thank you. Thank you, Senator.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:03 a.m. at the Bass House, residence of Richard Bass, owner/operator of
Snowbird resort.
743
Remarks at Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming.
August 29, 1976
Thank you very much, Tom Kleppe, Senator Hansen, Congressman Hansen,
representatives of the Department of Interior, reverend clergy, ladies and
gentlemen:
Labor Day, next weekend, marks the end of a glorious summer. It means
one more carefree holiday before we all go back to school, back to work, back
to the duties we must do to build better lives for ourselves, our children, and
our country.
For many families it means one last chance to get out of town, out into the
sun, under the stars, close to nature's beauties and nature's creatures. For me
this is a moment that I have been looking forward to for a long, long time—to
return to Yellowstone where I spent one of the greatest summers of my life.
Being a seasonal park ranger-we used to call them 90-day wonders, maybe
2188
