[960]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
through strength, and we will live in peace and freedom in the United States
of America.
I have no fear for the future of this great country. The future for America is
a friend. And as we go forward, I promise you once more, as I promised you
before, to uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me
to see the right, and to do the very best that I can for America. God helping
me, I will not let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:46 p.m. at Pier 57.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Representa-
tive Joel Pritchard and Joe Garagiola, NBC sports
commentator.
961
Remarks at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Seattle.
October 25, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Dan Evans, Congressman Joel Pritchard,
Mr. Dolezal, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
There is no greater privilege than to honor America's Medal of Honor
recipients on Veterans Day by planting of this symbolic tree, planted here
in the Pacific Northwest, where your forests are our national pride. This tree
is symbolic of an America that stands tall for freedom. I'm determined to keep
faith with our veterans. The planting of trees will mean little if we do not
preserve the values that our heroes have saved.
One of my last official duties as Vice President, perhaps the hardest of all,
was to present posthumously 14 Congressional Medals of Honor to the parents,
the widows, and the children of America's fighting men who gave their lives
in Southeast Asia. It made me even more determined when I became President
to build the kind of an America they would have wanted for their families.
With their valor, they paid the highest price for their Nation's freedom. We
pledge to them, each in our own way, our resolve to preserve the freedom that
they made secure.
I intend to preserve peace through military strength and effective negotiation.
America's good will must never be misconstrued as a lack of will. Peace and
security require preparedness as well as dedication.
As President and as a veteran of wartime service, I am determined that
America recognize the veteran as a human being and not just a C number to be
processed by computers.
2682
