[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. GANNON. Mr. President, I'd like to return for a moment to this problem
of unemployment. You have vetoed or threatened to veto a number of jobs
bills passed or in development in the Democratic-controlled Congress. Yet,
at the same time, the Government is paying out, I think it is, $17 billion, per-
haps $20 billion, a year in unemployment compensation caused by the high
unemployment. Why do you think it is better to pay out unemployment com-
pensation to idle people than to put them to work in public service jobs?
THE PRESIDENT. The bills that I've vetoed, the one for an additional $6 bil-
lion was not a bill that would have solved our unemployment problems. Even
the proponents of it admitted that no more than 400,000 jobs would be made
available. Our analysis indicates that something in the magnitude of about
150 to 200,000 jobs would be made available. Each one of those jobs would have
cost the taxpayer $25,000. In addition, the jobs would not be available right
now; they would not have materialized for about 9 to 18 months.
The immediate problem we have is to stimulate our economy now so that
we can get rid of unemployment. What we have done is to hold the lid on
spending in an effort to reduce the rate of inflation. And we have proven, I
think very conclusively, that you can reduce the rate of inflation and increase
jobs.
For example, as I have said, we have added some 4 million jobs in the last
17 months. We have now employed 88 million people in America—the largest
number in the history of the United States. We've added 500,000 jobs in the
last 2 months.
Inflation is the quickest way to destroy jobs. And by holding the lid on Fed-
eral spending, we have been able to do a good job, an affirmative job in infla-
tion and, as a result, have added to the jobs in this country.
I think it's also appropriate to point out that through our tax policies we have
stimulated added employment throughout the country-the investment tax
credit, the tax incentives for expansion and modernization of our industrial
capacity. It's my opinion that the private sector, where five out of the six jobs
are, where you have permanent jobs with the opportunity for advancement, is a
better place than make-work jobs under the program recommended by the
Congress.
MR. GANNON. Just to follow up, Mr. President, the Congress has just passed
a $3.7 billion appropriation bill which would provide money for the public
works jobs program that you earlier tried to kill by your veto of the authoriza-
tion legislation.
In light of the fact that unemployment again is rising or has in the past 3
2300
