[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think that we will have a good result on November 2 for myself and I hope
for the country.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, your response.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the increase in the prospects as far as I am concerned
and the less favorable prospects for Governor Carter reflect that Governor
Carter is inconsistent in many of the positions that he takes. He tends to distort
on a number of occasions. Just a moment ago, for example, he was indicating
that in the 1950's, for example, unemployment was very low. He fails to point
out that in the 1950's we were engaged in the war in Vietnam—I mean in Korea.
We had 3,500,000 young men in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines. That's
not the way to end unemployment or to reduce unemployment.
At the present time, we are at peace. We have reduced the number of people in
the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines from 3,500,000 to 2,100,000. We are not
at war. We have reduced the military manpower by 1,400,000. If we had that
many more people in the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines, our unem-
ployment figure would be considerably less.
But this administration doesn't believe the way to reduce unemployment is to
go to war or to increase the number of people in the military. So, you cannot
compare unemployment, as you sought to, at the present time, with the 1950's,
because the then administration had people in the military. They were at war.
They were fighting overseas. And this administration has reduced the size of
the military by 1,400,000. They are in the civilian labor market, and they are not
fighting anywhere around the world today.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, gentlemen.
This will complete our questioning for this debate. We don't have time for
more questions and full answers. So, now each candidate will be allowed up to 4
minutes for a closing statement. And, at the original coin toss in Philadelphia
a month ago, it was determined that President Ford would make the first closing
statement tonight.
President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. For 25 years, I served in the Congress under five Presidents.
I saw them work, I saw them make very hard decisions. I didn't always agree
with their decisions, whether they were Democratic or Republican Presidents.
For the last 2 years, I've been the President, and I have found from experience
that it's much more difficult to make those decisions than it is to second guess
them.
I became President at the time that the United States was in a very troubled
time. We had inflation of over 12 percent; we were on the brink of the worst
2646
