[1025]
December 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, is it possible that perhaps what the Republican Party needs
is a lot of new blood and fresh faces, none of which were in that room?
The President. We are not kingmakers, Wally [Walter C. Rodgers, Asso-
ciated Press Radio]. We are simply deeply concerned about a political system
where you have competition. And we're not excluding anybody from the
Republican ranks who are there now or anybody who wants to join the Repub-
lican Party. So, you have to start someplace. And this seemed like a very logical
place for me to use whatever influence I have to get the ball rolling for what
we have to do between now and 1978 and 1980.
Q. Could we go back to the second part of my question, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I thought you'd forgotten it. [Laughter]
Q. About whether you and the Vice President—————
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Let me inject here that I think it's not a germane
question at this point, because I said earlier in the day, in Chicago, that I've
made a stronger statement. It's not a Shermanese statement, but it nevertheless
is a stronger statement that I see, I can see no circumstances under which I
would be available.
Q. Mr. President, did you agree among yourselves that if the RNC selects
one of these five or six individuals that you spoke of today, that that selection
would have the unanimous support of all of you?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there was a consensus that the names we discussed
would be acceptable. I also believe that we might have an individual preference,
but none of those would be unacceptable.
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned that this group would meet again. Do the
four of you see yourselves as a kind of a council of elders of the Republican
Party?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't use those words, Phil [Philip H. Jones, CBS News],
because we don't think of ourselves as elders. I think we have a lot of life left
in our political bones, and we will be using a little influence from time to time.
But it was a practical way to get leaders in the party together, and they
represent, geographically and otherwise, the Republican Party. We will work
with others, but we don't intend to be kingmakers, if that's what you mean
by elders.
Q. Mr. President, what would you envision that the four of you would do
at this next meeting, and where would that be? And do you have any idea what
you would be talking about?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will be talking about the prospective national
chairman, because the Republican National Committee meets January 14 and
2858
