[948]
October 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
have made. But more Americans were working in 1976 than ever before in the
history of this country, nearly 88 million, and that's a tremendous comeback
from where we were just 18 months ago.
After suffering a tragic betrayal of public trust 2 years ago, America has had
its faith restored in the White House. My administration has been open, candid,
forthright, and we will keep it that way during the next 4 years. As I told the
Southern Baptist Convention in Norfolk earlier this year, I firmly believe that
private morality and public service can and must go hand-in-hand, and it will
under a Ford administration.
This is only a part of my administration's record over the past 2 years. We
inherited a great many difficulties, as I said in the debate last night. But I was
honored to come and to try and serve you during this very troublesome period
in American history.
I have outlined some of the things we've done, but let me quickly tick off
some of the other things I think are accomplishments. Farm exports and farm
income are at an alltime high. A major effort is already underway to cut redtape
in the Federal bureaucracy. We are working for peace and justice in the Middle
East and throughout the world.
In every field, America is on the move. We've made an incredible come-
back in the past 2 years, and I promise you, we're not through yet.
You can believe me when I say America is strong, and we'll keep it strong,
because the American people are willing to pay the price for that kind of na-
tional security. You can believe me when I say this Nation is sound, this Nation
is secure, this Nation is on the way to a better quality of life for all Americans.
And this administration has earned the trust of the American people. My
record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises. It's a
record I'm proud to run on, a record the people of Virginia and the concerned
citizens throughout this country-Democrats, Independents, and Republicans—
will support on November 2.
Give me your mandate, and we will reduce the growth of government still
more.
Give me your mandate, and we will ensure the integrity of the social security
system. We will improve Medicare so that our older citizens can enjoy the health
and happiness that they have earned. There is no reason they should go broke
just to get well.
Give me your mandate, and we will make sure that this rich Nation does not
neglect its citizens who are less fortunate than we, but provides for their needs
with compassion and with dignity.
2652
