September 10
[769]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
created by the Court's action a Constitutional amendment that would restore
to each State the authority to enact abortion statutes which fit the concerns and
views of its own citizens. This approach is entirely in keeping with the system of
Federalism devised by the founders of our Nation. As Minority Leader of the
House of Representatives, I co-sponsored an amendment which would restore
this authority to the States, and I have consistently supported that position since
that time.
My position has been based on three fundamental convictions:
-I am against abortion on demand.
—The people of every State should have the Constitutional right to control
abortion.
-There is a need to recognize and provide for exceptional cases.
I should also point out that the Republican Platform which I support is fully
consistent with these views.
I recognize that this abortion question is a matter of deep personal and
moral conviction. Honorable people may disagree, but all of us must be con-
cerned about an increased irreverence for life within advanced societies.
Americans have benefited greatly by our rich spiritual heritage. The sound,
sensible lessons of goodness imparted by religious teachers and devoted parents
have done more than anything else to prepare our children for life.
A second issue of mutual concern is the future of non-public schools. Tradi-
tionally, those schools have made a vital contribution to our society, richly
adding to the fiber of the American experience. We are a Nation that values
competition and diversity. I believe that diversity is as important in education
as it is in politics, business, the professions, in our personal lives and in our
cultural traditions.
I know that these last few years have not been easy ones for non-public
schools. This has been a period of self-examination. I want you to know that
as President, I am totally committed to support your efforts to provide the best.
possible education for the approximately four million children enrolled in
Catholic institutions.
Earlier this year, I proposed to the Congress a block grant prograni to combine
24 existing programs for Federal assistance to elementary and secondary educa-
tion. This legislation, which would make $3.3 billion available to State and local
governments during fiscal year 1977, provides that non-public school children
will continue to be served equitably.
In all that I do as President, I will continue my dedication to freedom of edu-
cational opportunity in order to guarantee the continued high quality of the
2231
