[797]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
797
Letter to Congressional Committee Chairmen Transmitting
Report on the Status of Indochina Refugees.
September 21, 1976
IN ACCORDANCE with the provisions of the Indochina Migration and
Refugee Assistance Act of 1975, I am reporting to you on the status of refugees
from Cambodia and South Vietnam.
We have made and continue to make remarkable progress in the resettlement
and assimilation of the Indochina refugee into American life. This progress
has been made possible through the efforts of many private individuals and
through the cooperative efforts of public and private institutions. Many ref-
ugees have made the transition into American life. Others require financial,
medical or educational assistance. As my report to you shows, that assistance
is adequately being provided through several federally assisted programs.
Vast strides have been made by these newcomers to our country. I am con-
fident that in the near future, they will achieve full citizenship and contribute
greatly to our society.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable James O. Eastland, Chairman,
Senate Committee on the Judiciary; the Honorable
Peter W. Rodino, Chairman, House Committee on
the Judiciary; the Honorable John J. Sparkman,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations;
the Honorable Thomas E. Morgan, Chairman,
House Committee on International Relations; the
GERALD R. FORD
Honorable John L. McClellan, Chairman, Senate
Committee on Appropriations; and the Honorable
George H. Mahon, Chairman, House Committee
on Appropriations.
The report is entitled "HEW Task Force for
Indochina Refugees, Report to the Congress, Sep-
tember 20, 1976."
798
Toasts of the President and President William R.
Tolbert, Jr., of Liberia. September 21, 1976
President Tolbert and Mrs. Tolbert:
Mrs. Ford and all of our guests welcome you to the United States and to the
White House on this occasion.
Your visit, Mr. President, is a particularly gratifying occasion because of our
very special relationship with Liberia and the fact that this is the first African
state visit of our third century of independence for the United States.
2276
