January 12
[1057]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Americans, a confirmation before all the world of the vitality and durability
of our free institutions. I am proud to have been privileged to preside over the
affairs of our Federal Government during these eventful years when we proved,
as I said in my first words upon assuming office, that "our Constitution works;
our great Republic is a Government of laws and not of men. Here the people
rule."
The people have spoken; they have chosen a new President and a new Con-
gress to work their will. I congratulate you—particularly the new Members-as
sincerely as I did President-elect Carter. In a few days it will be his duty to out-
line for you his priorities and legislative recommendations. Tonight I will not
infringe on that responsibility, but rather wish him the very best in all that is
good for our country.
During the period of my own service in this Capitol and in the White House,
I can recall many orderly transitions of governmental responsibility—of prob-
lems as well as of position, of burdens as well as of power. The genius of the
American system is that we do this so naturally and so normally. There are no
soldiers marching in the street except in the Inaugural Parade; no public demon-
strations except for some of the dancers at the Inaugural Ball; the opposition
party doesn't go underground, but goes on functioning vigorously in the Con-
gress and in the country; and our vigilant press goes right on probing and pub-
lishing our faults and our follies, confirming the wisdom of the framers of the
first amendment.
Because of the transfer of authority in our form of government affects the state
of the Union and of the world, I am happy to report to you that the current tran-
sition is proceeding very well. I was determined that it should; I wanted the
new President to get off on an easier start than I had.
When I became President on August 9, 1974, our Nation was deeply divided
and tormented. In rapid succession the Vice President and the President had
resigned in disgrace. We were still struggling with the after-effects of a long,
unpopular, and bloody war in Southeast Asia. The economy was unstable and
racing toward the worst recession in 40 years. People were losing jobs. The cost
of living was soaring. The Congress and the Chief Executive were at logger-
heads. The integrity of our constitutional process and other institutions was
being questioned. For more than 15 years domestic spending had soared as
Federal programs multiplied, and the expense escalated annually. During the
same period our national security needs were steadily shortchanged. In the
grave situation which prevailed in August 1974, our will to maintain our inter-
national leadership was in doubt.
2917
