October 8
[863]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Number one, each and every one of us believe in a strong America; that
means a strong national defense program. Mr. Carter, about a year ago, called
for a $15 billion reduction in the defense program. You can't keep America
strong with that kind of cutting of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and
Marines.
Mr. Carter, waffling as he usually does, has said that he would either cancel
or delay the production of the B-1 bomber. At the present time, we are flying
the B-52's, a great aircraft, but they're about 20 years old. By the time the B-1
is built and deployed, the B-52's will be anywhere from 30 to 35 years old. I
don't believe that we should send young American pilots flying an aircraft
that's older than they are.
The B-1 is a plan that will help us maintain the peace and protect our na-
tional security. It's an integral, important part of our overall defense program,
and Mr. Carter is very wrong when he wants to either cancel or delay it. And
President Ford believes it must be produced and deployed for our national
security.
A great President of the United States, Teddy Roosevelt, once said, “Speak
softly and carry a big stick." Mr. Carter speaks loudly and carries a flyswatter.
[Laughter]
But if we're going to keep America strong at home, we must spend less,
have lower deficits and lower taxes so that the free enterprise, the great engine
of a strong America, will have a chance. Mr. Carter has called for tax in-
creases for all taxpayers from the median to the middle-income taxpayer. That
means he wants to increase taxes for all taxpayers from $14,000 up. That's
wrong. I believe that we must reduce taxes for the middle-income taxpayers,
and we will.
I recommended in January of this year that the personal exemption should
be increased from $750 to $1,000 to help the shortchanged middle-income tax-
payers. And that's what we're going to do with a new Congress.
The best tax reform I know is tax reduction. Let me say that the Ford ad-
ministration believes that we must cut spending and we must cut taxes, and
that's what we're going to do in the next 4 years.
Mr. Carter talks about the bad tax program that we have at the present time.
Let me remind you and remind him that if our tax legislation is bad today, for
the last 22 years the Democrats controlled the Congress, and they have written
every tax bill that's on the law today.
So, I say to you if we're going to be strong at home, have a healthy economy,
2459
