[733]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions of those who want a change in Washington. I want a change, too. After
22 long years of majority misrule, let's change the United States Congress.
My gratitude tonight reaches far beyond this arena to countless friends whose
confidence, hard work, and unselfish support have brought me to this moment.
It would be unfair to single out anyone, but may I make an exception for my
wonderful family—Mike, Jack, Steve, and Susan and especially my dear wife,
Betty.
We Republicans have had some tough competition. We not only preach the
virtues of competition, we practice them. But tonight we come together not on
a battlefield to conclude a cease-fire, but to join forces on a training field that has
conditioned us all for the rugged contest ahead. Let me say this from the bottom
of my heart: After the scrimmages of the past few months, it really feels good
to have Ron Reagan on the same side of the line.
To strengthen our championship lineup, the convention has wisely chosen one
of the ablest Americans as our next Vice President, Senator Bob Dole of Kan-
sas. With his help, with your help, with the help of millions of Americans who
cherish peace, who want freedom preserved, prosperity shared, and pride in
America, we will win this election. I speak not of a Republican victory, but a
victory for the American people.
You at home listening tonight, you are the people who pay the taxes and obey
the laws. You are the people who make our system work. You are the people
who make America what it is. It is from your ranks that I come and on your
side that I stand.
Something wonderful happened to this country of ours the past 2 years. We
all came to realize it on the Fourth of July. Together, out of years of turmoil and
tragedy, wars and riots, assassinations and wrongdoing in high places, Ameri-
cans recaptured the spirit of 1776. We saw again the pioneer vision of our revo-
lutionary founders and our immigrant ancestors. Their vision was of free men
and free women enjoying limited government and unlimited opportunity. The
mandate I want in 1976 is to make this vision a reality, but it will take the voices
and the votes of many more Americans who are not Republicans to make that
mandate binding and my mission possible.
I have been called an unelected President, an accidental President. We may
even hear that again from the other party, despite the fact that I was welcomed
and endorsed by an overwhelming majority of their elected representatives in
the Congress who certified my fitness to our highest office. Having become Vice
President and President without expecting or seeking either, I have a special
2158
