[709]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Reports also will be made available to appropriate congressional committees.
All reports would be made available to the public one year from the date of their
filing, except in cases where a specific written determination is made by the Sec-
retary of State or the Attorney General that considerations of foreign policy
or judicial process dictate against disclosure.
This proposed legislation is intended to complement and supplement existing
laws and regulations which can affect questionable corporate payments abroad.
In this regard, I wish to recognize and build upon the fine record of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The Commission already has taken
prompt and vigorous action to discover questionable or illegal corporate pay-
ments and to require public disclosure of material facts relating to them. More-
over, as the Commission has noted, public disclosure of matters of this kind
generally leads to their cessation. In virtually all the cases reported to the Com-
mission, companies discovering payments of this kind have taken effective steps
to stop them and to assure that similar payments do not recur in the future.
A principal emphasis of the Commission's activities in this area has been to
prompt the private sector to take actions that would restore the integrity of the
existing system of corporate governance and accountability. I applaud this ap-
proach and expect the Secretary of Commerce to follow the same spirit in ad-
ministering this new legislation.
However, not all firms engaged in international commerce are regulated under
the securities laws and are subject to the disclosure requirements of the Commis-
sion. The Commission requires disclosure of payments only when necessary or
appropriate for the protection of investors. Further, it has not generally required
reporting of the name of a recipient, a requirement which I believe can be an
important deterrent to extorters. In addition, the Commission's system of dis-
closure-focusing as it does primarily on the interests of the investing public-
is not designed to respond to some of the broader public policy and foreign policy
interests related to the questionable payments problem.
Accordingly, the legislation which I am proposing deals with all U.S. partici-
pants in foreign commerce-not just firms subject to Commission regulatory
requirements—and it calls for the active involvement of the Secretaries of State
and Commerce and the Attorney General in administering a system which ad-
dresses the full range of public policy interests inherently involved in the ques-
tionable payments problem.
The Secretary of Commerce will take every feasible step to minimize the re-
porting burdens under this new legislation. The legislation directs the Secretary
to consult with other federal agencies to eliminate duplicative reporting. Where
2120
