[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
will be the next secret agreement. We don't have a comprehensive, understand-
able foreign policy that deals with world problems or even regional problems.
Another thing that concerned me was what Mr. Ford said about unemploy-
ment, that insinuating that under Johnson and Kennedy that unemployment
could only be held down when this country is at war. Karl Marx said that the
free enterprise system in a democracy can only continue to exist when they are
at war or preparing for war. Karl Marx was the grandfather of communism.
I don't agree with that statement; I hope Mr. Ford doesn't, either.
He has put pressure on the Congress-and I don't believe Mr. Ford would
even deny this—to hold up on nonproliferation legislation until the Congress
agreed for an $8 billion program for private industry to start producing enriched
uranium.
And the last thing I want to make is this: He talks about peace, and I am
thankful for peace. We were peaceful when Mr. Ford went into office, but he
and Mr. Kissinger and others tried to start a new Vietnam in Angola. And it
was only the outcry of the American people and the Congress when this secret
deal was discovered that prevented our renewed involvement in that conflagra-
tion which was taking place there.
THE MODERATOR. Gentlemen, I am sorry to say we do not have time enough
for two complete sequences of questions. We now have only 12 minutes left.
Therefore, I would like to ask for shorter questions and shorter answers. And
we also will drop the followup question. Each candidate may still respond,
of course, to the other's answer.
Mr. Trewhitt, a question for Governor Carter.
MR. TREWHITT. Governor Carter, before this event the most communication
I received concerned Panama. Would you, as President, be prepared to sign a
treaty which at a fixed date yielded administrative and economic control of the
Canal Zone and shared defense which, as I understand it, is the position the
United States took in 1974?
MR. CARTER. Well, here again, the Panamanian question is one that has been
confused by Mr. Ford. He had directed his diplomatic representative to yield
to the Panamanians full sovereignty over the Panama Canal Zone at the end
of a certain period of time. When Mr. Reagan raised this question in Florida,
Mr. Ford not only disavowed his instructions but he also even dropped, paren-
thetically, the use of the word "détente.”
I would never give up complete control or practical control of the Panama
Canal Zone, but I would continue to negotiate with the Panamanians. When
the original treaty was signed back in the early 1900's, when Theodore Roose-
2430
