[793]
September 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
are making headway as we reduce the deficits that were primarily caused by
our recession in 1975. But let me say this: We cannot add to the expenditures
of the Federal Government with a host of new programs unless you are willing
to tighten your belts.
Now, I don't think we need a lot of new spending programs, period. If we
hold the line on Federal expenditures, we can honestly give tax reductions,
and that is the program of this administration. But those who advocate addi-
tional expenditures have now suggested that in order to pay for those new
programs and added expenditures, there should be an additional tax levy on
the middle-income people, which is approximately 50 percent of the taxpayers
of this country. We should go in the opposite direction. We should give them
tax relief, not additional, added taxes. And this administration will give you
tax relief because it's good for America.
So, let me just conclude by saying that our overall objective for the farmers,
for the ranchers, for the middle-income people, is tax relief. But for farmers
and ranchers generally, we want a fair market price in a free market. We want
full production, record exports, and tax policies that permit you to pass your
farm or ranch from one generation to another and keep our economy healthy
by reducing the burden of government on you.
We want to get the government off your farm, off your back, and out of your
pocket.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Secretary of Agriculture
Earl L. Butz.
794
Remarks of Welcome to President William R.
Tolbert, Jr., of Liberia. September 21, 1976
President Tolbert, Mrs. Tolbert, ladies and gentlemen:
I am particularly pleased to welcome back to Washington a distinguished
friend of the United States of America. President Tolbert, your state visit is
the first by an African leader in our third century of American history. We
are proud and honored to have the red, white, and blue of Liberia fly side
by side with our own colors.
Americans and Liberians share a very unique and special relationship. Both
countries were founded by men and women who deeply believe in liberty
2272
