[819]
September 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
ministrators—that they have a superb opportunity to do all they can to help
you.
I promise you that our retirement nursing homes will be expanded, will be
made more available, because we have a serious moral commitment and obliga-
tion to make a better America as you mature and as you retire, and I pledge that
to all of you and to all like you.
Good luck, and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:45 p.m. in the Recreation Room.
820
Memorandum on Consumer Representation Plans.
September 27, 1976
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
This year marks the celebration of our Nation's 200th Birthday. It is appro-
priate that we embark on the Tricentennial with a reaffirmation of government
for the people, by the people. As one more step in this direction, this issue of the
Federal Register includes Consumer Representation Plans developed at my re-
quest by 17 Federal Executive Branch Departments and Agencies.
In initiating this effort, my guidelines to the Departments and Agencies were
that they should work from within and improve the existing structure, rather
than create another new agency to oversee other agencies or establish an agency
with an adversary function built into its mandate.
Let us not lose sight of our objective: this is a time for open government.
Consumers rightly demand to be a part of the decision-making process. It has
not taken us 200 years to realize this; however, it has taken too long to accomplish
it. It is a basic premise of these plans that where the machinery and the techniques
for assuring consumer representation already exist, they are to be strengthened
and that where they do not exist, they will be instituted. Further, these Consumer
Representation Plans shall always be subject to improvement when deficiencies
are noted or when a new need becomes evident. The Federal Government must
provide effective ways to assure consumer representation at the earliest possible
stages of the decision-making process.
In the past, the consumer's right to be heard has not been fully recognized by
all government agencies. Too often the consumer's voice has been treated lightly
or overlooked entirely. In considering public interest policy, I expect govern-
2350
