[831]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
disciplinary reprimands for accepting freebies-free weekends, hunting expedi-
tions. If you think there is nothing improper about a Congressman accepting
free golfing weekends, what distinction is there?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the House passed a resolution sometime in 1968, as I
understand it, which says nothing of significance or substance should be received.
I do not feel that there was any impropriety on my part or any violation of that
regulation.
I am an avid golfer. Most of you know it. I enjoy the company of people while
I am playing golf. Every person that's been involved in these allegations I have
reciprocated with as far as they coming either to my golf club or coming to
our home.
There has been, I would say, substantial reciprocity. And whatever the cir-
cumstances of our getting together, has been in a proper way and in no way
a violation, in my judgment, of any rule or ethical standard. These are close
personal friends and have been for many years. And I have never accepted—or
I don't believe they have tendered-any such things on the basis of seeking any
special privilege or anything that was improper.
Q. Mr. President, on June 15, before the Southern Baptist Convention, you
condemned very strongly what you call “situation ethics," and I was wondering
why this golfing vacation wasn't really "situation ethics." When at that time,
you said the American people, particularly our young people, cannot be expected
to take pride or even to participate in a system of government that is defiled and
dishonored, whether in the White House or the halls of Congress.
My question is, do you feel that in view of what the White House has
admitted, you have lived up to your own standards here?
The President. I have said that I don't consider these infrequent weekends a
violation of either the rules of the House or any ethical standards. I explained
that these were longstanding personal relationships, where there has been virtual
reciprocity, and I wouldn't have accepted if there had been any thought in my
mind that it was improper or the violation of any code of ethics.
Q. Isn't that "situation ethics" though?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so.
Q. Mr. President, to follow up on Fran Lewine's [Frances L. Lewine, Asso-
ciated Press] question earlier, she asked you if any of the funds had been
diverted for personal use, and your answer, sir, was that you had never received
any funds from Kent County. Are we to understand that as a "no," that you have
never used any of these funds for personal use?
THE PRESIDENT. From the Kent County Republican Committee?
2370
