[733]
August 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
For the next 4 years I pledge to you that I will hold to the steady course we
have begun. But I have no intention of standing on the record alone.
We will continue winning the fight against inflation. We will go on reducing
the dead weight and impudence of bureaucracy. We will submit a balanced
budget by 1978.
We will improve the quality of life at work, at play, and in our homes and in
our neighborhoods. We will not abandon our cities. We will encourage urban
programs which assure safety in the streets, create healthy environments, and
restore neighborhood pride. We will return control of our children's education
to parents and local school authorities.
We will make sure that the party of Lincoln remains the party of equal rights.
We will create a tax structure that is fair for all our citizens, one that preserves
the continuity of the family home, the family farm, and the family business.
We will ensure the integrity of the social security system and improve Medi-
care so that our older citizens can enjoy the health and the happiness that they
have earned. There is no reason they should have to go broke just to get well.
We will make sure that this rich Nation does not neglect citizens who are less
fortunate, but provides for their needs with compassion and with dignity.
We will reduce the growth and the cost of government and allow individual
breadwinners and businesses to keep more of the money that they earn.
We will create a climate in which our economy will provide a meaningful
job for everyone who wants to work and a decent standard of life for all
Americans. We will ensure that all of our young people have a better chance
in life than we had, an education they can use, and a career they can be proud of.
We will carry out a farm policy that assures a fair market price for the farmer,
encourages full production, leads to record exports, and eases the hunger within
the human family. We will never use the bounty of America's farmers as a pawn
in international diplomacy. There will be no embargoes.
We will continue our strong leadership to bring peace, justice, and economic
progress where there is turmoil, especially in the Middle East. We will build
a safer and saner world through patient negotiations and dependable arms
agreements which reduce the danger of conflict and horror of thermonuclear
war. While I am President, we will not return to a collision course that could
reduce civilization to ashes.
We will build an America where people feel rich in spirit as well as in worldly
2162
