[954]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
and millions like you-wonderful Americans-ought to be proud of what we
have done. I am and you are, but we are going to do better.
After suffering a tragic betrayal of public trust 2 years ago, America has had
faith restored in the White House. My administration has been open, candid,
straightforward. We have talked straight from the shoulder, and we will keep
it that way for the next 4 years.
As I told the Southern Baptist Convention in Norfolk, Virginia earlier this
year, I firmly believe that private morality and public service can and must go
hand in hand. And this is what we have done, and this is what we will do.
But what I have mentioned so far is only a part of the record of the Ford ad-
ministration in the past 2 years. Farm exports and farm income are at an all-
time high. A major effort is already underway to cut and slash the redtape in
Federal bureaucracy. We are working for peace and justice in the Middle East,
and throughout the world, and America is respected and trusted.
In every field America is on the move, on the march. We have made a tre-
mendous, unbelievable comeback in the past 2 years. And I pledge to you the
next 4 will be even better. You can believe me when I say with conviction that
America is sound, America is secure. This Nation is on its way to a better
quality of life, and this administration has earned the trust of the American
people for the next 4 years.
My record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises. We
do not need a government to do everything for us or to tell us everything we
can or cannot do. America is different. We should never forget that a govern-
ment big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to
take from us everything we have.
We have a great talent, a great reservoir of industry and ability in this great
country, and it is not all concentrated on the banks of the Potomac. Just this
week-let me as an illustration point out to you—that America made a clean
sweep of the Nobel Prizes for economics, chemistry, physics, medicine, and
literature. This is the first time in American history that a single country has
been the home of all of these great awards. We should be proud. Because of these
accomplishments of great Americans, I am proud to be a citizen of the United
States, and as I look around this great crowd, I know that each and every one
of you are just as proud as I am of America.
We have had our problems. In the last 2 years we have come a long, long
way. At home and abroad we are putting away our old differences, we are
2668
