October 5
[850]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
overriding objectives remain the well-being of the Cypriot people and peace in
the Eastern Mediterranean. Calling upon all concerned to undertake a new
commitment to achieve these ends, he underlined once again the position I have
repeatedly voiced:
"A settlement must come from the Cypriot communities themselves. It is
they who must decide how their island's economy and government shall be
reconstructed. It is they who must decide the ultimate relationship of the two
communities and the territorial extent of each area."
This Administration believes that in order to restore momentum in the
negotiations a set of principles along the following lines might help the parties
to resume talks on substantive issues:
-A settlement should preserve the independence, sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Cyprus;
—The present dividing lines on Cyprus must be adjusted to reduce the area
currently controlled by the Turkish side;
-The territorial arrangement should take into account the economic require-
ments and humanitarian concerns of the two Cypriot communities, including
the plight of those who remain refugees;
-A constitutional arrangement should provide conditions under which the
two Cypriot communities can live in freedom and have a large vote in their own
affairs; and
-Security arrangements should be agreed that permit the withdrawal of
foreign military forces other than those present under international agreement.
It is my strong hope that these ideas may be given careful consideration by all
concerned.
In addition to these steps, the United States also continues to provide financial
assistance to the people of Cyprus so that they may overcome the burdens
imposed on them by the events of 1974. I have just signed into law a bill author-
izing $17.5 million in U.S. relief assistance for Cyprus in the coming fiscal year.
Our assistance thus far, some $50 million over the past two years, has been a
major factor in providing adequate homes for almost all of those unfortunate
Cypriots uprooted in 1974, and, in addition, has made a substantial contribu-
tion toward the medical needs, emergency food aid and the general welfare of
the many displaced from their homes. We will continue to offer our help
wherever it is needed.
The United States also continues to be the largest financial contributor to
the maintenance of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force on Cyprus, which
has done such a highly effective job. We continue actively to support both the
2401
