October 20
[925]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
at a time when I am certain that General Brown didn't anticipate it would be
released, and it was released in part, not in whole.
General Brown, after consulting with Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld, did
appear before the press-both of them—and explained the entire context of
the interview. And the total interview would lead any reasonable person to
a different interpretation than the excerpts that were taken from it and were
released to the press.
Now I happen to believe General Brown, and I have reviewed the whole
text of that interview myself. Some of those statements were impudent (im-
prudent) and were ill-advised, and I certainly don't believe that General
Brown, in that position, ought to make those kind of comments in several
instances. But I also don't believe it was fair in the prospective or released
text, that certain excerpts should be taken, and several of them taken out of
context.
Now, General Brown was just recommended by me, and he was confirmed
by the Senate for a 2-year term as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. I would expect
him to stay. He has a superb military record-35 years of devoted service in
wartime—and I think he has been a fine Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
But he made one or two ill-advised statements, and I hope and trust that he
won't do it again.
Q. Mr. President, you would keep both him and Mr. Kelley in their jobs?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, because I think Clarence Kelley has taken a very serious
situation in the FBI-I think he straightened it out—and I think he is a person
that all of us can have trust in as far as the job as the Director of the FBI.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN THEMES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, at your last news conference you said that the cam-
paign to date had been, quoting you, “mired in questions that have little bearing
on [upon] the future of this Nation," and that you would try to elevate the level
of the discourse from there on. Subsequently, you seemed to be preoccupied with
suggesting that Mr. Carter was a dissembler and again to use your words, “an
individual who wavers, wanders, wiggles, and waffles," and your campaign
organization has sponsored reproductions in advertisements of the front cover
of Playboy magazine. Is that what you meant by elevating the level of the
discourse?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is graphic and accurate to say that Mr. Carter does
waver, wander, wiggle, and waffle. There are plenty of illustrations, as a matter
2587
