October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
had no recollection whatsoever of talking with any of the White House legis-
lative liaison people.
I indicated under oath that the initiative that I took was at the request of
the ranking members of the House Banking and Currency Committee on the
Republican side, which was a legitimate request and a proper response by me.
Now, that was gone into by two congressional committees, and following
that investigation both committees overwhelmingly approved me, and both
the House and the Senate did likewise.
Now, in the meantime the Special Prosecutor-within the last few days after
an investigation himself—said there was no reason for him to get involved,
because he found nothing that would justify it. And then, just a day or two ago,
the Attorney General of the United States made a further investigation and came
to precisely the same conclusion.
Now, after all of those investigations by objective, responsible people, I think
the matter is closed once and for all. But to add one other feature: I don't control
any of the tapes. Those tapes are in the jurisdiction of the courts, and I have
no right to say yes or no. But all the committees, the Attorney General, the
Special Prosecutor—all of them have given me a clean bill of health. I think
the matter is settled once and for all.
MR. NELSON. Well, Mr. President, if I do say so, though, the question is that
I think you still have not gone into details about what your role in it was. And
I don't think there was any question about whether or not there was a criminal
prosecution, but whether you have told the American people your entire
involvement in it and whether you would be willing-even though you don't
control the tapes—whether you would be willing to ask that the tapes be released
for examination?
THE PRESIDENT. That's for the proper authorities who have control over those
tapes to make that decision. I have given every bit of evidence, answered every
question that's been asked me by any Senator or any Member of the House,
plus the fact that the Special Prosecutor, on his own initiation, and the Attorney
General, on his initiation-the highest law enforcement official in this country-
all of them have given me a clean bill of health. And I've told everything I
know about it. I think the matter is settled once and for all.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter, your response.
MR. CARTER. I don't have any response.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you.
Then we will have the next question from Mr. Kraft to Governor Carter.
MR. KRAFT. Governor Carter, the next big crisis spot in the world may be
2627
