[787]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
now and in the next 4 years, I will continue to look for Americans of high
caliber from all cultural backgrounds. I will continue to look for Americans with
the talents of John Pastore, Peter Rodino, Dominick Daniels, and Judge John
Sirica.
May I say to all four of them: It has been a very special pleasure for me to
join with you in honoring these outstanding Americans.
As enjoyable as this evening is for all of us present, we might take just
a moment to remember certain people who can only be here in spirit, people
who would have gotten an even bigger thrill on this occasion than you or me—
the parents of John Sirica, Dominick Daniels, John Pastore, and Peter Rodino.
When you stop for a minute and think about those parents, about the sacrifice
they made, about the hardships they endured, about the dreams they had
for their children, and then you see those dreams come true in the careers
of these fine men, that's when you know exactly what America is all about.
And
you know if these parents could only be here with us tonight, they would
be very proud, and deservedly proud, indeed.
By your contributions, and those of all Italian-Americans, to our arts and
sciences and government, to business life and family life, America will continue
to grow, to prosper, and become an even better place in which to live.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8 p.m. in the In-
ternational Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Judge
John J. Sirica, U.S. District Judge for the District
of Columbia.
788
Remarks at a Reception Celebrating National Hispanic
Heritage Week. September 16, 1976
Bishop Flores, Monsignor Murphy, ladies and gentlemen:
It's a very high honor and a very great privilege for me to come to the Na-
tional Shrine of the Immaculate Conception and to join with all of you in the
celebration of the National Hispanic Heritage Week.' It has been a wonderful
week for a wonderful purpose.
As we look back over our 200 years, it is tremendous to see what wonderful
contributions have been made by all those who came to the shores of the
United States.
1 For the President's remarks on signing Proclamation 4459, designating September 12-19 as National
Hispanic Heritage Week, see Item 768.
2262
