[685]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
health needs in a more effective manner. It would achieve a more equitable dis-
tribution of Federal health dollars among States, and eliminate the present
State matching requirements. It would also reduce Federal red tape, give States
greater flexibility in providing for delivery of health care services to those with
low income, and expand public participation in health planning.
CHILD NUTRITION REFORM ACT OF 1976
This proposal would establish a single comprehensive block grant to provide
Federal funds for States to feed needy children. It would consolidate into a
single authority the fifteen complex and overlapping child nutrition programs
currently administered by the Department of Agriculture. This new approach
would concentrate Federal spending on the nutritional needs of poor children,
while eliminating the substantial Federal subsidies now provided for non-needy
children. It would also ease the heavy administrative burden being imposed on
State and local governments by the complicated requirements and inflexible
mandates of the present programs.
REGULATORY REFORM
AGENDA FOR GOVERNMENT REFORM ACT
The Agenda for Government Reform Act would authorize a major review
of Federal regulatory activities. It would require the President, over a four-year
period, to submit specific proposals to the Congress for the reform of Federal
regulatory activities affecting certain sectors of the American economy (e.g.,
transportation, agriculture, public utilities, etc.). It is designed to produce
reforms to guarantee that government policies do not infringe unnecessarily on
individual choices and initiative nor intervene needlessly in the marketplace,
to find better ways to achieve our social goals at minimal economic cost, to insure
that government policies and programs benefit the public interest rather than
special interests, and to assure that regulatory policies are equitably enforced.
AVIATION ACT OF 1975
The Aviation Act is designed to provide consumers better air transportation
services at a lower cost by increasing real competition in the airline industry,
removing artificial and unnecessary regulatory constraints and ensuring contin-
uance of a safe and efficient air transportation system. It would introduce and
foster price competition in the airline industry; provide for the entry of new
2064
