[898]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
throughout the world-I don't approve of any candidate for office slandering
the good name of the United States. It discourages our allies, and it encourages
our adversaries.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN DEBATES
[13.] Q. Mr. President, on the debates, two of them have happened, and
one is to come. Do you have any thoughts, perhaps, on changing the rules for
the third debate? And also, do you feel impeded since you are President and
know more than you can say in public?
The President. About the only improvement I would make is to get
Mr. Carter to answer the questions. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT'S REMARKS ON EASTERN EUROPE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, could you tell us why it took you 6 days and four
clarifications before you finally admitted that you had, in fact, made a mistake
in the debate in your remarks on Eastern Europe?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it took some thoughtful analysis because, as someone
may have noticed, there was a letter to the editor in the New York Times a
day or 2 ago by a very prominent ethnic, a man by the name of Janovitz, as I
recall, who said that my answer was the right one. But it all depends on how you
analyze the answer.
But I wanted to be very clear, to make certain that the Polish Americans and
other ethnics in this country knew that I knew that there are some 30 Soviet
divisions in Poland and several of the other Eastern European countries.
On the other hand, I want to say very strongly that anybody who has been
in Poland, for example, as I have in 1975, and seen the Polish people—the strong,
courageous look in their face, the deep feeling that you get from talking with
them—although they recognize that the Soviet Union has x number of divi-
sions occupying their country, that freedom is in their heart and in their mind,
and they are not going to be dominated over the long run by any outside power.
Now, we concede for the time being, the Soviet Union has that military
power there. But we subscribe to the hopes and the aspirations of the courageous
Polish people and their relatives here in the United States.
Q. Mr. President, if they tried to overthrow that power, would you look
favorably on helping them in some way?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we should answer that question. I don't think
it's going to happen. I don't think we should respond to that kind of a question
in a press conference.
2528
