[853]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Ann [Ann Compton, ABC News], we will wait and see.
Q. What is the answer to Helen's [Helen Thomas, United Press Interna-
tional] question?
Q. It sounds like you have got something new up your sleeve.
THE PRESIDENT. I just said that you should listen carefully.
Q. Mr. President, how do you feel about this report by the congressional
investigators, the General Accounting Office, criticizing your handling of the
Mayaguez incident?
THE PRESIDENT. It is always very easy for someone 18 months after a very
critical issue has taken place to write a report. Of course, none of those “Johnny-
come-lately" Monday morning critics were there when the incident happened.
So, they didn't have to make the minute-by-minute decision. I can't help but
feel that the issuance of that report at this time is another example of partisan
politics, and I don't believe the American people will believe somebody who,
with the luxury of 18 months afterwards, can sit back and write a report. I
think they will believe a President who was there and had to make the tough
decisions on an incident that was important to the American foreign policy.
Q. How important is tonight's debate in the overall campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. They are all very, very important. And I look at this one as
important, and I look at the one on the 22d as important.
Q. This one has no special significance?
THE PRESIDENT. They are all very important.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 12:19 p.m. in the
Palace of Fine Arts Theatre, following audiovisual
tests for the Presidential campaign debate to be held
that evening.
As printed above, this item follows the text of the
White House press release.
854
Presidential Campaign Debate of
October 6, 1976
THE MODERATOR. Good evening. I am Pauline Frederick of NPR [National
Public Radio], moderator of the second of the historic debates of the 1976 cam-
paign between Gerald R. Ford of Michigan, Republican candidate for President,
and Jimmy Carter of Georgia, Democratic candidate for President.
Thank you, President Ford, and thank you, Governor Carter, for being with
us tonight.
The debate takes place before an audience in the Palace of Fine Arts Theatre
2408
