[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
payments by corporations. I would have done it opposite. I think the problem
should have been addressed by increasing productivity, by having put people back
to work so they could purchase more goods, lower income taxes on individuals,
perhaps raise them if necessary on corporations in comparison. But Mr. Burns
in that respect made a very serious mistake.
I would not want to destroy the independence of the Federal Reserve Board.
But I do think we ought to have a cohesive economic policy with at least the
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and the President's terms being the
same and letting the Congress of course be the third entity with independence,
subject only to the President's veto.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, your response.
THE PRESIDENT. The Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board should be in-
dependent. Fortunately, he has been during Democratic as well as Republican
administrations. As a result, in the last 2 years we have had a responsible
monetary policy.
The Federal Reserve Board indicated that the supply of money would be held
between 4 to 4½ and 7 and 7½. They have done a good job in integrating the
money supply with the fiscal policy of the executive and legislative branches
of the Government.
It would be catastrophic if the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board be-
came the tool of the political party that was in power. It's important for our
future economic security that that job be nonpolitical and separate from the
executive and the legislative branches.
THE MODERATOR. Mrs. Drew.
Ms. DREW. Mr. President, the real problem with the FBI-in fact, all of
the intelligence agencies—is there are no real laws governing them. Such
laws as there are tend to be vague and open-ended. Now, you have issued some
Executive orders, but we have learned that leaving these agencies to executive
discretion and direction can get them and in fact the country in a great deal
of trouble. One President may be a decent man, the next one might not be.
So, what do you think about trying to write in some more protection by
getting some laws governing these agencies?
THE PRESIDENT. You are familiar, of course, with the fact that I am the first
President in 30 years who has reorganized the intelligence agencies in the
Federal Government-the CIA, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National
Security Agency, and the others. We've done that by Executive order. And I
think we've tightened it up; we've straightened out their problems that de-
2308
