September 22
[799]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
responsible husbandry of all our resources, we are
acting now to brighten yet the eager prospects for
unprecedented national prosperity.
Liberians are actively aware that the spirit of
America has a uniquely infectious quality. Thus,
to an aspiring and emerging world, it is my con-
viction that this land and people must remain a
towering pillar of strength, courage, enterprise,
and challenge, inspiring all nations.
To peoples struggling still under the yoke of
violent oppression, America must continue to tend
and fend and fan the flame of freedom, justice, and
human dignity. To nations entangled in the intri-
cacies of economic exploitation, American ingenu-
ity must set the pace in resolving the issues of
global restructure and reform-an excellent nation
in command.
As she embarks upon another centennial destiny
and destinies still to follow, America's challenge
and promise must remain indeed commanding, to
signal the course of victory for an expanding and
wholesome functioning world society.
In this enterprise of hope and action, Mr. Pres-
ident, we in Liberia-as trusted friends, and will
remain so can certainly pledge our sincere and
solemn endeavor to dispel despair, to defeat dejec-
tion and, in an environment of mutual respect and
reciprocal friendship, to join unremittingly with
you in consolidating constructive cooperation and
productive interdependence among all peoples and
nations of our one world.
Distinguished ladies and gentlemen, may I ask
you to stand. Raise your glasses with me as I
proffer the health of the President of the great
United States. And to the peoples of the United
States of America, our fondest hopes and best
wishes for continuing dynamic and magnetic suc-
cess. The President.
799
Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol To Amend the
United States-United Kingdom Convention on Taxation and
Fiscal Evasion. September 22, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Protocol signed at London on August 26, 1976, amend-
ing the Convention between the Government of the United States of America
and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal
Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital Gains, signed at London
on December 31, 1975, as amended by Notes exchanged at London on April 13,
1976. For the information of the Senate, I also transmit a covering report of the
Department of State with respect to the Protocol.
The Convention, along with the amending Notes and this Protocol, would
promote closer cooperation and more active trade between the United States
and the United Kingdom.
urge the Senate to give its advice and consent to ratification to the Con-
vention, the exchange of Notes, and to this Protocol, at any early date.
The White House,
September 22, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The protocol and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive Q (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
2279
