September 25
[812]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
President for the next 4 years. I thank you, Elaine. I thank you from the bottom
of my heart, and I will prove it to you in the next 4 years.
[2.] RESERVE (11:12 a.m.)
THANK YOU very much, Henson. But before I acknowledge all of you and
some of the wonderful guests on board, I would like to introduce two wonder-
ful ladies—first, my wife, Betty Ford. And now may I introduce to all of you
wonderful people from Louisiana the wife of your great Governor, Elaine Ed-
wards—Elaine? I thank Elaine very, very much for her personal endorsement.
I am very grateful, and I have told her in the next 4 years we won't let her and
the State of Louisiana down.
We have some wonderful people on board. We have Congressman Henson
Moore, Congressman Dave Treen, Senator Strom Thurmond. We have two
members of my Cabinet and a number of other people, not only from Louisiana
but from Alabama, from Mississippi, from Florida, Tennessee, Arkansas, Texas.
We have some wonderful people here who have come with me to carry out a
promise that I made that I don't concede a single State, I don't concede a single
vote. I promised that I would campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to
the sandy plains of the State of Georgia. I am in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama,
and Florida to prove that we can win on November 2.
Now let me tell you why I think we will win. Since I became your President
2 years ago, we've had some tough times. We had to restore trust in the White
House. We had to turn the economy around from inflation of over 12 percent
to where it is now, under 6 percent. And it is going to get better with the kind
of policies we have. We had to extricate ourselves from Vietnam, keep the peace
through our military superiority and our diplomatic skill.
But let me talk about some of the bread and butter issues that interest you. I
believe that the Federal Government spends too much of your tax dollars. In
order to reduce Federal spending, I vetoed 56 [58] bills sent to me by the Con-
gress. They have sustained 42, and we saved $9 billion of your tax money. And
that's progress.
I might add that Senator Mondale voted to override every one of the vetoes
that I sent back to the Congress. He is a big spender and way left, and we don't
want him as Vice President.
But I also think that what we ought to have is another tax cut. I recommended
that the Congress give to the American people a $28 billion tax reduction so that
you would have more money that you worked hard to earn for your family, your
children, your wife. The Congress unfortunately only gave us half a loaf. And I
2325
