[674]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
ABORTION
[32.] Q. Mr. President, the Supreme Court recently handed down another
decision on abortion essentially strengthening the first one. What does this do
to your position that you prefer a constitutional amendment turning it back to
the States? Have you given up hope now for that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see how that recommendation on my part is undercut
by the recent decisions of the Supreme Court. I do not believe in abortion on
demand. I do think you have a right to have an abortion where the life of the
mother is involved, where there was rape. I don't go along with those who ad-
vocate an amendment that would be so ironclad you couldn't under any circum-
stances have an abortion.
I reiterate what I have said on a number of occasions. I think an amendment
that permits the voters in a State to decide whether in that State they want or
don't want, is a proper way to give the people of this country or in their respective
States the decisionmaking power.
Q. Mr. President, don't you think their decision makes it more difficult to get
that amendment, however?
THE PRESIDENT. Not necessarily.
PERSONNEL CHANGES IN THE FBI
[33.] Q. Mr. President, do you have any comment one way or another on
that recent shakeup in the FBI on the Kelly dismissal of Mr. Callahan? ³
THE PRESIDENT. That was a decision by the Attorney General and by the FBI
Director. Mr. Callahan was not a Presidential appointee so it was handled by the
proper authorities.
JIMMY CARTER
[34.] Q. Mr. President, presumably you watched a little bit of the Demo-
cratic National Convention on television. If so, would you tell us how Jimmy
Carter came across to you as a personality, as a potential campaigner, and as an
opponent?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I really had any impression of him. [Laughter]
Q. You didn't watch enough to get an impression of him?
THE PRESIDENT. I was pretty busy.
3 Nicholas P. Callahan was discharged as Associate Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation on
July 16 for alleged illegal administration of the Bureau's Recreational Association Fund.
2042
