October 14
[898]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
controlled the Congress for the last 22 years. If they're wrong, it's the fault of the
majority party in the Congress.
Q. What are you doing to change that?
THE PRESIDENT. We have made recommendations to the Congress over the last
year and a half for some modifications in the income tax legislation, but how
that would affect that particular company, I can't give you the answer.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN DEBATES
[20.] Q. Mr. President, in a recent speech-I'm afraid I don't recall where-
you cut a line from your text in which you said something about the campaign
should not be just a quiz show to see who gets to live in the White House for the
next 4 years. And I assume you stand by that advance text. Were you trying to
suggest that the debates have not been as effective as they should have been and
they have not kept up the level of the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Ann [Ann Compton, ABC News], you know that you
read the advance text. I hope you are listening when I speak. You know, on
many occasions, I add a little here and I take something else out. Oftentimes, I
don't
get
those texts until maybe a half, three-quarters of an hour before I make
the speech. So, I make the judgment myself. Those are the recommendations of
the speechwriters.
Now, I didn't think that was an appropriate thing to say, and therefore, I
didn't include it in the text that I gave to the meeting that you referred to.
Q. Well then, let me put it this way: Do you think the debates have helped
keep up the level of the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the debates have been very wholesome. I think they've
been constructive. I was the one that initiated the challenge. I believe that they
ought to be an institution in future Presidential campaigns. I really believe that,
and for that reason I didn't think that sentence in that prepared text, which I
deleted, reflected my own views.
INVESTIGATION OF THE PRESIDENT'S FINANCIAL RECORDS
[21.] Q. Mr. President, thank you. A little while ago you gave us an idea of
how you balance your family budget—you kite checks. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, no, I don't. No, I don't. I've never been overdrawn, young
lady. [Laughter]
Q. The question is, then, how is it that you are able to live on from $5 to $13
a week in cash—as has been reported by the Washington Post and the Wall
Street Journal-in 1972?
2531
