[1062]
January 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
in 1974, I found many of our regulatory laws outdated and unintelligible. Gov-
ernment agencies charged with their administration had become less effective
than Congress or the people had originally intended. At the Economic Summit
Conference, business and labor leaders, academics, consumers, and government
officials agreed that inefficient Federal regulation was contributing to the coun-
try's economic ills.
We have not solved all of these problems, but we have made an effective
beginning. Important administrative and legislative reform has been achieved
during my administration, but more must be done to build upon these
accomplishments.
I have received and reviewed a report from the Domestic Council Review
Group on Regulatory Reform outlining the scope and complexities of the regu-
latory problem. It emphasizes the need for continued work on this important
domestic issue.
The report highlights what I believe are the two basic challenges facing re-
form efforts in the future.
First, regulation differs from other devices used by government to achieve our
national goals because the costs are hidden from public view. Often, government
decisionmakers do not know what the effect of new regulations will be in terms
of costs or benefits. As a consequence, agencies are rarely forced to make trade-
offs between competing demands, an essential management discipline central
to the annual budget process.
Second, the general public is unaware of its stake in better regulation and,
therefore, unable to form an effective constituency for change. Members of the
public know very little about the complex economic effects of Federal regula-
tions and are therefore at a distinct disadvantage when trying to counter the
organized efforts of special interest groups seeking to preserve the status quo
or to enact new laws serving their special interests. Sometimes these special
interests are counter to the interests of the public at large.
Although I may not agree with all of the observations made in this report, I
believe it presents a candid appraisal of what we have learned and what remains
to be done. We must make the regulatory debate a more intelligent discussion
of issues and alternatives. I am confident that this report will be a valuable con-
tribution to future reform efforts.
I want to thank the Members of Congress and those individuals in the execu-
tive branch and the public who have worked with me on this important initi-
ative. They have made a significant contribution to restoring the trust of our
2932
