October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
[6.] CARLINVILLE (5:30 p.m.)
WHILE we are waiting for the news media to come up and some of the spe-
cial guests that have been riding with Betty and me on the train all day long, let
me say it's great to be in Carlinville. It's wonderful to be in Illinois. We've had
a great day, and I thank all of you very, very much.
I like that sign, "Carlinville welcomes President Ford," and I like that sign
there, "The Findley Trailriders like President Ford."
It's wonderful to be here in the company with your great Senator, Chuck
Percy. It's wonderful to be in the district so ably represented by Congressman
Paul Findley. Send him back for your good, for Illinois' good, and for the good
of the United States. And we have had Jim Thompson with us. Jim Thompson
will be a great Governor on November 2. Make darned sure you elect him as
your next Governor of the State of Illinois.
Now let me make a comment or two. Betty and I have had a great day, start-
ing with Joliet, coming here, ending in Alton. We are here in Illinois because
Illinois is a very important State in this election November 2. We want your
help. With your help, we can carry Illinois. With Illinois we can win the elec-
tion on November 2, and you will have Jerry Ford as your President for the first
4 years of our third century.
In the last 2 years as your President, we have done three things that are good
for America. We have restored the trust that's necessary in the White House. The
American people know that we are open, we are candid, we are straightforward.
The American people know that they can trust the White House under
President Ford.
Number two, in the last 18 months, we have turned the economy around from
the worst recession in the last 40 years so that we are now on the rise. And I won't
be satisfied until everybody who wants a job has a job. We will get it under our
program for prosperity in America.
Number three, I am proud of the fact that we are at peace and that not a single
young American is fighting and dying anyplace on this Earth today. And we
are going to keep it that way under President Ford.
I am proud of the fact that I have a record of performance, and I ask you, as
voters, to lay that record of performance alongside the promises made by Jimmy
Carter. Jimmy Carter will tell anybody anything, anywhere, just to get to be
President of the United States. Let me illustrate. When Jimmy Carter is in Cali-
fornia, he tries to sound like Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter is in Chicago,
he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter is in New York, he tries
2559
