[798]
September 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
the United States of America. May they ever be firm and very fast friends
inspired by a common vision of liberty.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. President
Tolbert responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, distinguished ladies and
gentlemen, friends:
On this, our first state visit to the United States,
we are indeed overwhelmed with joy to be here
with you and to enjoy at evening time the loveliness
of a warm American fellowship.
We are deeply grateful, Mr. President, not only
for this cordially exceptional White House hospitality
but also for your extraordinarily kind invitation to
share in the joys of the American Bicentennial.
Indeed, we are imbued on this occasion with
signal salutations for your astounding achievements
and filled with great pride and expectations as you
enter upon your third century of independence, a
unique and unified people, strong and proud, and
a haven of opportunity and liberty; a foremost na-
tion of nations wherein the seeds of all humanity can
blossom and flower in the realization of their fullest
potential.
The selection of dainties you have so graciously
afforded us in this most impressive setting can be
likened, Mr. President, on a banquet of superb
grandeur. How be it, Mr. President, my actual
indulgence and sincerity to express that my happi-
ness is in part subdued as I reflect upon the violent
oppression and continuing brutal repression and
massacre of my brothers and sisters, being all of
the family of man, in Zimbabwe, Namibia, and
South Africa at this time.
Nevertheless, with emphasis, Mr. President, I
confirm that we are thrilled to be in your midst.
as you joyfully celebrate two centennials of dis-
tinction, and extend profound congratulations to
you and all the American people, not only for the
historic triumphs of the past but also for the current
validity of unrelenting devotion to those invincible
and eternal truths which, alas, must elevate the fam-
ily of man and of nations.
We are highly appreciative of the gracious op-
portunity earlier afforded us today in the Oval
Office to consider with you some of the urgent
priorities of our world and also the development in
Liberia. And we are deeply grateful both for your
understanding of the problems which we face and
for the assurances you have given of continued aid
and assistance in an ever-increasing manner.
This time the consideration is truly encouraging
and can only be indicative of the special relations
between our two countries, of which we can be
justly proud. It is uplifting to all mankind when
America champions, the advent of the new order
of economic equity and prosperity for all nations
of our one world.
It is indeed exhilarating to mankind when
America successfully displays in space the limit-
less technological ingenuity and superiority of the
human specie over the universe of nature. It indeed
ennobles the human family when America con-
tinues in her third century the exercise of a courage-
ous leadership role in securing dignity and inde-
pendence for the oppressed and repressed peoples
across the globe, particularly at this time in south-
ern Africa, thus upholding her firm democratic
traditions in the interest of world security and
peace.
In this regard, Mr. President, I assure you that
we are deeply heartened by the positive and mean-
ingful initiatives and diplomatic interventions for
peace that you and your government are under-
taking during this year of America's Bicentennial
through Secretary of State Kissinger to end the
most serious South African conflict, which is cru-
cial-indeed crucial-to all Africa and must be of
concern to the whole world.
Accordingly, it is our ardent hope that America
will continue among nations to build constructively
upon its moral and its industrial stature.
The strength of Liberia's existence is embedded
in the unyielding and unconquerable spirit of
America. Having stood unswervingly and fearlessly
for one century and three decades upon the same
democratic ideals which led to the founding of the
American Nation, Liberia has steadfastly kept aloft
the torch of liberty and democracy in Africa, pre-
saging upon our continent the new age of total
African emancipation.
We firmly hold those truths in sacred and prag-
matic relevance to our victorious national design.
that our people, under God, should become more
solidly interwoven and enterprising, more skill-
fully productive and prosperous.
Liberia has a rendezvous with developmental
reconstruction. With increasing health programs
and expanding educational facilities, Liberians are
acting now to widen yet the vistas of opportunity
for all of our people, with greater emphasis being
placed on those within the distant rural areas of
the country, and rightly so.
Through total civic involvement, through mod-
ern infrastructural improvement and rural inte-
grated development, we are acting now to tighten
still the treasured bonds of national unity. By
means of the free enterprise system, by a policy of
productive copartnership with other nations and
with our foreign investors, and by dedicated and
2278
