[1057]
January 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
stantial majority of his own party, the best of success in reforming the costly
and cumbersome machinery of the Federal Government.
The task of self-government is never finished. The problems are great; the
opportunities are greater.
America's first goal is and always will be peace with honor. America must re-
main first in keeping peace in the world. We can remain first in peace only
if we are never second in defense.
In presenting the state of the Union to the Congress and to the American
people, I have a special obligation as Commander in Chief to report on our
national defense. Our survival as a free and independent people requires, above
all, strong military forces that are well equipped and highly trained to perform
their assigned mission.
I am particularly gratified to report that over the past 2½ years, we have been
able to reverse the dangerous decline of the previous decade in real resources
this country was devoting to national defense. This was an immediate problem
I faced in 1974. The evidence was unmistakable that the Soviet Union had been
steadily increasing the resources it applied to building its military strength.
During this same period the United States real defense spending declined. In
my three budgets we not only arrested that dangerous decline, but we have
established the positive trend which is essential to our ability to contribute to
peace and stability in the world.
The Vietnam war, both materially and psychologically, affected our overall
defense posture. The dangerous antimilitary sentiment discouraged defense
spending and unfairly disparaged the men and women who serve in our Armed
Forces.
The challenge that now confronts this country is whether we have the national
will and determination to continue this essential defense effort over the long
term, as it must be continued. We can no longer afford to oscillate from year to
year in so vital a matter; indeed, we have a duty to look beyond the immediate
question of budgets and to examine the nature of the problem we will face over
the next generation.
I am the first recent President able to address long-term, basic issues without
the burden of Vietnam. The war in Indochina consumed enormous resources
at the very time that the overwhelming strategic superiority we once enjoyed
was disappearing. In past years, as a result of decisions by the United States, our
strategic forces leveled off, yet the Soviet Union continued a steady, constant
buildup of its own forces, committing a high percentage of its national economic
effort to defense.
2924
