[813]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
this office of President that want to add more and more spending, bigger and
bigger deficits, more and more inflation.
We're against that. The Ford administration is going to win the battle
against inflation. We're going to hold down the cost of government, and we'll
make the decision for you here by you and not by some bureaucrat in
Washington, D.C.
As I had the privilege and honor of coming by and shaking hands with many
people from the great State of Mississippi, I noticed a number of older people.
The Ford administration wants good housing for our older citizens, and we
want to protect them from the cost-of-living increases, and we will.
We want jobs for our younger people. We want opportunities for meaning-
ful jobs, not dead-end jobs. I promise you that this administration will never
be satisfied until everybody who wants to work, who will look for work, has a
job.
But let me say that it is just wonderful to be here and see the patriotism and
the spirit of the people of Mississippi. Let me say that on July 4, we celebrated
as a nation the most wonderful 200th birthday that we could possibly imagine.
We have been in trouble for 2 years, but now we have a rebirth of that kind of
spirit in the United States that gave our forefathers the kind of government that
we have inherited from them, that gave our forefathers the spirit and the desire
and the ambition to make America what it is today. But now that we are over our
troubles of the last 2 years, it's up to you and to me to keep that spirit going, to
expand that patriotism, to make America a better place for all of us-the young,
the old. All Americans deserve in the next 4 years as we move into our third
century the kind of America that we want-a good America, a better America-
and we will.
But before I say goodby, I want to ask you one question. Jerry Ford needs your
help. Can you give it to me?
Thank you. It is wonderful to be here in Bay St. Louis.
Thank you, good luck, and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:05 p.m. at the
Hancock County Public Library. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Gov. Cliff Finch and Mayors
Warren Carver of Bay St. Louis and Johnnie Longo
of Waveland, Miss.
2332
