[981]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
sensible, commonsense approach that we have to your Government by keeping
the lid on Federal spending, by doing an even better job in cutting the rate of
inflation.
You know when I became President a little over 2 years ago, the cost of living
was increasing at the rate of over 12 percent. By doing the right thing, keeping
a lid on Federal spending, by having tax reduction, stimulating the economy
in the right way, we have cut the rate of inflation under 6 percent, and we are
going to do better in the next 4 years.
But if we are going to have the kind of an economy that is one that will make
jobs available in the private sector, we have to have additional tax reductions.
There is an old saying that I firmly believe in-the best tax reform is tax reduc-
tion. As I look across this group here this morning on Fountain Square, I know
that most of you are in the middle-income taxpaying brackets. The record shows
that the middle-income taxpayers have been shortchanged, and we are going
to change that in the next Congress.
I recommended to the Congress last January that the personal exemption
ought to be increased from $750 to $1,000. That is a one-third increase in the
tax exemption you would be getting. But I was out to a plant the other day
and I asked the man, I said, “How big a family do you have?" He said, “I have
three kids and a wife.” I said, "If the Congress had acted responsibly in this last
session, they would have done what I proposed be done last January, which
would have been to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000 and you,
Mr. Taxpayer, with three kids and a wife and yourself, when you make out that
income tax return next April, you would have had $1,250 more of personal
exemption."
Now, Congress didn't do what I proposed. But Congress is going to have it
on their doorstep when they come back, and they better pass it. If they don't
it in 1977, we are going to go after them in 1978, and if they don't do it in
1978, we are going to beat them in the election in 1978.
pass
Now let me tell you something else that I support. I mentioned it in the last
debate. In my view, we lost a great, great American tradition when the Supreme
Court ruled out voluntary prayer in public schools. Every child should have
the opportunity for voluntary prayer in school, and I strongly support a consti-
tutional amendment that would permit voluntary prayer in public schools.
We have much to do. We have to keep strong so we can keep the peace, so
that when I negotiate with an adversary, whether it is from the Soviet Union
or any other country, or when I negotiate with our allies, they know America is
number one.
2754
