October 31
[1001]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1001
Remarks to Long Island Labor and Business Leaders in
Hempstead, New York. October 31, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Joe, and thank all of you wonderful, wonderful
people from Nassau County. And what a rally in the home of the Islanders
and the Nets.¹
I want you to listen very carefully. I would like to hear a pin drop. You know,
this morning we all set our clocks back. On Tuesday, let's not set America back.
On Tuesday, vote for Jerry Ford. This is no time to play trick and treat with
America.
But, thank you, Joe. And now I would like to speak very deeply from some
feelings that I have about some of your friends. They are dear friends of mine.
First, for the benefit of Nassau County, for the benefit of the great State of
New York, for the benefit of the United States, you send Jim Buckley back
to the United States Senate.
And now I would like to express a very deep, personal appreciation for the
tremendous effort that a dear friend of mine and a great United States Senator
from your State has done. He's one of the outstanding Members of the Con-
gress. I want to thank Jack Javits for his great support.
Now I asked you to be so quiet that you could hear a pin drop. You can
cheer a little later. But there are two old friends of mine in the House of
Representatives who I know were first-class Members of the House who did a
superb job for me, who are working day and night, day after day, for you, and
I speak here of two guys. You send back to Washington, Jack Wydler and Norm
Lent.
And it goes without saying that if I had not had the staunch and steadfast
support of Dick Rosenbaum 2 before the Convention, I wouldn't be here speak-
ing to you, urging that we win this election on November 2.
And I want to express my deep appreciation to the reverend clergy. But one
final acknowledgment—and I can't think of a more appropriate place to say
it than right here in Nassau County—I have had at my side working with me
on our major problems, domestically and internationally, his loyalty, his
devotion, his dedication, his vision. Yes, I want to thank the great Vice President,
Nelson Rockefeller, for his help.
¹ New York Islanders, member of the National Hockey League, and New York Nets, member of the
National Basketball Association.
2 New York State Republican Party chairman.
2815
