[740]
August 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, what is Mr. Connally going to do in the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. We'll discuss that when he along with Vice President Rocke-
feller and Bob Dole are here on Thursday and Friday.
Q. Mr. President, did you invite Governor Reagan here for this Thursday
meeting?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we have not, for the reasons that I indicated. I had had
a very indepth meeting with him, and I know from my own experiences that
he felt that he did want some rest and relaxation. But we certainly want him on
the team, and I have every indication, from my previous discussions and his pub-
lic demonstration, that he will be actively helping the Republican cause in this
campaign.
Q. Mr. President, will you ask Senator Baker to also be involved, active on
your behalf?
THE PRESIDENT. Rog Morton will have a very broad-based steering committee,
and I don't want to preempt any announcement that will be coming later in that
regard.
Q. Mr. President, do you have any preference for a type of format for the
debates?
THE PRESIDENT. We have some preferences that I indicated yesterday. I think
each one should be no less than 90 minutes. There should be four as a minimum.
There should be the subjects I indicated. And they ought to start as quickly as
possible. Anything beyond that, my negotiators will take care of.
Q. Mr. President, will you please tell me what percentage of your time cam-
paigning you expect to spend in the South and what time you hope Senator
Dole would spend in the South, just to corroborate what you say about not
writing it off?
The President. Those details will be revealed as we move ahead, Wally
[Walter C. Rodgers, Associated Press Radio].
Q. Mr. President, could you tell me whether you have been in contact with
Governor Connally this week and when he was invited to come here?
THE PRESIDENT. I talked to Governor Connally the day before yesterday.
Q. Mr. President, do you plan to do a lot of active campaigning in the South
when you are out of Washington?
THE PRESIDENT. I will be doing a fairly full schedule, but the details of how
it will be done and where it will be done will be announced later.
Q. Does that mean lots of traveling?
THE PRESIDENT. The details will be announced a little later, Helen.
2178
