[831]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
our own way. John Byrnes, I played golf with him because he is a friend of 28-
plus years. I don't see anything improper at all.
Q. Do you think that you can separate-
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely.
Q. —their business as lobbyists and their representation of their corporations
from your personal friendship?
THE PRESIDENT. As a matter of fact, some of their comments could be helpful
in what the status is.
Q. Mr. President, yet that seems to be the issue that Carter is raising, though.
He seems to be raising the old buddy system issue and saying, in fact, that you
can't. Now what can you say to counter that? How can you?
THE PRESIDENT. Maybe he can't, but I can.
Q. Mr. President, may I ask you, you now are aware that some of these ex-
penses were actually paid by the companies and not by your friends. But you
were paying, when you had them to your home, you were paying yourself, the
taxpayers were not taking care of this. So these companies in effect were financ-
ing some of this. What is your thinking about why they wanted to do this, why
they were willing to entertain you on these weekends?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you would have to ask the people who offered the
invitation. These are personal friends, and I don't ask in advance why you want
to pay my green fees. I think that's a matter for them on the basis of their own
integrity.
Q. Mr. President, you have been through one debate. Have you got any
thoughts on the second one as to a change in format, or anything you would like
to do differently?
THE PRESIDENT. We are very satisfied with the format that was used in the
first debate. I thought it went very well.
Q. Mr. President, you look more worried than I've seen you in a long time.
THE PRESIDENT. Worried?
Q. Yes, sir. You haven't smiled very much in this news conference. You really
look troubled, and I have known you for 10 years. Does this bother you? Is it
something that's going to hurt you badly in the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I answered a moment ago I am more concerned about my
personal reputation. But I am not unhappy. I just am worried about getting over
to the signing ceremony for one of these bill signings.
NOTE: President Ford's thirty-seventh news conference began at 11:50 a.m. in the Oval Office at the
White House.
2372
