January 19
[1076]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But as we look down the road, it is essential to our Nation's future security that
special, dedicated men and women be given the time and the opportunity for
study, learning, and reflection. Here you do have an opportunity to consider the
formulation of our national security policies and management of our resources
that are essential to our security and America's role in the world.
It seems that as you go through the process here at this new institution, you
must not only face the question of what do I know, but perhaps more important-
ly, what do I believe? The National Defense University is not only dedicated to
knowledge and to learning, it is dedicated to basic American beliefs. To preserve
those beliefs our country must be strong militarily, equally strong industrially
and morally. Military strength will preserve our freedom, and world peace
depends on a strong America.
I'm greatly privileged to be the first American President since Dwight D.
Eisenhower to leave office while America is at peace. For that I am grateful to
you, as all Americans are grateful to all in the military and those in the other
services that have corresponding responsibilities. We do look to you to continue
your outstanding contribution to our national security.
Admiral Bayne, as one of my last official acts as President, let me now hand
over to you the coat of arms symbolizing learning, strength, and patriotism, so
that we can appropriately dedicate the National Defense University.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:40 p.m. at Fort
McNair. In his opening remarks, he referred to Vice
Adm. M. G. Bayne, USN, president of the university,
Donald H. Rumsfeld, Secretary and William P.
Clements, Jr., Deputy Secretary, Defense Depart-
ment.
1076
Memoranda on Vietnam-Era Selective Service Discharges.
January 19, 1977
Memorandum for the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Air Force,
the Secretary of the Navy; Through the Secretary of Defense
Under Proclamation 4313 of September 16, 1974, which established a Vietnam
era clemency program for draft evaders and military deserters, approximately
13,589 former military service members who had been discharged for desertion
and approximately 5,555 undischarged deserters applied for clemency. As Presi-
dent, I have a continuing concern over the welfare of these people, particularly
those who were wounded in combat or who received decorations for valor in
2965
