[862]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Many of you know that I sent back to the Congress 59 bills with a veto stamp
on them. Congress has supported 43 of those 59 vetoes, and as a result we saved
$9 billion in expenditures from the Federal budget. If Mr. Carter's friends in
Congress had been more interested in saving money than spending it, we could
have saved an additional $16 billion.
Mr. Carter calls our tax system a disgrace to the human race. If that's true,
then it's a disgrace to the Democratic majorities in the Congress who have con-
trolled both the House and the Senate, written every tax law and every tax loop-
hole for the last 22 years. That's where the blame belongs.
One day Mr. Carter proposes doing away with tax deductions for every home
mortgage interest payment or taxing church properties other than church
buildings; the next day he says that's not what he meant. One day Mr. Carter
talks about balancing the Federal budget and fighting inflation; the next day
he turns around and talks about new programs that would cost at least $100
billion each year. We've seen Mr. Carter go from labor halls and blast away at
businessmen for paying less than their share of Federal taxes. He says their
burden should be increased. Then he goes to Club 21 in Manhattan and tells
businessmen, “Don't worry, we won't hurt you." Now, you can't have it both
ways.
Let me give you a little advice. If I were a businessman and Jimmy Carter
were President, I'd be very, very worried. If I were concerned about inflation
and Jimmy Carter were President, I'd be extremely worried. If I were concerned
about bringing unemployment down without spending billions and billions
on dead-end, Humphrey-Hawkins jobs and Jimmy Carter was President, I
would be extremely worried.
The unemployment figures for September came out just this morning. They
were announced in Washington as they are every month. Unemployment
dropped nationally by a tenth of a percent. We're moving in the right direction,
but not with makework jobs at the taxpayer's expense. We're moving in the
right direction toward full employment by stimulating the private sector of our
economy-where five out of the six jobs exist in America-and that's the right
approach, and that's the Ford administration's attack on the problems of
unemployment.
And let me talk very seriously for just a minute. The recent crisis in Great
Britain tells us all we need to know about the dangers of too much government,
too much spending on borrowed money. The British pound has sunk to its
lowest level in the history of that great country. Inflation has been running
2450
