[979]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
to know about the dangers of too much government, too much spending on
borrowed money. Just a few days ago, the value of the British pound dropped to
a new alltime low. Inflation has been running at approximately 25 percent.
Government spending in Great Britain now accounts for 60 percent of the entire
British economy.
The courageous—and I emphasize courageous-British Prime Minister of
that troubled nation has gone to the very heart of the problem. Listen to what
he said just a few weeks ago to his own Labor Party, the party that played an
important role in helping to create the crisis that they face. Prime Minister Jim
Callaghan said, and I quote, "We used to think that you could spend your way
out of a recession and increase employment by cutting taxes and boosting gov-
ernment spending." He went on to say, "I will tell you in all candor, that option
no longer exists and that insofar as it ever did exist, it worked by injecting infla-
tion into the economy. And each time that has happened, the average level of
unemployment has risen." He went on to say, "Higher inflation followed by
higher unemployment, that's the history of the last 20 years in Great Britain.”
We must not let that happen in the United States. We can avoid it, and as long
as I am President of the United States we will avoid it.
That is but one of the many important reasons I am a candidate for the
Presidency in 1976. I need your help. I need your support. I need your vote
on November 2.
You know where I stand. You know what I've done. You know what
we can do. Under my Presidency in the next 4 years—and with your support
and our victory here in Indiana and nationwide next November 2—I will never
let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 a.m. at the
Scottish Rite Cathedral. Prior to his remarks, he
attended a private President Ford Committee recep-
tion at the cathedral.
In his remarks, he referred to Representative Wil-
liam G. Bray, of Indiana 1951-75, Frank C. Mc-
Alister, director of personnel and labor relations for
the Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, and actor
Forrest Tucker.
980
Remarks on Arrival at Covington, Kentucky.
October 28, 1976
Well, thank you very much, Governor, Bob Taft, the Members of the congres-
sional delegations from both Ohio and Kentucky:
It's great to be in the southern Ohio area. But I did want to make a very
2750
