October 13
[891]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Congratulations to you, to those who worked on it, and good luck, and God
bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:36 a.m. at a cere-
mony at Yonkers City Hall. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Richard Rosenbaum, chairman of
the New York State President Ford Committee,
Senators Jacob K. Javits and James L. Buckley,
and Mayor Angelo Martinelli of Yonkers.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 13367) is Public Law
94-488 (90 Stat. 2341).
891
Remarks in White Plains, New York. October 13, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dick Rosenbaum, Senator Javits, Senator Buckley,
distinguished Members of the House of Representatives, Mayor Delveccio, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset let me express my deep gratitude and appreciation for this
wonderful crowd, to see all of these tremendous young people from all of the
high schools. And I am especially appreciative of the student body of Archbishop
Stepinac.
But may I add one other comment. I had a wonderful day in the State of New
York yesterday, in Flatbush and Brooklyn and Manhattan, and we have had a
superb day so far in Yonkers and White Plains. But it's been made especially
meaningful to me because I have had with me your two outstanding United
States Senators-Senator Jack Javits and Senator Jim Buckley. But I have also
been privileged to have the various Members of Congress who represent the
various areas in the State of New York that I have been privileged to visit in
this day and a half so far. They are quality people. Send them back, and give me
some help by getting some more good people like that.
Mayor Delveccio said that White Plains has a great, wonderful, historical
background. I was looking just the other day, in contemplation of coming to
White Plains, that 200 years ago this month, young Americans fought the
British Redcoats right in the Battle of White Plains.
In 1976 a different kind of battle is raging the length and the breadth of this
country. In this battle the citizens of White Plains and all Americans are not
fighting Redcoats but redtape and red ink, and we are going to win that battle,
too. That's the basic difference between Plains, Georgia, and White Plains, New
York.
My opponent from Plains, Georgia, makes the promises. You here in White
Plains, New York, would have to pay for them, and you don't want to, so let's
win this battle November 2.
2507
