January 18
[1071]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In some respects, however, the approach of the United States with respect to
commodity policies differs from that of a number of developing countries.
Generally, these countries support commodity arrangements that provide for
greater government control of prices and production, as well as common financ-
ing of commodity buffer stocks. In contrast, the commodity policy of the United
States has three major objectives:
-To ensure adequate investment in resource development to meet future
market demands at reasonable prices;
-To examine on a case-by-case basis individual commodities in order to de-
termine how best to improve (where possible) the functioning of individual
commodity markets and to determine whether commodity agreements
would be useful and appropriate;
-To promote the stable growth of the commodity export earnings of
developing countries.
The United States has repeatedly pointed out that artificial increases of prices
serve the interests of neither producers nor consumers in both developed and
developing countries. Frequently, control of prices and production has led to
lower, less stable earnings for producers, mainly because substitute sources are
developed or existing sources expanded. Moreover, controls have often initially
meant higher prices for consumers, reduced exports, and a decline in the eco-
nomic welfare of all parties.
The United States, while prepared to genuinely consider methods of improv-
ing markets for individual commodities, generally supports the use of market
mechanisms to determine supplies and prices.
Multinational Corporations and International Investment
In June 1976, the United States approved the adoption of the Declaration on
International Investment and Multinational Enterprises devised by the Organi-
zation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This agreement affirms the
principle of national treatment of multinational corporations (MNC's); recom-
mends guidelines of good business practices for the activities of MNC's; and
indicates the responsibilities of governments regarding international invest-
ment incentives and disincentives.
The United States recognizes that increased investment is a critical element
for international economic growth, and that MNC's have contributed sub-
stantially to the rise in international investment and productivity. The activities
of MNC's, however, have prompted questions about their obligations to both
home and host countries and about the reciprocal responsibilities of nations
2957
