July 23
[688]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
vinced me that a strain of virus, popularly known as "swine flu", could threaten
the health of our citizenry unless a massive, extraordinary program of national
inoculations was immediately undertaken.
I requested a special appropriation of $135 million from the Congress to
ensure the production and distribution of sufficient swine-type influenza vaccine.
I was gratified by the rapid response of the Congress in acting on my request and
I signed it into law on April 15.
Since that time we have made significant progress toward our goal of making
this vaccine available to all Americans before the onset of an influenza season
this fall. Nearly 90 million doses of vaccine have already been produced; orga-
nizational efforts at the state and local levels for delivery of inoculations are
well advanced; voluntary groups have been identified, briefed, and organized;
and results of the largest pre-certification clinical field trials ever performed are
very positive for the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine.
Despite these accomplishments, however, we now face a growing problem
in making this public health program available to the American people.
Secretary Mathews reported to me yesterday afternoon that the providers of
liability insurance for the vaccine manufacturers continue to resist our efforts
to work out an agreement to provide insurance through normal commercial
channels. It is their position that the inordinate size of this program makes it
difficult if not impossible to accurately assess, and thereby reasonably insure,
the potential hazards of administering the vaccine to everyone.
Although experience indicates that there is a very low risk of untoward
reactions to influenza vaccine, we will continue to pursue an agreeable compro-
mise with these companies. Without essential product liability coverage, the
vaccine manufacturers are unwilling to release the vaccine for use in this
national program. Secretary Mathews reported to me that unless this liability
problem is resolved in the next few days, the manufacturers will terminate their
production of swine flu vaccine. All of us would be derelict in our responsibilities
to the American people if this program comes to a screeching halt.
In anticipation of just this situation, I directed Secretary Mathews on June 16
to submit legislation to the Congress to enable the government to assume a
proper share of risks for the program, but not those resulting from negligence
of the manufacturer. This measure is still under consideration by the Congress,
but further delay, regardless of the reason, could result in the failure of this pro-
gram to meet this essential public health need for all Americans.
I share the concern of the Congress that the vaccine manufacturers and in-
2083
