August 26
[741]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, how is this steering committee going to relate to the PFC?
What will be the duties and how will they work in tandem?
THE PRESIDENT. Rog Morton will have an announcement in that regard as
soon as the committee is put together. We don't want to announce everything
this morning.
Q. Will that be what Vice President Rockefeller and John Connally are
involved in?
The President. They will not be a part of the steering committee, but they
will certainly have an active role in the campaign, very active.
Q. Mr. President, do you plan to bring some of the Reagan campaign staff
into the Ford Committee?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't yet, but we certainly want their advice and coun-
sel, and the possibility exists that some of their people will be with us.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 a.m. at the Bass House, residence of Richard Bass, owner/operator of
Snowbird resort.
741
Memorandum on Federal Programs for American Indians.
August 26, 1976
Memorandum for the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture,
the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
the Secretary of Transportation, the Director, Office of Management and
Budget, the Chairman, Civil Service Commission, the Administrator of
General Services, the Administrator, Small Business Administration, the
Administrator of Veterans Affairs, the Director, Community Services Ad-
ministration, the Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, the
Acting Chairman, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Gov-
ernor, Farm Credit Administration
I am today designating Bradley H. Patterson, Jr., of the White House Office
to assist me in the area of American Indian affairs. It will be Mr. Patterson's
specific responsibility to work with each of you to improve the coordination
among the Federal agencies with programs that serve the Indian people.
It is important that you insure the effective delivery and efficient operation
2179
