[679]
July 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
animal, I am afraid it will appear as a blur. If there is slow movement, like
a rock rolling along or a slow cloud moving by in the distance, we will probably
see that go by.
Right now, all we are seeing is the landscape with what may be blue sky in
the distance. We have only black and white at the moment, and we can't quite
see what is on the landscape at the moment. But if anything moves slowly along
the landscape, we would see it.
THE PRESIDENT. Will you have other pictures which will be more definitive in
a more localized area?
MR. MARTIN.. Yes, we plan to take, over the next 2 or 3 days, a series that will
be right out in front of the lander where we hope to dig a sample about 8 days
from now. We will look for a safe place to dig up some dirt that we will then
put into the biology experiments and into the organic analysis experiments.
THE PRESIDENT.. Is there any time limit on how long you can take pictures
of this quality?
MR. MARTIN. No, we believe from all of our testing that we should be able
to take pictures through the primary mission, which extends to about the middle
of November. There is nothing really to wear out. This is a line scan camera,
facsimile camera. It takes a line at a time. That is why it takes quite a while
to take a picture. We will only get three or four pictures per day, but they
should all continue to be of this quality.
THE PRESIDENT. How long does it take, once the picture is taken, to get the
necessary resolution back to us here on Earth?
MR. MARTIN. The first picture you saw, which included the footpad, took
about 5 minutes to take on Mars, and then it is transmitted by a relay radio up to
the orbiter flying overhead. Then the orbiter sends the picture to Earth, and it
takes about four times as long. So, it took 20 minutes to send back the first picture
from the orbiter. And then this bigger picture that is coming in now with the
panorama will take about 40 minutes to come back to Earth.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, apparently everything is going extremely well. Your
spectrometers, your so-called cookers, as they are called-everything is going
A-OK?
MR. MARTIN. Everything is really fine. We, of course, haven't and won't
operate some of the instruments for a few days. We did measure the constitu-
ents and composition of the atmosphere as we came down through it, and all
indications are that the instruments worked just fine. We don't know yet
what the atmosphere is, but we will know in a few hours.
2052
