October 26
[969]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
it that we win the battle against inflation, and we can do that by cutting the
rate of growth of Federal spending, as we tried to.
In January, I submitted a budget to the Congress where instead of having
an 11 percent rate of growth in Federal spending, as we had had for the last 10
years, we tried to cut it in half to 5½ percent. We were quite successful. We
should have been more so.
I vetoed 66 bills in my best effort to put a little pressure on that big-spending
Congress up there. I might say parenthetically, that saved the taxpayers about
$9 billion or, if you average it out, about $200 per family in the United States.
But the main point is, jobs, housing, health care—I don't believe you have to
federalize health care in the United States to maintain or to improve the health
care of the American people in this society in which we live.
The problem of crime—when I became President in 1974, the rate of crime in
America was at 18 percent-unbelievable. In 1975, it was cut back 50 percent to
9 percent. That is still too high. But the encouraging news is that in the first 6
months of 1976, the rate of increase is 3 percent, and we have had significant re-
duction in some of the more serious areas of crime.
Let me tell you one way in which we have tried to solve the problem. All the
experts tell us there is a group in our society-hardened criminals, professional
criminals-they impose upon all of us law-abiding people a very high percent-
age of the crime committed in America. And so, we have in the last 12 months
had a career criminal program. It has resulted in a significant number of hard-
ened career criminals being apprehended, convicted—95 percent of them have
gone to jail, and that is where they belong, and that is where they better stay.
One further comment that I think is something all of us ought to really think
about. Statements have been made that America is not respected anymore,
America's role in the world is not what it ought to be, that our leadership is less
than it should be. Let me take one or two examples.
Do you realize that in the last 2 weeks all seven Nobel Prizes for physics,
chemistry, economics, et cetera-every one of them went to an American for the
first time in the history of the Nobel Prizes being awarded. I think that is a
pretty good record.
And let me add, in the opportunities that I have had to negotiate with adver-
saries and to work with allies, the allies are honored to be associated with us, and
adversaries respect us. They respect the 215 million Americans. They respect the
kind of government, the kind of freedom that we have in America, and they
know that the American people, when the chips are down, are united in the
feeling that we have for the blessings of America. They know that America is
2713
