July 15
[668]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
inaugurate this afternoon. This new institution, dedicated to a great scientist,
scholar, and humanist whose vision transcended national boundaries, is, indeed,
a fitting symbol of humanity's progress.
Mr. Chancellor, your arrival today marks our eighth meeting over the past
2 years, underscoring the continuity of our consultations on both sides of the
Atlantic. Since your first visit as Chancellor in 1974, the countries of the West
have been working more closely than ever between ourselves.
At the NATO summit in Brussels, at the Helsinki summit last August, and
in our conferences at Rambouillet and Puerto Rico, we have demonstrated new
unity among the industralized democracies, a new determination to achieve the
objectives of peace and prosperity for all our peoples, and a new confidence
that we will achieve these objectives. The progress over the past 2 years clearly
indicates that we will succeed.
Mr. Chancellor, I look forward with great anticipation to our discussions.
I bid a very hearty welcome to you, Mr. Chancellor, as well as to Mrs. Schmidt
and to all the members of the German party.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where Chancellor
Helmut Schmidt was given a formal welcome with
full military honors. Chancellor Schmidt responded
as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
I thank you, Mr. President, for your kind words
of welcome, which indeed have moved me deeply.
I do attach special importance to this visit to the
United States of America which, as you have re-
minded me, is my third as head of the Govern-
ment of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The Bicentennial anniversary of your great coun-
try, Mr. President, for us is a date of eminent sig-
nificance. It is a date of eminent significance to all
free and democratic countries in the world. For the
citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany, it is at
welcome occasion to reflect on the fundamental
democratic values for which both our countries.
stand, as well as the close bonds of friendship that
have developed harmoniously in the 27 years since
the birth of the Federal Republic of Germany.
The German people do not forget the spiritual
and material contribution of the United States to
the development of the Federal Republic of Ger-
many and, hence, to what it does represent today.
But our recollection also embraces the participa-
tion of millions of immigrants of German stock
in the fortunes of the United States in the course
of its 200-year history, a fact which we Germans
are commemorating this year with a large variety,
as you have mentioned, sir, of functions and fes-
tivities.
During our stay here we shall, of course, not be
concerned with festivities only. Our talks will be
governed by a number of problems facing both
our countries-other countries as well-problems
which can only be solved by joint effort.
The community of nations is still confronted
with unsolved political problems which cause us
concern-complex problems affecting the world.
economy, problems affecting the future of all of
us which demand our full attention, our entire en-
ergies, and the firm will of all concerned to co-
operate with each other. Your initiative, Mr. Pres-
ident, for talks in Puerto Rico was a valuable
step in this direction, with valuable results.
In your address you have rightly pointed out
the importance of the Atlantic Alliance, which has
increased still more in the light of these prob-
lems. Along with European unification, the alliance
is the bedrock of our foreign policy. We are re-
solved to continue making our contribution as be-
fore and not to lose sight of the common aims.
I can say without exaggeration, sir, that our
bilateral relations could not be better. Our proven
partnership is based on firm friendship. My coun-
try has deep confidence-and this also goes for
my people-deep confidence in the United States
of America.
Mr. President, my fellow countrymen back
home in Germany and also this distinguished
delegation of ours and myself, we wish your great
Nation happiness and success on its way into its
third century.
Thank you.
2017
