[1065]
January 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
1065
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President
of the Senate Submitting Proposed Puerto Rico Statehood
Legislation. January 14, 1977
I SUBMIT herewith to the Congress the Puerto Rico Statehood Act of 1977.
The purpose of the Act is to extend to the people of Puerto Rico the oppor-
tunity to achieve the status of statehood if they should so desire.
Since 1900, Presidents and Congresses have debated the question of statehood
for Puerto Rico.
Some progress has been made in providing the people of Puerto Rico with
greater autonomy and a greater measure of self-government. But these great
people are still not represented with a vote in either the House or Senate. They
are still not represented in the election of a President.
Full equality for the people of Puerto Rico cannot come without full repre-
sentation.
The social and economic progress to which they aspire cannot come without
the political equality of statehood.
Any change in the status of the Commonwealth must be accomplished by
the mutual consent of the people of Puerto Rico and the United States.
As Congress considers the appropriate course of action relating to the perma-
nent status of Puerto Rico, it is essential that the dignity and self-respect of the
great people of Puerto Rico be a matter of the highest consideration.
Accordingly, the legislation I propose would establish, within the framework
of the United States Constitution and the Constitution of the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, a sequence of steps reflecting the historic procedures by which
present states entered the Union, while recognizing the special circumstances of
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the aspirations of the citizens of the
Commonwealth.
First, in recognition of the fact that statehood for Puerto Rico would require
the resolution of many complex issues, Congress would establish a joint U.S.-
Puerto Rico Commission to enable the people of Puerto Rico to participate effec-
tively in determining the terms and conditions for Puerto Rico's proposed
admission to statehood. By providing a forum for the reaching of a broad under-
standing of the issues and implications involved in admission to the Union, this
Act would ensure that the advantages and disadvantages and the rights and
2936
