July 22
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Injunctive relief would be provided in those instances in which unauthorized
disclosure is threatened and serious damage to intelligence collection efforts
would result.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT
This legislation is designed to ensure that the Government will be able to
collect necessary foreign intelligence while at the same time providing assur-
ances to the public that electronic surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes
will not be abused. The proposed bill would provide a procedure for seeking a
judicial order approving the use, in a particular case, of electronic surveillance
to obtain foreign intelligence information. It also would establish standards that
must be satisfied before any such order could be entered. The bill follows the
framework of existing law governing such surveillance undertaken for criminal
law enforcement purposes, with appropriate adjustments to meet the special
needs and purposes of foreign intelligence investigations.
EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT EXTENSION
This legislation would extend the Export Administration Act from Septem-
ber 30, 1976, to September 30, 1979. The Act authorizes the President to regulate
exports of U.S. goods and technology to the extent necessary to protect the
domestic economy from an excessive drain of scarce materials, to further the
foreign policy of the United States and to control exports when necessary for
purposes of national security. The Administration also has requested that the
maximum civil penalty under the Act be raised from $1,000 to $10,000 and that
criminal penalties be raised from $10,000 to more meaningful levels.
FINANCIAL SUPPORT FUND
This legislation would authorize the President to accept membership for the
United States in a new, $25 billion Financial Support Fund agreed to by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The
Fund would be available for a period of two years to provide short- to medium-
term financing to participating OECD members faced with extraordinary fi-
nancing needs. The proposal for the Fund was developed as part of a compre-
hensive response to the economic and financial problems posed by severe in-
creases in oil prices.
The Administration's proposal would permit U.S. participation in the Fund
by authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to issue guarantees. The bill
would authorize appropriations of such sums as are necessary to meet obliga-
2071
