October 28
[987]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the U.S. seeks no competitive advantage by virtue of the worldwide system of
effective nonproliferation controls that I am calling for today.
—Fifth, new efforts must be made to urge all nations to join in a full-scale
international cooperative effort—which I shall outline in detail—to develop a
system of effective controls to prevent proliferation.
—Sixth, the U.S. must take new steps with respect to its own exports to control
proliferation, while seeking to improve multilateral guidelines.
—Seventh, the U.S. must undertake a program to evaluate reprocessing in
support of the international policies I have adopted.
-Finally, I have concluded that new steps are needed to assure that we have
in place when needed, both in the U.S. and around the world, the facilities for
the long-term storage or disposal of nuclear wastes.
ACTIONS TO IMPLEMENT OUR NUCLEAR POLICIES
In order to implement the nuclear policies that I have outlined, major efforts
will be required within the United States and by the many nations around the
world with an interest in nuclear energy. To move forward with these efforts,
I am today taking a number of actions and making a number of proposals to
other nations.
I. Change in U.S. Policy on Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing
With respect to nuclear fuel reprocessing, I am directing agencies of the ex-
ecutive branch to implement my decision to delay commercialization of repro-
cessing activities in the United States until uncertainties are resolved. Specifi-
cally, I am:
-Directing the Administrator of the Energy Research and Development
Administration (ERDA) to:
change ERDA policies and programs which heretofore have been based on
the assumption that reprocessing would proceed;
encourage prompt action to expand spent fuel storage facilities, thus
assuring utilities that they need not be concerned about shutdown of nuclear
reactors because of delays; and
• identify the research and development efforts needed to investigate the
feasibility of recovering the energy value from used nuclear fuel without
separating plutonium.
II. Restraint in the Transfer of Sensitive Nuclear Technology and Facilities
Despite the gains in controlling proliferation that have been made, the dangers
posed by reprocessing and the prospect of uncontrolled availability of plutonium
2769
