[964]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
8 days that, through your efforts and the efforts of my opponent and myself, we
can stimulate a greater participation.
I think it's one of the most crucial campaigns in at least my lifetime. The
impact that all of you can have in stimulating participation can be very sig-
nificant. Your coverage, as far as I have been able to observe, whether it's locally
or by the networks, has been fair, evenhanded.
It's also true that there's an abnormal number of undecideds. It's my job
and that of my opponent to try and persuade that very significant element to
participate and to make a decision.
I'm a little prejudiced as to where I hope they cast their final ballot, but it's
my job and that of my opponent to point out the very fundamental differences
that I think exist between what he intends to do if he were President-both
domestically and internationally—and what I will do following the 2 years that
I've had the privilege of being your President.
The American people really in the past, I think, have used exceptionally good
judgment, and I have great faith that in the next 8 days there will be decisions
made by them that will point the direction in which this country goes.
I hope and trust that I can be persuasive in giving them the option that I
offer of the kind of programs we've had as a foundation for a better America
in the next 4 years, leading into our third century of America's great history.
With that, I'll be very glad to respond to any questions.
Q. My question for you today, sir, is, how do you feel the broadcasters have
treated you during the election campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I say with great sincerity that I feel the broadcasters have been
fair, evenhanded. I might have changed a little story here and there. [Laughter]
As I've said, I've made a mistake or two, but overall I think the electronic
news media has handled this election with great fairness, great equity, and in the
highest tradition of your profession.
Q. Washington, Oregon, and Montana are three States—among about 19, I
believe that have initiated ballot measures regarding nuclear energy. The pro-
ponents believe we need more rigid controls on nuclear powerplants, and the
opponents believe the measures will stop further growth of nuclear power.
What is your recommendation to the voters of these States regarding nuclear
power as a future source of energy?
The President. Well, I'm not a voter in Oregon or any of the other States
where that issue is on the agenda, but let me give you my personal feelings con-
cerning the role of nuclear energy.
As this country faces the tremendous task of trying to meet certain goals by
2686
