October 28
[987]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
-With respect to countries that are current recipients of U.S. nuclear supply,
I am directing the Secretary of State to enter into negotiations with the objective
of conforming these agreements to established international guidelines, and to
seek through diplomatic initiatives and fuel supply incentives to obtain their
acceptance of our new criteria.
We must recognize the need for effective multilateral approaches to nonpro-
liferation and prevent nuclear export controls from becoming an element of
commercial competition.
—I am directing the Secretary of State to intensify discussions with other
nuclear suppliers aimed at expanding common guidelines for peaceful coopera-
tive agreements so that they conform with these criteria.
In this regard, the United States would discuss ways of developing incentives
that can lead to acceptance of these criteria, such as assuring reliable fuel supplies
for nations accepting new restraints.
The reliability of American assurances to other nations is an asset that few, if
any, nations of the world can match. It must not be eroded. Indeed, nothing
could more prejudice our efforts to strengthen our existing nonproliferation
understandings than arbitrary suspension or unwarranted delays in meeting sup-
ply commitments to countries which are dealing with us in good faith regarding
effective safeguards and restraints.
Despite my personal efforts, the 94th Congress adjourned without passing
nuclear export legislation which would have strengthened our effectiveness in
dealing with other nations on nuclear matters.
-In the absence of such legislation, I am directing the Secretary of State to
work closely with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to ensure proper empha-
sis on nonproliferation concerns in the nuclear export licensing process.
I will continue to work to develop bipartisan support in Congress for improve-
ments in our nuclear export laws.
VII. Reprocessing Evaluation Program
The world community requires an aggressive program to build the interna-
tional controls and cooperative regimes I have just outlined. I am prepared to
mount such a program in the United States.
-I am directing the Administrator of ERDA to:
• Begin immediately to define a reprocessing and recycle evaluation program
consistent with meeting our international objectives outlined earlier in this
statement. This program should complement the Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission's (NRC) ongoing considerations of safety safeguards and environ-
2775
