October 8
[862]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
are an integral part of our three-pronged strategic program for the defense of
this country.
We need high-performance, long-range aircraft. We need our land-based
ballistic missile systems. We need our submarine-launched ballistic missile
systems.
We are improving our land-based programs with the MARK-III, and we are
moving into the MX missile development. We are building the Trident sub-
marine to replace the present nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine. But
we cannot permit the 25-year-old B-52's to continue for another 10 or 15 years.
As I said yesterday, I'm not going to permit pilots to fly in aircraft which is
older than the pilots themselves. And that is what you do if you go on with the
B-52. The B-1 has met every test, not only as to performance but as to cost. And
I am very much opposed to those who want to cancel it or delay it and, unfor-
tunately, Mr. Carter, in the form that he espouses, either wants to delay it or
cancel it.
I think we owe something to the young people who are called upon to fly
those aircraft to give them the best equipment that this country can buy.
Q. Mr. President, by the way, I support you all the way in those CAB regula-
tions. We fill the gallies that go in your commercial airlines.
I personally am more concerned about the minority expression in the Eastern
European countries over the Communist rule than I am in what's going on in
Rhodesia and South Africa. Can we get Kissinger to go over there and start
doing work along the lines which you are talking about here today?
THE PRESIDENT. The question raised is about the status of Eastern European
countries.
This administration does not concede that there should be Soviet domina-
tion of the Eastern European countries. It has been alleged by some that I was
not as precise as I should have been the other day. [Laughter]
But let me explain what I really meant. I was in Poland a year ago, and I had
the opportunity to talk with a number of citizens of Poland, and believe me,
they are courageous, they are strong people. They don't believe that they are
going to be forever dominated—if they are-by the Soviet Union. They believe
in the independence of that great country, and so do I. And we are going to make
certain, to the best of our ability, that any allegation of domination is not a fact.
I went to Poland, I went to Yugoslavia, I went to Romania to emphasize that
the United States of America believes in freedom, independence of all Eastern
European countries. And that is what I believe in and that is what this Govern-
ment stands for.
2457
