July 14
[667]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
added on top of the FY 1977 defense budget in order to avoid forcing out essential
defense activities.
Defense Management Economies
Finally, Congress has not enacted certain legislative proposals necessary to
permit the Department of Defense to restrain manpower cost growth and to
achieve other essential economies.
As estimated last January, the potential savings in defense made possible
by my proposals total over $3 billion in FY 1977 and $23 billion over the 5-year
period FY 1977-1981. About half of these savings can be achieved through
administrative action by the President and are being implemented. The remain-
ing initiatives, however, require action by the Congress.
When submitting the budget request last January, I explained that if the Con-
gress did not pass the needed legislation it would be necessary to increase the
budget request later in the year. I am pleased that some of the manpower initia-
tives falling within the jurisdiction of the two Armed Services Committees-
which produced this authorization bill-were well received. The Post Office and
Civil Service Committees, however, have been reluctant to act on the critical
legislation needed to save over $400 million in FY 1977 and over $6 billion over
the 5-year period FY 1977-1981. Specific proposals within their jurisdiction
include: (1) reform of the Wage Board System which, through its current sys-
tem for calculating pay raises, now overpays blue collar civilian employees; (2)
elimination of the excessive 1-percent kicker in retired pay adjustments for
civilians; and (3) elimination of dual compensation for reservists who are also
Federal employees.
Furthermore, the Armed Services Committees have yet to enact legislation
permitting the sale in FY 1977 of nearly $750 million worth of commodities no
longer needed in the strategic stockpile. The receipts from these sales would be
an offset in the national defense budget, and without them the budget ceiling for
defense expenditures must be increased accordingly.
There has been a lot of talk about cutting waste in defense spending. Without
action by the Congress these economies cannot be achieved. Here is the oppo-
portunity to act.
These remaining actions to provide for greater efficiencies in the defense
budget should be approved. Because Congress apparently is indifferent to them,
however, I have decided reluctantly to forward budget requests to cover the
needed amounts. Failure by Congress either to enact legislation permitting the
2015
