[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
best hopes for satisfying the rising world demand for energy with minimum
environmental impact and with the potential for reducing dependence on un-
certain and diminishing world supplies of oil.
On the other hand, nuclear fuel, as it produces power also produces pluto-
nium, which can be chemically separated from the spent fuel. The plutonium can
be recycled and used to generate additional nuclear power, thereby partially off-
setting the need for additional energy resources. Unfortunately—and this is the
root of the problem—the same plutonium produced in nuclear powerplants can,
when chemically separated, also be used to make nuclear explosives.
The world community cannot afford to let potential nuclear weapons mate-
rial or the technology to produce it proliferate uncontrolled over the globe. The
world community must ensure that production and utilization of such material
by any nation is carried out under the most stringent security conditions and
arrangements.
Developing the enormous benefits of nuclear energy while simultaneously
developing the means to prevent proliferation is one of the major challenges
facing all nations of the world today.
The standards we apply in judging most domestic and international activities
are not sufficiently rigorous to deal with this extraordinarily complex problem.
Our answers cannot be partially successful. They will either work, in which
case we shall stop proliferation, or they will fail and nuclear proliferation will
accelerate as nations initially having no intention of acquiring nuclear weapons
conclude that they are forced to do so by the actions of others. Should this hap-
pen, we would face a world in which the security of all is critically imperiled.
Maintaining international stability in such an environment would be incalcu-
lably difficult and dangerous. In times of regional or global crisis, risks of nuclear
devastation would be immeasurably increased-if not through direct attack,
then through a process of ever-expanding escalation. The problem can be
handled as long as we understand it clearly and act wisely in concert with other
nations. But we are faced with a threat of tragedy if we fail to comprehend it or
to take effective measures.
Thus the seriousness and complexity of the problem place a special burden
on those who propose ways to control proliferation. They must avoid the temp-
tation for rhetorical gestures, empty threats, or righteous posturing. They must
offer policies and programs which deal with the world as it is, not as we might
wish it to be. The goal is to prevent proliferation, not simply to deplore it.
2764
