October 28
[983]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
follow in the great tradition that he has built on his own record and the great
tradition of his father, your Senator, Bob Taft.
If I might take just a minute to introduce a member of my family—we have
three boys and a daughter, Susan—and our son, Mike Ford, has been here in the
State of Ohio all day; he's going to be with me tonight. He's a divinity student up
in Boston, Massachusetts. He's out campaigning for his old man. I would like to
introduce to you our son, Mike Ford.
Let me reemphasize right here in Karlin Hall how proud I was to have shared
with you your bread and salt, and I am equally proud to be your President and
your friend. It is great to have had the opportunity of going down Fleet Street.
The good mayor has told me on many occasions about his home, his neighbor-
hood, his friends. Well, I saw it firsthand. And to be here in Karlin Hall really
gives me a great, great thrill.
If I might add a special observation and comment—us Michiganders look at
people from Ohio and, you know, we have nothing but great, great respect for
you. And when I was first getting started in politics Frank Lausche was your
Governor. I never thought when I took that step to run for the House of Repre-
sentatives that I would ever have the opportunity to meet and work with Frank
Lausche, but fate made it such that Frank went to the United States Senate and
I stayed in the House of Representatives. And over the years we not only became
good friends but we recognized that our philosophies—even though he was a
Democrat and I was a Republican-were virtually identical.
We believe in the same basic sound principles that had made America great,
and to have a statesman of his stature—and he mentioned his age, I didn't—
make the effort to come and to speak as he did about his friend, Jerry Ford, I will
never forget it. It will be a high moment in my political career.
The thing that impresses me about the many people I see here and what I saw
on each side of the street is that you have so many wonderful traditions, such dis-
tinctive and delicious food, a uniquely spirited way of life, a very special place
in this great American family. Through your support for people Frank Lausche,
Jim Rhodes,¹ Bob Taft, myself, we want to make certain that what we do politi-
cally preserves these unique things that each and every one of you represent.
We think those different heritages must be kept alive, and I can assure you, as
your President for the next 4 years, I will be listening, I will be responding to
your concerns, individually and collectively.
Each of your group is unique and, as I said out on the street, I was taught
1 Governor of Ohio.
2757
