[856]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
The President. Well, I don't disagree with my wife very often, so on this
occasion I will agree with her, as I do on most.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 8:36 p.m. at the resi-
dence of Mr. and Mrs. John Sutro, where the Presi-
dent stayed during his visit to San Francisco.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
857
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Campaign
Debate Party in San Francisco.
October 6, 1976
LET ME thank all of you for coming here. And let me express my deepest
appreciation for not only being here but the support that you are going to give
us in the weeks ahead. We have less than 4 weeks to go before November 2,
so we've got a lot of work to do, and we've got to do it fast and well, and No-
vember 2 will be a great victory for the American people.
I am honored to have on the platform here tonight a number of my very
close, personal friends and very ardent and strong and effective supporters.
Let me introduce them to you.
First, Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee and Mrs. Baker. And then, of
course, your attorney general for the State of California, Evelle Younger. And
we have two of my very close and very helpful friends from the United States
Congress, Congressman Pete McCloskey, and another very good friend from
the State of California, an outstanding Member of the House of Representatives,
Don Clausen. And then there is a man who I have long admired, who I think
will be an outstanding Member of the United States Senate, Dr. Hayakawa.
Now, just a minute to be serious. The reason we're going to win on Novem-
ber 2 is that for the last 2 years, we have had good policies domestically, and
we have had sound and effective policies internationally. We started from be-
hind—and how many can remember just a few weeks ago, when the polls
showed that we were 32 percent behind? I would much rather be a slow starter
and a fast finisher.
I said in Kansas City, we don't concede a single State, we don't concede a
single vote; that we were going to campaign from the snowy banks of Minne-
sota to the sandy plains of Georgia, and we are. California is one of the most
crucial and critical States in this election. I am encouraged by the polls. We are
2438
