[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
the defense budget by $15 billion. And then he had the gall to tell the American
people, 90 million of them, last week that he never said it. Can you trust him?
Jimmy Carter says he's going to cut defense spending, and then he says America
can't be weak any more. He can't have it both ways.
There was a great, great President a few years ago named Teddy Roosevelt.
Teddy Roosevelt once said, "Speak softly and carry a big stick.” Jimmy Carter
wants to speak loudly and carry a flyswatter.
Jimmy Carter has said America is not respected any more. I said that was
slandering the United States and 215 million Americans. What is the truth?
Let me very quickly just quote from some of the distinguished leaders around
the world and what they say about the United States. The Prime Minister of
Ireland said, “It isn't"-he said, "The ties that were forged between us are today
stronger and firmer than ever."
President Giscard of France said, and I quote, “I do not think there has ever
been a time when contacts between our two Governments have been more fre-
quent, consultation more sustained, and cooperation more goodwilled.”
And then the Chancellor of the Government of West Germany said, “At no
time during the past 30 years have relations between our countries been closer
and cooperation more trustful and direct than today."
Jimmy Carter doesn't know what he's talking about. I don't think you should
let him tear down the respect and the admiration that people around the world
have for this great country. We are respected, and when he says that we are not
respected he is slandering the United States of America.
Well, Betty and I are delighted to be here. We thank you for the warm recep-
tion. We need your help. We want your votes. We are going to carry Illinois and
win November 2.
Thank you very much. Have a good day. We love you. We will be back. And
in the meantime, make darn sure you reelect George O'Brien, Jim Thompson,
Sam Young, and all of the good Republicans in the State of Illinois.
Thank you.
[2.] PONTIAC (10:40 a.m.)
THANK YOU all very, very much.
It's great to be in Pontiac, Bill Harris' hometown. Let me introduce some
of the very special guests we have on "The Honest Abe" special: Senator Chuck
Percy; Jim Thompson, the next Governor of the State of Illinois; of course you
know Bill Harris-where is Bill? There he is; and then an old favorite of yours
of many, many years, Les Arends; the next Congressman from this district, Tom
2548
