[784]
September 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am particularly concerned that there are too many young Americans who can-
not find a good job or get the training and the experience they need to find a job.
Americans have long since recognized the importance of assuring that every
high school graduate who is willing, able, and qualified be able to go to college.
We have done so through grants, loans, and scholarships. I believe we can apply
the same principle to create a program for young people who choose not to go
to college but want a job at which they can learn a trade, a craft, or practical
business skills. It can be done. Let's put America—all of America—to work.
Once a good job is secured, it's an American tradition to put some of those
earnings toward a family home, but nowadays-with interest rates too high,
down payments too high, and even monthly payments too high-home owner-
ship is not within the reach of many Americans, particularly young Americans
beginning a career or marriage. My goal is homeownership for every American
family that wants to own a home and is willing to work for and save for it.
Here is how I will meet that goal. First, I will continue to pursue economic
policies, including tight control of unnecessary Federal spending which will hold
inflation down, reduce interest rates, cut your taxes, increasing your purchasing
power, and making more funds available for home mortgages.
Second, it is time we did something more about the down payment require-
ments, which so many people can't afford. I will recommend changes in FHA
loans to reduce down payments on lower- and middle-priced homes by up to 50
percent.
Third, I will direct the Department of Housing and Urban Development to
accelerate implementation of a new Federal guarantee program to lower monthly
payments in the early years of homeownership and gradually increase them as
the family income goes up.
A good job, a good home-now let's talk about the good health we must have
to appreciate both.
My goal is an America where health care is not only the best in the world but
is both accessible and affordable. But raising Federal taxes by $70 billion a
year for a Government-dominated health insurance program is not the way to
do it. That path leads to more bureaucracy, more fraud, more taxes, and second-
class medical care.
That is what I am against. Here is what I am for. As our first priority, I have
recommended protection against the costs of a catastrophic or prolonged illness
for the aged and the disabled-ensuring that never again will they have to pay
more than $750 a year for medical care. People should not have to go broke
to get well.
2254
