[977]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
becomes even greater, but there's one thing I am an authority on, that's the
quality of the bands. Inside, you have the wonderful Durning String Band, the
Plymouth-White Marsh Band, and as I came in I couldn't help but notice the
fine music and the wonderful appearance of the Central Bucks Marching Band,
the Norristown South Marching Eagles, and the Sun Valley High School Band.
Thank you all. They're the best. Congratulations. I deeply appreciate them all
being here.
Let me be very straightforward with you tonight. It's great to be back in
Pennsylvania. You've given me a wonderful welcome here. We had a wonder-
ful welcome in Pittsburgh yesterday, and I thank all the wonderful people from
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for the support that we're going to get
on November 2, and we're going to carry the Keystone State.
I'm going to extend to you a special invitation from Betty and myself. Come
on down to Washington, D.C. January 20 and see the Ford-Dole ticket sworn
in on Inauguration Day.
As we come to the final countdown days—and we have just 6 days left—I
want you to know where I stand. I stand on your side for limited government,
for fiscal responsibility, for rising prosperity, for military strength, for peace
in the world. And I remind each and every one of you that not a single young
American is fighting or dying on any foreign battlefield tonight, and we're
going to keep it that way.
After so many, many years in which America's defenses were shortchanged,
I proposed the two largest defense outlays in the history of the United States.
I was fortunate enough to convince the Congress of the United States not to
slash and cut our defense appropriations in 1976.
After so many years of runaway growth in the Federal budget, I submitted
a budget for this fiscal year which cut the rate of growth in Federal spending by
one-half. I have held the line on Government spending with 66 vetoes and
saved you, the hard-pressed American taxpayer, $9 billion and each family in
this country $200 in Federal spending. And we're going to do better next year.
And because, as your President, I have not been afraid to say no to the big
spenders in the Congress, we will submit a balanced budget in 1978, and we'll
have another tax reduction for the American people in addition.
My idea of tax reform is very simple-it's tax reduction. I proposed last
year, in January of 1976, that the Congress increase your personal exemption
from $750 to $1,000. Let me be very specific. I'm sure in this great group here
tonight there are families where there are three children, a husband and a wife.
If Congress had done its job, if Congress had done as I recommended, that fam-
2736
