January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
changes in the Federal role-will help solve the problem rather than make it
worse or cause new problems.
The Congress should give particular attention to the growing concern
throughout the country about the size and cost of Government, the extent of
Government intrusion in individuals' activities, and the burden of regulations
which restrict freedom of choice. Unfortunately, the people who develop Gov-
ernment rules and regulations often do not understand adequately the condi-
tions they are regulating nor appreciate fully the impact of their decisions on the
millions of people who are affected.
The question of the proper role of the Federal Government in energy
become important in the case of:
has
—Controls over decisions that would normally be made in the marketplace.
-Mandatory conservation measures.
-Resource exploration and energy production.
-Energy research, development and demonstration.
Government Controls or Marketplace Decisions
Many legislative proposals will involve the question of whether there should
be greater reliance on decisions made in the marketplace or upon regulations,
standards and controls developed by the Federal Government.
Recent experience has again demonstrated that Federal price and allocation
controls on energy ultimately work against the best interests of consumers be-
cause they reduce incentives to produce new supplies, they reduce competition
and they reduce freedom of choice. For example, Federal price controls on
natural gas have been a major factor leading to declining production and to
wasteful and inefficient use of this resource. Also, controls on crude oil have
contributed to a decline in production.
Federal price and allocation controls inevitably mean that the Government
must employ people to develop, issue and revise regulations; to sit in judgment
on requests for exceptions when the regulations do not fit real world circum-
stances; and to enforce the regulations. Federal controls means that millions of
decisions by producers, distributors, wholesalers, retailers and consumers must
conform with Government-developed regulations—even when the people
directly involved know that another course of action makes more sense and would
still be in the national interest.
The principal alternative to Federal regulation and controls is to allow prices
and allocation of energy supplies to be determined in the marketplace—with
decisions made by individuals most directly affected. In some cases, avoiding or
eliminating price controls can mean somewhat higher consumer prices in the
2893
