July 22
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
WAGE BOARD PAY REFORM
The basic principle governing Federal blue-collar employees' pay rates is
that they should be comparable with prevailing rates and pay practices in the
non-Federal sector in the same locality. This bill would eliminate aspects of
present law governing wage board pay rates that are inconsistent with that prin-
ciple and therefore result in Federal blue-collar workers earning more than
their counterparts in the private sector. Among other things, the bill would
eliminate use of wage rate data from outside the local area involved. It would
also eliminate the present requirement for each grade to have five steps, and
would substitute a step-rate structure that would accord with the predominant
industry practice.
INCREASED AUTHORIZATION FOR CERTAIN SMALL BUSINESS LOAN PROGRAMS
This legislation would increase the total amount of loans, guarantees, and
other obligations which the Small Business Administration (SBA) may have
outstanding at any one time. These revised ceilings will permit SBA to increase
the number of loans made to those small businesses who otherwise would be
unable to obtain credit in the private sector.
FEDERAL PROCUREMENT ACT
A number of recommendations made by the Commission on Government
Procurement—including proposals to consolidate the basic Federal procurement
acts and modernize the provisions for awarding contracts—would be imple-
mented by this bill.
REORGANIZATION ACT EXTENSION
This proposal would extend the President's authority to submit plans for the
reorganization of executive agencies to the Congress. This authority expired on
April 1, 1973. The legislation is designed to restore the authority necessary for
the President to propose reorganization in order to foster both efficiency and
flexibility in the structure of the Executive branch.
STOCKPILE DISPOSAL
This legislation would authorize disposal from the national stockpile and
supplemental stockpile of industrial diamond stones, antimony, tin, and silver.
The amounts of these four materials recommended for disposal are in excess of
adequate stockpile requirements, and their sale would result in estimated re-
ceipts of $746 million in fiscal year 1977.
2079
