[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
governments to affirm publicly that they will regard nuclear wrongdoing as an
intolerable violation of acceptable norms of international behavior, which
would set in motion strong and immediate countermeasures.
VI. U.S. Nuclear Export Policies
During the past 2 years, the United States has strengthened its own national
nuclear export policies. Our interests, however, are not limited to controls alone.
The United States has a special responsibility to share the benefits of peaceful
nuclear energy with other countries. We have sought to serve other nations as
a reliable supplier of nuclear fuel and equipment. Given the choice between
economic benefits and progress toward our nonproliferation goals, we have
given, and will continue to give priority to nonproliferation. But there should be
no incompatibility between nonproliferation and assisting other nations in
enjoying the benefits of peaceful nuclear power if all supplier countries pursue
common nuclear export policies. There is need, however, for even more rigorous
controls than those now commonly employed, and for policies that favor nations
accepting responsible nonproliferation limitations.
-I have decided that we will henceforth apply new criteria in judging whether
to enter into new or expanded nuclear cooperation:
• Adherence to the nonproliferation treaty will be a strong positive factor
favoring cooperation with a nonnuclear weapon state.
• Nonnuclear weapons states that have not yet adhered to the nonprolifera-
tion treaty will receive positive recognition if they are prepared to submit to full
fuel cycle safeguards, pending adherence.
• We will favor recipient nations that are prepared to forego, or postpone for
a substantial period, the establishment of national reprocessing or enrichment
activities or,
in certain cases, prepared to shape and schedule their reprocessing
and enriching facilities to foster nonproliferation needs.
• Positive recognition will also be given to nations prepared to participate in
an international storage regime, under which spent fuel and any separated plu-
tonium would be placed pending use.
Exceptional cases may occur in which nonproliferation will be served best by
cooperating with nations not yet meeting these tests. However, I pledge that
the Congress will not be asked to approve any new or amended agreement not
meeting these new criteria unless I personally determine that the agreement is
fully supportive of our nonproliferation goals. In case of such a determination,
my reasons will be fully presented to the Congress.
2774
