January 12
[1057]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
emissaries must not be handicapped in advance in their relations with foreign
governments as has sometimes happened in the past.
At home I am encouraged by the Nation's recovery from the recession and
our steady return to sound economic growth. It is now continuing after the
recent period of uncertainty, which is part of the price we pay for free elections.
Our most pressing need today and the future is more jobs-productive, perma-
nent jobs created by a thriving economy. We must revise our tax system both
to ease the burden of heavy taxation and to encourage the investment necessary
for the creation of productive jobs for all Americans who want to work.
Earlier this month I proposed a permanent income tax reduction of $10 bil-
lion below current levels, including raising the personal exemption from $750
to $1,000. I also recommended a series of measures to stimulate investment, such
as accelerated depreciation for new plants and equipment in areas of high un-
employment, a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 48 to 46 percent, and
eliminating the present double taxation of dividends. I strongly urge the Con-
gress to pass these measures to help create the productive, permanent jobs in the
private economy that are so essential for our future.
All the basic trends are good; we are not on the brink of another recession
or economic disaster. If we follow prudent policies that encourage productive in-
vestment and discourage destructive inflation, we will come out on top, and I am
sure we will.
We have successfully cut inflation by more than half. When I took office, the
Consumer Price Index was rising at 12.2 percent a year. During 1976 the rate
of inflation was 5 percent.
We have created more jobs-over 4 million more jobs today than in the
spring of 1975. Throughout this Nation today we have over 88 million people in
useful, productive jobs—more than at any other time in our Nation's history.
But there are still too many Americans unemployed. This is the greatest regret
that I have as I leave office.
We brought about with the Congress, after much delay, the renewal of the
general revenue sharing. We expanded community development and Federal
manpower programs. We began a significant urban mass transit program.
Federal programs today provide more funds for our States and local govern-
ments than ever before-$70 billion for the current fiscal year. Through these
programs and others that provide aid directly to individuals, we have kept faith
with our tradition of compassionate help for those who need it. As we begin
our third century we can be proud of the progress that we have made in meet-
ing human needs for all of our citizens.
2921
