July 27
[694]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
nomination and will support him in the election with every resource that I
have and all the ability that I have.
I am delighted to make that announcement, and I just hope that I can be
helpful to him in securing the nomination. And I certainly hope that I can
contribute something as a Republican in the effort to win the Presidency
in November and to capture additional seats in the Congress, in both the House
and the Senate.
REPORTER. How about getting on the ticket?
MR. CONNALLY. That subject was not discussed today. I do not know what
the President proposes with respect to his running mate. He has not told me. He
has not hinted who it might be. I have not asked him, nor will I ask him.
Q. Did Mr. Reagan's announcement yesterday have anything to do with your
announcing this today?
MR. CONNALLY. Yes, Governor Reagan's announcement yesterday does have
something to do with my announcement today, only in the sense that I think
it is quite clear that as between the two men it is quite clear now that the
President is unmistakably the better choice, not only for the party but for the
country. And so his announcement yesterday certainly does have something to
do with my statement today.
Q. Mr. President, would you like to have the Governor on the ticket with
you as the Vice-Presidential candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. I said repeatedly that I don't exclude any potential Republi-
cans as my Vice-Presidential running mate. I have indicated my long association
and great respect for Governor Connally. But I think it is premature to make
any comment because there are others, of course, that I will talk to as I have
talked to Governor Connally on this occasion.
Q. But his announcement here today certainly does not hurt his chances, does
it?
THE PRESIDENT. We'll let the future speak for itself.
MR. CONNALLY. May I add to that? My statement here today has nothing to
do with the chances—good, bad, or indifferent—so far as I am concerned. I am
doing this because I think I should do it. I think the time has come when I
think we ought to try to end this nomination as quickly as we possibly can, and
I think it should be ended with President Ford being the nominee. The sooner
that can be made clear, the better it is for the party and for the country.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. at the entrance to the West Wing Lobby at the White House.
2093
