[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Western European countries. We are ahead of Japan. The United States is
leading the free world out of the recession that was serious a year and a half ago.
We are going to see unemployment going down, more jobs available, and
the rate of inflation going down. And I think this is a record that the American
people understand and will appreciate.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, with all due respect to President Ford, I think he ought
to be ashamed of making that statement because we have the highest unemploy-
ment rate now than we had at any time between the Great Depression, caused
by Herbert Hoover, and the time President Ford took office. We have got 7½
million people out of jobs. Since he has been in office, 2½ million more Ameri-
can people have lost their jobs. In the last 4 months alone, 500,000 Americans
have gone on the unemployment rolls. In the last month, we've had a net loss
of 163,000 jobs.
Anybody who says that the inflation rate is in good shape now ought to talk
to the housewives. One of the overwhelming results that I have seen in places
is people feel that you can't plan any more, there is no way to make a prediction
that my family might be able to own a home or to put my kids through college.
Saving accounts are losing money instead of gaining money. Inflation is
robbing us.
Under the present administrations-Nixon's and Ford's-we have had three
times the inflation rate that we experienced under President Johnson and
President Kennedy. The economic growth is less than half today what it was
at the beginning of this year. And housing starts-he compares the housing
starts with last year, I don't blame him because in 1975 we had fewer housing
starts in this country, fewer homes built than any year since 1940. That's 35
years. And we've got a 35-percent unemployment rate in many areas of this
country among construction workers. And Mr. Ford hasn't done anything
about it. And I think this shows a callous indifference to the families that have
suffered so much. He has vetoed bills passed by Congress within the congres-
sional budget guidelines-job opportunities for 2 million Americans. We will
never have a balanced budget, we will never meet the needs of our people,
we will never control the inflationary spiral as long as we have 7½ or 8 million
people out of work who are looking for jobs. And we have probably got 2½
more million people who are not looking for jobs any more because they've
given up hope. That is a very serious indictment of this administration. It's
probably the worst one of all.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Maynard.
2644
