January 17
[1066]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Congress are elected to bring home Federal projects for their district or State.
Until this idea is totally rejected, higher funding levels for old programs and
more new programs will be enacted each year as Members of the Congress seek
to insure their reelection. We also need to overcome the prevalent attitude that
only new programs with multibillion-dollar price tags are worthy of media
attention and public discussion and worthy of being judged bold and innovative.
The multitude of programs already in a budget of more than $400 billion and
initiatives to do something about them are worthy of intense public scrutiny,
discussion and judgment in their own right.
These changes in attitude will require leadership not only by the executive
branch, but, at least equally important, on the part of each Member of the Con-
gress. Members of the Congress must begin to share the burden of the Presi-
dent in saying no to special interest groups—even those in their own districts or
States.
The changes that have occurred in the congressional budgetmaking process
in recent years provide some basis for optimism for the future. The new budget
committees have begun to provide a counterbalance to the spending and taxing
committees, offering hope that the total effect of the splintered actions of the
other committees will be given equal weight in the congressional process.
But more progress is needed. Just as the budget process cannot do the whole
job in the executive branch, it cannot in the Congress either. No matter how
streamlined and properly organized the departments and agencies of the exec-
utive branch or the committees and subcommittees of the Congress become—
and there is surely room for substantial improvement in this respect at both ends
of Pennsylvania Avenue-the executive branch must continue to refine and the
Congress must adopt processes whereby recommendations to the President or
to the House or Senate, as the case may be, on major issues are developed by
task force groups representing the competing priorities of various departments
and agencies and of the various congressional committees and subcommittees.
The reason is simply that most major issues cut across jurisdictional lines, no
matter how well drawn-energy, international affairs, and welfare reform, to
name but a few examples. I urge the new administration to build on what has
been accomplished in this regard in the executive branch. I urge the Congress
promptly to put into place the necessary counterpart mechanisms. Such improve-
ments in process, coupled with further progress in the development of the
budget process, will help substantially in addressing and meeting our problems
and attaining the goals we have set for our Nation.
2941
