[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
This debate takes place before an audience in Phi Beta Kappa Memorial Hall
on the campus of the College of William and Mary in historic Williamsburg,
Virginia. It is particularly appropriate in this Bicentennial Year that we meet on
these grounds to hear this debate. Two hundred years ago, five William and
Mary students met at nearby Raleigh Tavern to form Phi Beta Kappa, a
fraternity designed, they wrote, "to search out and dispel the clouds of false-
hood by debating without reserve the issues of the day.”
In that spirit of debate—“without reserve," "to dispel the clouds of false-
hood"-gentlemen, let us proceed.
The subject matter of this debate is open, covering all issues and topics. Our
questioners tonight are Joseph Kraft, syndicated columnist, Robert Maynard,
editorial writer for the Washington Post, and Jack Nelson, Washington bureau
chief of the Los Angeles Times.
The ground rules tonight are as follows: Questioners will alternate questions
between the candidates. The candidate has up to 2½ minutes to answer the
question. The other candidate then has up to 2 minutes to respond. If necessary,
a questioner may ask a followup question for further clarification, and in that
case the candidate has up to 2 minutes to respond. As was initially agreed to
by both candidates, the answers should be responsive to the particular questions.
Finally, each candidate has up to 3 minutes for a closing statement.
President Ford and Governor Carter do not have prepared notes or com-
ments with them this evening, but they may make notes and refer to them during
the debate.
It has been determined that President Ford would take the first question in
this last debate, and, Mr. Kraft, you have that first question for President Ford.
MR. KRAFT. Mr. President, I assume that the Americans all know that these
are difficult times and that there is no pie in the sky and that they don't expect
something for nothing. So I'd like to ask you, as a first question, as you look
ahead in the next 4 years, what sacrifices are you going to call on the American
people to make? What price are you going to ask them to pay to realize your
objectives?
Let me add, Governor Carter, that if you felt that it was appropriate to answer
that question in your comments, as to what price it would be appropriate for
the American people to pay for a Carter administration, I think that would be
proper, too.
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kraft, I believe that the American people in the next 4
years, under a Ford administration, will be called upon to make those necessary
2622
