[801]
September 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
The guidelines extend a moratorium that the scientists themselves imposed
on certain experiments involving recombinant DNA. I am advised by the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare that recombinant DNA research
has great potential in medicine as well as in science and technology generally.
There are risks, however. The NIH guidelines prohibit certain types of experi-
ments and require special safety conditions for other experiments. The pro-
visions are designed to afford protection with a wide margin of safety to
workers and the environment.
The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare expects these guidelines
to be supported by the largest part of the scientific community and will use
them to govern research at laboratories of the National Institutes of Health and
at those of its grantees and contractors.
Secretary Mathews will be convening an interagency committee to review
Federal policies on the conduct of research involving recombinant DNA.
I expect the full cooperation of each department and agency conducting or
supporting recombinant DNA experiments with Secretary Mathews, who will
take the lead in this.
GERALD R. FORD
802
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on Budget
Rescissions and Deferrals. September 22, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith propose
three rescissions of 1977 budget authority totalling $134.1 million. The rescission
proposals affect programs of the Corps of Engineers and the Departments of the
Interior and Transportation.
In addition, I am reporting an increase of $133,000 to a 1976 and transition
quarter deferral involving the wildlife conservation, etc., military reservations
programs.
The details of the proposed rescissions and the revised deferral are contained
in the attached reports.
The White House,
September 22, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescissions and deferral are printed in the Federal Register of Septem-
ber 27, 1976 (41 FR 42346).
2282
