October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for this apathetic electorate appears to be the low level at which this campaign
has been conducted. It has digressed frequently from important issues into
allegations of blunders and brainwashing and fixations on lust in Playboy.
What responsibility do you accept for the low level of this campaign for the
Nation's highest office?
MR. CARTER. I think the major reason for a decrease in participation that
we've experienced ever since 1960 has been the deep discouragement of the
American people about the performance of public officials. When you've got
72, 8 million people out of work, when you've got three times as much infla-
tion as you had during the last 8-year Democratic administration, when you
have the highest deficits in history, when you have it becoming increasingly
difficult for a family to put a child through college or to own a home, there
is a natural inclination to be turned off. Also, in the aftermath of Vietnam
and Cambodia and Watergate and the CIA revelations, people have felt that
they've been betrayed by public officials.
I have to admit that in the heat of the campaign—I've been in 30 primaries
during the springtime; I've been campaigning for 22 months-I've made some
mistakes. And I think this is part of just being a human being. I have to say
that my campaign has been an open one. The Playboy thing has been of very
great concern to me. I don't know how to deal with it exactly. I agreed to give
the interview to Playboy. Other people have done it who are notable-Governor
Jerry Brown, Walter Cronkite, Albert Schweitzer, Mr. Ford's own Secretary of
Treasury, Mr. Simon, William Buckley, many other people. But they weren't
running for President. And in retrospect, from hindsight, I would not have given
that interview had I to do it over again. If I should ever decide in the future
to discuss my deep Christian beliefs and condemnation and sinfulness, I would
use another forum besides Playboy.
But I can say this: I'm doing the best I can to get away from that. And during
the next 10 days, the American people will not see the Carter campaign running
television advertisements or newspaper advertisements based on a personal
attack on President Ford's character. I believe that the opposite is true with
President Ford's campaign. And I hope that we can leave those issues, in the
next 10 days, about personalities and mistakes of the past—we've both made
some mistakes—and talk about unemployment, inflation, housing, education,
taxation, government organization, stripping away of secrecy, and the things
that are crucial to the American people.
I regret the things in my own long campaign that have been mistaken, but
I'm trying to do away with those the last 10 days.
2625
