[1008]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
ball coach. But there are some other people that I would like to express my
appreciation to, individuals who in their own business or their own area of
talent have contributed significantly to this momentum that we have going.
You have, I guess, been introduced to them: Hugh O'Brien, Wayne Rogers,
they are great. Of course, when I came off the plane and Betty was at the
stairs meeting me, there was the great Chuck Connors, and I thank Chuck, too.
But we have had some others who have traveled the length and the breadth
of this country, because they believed in what I stood for: Peter Graves—you
have known him from "Mission: Impossible”—and then one of those fabulous
people on television, also from sports, Joe Garagiola. He has been fighting for
Jerry Ford for the last 10 days. Thank you.
I want to say two things to you: You are going to lose a great Congressman
in Marv Esch, but he is going to be a great Senator, and you send him back to
Washington, D.C. But you can't leave a void. You have got to have a good
replacement, and I hope and trust that you will send Chuck Pursell to re-
place him.
I can't express deeply enough—I hope you will be quiet enough to hear a
pin drop-between now and 8 o'clock tomorrow night, when the polls close
in Michigan, you and millions like you in the great State of Michigan are
going to help make a basic decision that could well turn the tide as to where
this country goes in the next 4 years. And, yes, it could be a decision that would
affect the next 100 years.
So, I ask you to listen to where I stand: I stand for lower taxes. I stand for
more jobs. I stand for a balanced budget. I stand for less Federal spending.
I stand for winning the battle against inflation. I stand for a clean environ-
ment. I stand for less crime. I stand for peace and liberty all over the world,
and that is where we are today.
Let me phrase it this way: From your ranks I come, and with you I stand—
and will-for the next 4 years.
In the last 2 years America has made incredible progress. In Kansas City I
told the American people I would not concede a single vote, I would not con-
cede a single State. I don't intend to concede Michigan. We are going to win it
in Michigan.
And now, listen carefully. You may miss something. On the way over here
from the airport, Betty and I had a little conference. We decided that all of you
wonderful people had our personal invitation to come to the inauguration of
Jerry Ford and Bob Dole on January 20.
2832
