[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
job done.” Yet, study after study has shown little progress in desegregation and,
in fact, actual increases in segregated schools and housing in the Northeast.
Now, civil rights groups have complained repeatedly that there has been
lack of progress in commitment to an integrated society during your adminis-
tration. So, how are you getting the job done for blacks and other minorities,
and what programs do you have in mind for the next 4 years?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say at the outset, I am very proud of the record
of this administration. In the Cabinet I have one of the outstanding, I think,
administrators as the Secretary of Transportation-Bill Coleman. You are
familiar, I am sure, with the recognition given in the Air Force to General
James. And there was just approved a three-star admiral, the first in the his-
tory of the United States Navy. So, we are giving full recognition to individuals,
of quality in the Ford administration in positions of great responsibility.
In addition, the Department of Justice is fully enforcing, and enforcing
effectively, the Voting Rights Act—the legislation that involves jobs, housing
for minorities, not only blacks but all others.
The Department of HUD is enforcing the new legislation that takes care of
redlining. What we are doing is saying that there are opportunities-business
opportunities, educational opportunities, responsibilities-where people with
talent-blacks or any other minority-can fully qualify.
The office of minority business in the Department of Commerce has made
available more money in trying to help black businessmen, or other minority
businessmen, than any other administration since the office was established.
The office of small business, under Mr. Kobelinski, has a very massive program
trying to help the black community. The individual who wants to start a business
or expand his business as a black businessman is able to borrow either directly
or with guaranteed loans.
I believe on the record that this administration has been responsive and we
have carried out the law to the letter, and I am proud of the record.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter, your response, please.
MR. CARTER. The description just made of this administration's record is
hard to recognize. I think it is accurate to say that Mr. Ford voted against the
voting rights acts and against the civil rights acts in their debative stage. I think
once it was assured they were going to pass, he finally voted for it.
This country changed drastically in 1969 when the terms of John Kennedy
and Lyndon Johnson were over, and Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford became
the Presidents. There was a time when there was hope for those who were poor
2636
