September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In addition to that, we ought to have a shift to the use of coal, particularly
in the Appalachian regions where the coal is located—a lot of very high-quality,
low-carbon coal-I mean low-sulfur coal is there—it's where our employment
is needed. This would help a great deal.
So, mandatory conservation measures, yes. Encouragement by the President
for people to voluntarily conserve, yes. And also the private sector ought to be
encouraged to bring forward to the public the benefits from efficiency. One bank
in Washington, for instance, gives lower interest loans for people who ade-
quately insulate their homes or who buy efficient automobiles. And some
major manufacturing companies, like Dow Chemical, have, through very
effective efficiency mechanisms, cut down the use of energy by as much as
40 percent with the same out-product.
These kind of things ought to be done; they ought to be encouraged and
supported and even required by the Government, yes.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Carter skims over a very serious and a very broad
subject. In January of 1975, I submitted to the Congress and to the American peo-
ple the first comprehensive energy program recommended by any President.
It called for an increase in the production of energy in the United States. It
called for conservation measures so that we would save the energy that we have.
If you are going to increase domestic oil and gas production—and we have
to—you have to give to those producers an opportunity to develop their land or
their wells. I recommended to the Congress that we should increase coal
production in this country from 600 million tons a year to 1,200 million tons
by 1985. In order to do that, we have to improve our extraction of coal from
the ground; we have to improve our utilization of coal, make it more efficient,
make it cleaner.
In addition, we have to expand our research and development. In my program
for energy independence, we have increased, for example, solar energy research
from about $84 million a year to about $120 million a year. We are going as
fast as the experts say we should. In nuclear power we have increased the re-
search and development under the Energy Research and Development Agency
[Administration] very substantially to ensure that our nuclear powerplants
are safer, that they are more efficient, and that we have adequate safeguards.
I think you have to have greater oil and gas production, more coal produc-
tion, more nuclear production, and in addition, you have to have energy
conservation.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Gannon.
2299
