[824]
September 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Maryland, has been expanded through the operational use of a third, fourth-
generation computer. This system is essential to handle the improved forecast
models and the increased volume of data being received from the World Weather
Watch.
--Augmented environmental monitoring and climatic programs have been
initiated at the South Pole, American Samoa, and Barrow, Alaska.
-Engineering tests have been completed on large meteorological and oceano-
graphic buoys. The first prototype operational system was moored 240 miles off
the Oregon coast. Others are scheduled for operation this summer.
-The initial data-processing phase for the Global Atmospheric Research
Program's (GARP) Atlantic Tropical Experiment has been completed and
scientific analysis is well underway.
-A series of Data Systems Tests have been completed as a dress rehearsal for
the First GARP Global Experiment which starts in 1978.
-The Global Experiment received major impetus when over 40 nations met
in February 1976 and agreed to commit ships, buoys, balloon systems, satellites,
and other critical facilities for the observational period planned for 1977-1979.
It is with pleasure that I transmit this annual report describing current planned
Federal activities contributing to the World Weather Program. The report de-
tails how the United States is following the intent of Senate Concurrent Resolu-
tion 67 of the 90th Congress to participate in this international program.
The White House,
September 28, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The message is printed in the report entitled "World Weather Program-Plan for Fiscal Year 1977"
(Government Printing Office, 73 pp.).
825
Remarks Upon Signing the Land and Water Conservation
Fund Bill. September 28, 1976
Secretary Kleppe, distinguished Members of the House and Senate, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and pleasure for me to have the opportunity of
welcoming you all to the Rose Garden on this very significant and, I think,
historic occasion.
Last month at Yellowstone National Park, I set a national goal of signifi-
2356
