[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
mental requirements for reprocessing and recycling activities, particularly its
Generic Environmental Statement on Mixed Oxide Fuels.
Investigate the feasibility of recovering the energy value from used nuclear
fuel without separating our plutonium.
—I am directing the Secretary of State to invite other nations to participate
in designing and carrying out ERDA's reprocessing and recycle evaluation
program, consistent with our international energy cooperation and nonpro-
liferation objectives. I will direct that activities carried out in the U.S. in connec-
tion with this program be subjected to full IAEA safeguards and inspections.
VIII. Nuclear Waste Management
The area of our domestic nuclear program dealing with long-term manage-
ment of nuclear wastes from our commercial nuclear powerplants has not in
the past received sufficient attention. In my 1977 Budget, I proposed a fourfold
increase in funding for this program, which involves the activities of several
Federal agencies. We recently completed a review to determine what additional
actions are needed to assure availability in the mid-1980's of a federally-owned
and managed repository for long-term nuclear wastes, well before significant
quantities of wastes begin to accumulate.
I have been assured that the technology for long-term management or disposal
of nuclear wastes is available but demonstrations are needed.
-I have directed the Administrator of ERDA to take the necessary action
to speed up this program so as to demonstrate all components of waste manage-
ment technology by 1978 and to demonstrate a complete repository for such
wastes by 1985.
-I have further directed that the first demonstration depository for high-
level wastes which will be owned by the Government be submitted for licensing
by the independent NRC to assure its safety and acceptability to the public.
In view of the decisions announced today, I have also directed the Adminis-
trator of ERDA to assure that the waste repository will be able to handle spent
fuel elements as well as the separated and solidified waste that would result if
we proceed with nuclear fuel reprocessing.
The United States continues to provide world leadership in nuclear waste
management. I am inviting other nations to participate in and learn from our
programs.
-I am directing the Secretary of State to discuss with other nations and
the IAEA the possibility of establishing centrally located, multinationally con-
trolled nuclear waste repositories so that the number of sites that are needed
can be limited.
2776
