September 9
[766]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Two years ago the scene was grim. Could we muster the unity and will to
overcome our domestic turmoil? Could we stand up for freedom? We not
only could but we did.
Today, not a single American is at war anywhere on the face of this Earth.
America is at peace and seeks peace for all countries.
Look what has happened in the Middle East. The United States has helped
bring about a momentum towards peace that has no parallel in Middle East
history. Every American can stand up with pride for what this country helped
to do. Two agreements were reached for the separation of forces on the Egyptian
and Syrian fronts. Buffer zones were created to protect against a surprise attack—
and every war between Israel and Egypt, its Arab neighbors, has grown out of
surprise attack or fear of it. The forces of moderation-leaders who were willing
to commit themselves to the peace process—were strengthened. The disruptive
role of those opposed to the peace process has steadily declined.
The United States has fashioned new institutions of energy cooperation with
its major allies, including contingency measures to safeguard against a new oil
embargo.
America's important contacts with the Arab world grew again. The re-
settlement of cities along the Suez Canal and the clearing of the Canal for inter-
national traffic gave practical evidence of a turn towards peace.
Then, just a year ago, came the Sinai agreement—a dramatic milestone, the
first Arab-Israeli agreement that was not just an armistice in the aftermath of
hostilities. It was a political as well as a military step; it was intended by both
sides as a significant advance toward peace. In that agreement both Egypt and
Israel pledged:
-that "the conflict between them and in the Middle East shall not be resolved
by military force but by peaceful means”;
—and “they are determined to reach a final and just peace settlement by means
of negotiations called for by the Security Council Resolution 338"; and
—that they will “not . . . resort to the threat or the use of force or military
blockade against each other."
As a result the danger of war and destruction was further reduced for both
sides. Not a single young Israeli or a single young Egyptian has since died fight-
ing in the Sinai.
There is no precedent for the promise of lasting and just peace in the Middle
East which this agreement has opened up. Both Prime Minister Rabin and
President Sadat believe the agreement is the possible turning point.
Prime Minister Rabin, who has been my personal friend since he was Am-
2225
