October 4
[848]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
accelerated depreciation for new plants and equipment in areas of high unem-
ployment. I will also strongly recommend enactment of several other tax meas-
ures to aid in capital formation and job creation.
The bill that reached my desk is far from perfect, but it does go a long way
toward restoring commonsense and equity in our Federal tax system. I will con-
tinue to work for a better break for low- and middle-income taxpayers.
I trust you have noted the size of this tax bill.'
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:18 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 10612) is Public Law
94-455 (90 Stat. 1521).
848
Statement on Signing the Tax Reform Act of 1976.
October 4, 1976
TODAY I have signed into law the Tax Reform Act of 1976. This action re-
flects my judgment that, on balance, the beneficial effects of good provisions in
this massive piece of legislation substantially outweigh the detrimental effects of
the provisions which I find objectionable.
I am pleased that in this bill the Congress has raised the minimum tax and has
taken meaningful action to eliminate the use of so-called tax shelters by indi-
viduals with high incomes. These actions are consistent with my past proposals
and firm support of strong measures designed to close these loopholes. In doing
so, we are moving toward a tax system under which each taxpayer bears his or
her fair share of the overall tax burden.
I am also gratified that the Congress had adopted the program of estate tax
relief which I proposed at the beginning of this year. The act essentially includes
my proposals to increase the basic estate tax exemption from $60,000 to the
equivalent of $175,000, to liberalize the marital deduction for the transfer of
property between spouses, and to provide special relief to the owners of family
farms and business so that their heirs are not forced to liquidate these enter-
prises in order to pay estate taxes. The estate tax provisions have both simplified
and made much more equitable our system of estate taxation.
Despite the contribution many provisions of this tax bill make to improving
our tax system, the bill fails to include several important and necessary changes
1 The President was referring to the fact that the act was 414 pages.
2397
