[909]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
And let me say we can't wait to get Jack Danforth down to the United States
Senate, so send him there November 2.
But the State of Missouri also has a wonderful opportunity to send some
additional, strengthening Members of the House of Representatives—Bob
Snyder, Joe Frappier, Joe Badaracco, Bob Witherspoon-send them down, give
us some help. They need your support, and we need them in the House of
Representatives.
As I said, we started in Joliet awfully early this morning. Betty and I have
had a wonderful welcome every place we've been, and the culmination here
just is an inspiration. I've come here to ask for your support, your vote on
November 2, so we can carry Missouri. Can I have that support?
In the last 2 years that I've had the honor and the privilege to be your Presi-
dent, we've had a record that I think is one of performance. It's a record of
restoring honesty and confidence and trustworthiness in the White House. It's
a record of turning the economy around from the worst recession in the last
40 years to an economy that's moving forward. And with the kind of pro-
grams that we believe in, we are implementing, we are going to have a solid,
prosperous economy for the next 4 years, kicking off the next century of
America's progress and pride.
But then in the last 2 years we've established peace. Because we are mili-
tarily strong, because we are diplomatically skillful, America is at peace. And
I can say with great pride that not a single young American is fighting and
dying on any foreign soil tonight, and that's good for America.
So on the basis of 2 years of trust, prosperity, peace, a record of performance,
let's take a look at what Mr. Jimmy Carter wants to offer. [Crowd response]
Right on; right on. [Laughter]
Jimmy Carter wants to be President so badly that he will say anything to any-
body anywhere, and that's not the kind of a President we want of the United
States of America. When Jimmy Carter goes to California, he tries to sound
like Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter goes to Chicago, he tries to sound
like Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter goes to New York, he tries to sound
like Bella Abzug. But when he goes to Illinois or Missouri, he just says, “I am
a little old peanut farmer." [Laughter] But the truth is that Jimmy Carter
wavers, Jimmy Carter wanders, Jimmy Carter wiggles a little bit, Jimmy
Carter waffles an awful lot. [Laughter]
I think you want the record of performance of Jerry Ford against those prom-
ises of Jimmy Carter.
Let's talk about taxes. I'm real happy to be in a State that's so ably governed
2568
