July 12
[661]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
nual Report provides a sampling of some of the many activities undertaken by
Federal Executive Boards. Primary areas of emphasis in 1975 were minority
business enterprises, energy conservation, assistance for the elderly, productivity
improvement, and personnel management.
During the Bicentennial Year of 1976, I am confident that Federal Executive
Boards will play a major part in helping restore public confidence in the insti-
tution of government. The American people are demanding and properly
deserve greater efficiency, responsiveness, and economy in government opera-
tions. Federal Executive Boards can assist in reducing the rigidity and com-
plexity of government by promoting cooperation, sharing ideas, and pooling
experience and resources.
Please reinforce among your senior officials in the field the need for their re-
dedication of commitment to and support of Federal Executive Board activities.
Top level involvement is important if Federal Executive Boards are to continue
their role in fostering better communication and coordination. Moreover, active
participation at all levels is essential if Federal Executive Boards are to assist
in improving the effectiveness of the Federal Government in the field.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Federal Executive
Boards, 1975, 14th Annual Report-Executive Office
GERALD R. FORD
of the President, Office of Management and
Budget" (23 pp. plus appendixes).
661
Remarks Upon Signing the Airport and Airway Development
Act Amendments of 1976. July 12, 1976
Secretary Coleman, distinguished Members of Congress, and distinguished
guests:
It is a great pleasure to participate in this signing ceremony this morning. I
am signing into law the Airport and Airway Development Act [Amendments]
of 1976, which will provide sufficient funds in the next 4 years to keep America
on the move.
The Airport and Airway Development Act of 1976 will make possible the con-
tinuing modernization of our airways, airports, and related facilities in com-
munities throughout the 50 States. This legislation will give to the various
departments increased flexibility to local authorities in the management and
the development of the airport facilities and in starting to solve the airport noise
problem. It will make possible thousands of jobs in aviation-related activities.
2003
