October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
corn and soybeans and wheat. I know that you are a great contributor to the
bounty of America. If you look at the farm policy of this administration against
the promised farm policies of Jimmy Carter-I believe in expanded production,
record exports, the use of the free market. I believe that under our policies we
have expanded agriculture, and we are going to continue to keep the farmer
making the decisions and keep the Government out of your pocket and off your
farm. And that's what I think you want.
Now let me talk for just a minute about national security. We have a wonder-
ful country. This country is strong internally, and America is strong; we are
number one. Jimmy Carter, on two occasions, has said if he became President
he would cut the defense budget by $15 billion. Let me tell you what that will
do. Sounds good-of course, he doesn't know where he'd do it, but it sounds
good. If we were to cut the defense budget, we would strip the Army, the Navy,
the Air Force, and Marines of the necessary weapons that they need to keep
America number one.
America is at peace because America is strong. Jimmy Carter would under-
cut the strength of our military and make this country weak defensively. I think
America wants a strong defense. America wants peace. You want Jerry Ford to
be your President so we will stay number one in the next 4 years.
Last week Jimmy Carter said America is not respected anymore. If you look
around the world, if you talk to the leaders, whether they are in the free world
or whether they are on the other side, they respect America. They know
America is good. They know America is strong. And when Jimmy Carter says
America is no longer respected, he is slandering America. I am proud of America
like you are, and let's keep America strong so we can continue to be proud
of it and be respected around the world.
Thank you very, very much.
I am going to come down and try to shake hands with as many of you as
I possibly can. But we have some wonderful guests who have come from many
parts of the country, leaders in their own field, who have come to show their
support for my candidacy. I want your great Senator, Chuck Percy, to introduce
them as I go along and shake hands. You will like them. They are great people,
and I appreciate their support.
Thank you very much.
[7.] ALTON (6:50 p.m.)
THANK YOU very, very much. Betty and I have had a wonderful day in
Illinois, starting in Joliet this morning, ending here in Alton this evening.
We've had a wonderfully warm reception.
2561
