October 13
[890]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
revenue sharing legislation. In 1980, as President of the United States, I will still
lead the fight for the continuation of general revenue sharing.
My strong support for revenue sharing stems from one very simple but very
important fact. Revenue sharing is a people's program that works very well for
all our people-215 million of them throughout the length and the breadth
of this land.
By the end of this year, 39,000 State and local units of government will have
received more than $30 billion in general revenue sharing funds from the
Federal Treasury. Here in Yonkers, almost $8 million in revenue sharing funds
have been used for major transportation improvements, better fire and police
protection, and other essential public services.
Throughout America, as many of the mayors that I see here this morning
well know, revenue sharing has beefed up, enforced law enforcement efforts,
made health services much more accessible, expanded parks and recreational
facilities, held local property taxes in check, and helped promote economic
growth in literally thousands of communities. It's a good program, and we're
lucky to have it.
Revenue sharing success goes well beyond these excellent services. This
program has reversed a dangerous trend toward centralization, unaccountable
power in Washington, D.C. For decades, the Federal Government piled pro-
grams of narrow categorical aid, one on top of another. By 1972, there were
more than 1,000 separate Federal grant programs, each equipped with its own
Fedeal bureaucracy, its own set of rules and regulators.
With revenue sharing, we have begun to restore the necessary balance among
Federal, State, and local units of government to restore local control over local
concerns. That means you in Yonkers, you in Westchester will be making the
decisions rather than some bureaucrat on the banks of the Potomac. And I
have a lot more faith in you than I do in them.
The general revenue sharing program, for the $30 billion that in 5 years
will be distributed, has only 100 Federal employees. For every $800 in the
revenue sharing budget, its own budget, only $1 goes for administrative costs
or overhead, the best record in the Federal Government.
Now, despite the obvious success of general revenue sharing, it has faced
some every strong opposition from within the majority party in the House as
well as in the Senate. The reasons for this opposition from the many Demo-
cratic Congressmen in Washington are clear and very simple.
Democrats in Washington don't trust local government. Democrats in Wash-
2505
