[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
by the Congress to reveal the names of businesses who were subject to this boy-
cott. They didn't volunteer the information; he had to be subpenaed.
And the last thing I'd like to say is this: This grain deal with the Soviet Union
in '72 was terrible, and Mr. Ford made up for it with three embargoes—one
against our own ally in Japan. That's not the way to run our foreign policy, in-
cluding international trade.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Trewhitt, a question for Governor Carter.
MR. TREWHITT. Governor, I'd like to pick up on that point, actually, and on
your appeal for a greater measure of American idealism in foreign affairs. For-
eign affairs come home to the American public pretty much in such issues as
oil embargoes and grain sales, that sort of thing. Would you be willing to risk
an oil embargo in order to promote human rights in Iran, Saudi Arabia—with-
hold arms from Saudi Arabia for the same purpose? As a matter of fact, I think
you have perhaps answered this final part, but would you withhold grain from
the Soviet Union in order to promote civil rights in the Soviet Union?
MR. CARTER. I would never single out food as a trade embargo item. If I ever
decided to impose an embargo because of a crisis in international relationships,
it would include all shipments of all equipment. For instance, if the Arab coun-
tries ever again declare an embargo against our Nation on oil, I would consider
that not a military but an economic declaration of war. And I would respond
instantly and in kind. I would not ship that Arab country anything—no weap-
ons, no spare parts for weapons, no oil-drilling rigs, no oil pipe, no nothing.
I wouldn't single out just food.
Another thing I'd like to say is this: In our international trade, as I said in
my opening statement, we have become the arms merchant of the world. When
this Republican administration came into office, we were shipping about $1
billion worth of arms overseas; now $10 to $12 billion worth of arms overseas
to countries that quite often use these weapons to fight each other.
The shift in emphasis has been very disturbing to me, speaking about the
Middle East. Under the last Democratic administration 60 percent of all weap-
ons that went into the Middle East were for Israel. Nowadays—75 percent were
for Israel before-now 60 percent go to the Arab countries, and this does not
include Iran. If you include Iran, our present shipment of weapons to the Mid-
dle East-only 20 percent goes to Israel. This is a deviation from idealism; it's
a deviation from a commitment to our major ally in the Middle East, which is
Israel; it's a yielding to economic pressure on the part of the Arabs on the oil
issue; and it's also a tremendous indication that under the Ford administra-
tion, we have not addressed the energy policy adequately.
2418
