December 22
[1037]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to limit environmental damage, and to provide appropriate assistance under
the law to any affected communities and businesses.
The Coast Guard continues to take all possible measures to ensure minimal
economic and ecological damage. Representatives of the Economic Develop-
ment Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Disas-
ter Assistance Administration, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration are on the scene and are monitoring the situation closely. They
are prepared, at my direction, to respond as promptly as possible and to exercise
every appropriate authority at their disposal to assist in dealing with this un-
fortunate accident.
NOTE: On Wednesday, December 15, a Liberian-
registered oil tanker, the Argo Merchant, ran aground
on the Nantucket shoals, 27 miles southeast of the
island. On the morning of December 21, the vessel
broke in half, and on the following day the bow of
the vessel also split, spilling the remainder of the oil
into the Atlantic Ocean.
The statement was released at Vail, Colo.
1037
Statement on Establishment of the International Fund for
Agricultural Development. December 22, 1976
I HAVE instructed Daniel Parker, Administrator of the Agency for Interna-
tional Development, to sign, on behalf of the United States, the Articles of
Agreement establishing the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
The Fund—which has received pledges amounting to $1 billion—will provide
financial assistance to enable poor countries to increase their own food output.
The U.S. contribution will be $200 million.
The Fund is the product of a cooperative effort between the industrialized and
oil-exporting countries to meet the needs of the world's poor nations, which
thus exemplifies the progress which can be achieved by constructive interna-
tional cooperation. The Fund also received considerable impetus from the
Conference on International Economic Cooperation, which has been meeting
in Paris. The United States remains thoroughly committed to cooperation
among developed and developing nations, oil importers and oil exporters, to
meet the problems of economic development and to build a prosperous world
economy from which all nations will benefit.
The United States was one of the earliest supporters of the International
Fund for Agricultural Development. In his speech to the Seventh Special Session
of the UN General Assembly in September 1975, Secretary of State Kissinger
announced my intention to seek a contribution to the Fund.
2877
