[658]
July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
support of 215 million Americans, including your President, who will be darn
proud of you. The very best to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. at the New
York State University College of Arts and Sciences
track field.
As printed above, this item follows the text of the
White House press release.
659
Remarks at a Ceremony Honoring Members of the U.S. Olympic
Team Prior to Their Departure for Montreal, Canada.
July 10, 1976
Thank you very much, Phil Krumm, my former colleague in the House of
Representatives Bob McKuen, Colonel Miller, Reverend St. Pierre, Willie Daven-
port, members and coaches, trainers, doctors, administrators of the United
States Olympic Team, ladies and gentlemen of the Plattsburgh area:
It's really a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity to
be here in Plattsburgh and to participate in the ceremony where all of you are
taking off for Montreal. And I do wish to thank the coaches and participants
who I had the chance and the pleasure of meeting this afternoon.
But let me congratulate all 400 or 500 of you for the accomplishment and the
achievement of making the American Olympic Team in 1976. And on behalf
of all Americans-215 million of us-good luck, and God bless you.
You have worked hard, you have competed against the very best, and you have
earned the right to represent the United States in Montreal in a very few days.
And let me say that from every indication I get, we are going to do darn well in
Montreal.
As long as I can remember, I have been one that read newspapers, books,
magazines, about the American Olympic Teams—never was a good enough
athlete to compete or make the Olympic team, but it has meant a lot to me
to see the achievements and the accomplishments of the American Olympians
over the years.
A few days ago, a good friend of mine sent me a book that is the history of the
Olympic games, from the very beginning up through 1972. It is written, or
was originally, by a great sportswriter out in California named Bill Henry, who
was a very close and dear friend of mine, and his daughter brought it up to
date just a few months ago. But this book is filled with famous names. It is filled
with individual achievements and team records. Willie Davenport's name is
in it for 1968 when he was number one in the 110-meter high hurdles.
2000
