December 6
[1024]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
close friendship of our two countries and the continuity of American support
for a very trusted and valued ally.
Earlier this autumn we welcomed the visit of the Italian First Lady, Mrs.
Vittoria Leone, who added her grace as well as her friendship to the already
impressive Italian contribution to our Bicentennial. The performances of the
La Scala Opera, the loan of the Venus de Medici to our National Gallery,
Italian participation in the "Tall Ships" review and many other Bicentennial
activities were symbols of what Americans have gained from our relationship.
For this the American people are most appreciative and deeply in debt to the
people of Italy and to your Government.
The gift that Mrs. Leone presented on behalf of the Italian people, a portrait
of Thomas Jefferson, which hung for nearly 200 years in the Convent of Lodi,
today hangs in the Oval Office in the White House complex. This is a treasured
reminder of Italian-American friendship.
Mr. Prime Minister, for two centuries Italian culture has enriched the life of
the United States with many, many unique contributions. Historians point out
that Thomas Jefferson, in writing the Declaration of Independence, drew on
the wisdom of his Italian friend, Filippo Mazzei, in the drafting of several
very, now immortal phrases. As a matter of fact, our Capitol Building is en-
hanced by Italian art and Italian artisans. The very name America com-
memorates an Italian.
Along with Italy's cultural contributions came millions of American immi-
grants. America is very, very proud of its citizens of Italian origin. I happen
to believe this is perhaps Italy's greatest contribution to America, and we are
truly grateful for it.
We Americans have tried to reciprocate, Mr. Prime Minister, by showing the
Italian people how much we value them as our friends. This was the spirit
behind the Marshall plan, and it was demonstrated again last May when an
earthquake struck in northern Italy, in Friuli. The response of the American
people, our Congress, the executive branch, was immediate. Legislation was
enacted in record time, and Senator Pastore was one of the initial authors of
that legislation. That contribution has been helpful in the construction or
reconstruction of schools and hospitals in that part of Italy. It has helped to
rebuild the lives and the homes of those people who were unfortunately the
victims of that earthquake.
Mr. Prime Minister, present conditions pose a very severe challenge to the
industrial democracies of the West, many of which have suffered from reces-
sion, unemployment, inflation, and the abrupt and steep rise in energy costs.
2853
