November 1
[1008]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
There are many, many issues that I could discuss, but let me take just two.
In the first debate my opponent said there would be a $60 billion surplus in the
Federal Treasury. He made a commitment. He said if we have a $60 billion
surplus, we are going to spend it on program after program after program.
That is his point of view. You know what I said in that first debate? I said if
there is a $60 billion surplus, I am going to give it back to the American people
in a tax reduction.
On taxes-I believe the best tax reform is tax reduction. The middle-income
taxpayer in America has been shortchanged, and we are going to change it in
the next Congress. Jerry Ford is for the little taxpayer, and he is opposed to the
big tax spender. On taxes—the last couple of days my opponent has said per-
haps we can have a tax reduction. My opponent has said if, if, if, if we can
have a tax reduction.
I will tell you where I stand. I have been consistent. I have been firm. The
American people, the middle-class people, the middle-class taxpayers need tax
relief, and they are going to get it under Jerry Ford. As a matter of fact—again,
listen now, listen, because this affects you-last January, as Bob Griffin, Marv
Esch, and all the other fine Members of Congress know, I recommended to the
Congress that the Congress, in order to give equity and fairness to the middle-
income taxpayer, we should increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
The other day I was walking through a plant, talking to people on the pro-
duction line, and one of the men said, “President Ford, what will you do for me
and my family?" I said, "Well, how many kids you got?" He said three. I said,
"You got a wife?” He said, “Sure, and I love her.” Then I said, “All right.” I
said, “If the Congress had been responsible in the last session and done what
I recommended they do, you, next April, when you made out that income tax
return, could have taken $1,250 more in personal exemption, and you could have
spent it instead of having some bureaucrat spend it out of Washington, D.C."
Listen to this—you are a great audience, I love you—when Congress recon-
venes next January 3, I am going to have that tax reduction proposal on their
desk. Now, if they don't pass it in 1977, we will have it on their desk in 1978.
But if they don't pass it in 1978, you and I are going to go out and beat them in
the 1978 election.
Let's talk about one other big issue. I am the first President—and I am proud
to say it—who can stand before the American people since Dwight D. Eisen-
hower and say America is at peace. But we are at peace in America because
2833
