January 18
[1071]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have also come to realize how mutually supportive action benefits all coun-
tries. Accordingly we and our partners have improved arrangements for assist-
ing countries in special need as they work to stabilize their domestic economies.
The United States has worked very closely with several of our friends and allies
in supporting their efforts to resolve their economic difficulties. We have con-
structed a strong framework for cooperation with other industrialized democra-
cies to manage future possible disruptions of oil supplies and to reduce depend-
ence on oil imports. We have attempted to promote a more constructive relation-
ship with the developing nations. This new relationship will enable us to enhance
their economic prospects as a part of a common effort to improve the world
economy and to give them a greater share of the responsibilities for, and in the
management and benefits of, an orderly and prosperous international economic
system.
More specifically, substantial progress, together with lingering problems, mark
developments in several areas.
Monetary Affairs
In 1976, member nations of the International Monetary Fund successfully
concluded the first general revision of the Articles of Agreement since the Bret-
ton Woods Agreement of 1944. In effect, these amendments replace the old
exchange rate system based on par values with one permitting countries to estab-
lish floating exchange rates, either individually or jointly. The new system will
oblige member countries to promote exchange stability by fostering stable eco-
nomic and financial conditions and to avoid disruptively influencing exchange
rates or the international monetary system. Under the new system, Special Draw-
ing Rights will replace gold as the unit of account in the Fund.
The amendments creating this system were formally accepted by the United
States and will become effective upon similar ratification by the requisite number
of member nations. At that time, the Fund will have new and broader respon-
sibilities for overseeing the international monetary system and for developing
principles that will help countries meet their financial obligations. The effect
will be to promote expanded trade and growth through a more efficient and
realistic exchange rate system.
The United States also proposed the creation of a Trust Fund, managed by
the IMF, to provide assistance on concessionary terms to low-income Fund mem-
bers. Resources are now being realized from profits on sales, over four years,
of 25 million ounces of IMF-held gold.
2955
