November 1
[1005]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
America was troubled, we were divided, there was anger, there was division—
after having taken the oath of office, I said, “I know that you have not elected
me by your ballots. I ask you that you confirm me with your prayers."
And with the help of your prayers in the last 2 years, we have gone from
inflation of over 12 percent to under 6 percent. With your help and support,
we have come out of the worst recession in 40 years. With your help, we have
restored trust and confidence in the White House, because I can look each and
every one of you in the eye and say I have been candid, straightforward.
But most of all, I can stand here with pride and say with your help and, yes,
your prayers, America is at peace, not a single young American is fighting or
dying on any foreign soil today, and we will keep it that way for the next 4
years.
But now we come to the crucial 24 hours. How many of you can remember,
I'm sure, in either Canton or Akron or Alliance or Massillon that on July 4 you
had a wonderful celebration in honor of our 200th birthday? Our forefathers
gave us the greatest document for the governing of people in the history of
mankind. Our forefathers have given us the kind of a government that is good
for freedom and liberty.
We celebrated what they gave to us, but now-beginning tomorrow-we
have an opportunity not only to read history but to make history. So, we come
down to the bottom line. I know America is on the move. America has a new
fresh look. We are together. We are united. So tomorrow, when you make that
fateful decision, I ask you not only to confirm me with your prayers but I ask
you to confirm me with your ballots. I won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 a.m. at the Firestone Hangar, Akron-Canton Airport.
1005
Remarks at the Ohio State Capitol in Columbus.
November 1, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Jim Rhodes, Mayor Moody.
Let me express my deep appreciation to Congressman Sam Devine, Congress-
man Chalmers Wylie, Congressmen Clarence Brown, John Ashbrook, and
Bill Harsha. I want you to make sure you elect them and reelect them for the
benefit of Ohio and the United States.
But I want also, for the benefit of this great Buckeye State and for the benefit
2825
