October 9
[870]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
July when we celebrated a glorious 200th anniversary, but also on November 2.
We're on display as much as all the entries in this great Texas State Fair.
We have been the world champion of liberty and self-government for the last
200 years. We are proud of our trophies. We are proud of our material strength
and even more of America's moral strength. We are respected for all of these
and many other things. Let's get our third century off to a good start, scrapping
over the little things, but standing together tall and strong on the big things that
affect us at home and abroad-big things like peace through strength, peace
with freedom. That's the spirit that made Texas great, that made America great.
That's the spirit we can show the world in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:37 p.m. at the
Hall of State Building on the Texas State Fair-
grounds. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Governor Dolph Briscoe of Texas, Governor John B.
Connally of Texas 1963-69, Mayor Bob Folsom of
Dallas, and Wayne H. Gallagher, executive vice
president and general manager of the Texas State
Fair.
870
Remarks in Dallas at a Luncheon Honoring the President.
October 9, 1976
Thank you very much, Wayne, Governor Briscoe, Governor Boren, Governor
Connally, distinguished Members of the United States Senate, the academic
world, and all you wonderful people from Texas as well as Oklahoma:
It's nice to come in an atmosphere where athletic contests really don't make
much difference. You know, I always get in trouble when I go to one com-
munity or another.
I had the good fortune to play football for the University of Michigan, back a
long, long time ago, back when the ball was round—[laughter]—and of course,
I have some prejudices when Michigan plays some of its traditional rivals.
If I go to East Lansing, Michigan, where Michigan State is-boy, they give
me a hard time. But I get the most difficult time when I go down to Columbus.
You are familiar with that great rivalry between my alma mater and Ohio
State. Woody Hayes, who is a very great and good friend of mine-he doesn't
talk about Michigan. He just says, "that school up North." [Laughter]
So, it's great to be here on an occasion where I can relax and cheer for both
sides and have an opportunity to meet all of you and to enjoy the hospitality
2473
