September 13
[774]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The most serious problem concerns the Freedom of Information Act exemp-
tion for withholding information specifically exempted from disclosure by
another statute. While that exemption may well be more inclusive than neces-
sary, the amendment in this act was the subject of many changes and was
adopted without a clear or adequate record of what statutes would be affected
and what changes are intended. Under such circumstances, it can be anticipated
that many unintended results will occur including adverse effects on current
protections of personal privacy, and further corrective legislation will likely
be required.
Moreover, the ambiguous definition of the meetings covered by this act, the
unnecessary rigidity of certain of the act's procedures, and the potentially
burdensome requirement for the maintenance of transcripts are provisions
which may require modification. Implementation of the act should be carefully
monitored by the executive branch and the Congress with this in mind.
Despite these concerns, I commend the Congress both for its initiative and
the general responsiveness of this legislation to the recommendations of my
administration that the Government in the Sunshine Act genuinely benefit the
American people and their government.
774
Remarks Upon Signing Amendments to the Packers and
Stockyards Act of 1921. September 13, 1976
Members of the House and the Senate, members of the livestock industry, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
American agriculture, as we all know, built on the free enterprise and open
market system, has long been the envy of people all over the world. No other
nation has an agricultural industry to match American farmers and ranchers
when it comes to providing food at reasonable cost.
In recent years, however, we have seen the need for greater protection of
livestock producers. The legislation I am about to sign assures that our livestock
producers will receive payments for the livestock they sell to meatpackers, even
if a packer should suddenly go out of business.
Last year, cattle producers unfortunately lost millions of dollars when one
major meatpacker went bankrupt. This legislation will prevent such losses in
the future. These constructive amendments to the Packers and Stockyards Act
2237
