October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
response to these questions, and I look forward to our next debate in Williams-
burg, Virginia.
Betty and I have loved the opportunity to be in Illinois. We are here because
we want your help. We are here because we want to carry Illinois. We believe
with the warm and friendly receptions that we have gotten in Illinois that we're
going to carry Illinois, and we're going to win on November 2.
For the last 2 years, since I've had the honor of being President of the United
States, we have restored trust—we have restored trust in the White House-wę
have turned the economy around, and we are on the way to real prosperity in
America. We have peace, and I am proud to say that not a single young Ameri-
can is fighting and dying on foreign soil today. That's a record of performance,
and I ask you to match that against the promises of Jimmy Carter.
Jimmy Carter-when he goes to California, he tries to sound like Cesar Chavez.
When Jimmy Carter goes to Chicago, he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When
Jimmy Carter goes to New York, he tries to sound like Bella Abzug. When he
comes to Illinois, he tries to sound just like a little old peanut farmer. [Laugh-
ter] Jimmy Carter wavers and wanders, he wiggles and he waffles.
Let me say the issues that we face today are taxes. The best tax reform I know
is tax reduction. As I said in that telegram, Jimmy Carter wants to increase
taxes for all above the medium income, which means that 50 percent of the tax-
payers of this country will have a tax increase.
The issue of spending is a very pertinent one because that's your hard-earned
tax dollar. Jimmy Carter wants to increase spending. President Ford wants to
keep a lid on Federal spending.
Jimmy Carter says he wants to reorganize the Federal Government. Well, let's
look at how he did it in Georgia. In Georgia, after 4 years, he increased the
number of State employees by 25 percent or more. He increased the spending
of the State of Georgia by 50 percent or more. He increased the indebtedness of
the State of Georgia by over $200 million. With that kind of a record, do you
want to trust him to reorganize your Federal Government?
If you like Jimmy Carter, you like more taxes. I don't think the American
people want more taxes. They want reduced taxes, and they will get, as they
have gotten, under President Ford.
Let me just conclude by saying that Betty and I love being here. We love our
country, as all of you do.
When Jimmy Carter says that the United States, our country, is not respected
anymore, that's not true, because leaders of the free world, the people of the free
world do respect the United States. And when Jimmy Carter says our country
2555
