July 19
[674]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to follow up on Ronald Reagan as a
possible running mate. I am sure you read the paper every morning, and there
is a quote in here today from Governor Reagan saying, “Once you become the
Vice-Presidential candidate, you have no authority over yourself." And he says,
“I have expressed disagreements with a great many things with this administra-
tion. No, there is just no way, I wouldn't do it."
Doesn't that really close the door on Ronald Reagan as a running mate?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to pass judgment on what his attitude may
be. I will simply reaffirm and reaffirm very strongly, I am not excluding any
Republican from consideration as a potential running mate.
EFFECT OF COMMUNISTS IN ITALIAN GOVERNMENT ON U.S. POLICY TOWARD ITALY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, has the United States decided, with or without the
concert of Germany, France, and Britain, not to extend any economic aid to
Italy if the Communists join the Government in Italy?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said on several occasions that the United States Gov-
ernment, under this administration, would be very disturbed by Communist
participation in the Government of Italy. For one reason, it would have a very,
I think, unfortunate impact on NATO which is, of course, a very vital part
of our international defense arrangement. The United States does have appre-
hension on a broader basis for Communist participation in the Italian
Government.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[14.] Q. Mr. President, in view of Jimmy Carter's strength in the South
and the Northeastern industrial States, possibly of crucial importance in your
campaign, do you now think it may have been unwise for the Republican high
command and you to have told Vice President Nelson Rockefeller to get lost?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly don't use your words when I describe the situation
that
you have sought to so dramatically describe.
The decision by Nelson Rockefeller was one that he made himself. He has
been an outstanding Vice President. He has been a close personal friend and
adviser, and I will, of course, abide by his decision, as I would by any others.
But, I repeat what I said a moment ago, in my looking around for a Vice-
Presidential running mate, I am not excluding anybody.
2035
