January 11
[1054]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1053
Letter to Congressional Committee Chairmen Transmitting a
Report on the Status of Indochina Refugees. January 10, 1977
IN ACCORDANCE with the provisions of the Indochina Migration and Ref-
ugee Assistance Act of 1975, I am reporting to you on the status of refugees
from Cambodia and South Vietnam.
As my report to you shows, we continue to make substantial progress in the
resettlement and assimilation of the Indochina refugee into American life. Dur-
ing the past quarter our attention has been focused particularly on the develop-
ment of marketable job skills and English language proficiency for the reset-
tled refugee. At the same time, however, we have brought into the United States
almost all the remaining refugees authorized under the extended parole pro-
gram. These new refugees will require our special attention and assistance.
I take this opportunity to acknowledge and thank the voluntary agencies,
the public and private institutions and the many individual families that have
contributed so generously to this program. Their support has aided these new-
comers to our country and, through them, all our society.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable James O. Eastland, Chairman,
Senate Committee on the Judiciary; the Honorable
Peter W. Rodino, Chairman, House Committee on
the Judiciary; the Honorable John J. Sparkman,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations;
the Honorable Thomas E. Morgan, Chairman, House
Committee on International Relations; the Honorable
GERALD R. FORD
John L. McClellan, Chairman, Senate Committee on
Appropriations; and the Honorable George H.
Mahon, Chairman, House Committee on Appropria-
tions.
The report is entitled "HEW Task Force for Indo-
china Refugees, Report to the Congress, Decem-
ber 20, 1976."
1054
Message to the Congress Transmitting a Report on the
Organization of Federal Energy Functions. January 11, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Under the provisions of section 162(b), P.L. 94–385, the Energy Conservation
and Production Act of 1976, I am required to submit recommendations to the
2913
