September 28
[821]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the Departments and Agencies, along with my Special Assistant for Consumer
Affairs, shall ensure that there is wide public dissemination of information
about the availabilty of procedures embodied in these Plans. I look forward to
increased responsiveness of the Federal Government to consumer concerns. I
also look forward to more American consumers participating in the decision-
making process.
Finally, in September, the independent regulatory agencies will be submitting
reports to me, in response to my request, on the expected improvements. I have
asked these agencies to improve consumer representation as well as to provide
improved economic analyses of the consequences of their proposed actions, to
rely more on marketplace competition, and to eliminate regulatory delay.
This Memorandum and the accompanying Consumer Representation Plans
shall be published in the Federal Register.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: This memorandum and accompanying Consumer Representation Plans are printed in the Federal
Register of September 28, 1976 (41 FR 42763).
821
Message on the Observance of Ramadan.
September 28, 1976
ON THE occasion of Id al Fitr, the special holiday concluding the fasting
month of Ramadan, Mrs. Ford and I send our warmest greetings to our fellow
Americans of the Islamic Faith.
The diversity of our religious legacy has been a sustaining source of inspira-
tion and a positive influence on our society ever since our Founding Fathers
established a system of government dedicated to the principle of religious free-
dom. Celebrating the reaffirmation of your Faith, this feast is a particularly
happy occasion for you and a reminder to the rest of us of the vitality and
strength of your heritage in our national life.
Your rededication to Islam's spirit of compassion and human dignity fortifies
not just you and your families, but our nation. It is with this in mind that Mrs.
Ford and I wish you a most joyous and memorable observance.
GERALD R. FORD
2353
