[837]
October 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
step toward improving the current relationship of the quarters allowance to the
costs of off-post housing and government quarters on post.
Specifically, the amount allocated to the element of monthly basic pay for
each grade shall be 75 percent of the amount that would have been allocated to
that element under 37 U.S.C. 1009(b) (3); the elements of monthly basic allow-
ance for subsistence and monthly basic allowance for quarters for each grade
shall be increased by an amount which is of the same percentage as the overall
average percentage increase in the General Schedule rates, except that the ele-
ment of monthly basic allowance for quarters shall be increased by an additional
amount by grade equal to 25 percent of the amount that would have been allo-
cated to the element of monthly basic pay under 37 U.S.C. 1009 (b) (3). Members
without dependents, who, under 37 U.S.C. 403 (b) or (c), are not entitled to re-
ceive a basic allowance for quarters, shall be paid a partial monthly basic allow-
ance for quarters in an amount equal to the additional amount allocated by grade
to the element of monthly basic allowance for quarters under 37 U.S.C. 1009(c).
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
838
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality. October 1, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress the Seventh Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality.
Two hundred years ago, the United States of America was comprised of only
2.5 million people. Our country seemed an infinite expanse of natural resources.
Today, the United States of America encompasses over 3½ million square
miles, and numbers 215 million people. Although we remain one of the most
fortunate nations on earth, our natural endowment is deteriorating.
The growth of our population and the expansion of American technology
demonstrates that there are limitations to our natural riches. The industrial con-
cept of man as master of an inexhaustible world for his convenience is giving
way to an ecological concept of man as caretaker of limited resources that must
be protected.
2382
