[948]
October 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
948
Remarks in Richmond, Virginia. October 23, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Governor Godwin. It is a very high honor and
a very great privilege for me to be in this great State capital and have the kind
and very generous observations and compliments by your great Governor,
Mills Godwin.
May I say it's a pleasure, also, to be on the platform with Congressman Ken
Robinson, Lieutenant Governor Dalton, and my old and very dear friend—who
I served with in the Congress of the United States for many, many years—former
Governor Tuck.
Distinguished officials, ladies and gentlemen: At Kansas City, I said that I
would not concede a single State, I would not concede a single vote; that I would
campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia.
I've kept that pledge—just today, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
ending up in California. So, let me say without any hesitation or reservation, we
are going to see as many people as we can to keep that pledge that I would not
concede a single vote or a single State.
I had, last night, one of the greatest honors-to spend the night with Gover-
nor Mills Godwin and his lovely wife, Catherine. Back in the days when Gov-
ernor Godwin was a Democratic Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
I envied him, I respected him, and I had a long hope that some day we could
be together. And let me say very, very strongly that Governor Mills Godwin
is one of the giants of American politics, and we are proud of him.
But I'm also proud to say that Virginia is the second home of the Ford
family. We lived in Alexandria for some 25 years before we moved into the
White House. In fact, for the first few days after taking the oath of office on
August 9, 1974, we lived in our home in Alexandria and actually commuted to
the White House and to the Oval Office. So one could honestly say, for a
limited period of time, Virginia was the White House for the United States.
Our four children went to the public schools in Alexandria. I paid taxes in
the State of Virginia. I even belong to the Friendship Veterans Fire Engine
Company in Alexandria, Virginia, thanks to my good friend Marshall Beverley
of Alexandria. [Laughter]
Yes, the Commonwealth is widely known, and properly so, as the Mother of
Presidents, and I am proud to be an adopted son. Our Bicentennial celebra-
tion vividly reminds us of the native sons and daughters of Virginia who have
2650
