October 14
[898]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
898
The President's News Conference of
October 14, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening. Will you please sit down.
STATEMENT ON THE SPECIAL PROSECUTOR'S INVESTIGATION OF THE PRESIDENT'S
FINANCIAL RECORDS
[1] I do have a brief opening statement. When I was chosen to be Vice
President, I underwent the most intensive scrutiny of any man who has ever been
selected for public office in the United States. My past life, my qualifications, my
beliefs all were put under a microscope and in full public view.
Nonetheless, all of you here tonight and many in our listening audience are
aware of allegations that came forth in recent weeks involving my past political
campaigns. As I have said on several occasions, these rumors were false. I
I am
very pleased that this morning the Special Prosecutor has finally put this matter
to rest once and for all.
I have told you before that I am deeply privileged to serve as the President of
this great Nation. But one thing that means more to me than my desire for public
office is my personal reputation for integrity.
Today's announcement by the Special Prosecutor reaffirms the original find-
ings of my Vice-Presidential confirmation hearings. I hope that today's
announcement will also accomplish one other major task-that it will elevate
the Presidential campaign to a level befitting the American people and the
American political tradition.
For too many days, this campaign has been mired in questions that have little
bearing upon the future of this Nation. The people of this country deserve better
than that. They deserve a campaign that focuses on the most serious issues of our
time—on the purposes of government, on the heavy burdens of taxation, on the
cost of living, and on the quality of our lives and on the ways to keep America
strong, at peace, and free.
Governor Carter and I have profound differences of opinion on these matters.
I hope that in the 20 days remaining in this campaign, we can talk seriously
and honestly about these differences so that on November 2 the American people
can make a clear choice and give us—one of us—a mandate to govern wisely
and well during the next 4 years.
2521
