October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Let me say Betty and I are deeply grateful for the warm welcome we had last
night and the wonderful welcome here today. Our anniversary was a success
because of all of you. Thank you.
As George said, Abraham Lincoln was here in Joliet a few years ago. I think
it's significant that Abraham Lincoln, when he was in Joliet, made his famous
speech that a house divided against itself cannot succeed. Jimmy Carter wants
to divide America. President Ford wants to heal America, and that's where
we are going.
Betty and I are here and starting this wonderful trip through Illinois because
we want your help and we want your vote. We've restored trust to the White
House. We've turned the economy around, and we have peace. And not a single
young American is fighting or dying on foreign soil today, and that's progress.
And we want your help.
As I listen and I read about Jimmy Carter, I can't help but come to the con-
clusion—and I think you will, too-that Jimmy Carter will say anything, any-
where to be President of the United States. When he's in California, he sounds
like Cesar Chavez. When he's in Chicago, he sounds like Mayor Daley. When he's
in New York, he sounds like Ralph Nader. When he's in Washington, D.C., he
sounds like my good friend George Meany. He wanders, he wavers, he waffles,
and he wiggles. He isn't the man you want for President of the United States.
Let's talk very quickly about three subjects: Taxes-President Ford believes
that the best tax reform is tax reduction, and Jerry Ford recommended we're
going to get eventually an increase in the personal exemption from $750 to
$1,000. That's a real, meaningful, important tax reduction, and that's what we
stand for.
What does Jimmy Carter want to do with your taxes? Jimmy Carter says he
will increase taxes for all people with a median income and on up, which means
that anybody who's earning $14,000 a year or more is going to have his taxes
increased under Jimmy Carter. Do you want that?
Jimmy Carter says he's going to increase Federal spending. He has embraced
the Democratic budget and the Democratic platform, which will call for tax
increases or spending increases of $100 billion a year.
Then he says he's going to reorganize the Federal Government. What did he
do in Georgia? He was Governor for 4 years. He increased the number of State
employees by over 25 percent. He increased spending by over 50 percent. He
increased the bonded indebtedness of Georgia by over $200 million. Could you
trust him to reorganize our Federal Government?
But let's talk about defense. Jimmy Carter on two occasions said he would cut
2547
