October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Carter brags about the unemployment during Dem-
ocratic administrations and condemns the unemployment at the present time.
I must remind him that we are at peace, and during the period that he brags
about unemployment being low, the United States was at war.
Now let me correct one other comment that Governor Carter has made. I
have recommended to the Congress that we develop the uranium enrichment
plant at Portsmouth, Ohio, which is a publicly owned U.S. Government facility,
and have indicated that the private program which would follow on in Alabama
is one that may or may not be constructed, but I committed to the one at Ports-
mouth, Ohio.
The Governor also talks about morality in foreign policy. The foreign policy
of the United States meets the highest standards of morality. What is more moral
than peace? And the United States is at peace today. What is more moral in
foreign policy than for the administration to take the lead in the World Food
Conference in Rome in 1974, when the United States committed 6 million metric
tons of food, over 60 percent of the food committed for the disadvantaged and
underdeveloped nations of the world? The Ford administration wants to eradi-
cate hunger and disease in our underdeveloped countries throughout the world.
What is more moral than for the United States under the Ford administration
to take the lead in southern Africa, in the Middle East? Those are initiatives
in foreign policy which are of the highest moral standards. And that is indica-
tive of the foreign policy of this country.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Frankel, a question for President Ford.
MR. FRANKEL. Mr. President, can we stick with morality? For a lot of people
it seems to cover a bunch of sins.
Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger used to tell us that instead of morality we had
to worry in the world about living with and letting live all kinds of govern-
ments that we really didn't like-North and South Korean dictators, Chilean
fascists, Chinese Communists, Iranian emperors, and so on. They said the only
way to get by in a wicked world was to treat others on the basis of how they
treated us and not how they treated their own people.
But more recently we seem to have taken a different tack. We seem to have
decided that it is part of our business to tell the Rhodesians, for instance, that
the way they are treating their own black people is wrong and they've got to
change their government. And we put pressure on them. We were rather liberal
in our advice to the Italians as to how to vote.
Is this a new Ford foreign policy in the making? Can we expect that you
2427
