[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
are now going to turn to South Africa and force them to change their govern-
ment, to intervene in similar ways to end the bloodshed, as you called it, say
in Chile or Chilean prisons, and to throw our weight around for the values that
we hold dear in the world?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that our foreign policy must express the highest
standards of morality, and the initiatives that we took in southern Africa are
the best examples of what this administration is doing and will continue to do in
the next 4 years.
If the United States had not moved when we did in southern Africa, there is
no doubt there would have been an acceleration of bloodshed in that tragic part
of the world. If we had not taken our initiative, it's very, very possible that the
Government of Rhodesia would have been overrun and that the Soviet Union
and the Cubans would have dominated southern Africa.
So, the United States, seeking to preserve the principle of self-determination,
to eliminate the possibility of bloodshed, to protect the rights of the minority as
we insisted upon the rights of the majority, I believe followed the good con-
science of the American people in foreign policy, and I believe that we have
used our skill. Secretary of State Kissinger has done a superb job in working
with the black African nations, the so-called frontline nations. He has done a
superb job in getting the Prime Minister of South Africa, Mr. Vorster, to
agree that the time had come for a solution to the problem of Rhodesia. Secretary
Kissinger, in his meeting with Prime Minister Smith of Rhodesia, was able to
convince him that it was in the best interests of whites as well as blacks in
Rhodesia to find an answer for a transitional government and then a majority
government.
This is a perfect example of the kind of leadership that the United States,
under this administration, has taken. And I can assure you that this administra-
tion will follow that high moral principle in our future efforts in foreign
policy, including our efforts in the Middle East, where it is vitally important
because the Middle East is the crossroads of the world. There have been more
disputes, and it's an area where there is more volatility than any other place
in the world. But because Arab nations and the Israelis trust the United States,
we were able to take the lead in the Sinai II agreement.
And I can assure you that the United States will have the leadership role in
moving toward a comprehensive settlement of the Middle Eastern problems—
I hope and trust as soon as possible—and we will do it with the highest moral
principles.
2428
