October 14
[900]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
awards. Tonight, she receives an award as a truly great American. Her visits
abroad have given the word real meaning—“ambassador." She has shown very
clearly to all the world what is possible when personal genius is allowed to
flourish under artistic and political freedom.
In America the arts have blossomed, and we are justly proud of the great
strides that we have made. Last year in the arena of dance alone, there were
more than four times as many professional dance companies as there were in
1965.
But the continued survival and the continued growth of the arts in America
requires more than just the genius of the artist. It also requires the foresight, the
generosity of both public and private sectors in order to have adequate support.
Tonight, I take pleasure in announcing that I intend to seek full funding for
the Cultural Challenge Grant program over the next 3 years. This will provide
$12 million in new Federal moneys for the arts next year and approximately $50
million over the next 3 years. Because these grants will be made on the basis of
one Federal dollar for every three raised from other sources, it can serve to gen-
erate $200 million in new support for the arts.
Many, many people in this audience tonight were instrumental in providing
the financial support that enabled Martha Graham's dance troupe to inspire
America and truly to inspire the world. Let me assure you that we in the Federal
Government are going to do our part, Martha, to encourage the Martha Gra-
hams of the future.
Tonight, however, there is only one Martha Graham and all of America is
very, very proud of her. And now, Martha, would you please join me here.
Martha, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to present to you one of our Na-
tion's highest honors, the Medal of Freedom. And let me read, if I might, the
citation before I actually put the sash in the appropriate place. The citation reads
as follows:
[At this point, the President read the citation, the text of which follows:]
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
AWARDS THIS
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM
WITH DISTINCTION
ΤΟ
MARTHA GRAHAM
Dancer, teacher, and choreographer, Martha Graham has captivated the world with her magic and has
left a legacy of imagination with all who have witnessed her talent. Her energy, creativity and daring have
opened new doors of expression in dance. Her followers and friends adore her, and her country, the United
States of America, is proud to proclaim her a brilliant star and a National treasure.
2535
