January 20
[1084]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Park System and National Wildlife Refuges, and to increase grants to com-
munities to improve park and recreation facilities." Appropriations for the im-
plementation of the Act are requested in a 1977 supplemental appropriations
request which has been transmitted with the 1978 Budget.
This proposal, "The Bicentennial Land Heritage Act" is similar to draft legis-
lation which I transmitted to the 94th Congress on August 31, 1976. Because the
94th Congress adjourned sine die without acting on this matter, I am retrans-
mitting the draft legislation which accompanied my August 31 message.
The Bicentennial Land Heritage Program would establish a ten year national
commitment to double America's heritage of national parks, recreation areas,
wildlife refuges, urban parks and historic sites. It would authorize the appropria-
tion of $1.5 billion for the acquisition, improvement, rehabilitation, and main-
tenance of the National Park System and National Wildlife Refuges, and would
increase grants to communities to improve park and recreation facilities.
Enactment of my proposal would establish a $1.5 billion program to:
-provide $141 million to be used to acquire lands for parks, wildlife refuges,
recreation areas, and historic sites;
-provide $959 million to upgrade and develop new and existing parks and
refuges into recreation and conservation resources ready to serve the public;
—provide $200 million for increased staffing for the national parks and wild-
life refuges; and,
-provide $200 million for grants to cities to upgrade present park areas in
disrepair.
This program will significantly influence the future of the 31 million-acre
National Park System. The System, with its 291 areas, contains outstanding nat-
ural features and historic sites. This program will provide for developing and
maintaining these areas to the highest standards; standards befitting the nation-
ally significant resources to be found in these areas. The program will assure
sufficient management and protection of the resources in our park areas, and will
also finance the facilities and personnel needed to make these resources available
to the visiting public. The addition of lands to the System, coupled with effective
resource management, will increase opportunities for outdoor recreation, as well
as insure the protection and perpetuation of park resources for future genera-
tions. Their inclusion would also help to alleviate overcrowding problems at
some areas currently in the System which have experienced sharply accelerated
visitation during recent years.
The Bicentennial Land Heritage Program will also be important to the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System. The 385 National Wildlife Refuges which en-
2975
