September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Nixon administration in its entirety, of which he was a part. That, I think, is a
good balance.
But the point is that a President ought to lead this country. Mr. Ford, so far
as I know, except for avoiding another Watergate, has not accomplished one
single major program for his country. And there has been a constant squabbling
between the President and the Congress, and that's not the way this country
ought to be run.
I might go back to one other thing. Mr. Ford has misquoted an AP news
story that was in error to begin with. That story reported several times that I
would lower taxes for lower- and middle-income families, and that correction
was delivered to the White House. And I am sure that the President knows
about this correction, but he still insists on repeating an erroneous statement.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, Governor Carter, we no longer have enough
time for two complete sequences of questions. We have only about 6 minutes left
for questions and answers. For that reason we will drop the follow-up questions
at this point, but each candidate will still be able to respond to the other's
answers.
To the extent that you can, gentlemen, please keep your remarks brief.
MR. GANNON. Governor Carter, one important part of the Government's eco-
nomic policy apparatus we haven't talked about is the Federal Reserve Board.
I would like to ask you something about what you have said, and that is that you
believe that a President ought to have a Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board
whose views are compatible with his own.
that your views are
Based on the record of the last few years,
years, would you say
compatible with those of Chairman Arthur Burns, and if not, would you seek
his resignation if you are elected?
MR. CARTER. What I have said is that the President ought to have a chance to
appoint the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board to have a coterminus term;
in other words, both of them serve the same 4 years.
The Congress can modify the supply of money by modifying the income tax
laws. The President can modify the economic structure of the country by public
statements and general attitudes and the budget that he proposes. The Federal
Reserve has an independent status that ought to be preserved.
I think that Mr. Burns did take a typical erroneous Republican attitude in
the 1973 year when inflation was so high. He assumed that the inflation rate was
because of excessive demand and, therefore, put into effect tight constraint on
the economy, very high interest rates—which is typical, also, of a Republican
administration-tried to increase the tax payments by individuals, cut the tax
2307
