[968]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Those vetoes saved each American family about $200 in Federal spending, and
that is progress. Because I have not been afraid to say no, to say no to excessive
spending, we will submit a balanced budget by 1978 and we will have another
tax reduction for the American taxpayer in the meantime.
My idea—and listen very carefully-my idea of tax reform is tax reduction—
tax reduction for the shortchanged, middle-income taxpayer. Therefore, I rec-
ommended that you have your personal income tax exemption increased from
$750 to $1,000. That is the kind of tax reform that we want.
After so many years of uncontrolled inflation, we have cut the rate of inflation
in half in the past 2 years. I commit, I promise, we will do better each year in
the next 4 years.
After the worst economic recession in 40 years, we have added 4 million jobs
to the American economy in the past 2 years, not by creating dead-end jobs at a
taxpayer's expense, but by stimulating jobs with a future in the private economy
where five out of the six jobs exist anyhow.
I admit too many people are still out of work. We are not satisfied with the
progress that we have made, but more Americans were on the job in 1976 than
ever before in the history of this country-88 million—and that is a tremendous
comeback from where we were 18 months ago.
After suffering a tragic betrayal of public trust 2 years ago, America has had
its faith restored in the White House itself. My administration has been open,
candid, frank, forthright, and we are going to keep it that way for the next
4 years.
In every field America is on the move. We are on the march. We made an
incredible comeback in the past 2 years and we are not through yet. You can
believe me when I say this Nation is sound, this Nation is secure. This Nation
is on the way to a better quality of life for all Americans, and this administration
has earned the trust of the American people for the next 4 years.
My record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises. We
do not need a government to do everything for us or to tell us everything we can
or cannot do. This is a pledge of the Ford administration.
We have a great reservoir of talent in industry throughout all 50 of our States.
It is not all concentrated on the banks of the Potomac.
Jimmy Carter says we are not respected any more. This week America made a
clean sweep of the Nobel Prizes for economics, chemistry, medicine, and litera-
ture. This is the first time in the history of these awards that a single country, the
United States, has come home with every winner. We should be very proud. I
might add, that record doesn't sound like a second-rate operation to me.
2708
