[765]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
regimes imposed by governments should not stifle the industry's flexibility to
respond to this demand, nor should they remove incentives to keep costs low.
The Economic Policy Board Task Force on International Air Transportation
Policy, chaired by the Departments of Transportation and State, has recom-
mended a comprehensive statement of United States policy. The statement sets
forth the objectives the United States will seek in negotiations with other na-
tions. It also calls for balanced revisions of certain regulatory policies of the Civil
Aeronautics Board.
I am approving this statement of international air transportation policy to
supersede the one issued June 22, 1970,ยน and am directing that this new statement
of policy guidance be used henceforth by officials of the Government in dealing
with international aviation matters.
766
Remarks at the B'nai B'rith Biennial Convention.
September 9, 1976
Thank you very much, David. Ambassador Dinitz, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
At the outset, let me express my deep gratitude and appreciation for that more
than generous introduction. And I understand, David, that you are unopposed
this year in your campaign for the presidency of B'nai B'rith. David, you will
have to tell me how you do it. [Laughter]
I am honored to address this convention saluting both the 133d year of B'nai
B'rith and the 200th anniversary of the United States. You, the sons and daugh-
ters of the Covenant, have kept your commitment to Judaism and to America.
As one of America's pioneer voluntary agencies, your seven candles have
generated light and warmth and love. Your compassion illuminates the best of
our Nation's traditional spirit of voluntary service to others. Your devotion to
family virtues and values makes me proud to serve as President of the great
American family of which the Jewish community is a cherished member.
I have been meeting with B'nai B'rith for more than a quarter of a century
and always understood that you were a nonpartisan organization. I had pre-
pared an appropriately nonpartisan speech for this morning, but when I saw
the morning paper, I was disappointed to see that one of your speakers yesterday
apparently kicked off our debates from this rostrum. As a matter of fact, I origi-
1 See Public Papers of the Presidents, Richard Nixon, 1970 volume, Item 195.
2222
