August 19
[733]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
never stronger. Our relations with Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union, and main-
land China are firm, vigilant, and forward looking. Policies I have initiated
offer sound progress for the peoples of the Pacific, Africa, and Latin America.
Israel and Egypt, both trusting the United States, have taken an historic step
that promises an eventual just settlement for the whole Middle East.
The world now respects America's policy of peace through strength. The
United States is again the confident leader of the free world. Nobody questions
our dedication to peace, but nobody doubts our willingness to use our strength
when our vital interests are at stake, and we will. I called for an up-to-date,
powerful Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines that will keep America secure
for decades. A strong military posture is always the best insurance for peace.
But America's strength has never rested on arms alone. It is rooted in our
mutual commitment of our citizens and leaders in the highest standards of
ethics and morality and in the spiritual renewal which our Nation is under-
going right now.
Two years ago people's confidence in their highest officials, to whom they had
overwhelmingly entrusted power, had twice been shattered. Losing faith in
the word of their elected leaders, Americans lost some of their own faith in
themselves.
Again, let's look at the record since August 1974. From the start my adminis-
tration has been open, candid, forthright. While my entire public and private
life was under searching examination for the Vice-Presidency, I reaffirmed my
lifelong conviction that truth is the glue that holds government together—not
only government but civilization itself. I have demanded honesty, decency, and
personal integrity from everybody in the executive branch of the Government.
The House and Senate have the same duty.
The American people will not accept a double standard in the United States
Congress. Those who make our laws today must not debase the reputation of
our great legislative bodies that have given us such giants as Daniel Webster,
Henry Clay, Sam Rayburn, and Robert A. Taft. Whether in the Nation's
Capital, the State capital, or city hall, private morality and public trust must
go together.
From August of 1974 to August of 1976, the record shows steady progress
upward toward prosperity, peace, and public trust. My record is one of progress,
not platitudes. My record is one of specifics, not smiles. My record is one of
performance, not promises. It is a record I am proud to run on. It is a record
the American people—Democrats, Independents, and Republicans alike—will
support on November 2.
2161
