[1066]
January 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
have been in fact. They tell us about the growing complexity of our society, about
the changing and growing role of our Government, and about new problems we
have identified and our attempts to solve them.
In shaping my budgets as President, I have sought to renew the basic questions
about the composition and direction of the Government and its programs. In
my reviews of existing and proposed programs and activities I have asked:
-Is this activity important to our national security or sense of social equity?
-Is this activity sufficiently important to require that we tax our people or
borrow funds to pay for it?
-Must the Federal Government raise the taxes or borrow the funds or should
State or local government do so?
-Should the Federal Government direct and manage the activity or should
it limit its role to the provision of financing?
-How has the program performed in the past? Have the benefits outweighed
the costs in dollars or other burdens imposed?
-Have the benefits gone to the intended beneficiary?
-Does this activity conflict with or overlap another?
As a result of these reviews I have proposed to reverse some trends and to
accelerate others.
I have proposed, and repropose this year, a marked slowdown in the rate of
growth in Government spending. Over the last three decades, Federal, State,
and local government spending has grown from 18% of GNP to 34% of GNP.
Federal spending growth has averaged 10% per year over the last decade. And
even these percentages do not tell the whole story. As the budget documents
illustrate, there has been a trend over the last few years toward so-called “off-
budget” spending. This is an undesirable practice because it obscures the real
impact of the Federal Government and makes it more difficult for any but the
most technically knowledgeable citizens to understand what their Government
is doing. Therefore, I am calling for legislation to halt this practice so that our
budget system will fully reflect the financial activities of the Government.
In a related attempt to gain greater control over the rate of growth of Gov-
ernment spending I have given special attention this year to spending plans for
fiscal year 1979, the year after the budget year. For the first time, the Federal
budget shows detailed planning amounts for the year beyond the budget year.
This innovation grows out of my conviction that our only real hope of curb-
ing the growth of Federal spending is to plan further in advance and to dis-
cipline ourselves to stick to those plans.
From the standpoint of deficits of most recent years the 1978 budget I present
2938
