September 29
[827]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Unfortunately, S. 327 also provides for certain changes in the procedures of
the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation which would compromise ex-
ecutive branch functions. I find these provisions unacceptable, as well as unneces-
sary to the effective operation of the Advisory Council.
The first provision would require the concurrent submission of Advisory
Council budget requests to Congress and to the President. The second would
require concurrent submission of the Advisory Council's legislative proposals.
Each requirement would make it difficult for me to develop and present to the
Congress coherent and coordinated budget and legislative programs.
We will submit to the Congress legislation which would correct these
provisions, and I will strongly urge its passage during the first session of the next
Congress.
In summary, I am pleased today to sign S. 327. With my Bicentennial Land
Heritage Program and S. 327, we will have a program of which we can be
proud. These two measures will provide increased recreational opportunities for
present and future Americans, and will preserve for the future a great treasure
of natural areas and historic resources. S. 327 provides the authorization for
greatly accelerated land acquisition and historic preservation efforts assuring
the continued momentum of our national preservation program. The Bicenten-
nial Land Heritage Program will assure that these resources are developed and
maintained to the highest standards.
As America looks toward her third century, we draw strength from our past.
Our heritage of natural areas and the remaining records of our cultural history
provide a reassuring sense of the direction from which we have come and a re-
spite from the tensions of continuing progress. It is essential that we preserve
our natural areas and historic resources in the face of progress. I pledge to do all
I can to further this goal.
827
Remarks Upon Signing the Public Safety Officers'
Benefits Act of 1976. September 29, 1976
Distinguished Members of the House and Senate, members of the Cabinet, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Two days ago in Miami, Florida, I declared a major new escalation in Amer-
ica's war on crime. I outlined plans as follows: to completely revise the Federal
Criminal Code; to expand the demonstrably successful career criminal pro-
2359
