[1000]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
But we still have some things to do despite our incredible comeback, and let
me just tick off a few. I'm not going to be satisfied until every American who
wants a job has a job. I'm not going to be satisfied until everybody who works
and saves and wants to buy a decent home in a fine neighborhood. I'm not
going to be satisfied until we give a quality education to every American. I'm
not going to be satisfied until we give health care at a cost that the people can
afford. I'm not going to be satisfied until we lock up the criminals and make it
safe to be on your streets.
You have wonderful enthusiasm, but as old Joe Garagiola said—and he ain't
as old as I am―[laughter]—all right, you know, this is towards the last quar-
ter—I will put it in football terms—we were way, way behind in the first quarter
and, boy, they were overconfident. But we got together. The Republican Party
has never been better unified. We are out there with the right programs, the
right enthusiasm, and the net result is we have the momentum.
So, I happen to believe that this State will be on the side of the right direction
for the next 4 years and the first 4 years of our third century. I know you can
do it right here in Suffolk County. I know that Dick Rosenbaum and all of the
wonderful workers in New York State can have the Empire State lead the pack
for the right kind of a program, for the kind of an America we believe in.
But let me ask one final, final favor. I have been very proud to be your Presi-
dent during a period of 2 years of adversity and difficulty. You didn't lose faith
in your country, in your government, or yourselves, or your neighbors. You
were proud, as I was, to be an American. I would be honored to serve as your
President for the next 4 years. And so I ask you, on behalf of Betty and myself,
will you not only confirm me on August—October-November 2—[laughter]—
will you confirm me on November 2 by not only your prayers but by your
ballots?
And I won't let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at Colonie Hill. In his remarks, he
referred to Richard Rosenbaum, New York State
Republican chairman, Edwin M. Schwenck, Suffolk
County Republican chairman, and Perry B. Duryea,
Jr., New York State assemblyman.
2814
