January 7
[1045]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Low Consumer Prices vs. Adequate and Secure Energy Supplies
The reality that must be faced which appears to cause the most difficulty for
elected officials is the inevitability of higher energy prices. Energy prices, par-
ticularly for consumers, will increase in the future principally because prices
in the past have been held artificially low through Government controls, be-
cause cheaper domestic energy resources are being depleted, because past en-
ergy prices have not reflected the costs of environmental protection, and be-
cause foreign nations are charging more for the energy that they export. There
simply are no cheap energy alternatives. Higher prices will continue to be a
major factor in obtaining adequate and secure energy supplies.
This difficulty is compounded for elected officials because it takes a long time
in energy matters for our actions to show results-a condition that is not read-
ily accepted in a Nation that prefers quick results. The prospect of higher prices
will provide the incentive for increased energy production but it then takes up
to 5 years, for example, to bring a new off-shore oil well into production and
up to 10 years to bring a new nuclear electric generating plant on line.
Environment vs. Energy
An equally difficult problem is that of finding the best possible balance be-
tween our energy and environmental objectives. Our environmental objectives
are also important in protecting health and welfare, improving our quality of
life, and preserving natural resources for future generations. On the other
hand, an adequate energy supply is essential to our objectives for a strong econ-
omy, national defense and role in world affairs, and in achieving a better life
for all.
The conflict between energy and environmental objectives will require atten-
tion when the Congress considers amendments to the Clean Air Act, changes
in laws governing the development of Federally-owned energy resources, im-
provements in the processes for siting and approving energy facilities, and con-
trols on domestic energy production activities such as the surface mining of
coal.
More specifically, air quality requirements forced shifts away from the use of
domestic coal to the use of oil and natural gas which are now in short supply.
Some air quality requirements—particularly emission standards set by states—
are far tighter than necessary to meet standards which have been set to protect
human health.
Efforts are now underway to reverse this trend but it is clear that increased
production and utilization of domestic coal in the short term requires either
2897
