[674]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to make the judgment here as to who will be
the Vice-Presidential nominee. We will have a good Vice-Presidential candidate,
and, as I said before, we are not going to exclude anybody.
PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN APPROACH
[10.] Q. Mr. President, the Democrats have already signaled what direction
they are going to go by trying to tie your administration with close ties to the
Nixon administration. How do you intend to handle that problem in the
campaign and shed that yoke?
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to use the Ford record of 23 months—which
is a good one-in turning the economy around, in achieving the peace and
maintaining the peace, in the restoration of public confidence in the White
House, and, hopefully, the restoration of public confidence in the other two
branches of the Federal Government.
Q. Inasmuch as you kept on such former Nixon intimates as Secretaries
Kissinger, Simon and Butz and Messrs. Morton, Greenspan, Scowcroft, and
Rumsfeld, isn't their branding of your administration the Nixon-Ford admin-
istration accurate?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, because I have made the final decisions in each
case.
LIBYAN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, does the United States have evidence or informa-
tion that President Qadhafi of Libya is financing, planning, encouraging, and
serving as the central point of an international terrorist organization and
conspiracy?
THE PRESIDENT. We do know that the Libyan Government has in many ways
done certain things that might have stimulated terrorist activity, but I don't
think we ought to discuss any evidence that we have that might prove or
disprove that.
Q. In the light of what you had to say about the Israeli rescue mission, or
mission in Uganda, if you have any reason to believe that the Libyan Govern-
ment is encouraging terrorist operations on an international basis, why, in the
sort of classic phrase, why isn't the United States doing something about it?
THE PRESIDENT. We are working in the United Nations, we are working
with many governments in trying to put forward a very strong antiterrorist
effort in order to stop this kind of very unwarranted, unjustified action, and we'll
continue our efforts in that regard.
2034
