[768]
September 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Spanish-speaking individuals throughout our country and to protect their
rights of the franchise that is so important to all of us.
Hispanic know-how, energy, pride, and dedication have strengthened America
for over two centuries. The Hispanic contribution to America has been consistent
and a vital influence on a better society in our country. I know that contribution
will continue to flourish in the years ahead and continue to add to all that is
good in America.
Today, therefore, I am very proud to have the opportunity of signing this
proclamation for National Hispanic Heritage Week, and I congratulate all of
you for the contributions you have made and for the attendance here on this
occasion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. at a ceremony in the East Room at the White House.
769
Letter to the Archbishop of Cincinnati Following a Meeting With
the Executive Committee of the National Conference of Catholic
Bishops. September 10, 1976
Your Excellency:
I want to thank you and other leaders of the National Conference of Catholic
Bishops for visiting with me today to discuss issues of mutual concern and
interest. Because many of these issues are highly sensitive, I thought it might
be helpful to set forth my views on paper so that others who could not be with
us might have a more precise understanding of my convictions on these issues.
One of the most controversial issues of our time and one in which we share a
keen interest is the question of abortion. I have grave concern over the serious
moral questions raised by this issue. Each new life is a miracle of creation. To
interfere with that creative process is a most serious act.
In my view, the Government has a very special role in this regard. Specifically,
the Government has a responsibility to protect life—and indeed to provide legal
guarantees for the weak and unprotected.
It is within this context that I have consistently opposed the 1973 decision of
the Supreme Court. As President, I am sworn to uphold the laws of the land and
I intend to carry out this responsibility. In my personal view, however, this court
decision was unwise. I said then and I repeat today—abortion on demand is
wrong.
Since 1973 I have viewed as the most practical means of rectifying the situation
2230
