September 30
[831]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. From any campaign fund?
THE PRESIDENT. I will say any campaign funds for personal use.
Q. Do you find these stories personally painful, someone questioning your
integrity?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it naturally has some impact when I know that all of
these things have been investigated by some 400 FBI agents and 5 to 6 Internal
Revenue agents, with my income taxes going back to 8 or 9 years, when I know
that I have been given a clean bill of health not only by the FBI but the Internal
Revenue Service, by the Senate and House committees, and an overwhelming
vote in the House and Senate.
When I look at the investigation that was made of my personal life, the
financial circumstances, probably more than anybody else in the history of
this country, I know that there is no problem. So I guess to some extent one is
bothered a bit. But as long as my conscience is clear I have no real problem.
Q. Sir, you brought up the matter of the income tax. It's proper, isn't it,
if in case a person receives a gift, say of an airplane ticket or something of that
sort, it has to be listed on their income tax as a gift? Or does reciprocity cover
that when you buy a ticket later?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with the details of that, but the IRS went
into all of these matters. They closed out my income tax returns for back 8 or 9
years. They had people go into these with minute detail so I-
Q. Well, what I am asking is, actually I am asking for your legal advice.
The President. Well, I am not here to give you any legal advice.
Q. Mr. President, is this longstanding personal relationship, personal and
friendship though it may be-is nevertheless valuable to United States Steel and
to the Ford Motor Company, much as the employers of other people who are
friends of yours-for example, John Byrnes, who represents a great many
interests in this town on tax reform, and—perhaps coincidentally, perhaps you
believe this—your position is about like his on tax reform?
I asked you earlier whether you had discussed business with them during these
social outings. Rod Markley said you and he discussed the Clean Air Act. I
wonder, do you not see that it is to their benefit for you to have this personal
relationship?
The President. Let me modify what I said a moment ago. In a casual way,
of course we might informally talk about certain matters, but I happen to feel
that they were not asking me and I was not asking them. The times I've played
with Rod have been at Burning Tree, where we are both members and both pay
2U.S. Representative from Wisconsin 1945-73.
2371
