September 15
[784]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
your fame now. And I can only say that they get better, because the longer you
are away from school, the fewer there are of people to tell the truth about what
happened. [Laughter]
So, I am just honored to come back here. Coming to the campus brings back
some great memories. I can recall vividly my freshman year. We couldn't play
on the varsity in the freshman year. And I ate a few meals here in the Union, and
I really got to love and feel very strongly about this university. I think it has
contributed very significantly to whatever success I've had.
The friends I made and the opportunities educationally and the whole at-
mosphere here was a great factor in the incentive and the drive to do as well
as one could. I know that with the great record that you have—and I can say as
a Monday morning or grandstand quarterback—I sit up there in the stands and
watch on television—and I am very proud of the great record that you have and
the way you play football. You play to win, and that's the only way I know to
move ahead, whether you are on the gridiron or whether you are in classrooms
or whether you are in politics or anything else.
So, good luck, beat Stanford, and you've got nine more ball games before
you go to the Rose Bowl.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:23 p.m. in the Michigan Union, where he joined the members of the football
team and athletic staff for dinner.
784
Remarks at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
September 15, 1976
President Flemming, Senator Griffin, Congressman Esch, Congressman Vander
Jagt, Michigan students, faculty, and guests:
President Flemming, I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to be on this
great campus. I am proud of you as the president of the University of Michigan,
and I am equally proud of the great record of my alma mater.
I am deeply indebted to Senator Bob Griffin, an outstanding United States
Senator who has been my close personal friend and loyal supporter from the
very beginning of my political career.
And I am delighted to have on the platform with me your effective and able
Congressman, Marv Esch, who will be Michigan's next United States Senator.
It's great to be back at the University of Michigan, the home of the number
one Wolverines. After what you did to Wisconsin, I will tell you one thing-
2251
