September 16
[788]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
There is an old story that was told to me by one of my Sunday school teachers
who said that the history of the United States was the contribution of people
from many cultures and many lands. Then he said, "There is a story that is
told about the Bible, that the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many colors, and
the strength of America comes from those who came from so many lands and
so many cultures."
And of course the contribution made by those of Hispanic heritage is very
significant. I know, of course, that before we got our independence those with
Hispanic origins made a tremendous contribution to our society. History
tells us that those with Hispanic origins fought in our revolution with distinction
and honor. And of course in the last 200 years the pages of history are filled
with what has been done by those with those backgrounds.
Whether it's in the arts or sciences, whether it is in industry or education,
those with Hispanic origins have contributed tremendously to what we think
is the greatest land in the history of mankind.
We are so blessed in America because, yes, of the material things we have,
but really, more significantly than that is the spiritual dedication and beliefs
that are so ingrained in all of us-215 million of us.
It has been my opportunity to travel in many lands, but it is always wonder-
ful to come home to America because we see in America all the good that
comes from other countries. And I can't help but repeat with emphasis, to
reiterate on behalf of all of us, the tremendous benefits we have had come
to us because of the contributions of those of you with Hispanic origins.
You are wonderful people. You are like all of us-proud of our country,
proud of your accomplishments. As we look forward to the next 100 years—
and we are just over the threshold-we have had 200 superb years, but our vision
of America ought to be to improve. And we can improve that heritage and
that progress and those accomplishments by what you have done and what we
all must do.
I thank you for the opportunity of being with you tonight. I thank you,
Bishop Flores, to come from San Antonio for this wonderful occasion and
you, Monsignor Murphy, for this inspirational Shrine. I am just so pleased
to see you and to be with you all.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. at the
National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception,
located on the grounds of the Catholic University
of America. In his opening remarks, he referred to
The Most Reverend Patrick C. Flores, bishop of
San Antonio, and the Reverend Monsignor John
J. Murphy, director of the national shrine.
2263
