July 29
[701]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
maintain a strategic relationship with the Soviet Union which preserves our
security. At the same time, we will continue to pursue arms control agreements
that lessen the danger of war and serve to promote a stable and peaceful inter-
national order. We are negotiating with the Soviet Union, with the Warsaw
Pact countries, in the multilateral Geneva-based Conference of the Committee
on Disarmament, and in the United Nations. We are mindful that many diffi-
cult questions remain to be solved, but I can report that steady progress has
been made.
On May 28 I signed the Treaty on Underground Nuclear Explosions for
Peaceful Purposes which has now been submitted to the Senate together with
the related Threshold Test Ban Treaty. Both treaties represent genuine progress
in the two-decade struggle to halt nuclear weapons testing.
In the current phase of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, we and the So-
viet Union have made considerable progress since the Vladivostok meeting.
Most of the elements needed for final agreement are already agreed. Certain
issues are still unsettled but we will continue our effort to resolve them in a
way that protects the interests of both sides, and enables us to complete a new
SALT agreement on the basis of the Vladivostok accords.
In negotiations to reduce forces in central Europe, both the NATO and the
Warsaw Pact nations have made new proposals. Through these negotiations
we hope to achieve a more stable military balance in central Europe at lower
levels of forces. And in the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, the
United States and the Soviet Union have tabled identical draft texts of a con-
vention to outlaw environmental modification techniques for hostile purposes.
The Administration has undertaken a vigorous action program to strengthen
the barriers against further proliferation of nuclear weapons. We have moved
to increase the effectiveness of the Non-proliferation Treaty and the Interna-
tional Atomic Energy Agency. Controls on American exports of nuclear mate-
rials and sensitive technology have been made even more rigorous. The United
States has taken an important initiative to establish new cooperation with the
other major nations supplying nuclear equipment and technology, and a com-
mon understanding has been reached on principles and standards governing
nuclear exports.
These are tangible evidence of progress. This fifteenth annual report of the
U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency sets forth in detail and perspec-
tive the advances that have been made and the difficult, essential work that
2105
