[1008]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
America is strong. Our Army, our Navy, our Air Force, our Marines are number
one, and we are going to keep them number one.
Now, my opponent, he wants to cut the defense budget by $5 billion or maybe
$15 billion. Let me tell you, that is too big a gamble for the security of the
United States, and President Ford won't take that gamble. One of the greatest
accomplishments of this administration is that because we are strong, strong
internally and strong externally, there is not a single young American fighting
or dying on any foreign soil tonight, and we are going to keep it that way.
On August 9, 1974, I stood in the East Room of the White House and took
the oath of office. Betty held the Bible. After that was over and as I realized the
troubled times we were in-with inflation over 12 percent, with America still
involved in Vietnam, with us on the brink of the worst recession in 40 years,
and trust and confidence in the White House gone—I made a few remarks to
the American people. I said, among other things, "I know that you have not
confirmed me by your ballots, but I ask you to confirm me by your prayers."
In those 2 tough years since August 9, we have made incredible progress in
this great country. Reflect for a minute on our 200th birthday. It was a great
occasion, where all over America we found that there was a new togetherness.
We could disagree without being disagreeable. We could move forward as we
have, shoulder to shoulder and arm in arm. That spirit is infectious, and
America is on the move. I thought then-as I did on August 9-how wonderful
the people of Michigan have been to give me the chance to serve not only
Michigan but to serve the people of 50 States. Everything I have in politics
comes from you, and I express my deepest appreciation and gratitude.
But now we have that crucial decision to make. America is respected. Some
of you may have seen those "Tall Ships" in the harbor of New York. Ship after
ship, from country after country, had come to pay respect to the greatest coun-
try in the history of mankind, the United States of America.
Now, between right this minute and 8 tomorrow night, you have that critical
decision to make. Tomorrow, yes, you can confirm me by your prayers—and
your prayers truly help—but now you have the opportunity to confirm me with
your ballots. I ask for your support, and I promise you from the bottom of my
heart I will not let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:38 p.m. at Wonderland Center.
2834
