October 2
[846]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that teachers and administrators don't have to spend all of their time making out
Federal forms; so they can spend their time teaching the children of all
Americans, and thereby get a better education for the young in this country.
And although I am a product of public schools, I strongly believe that our
nonpublic schools are vitally important in our society. Public schools are better
when they have competition from nonpublic schools. Therefore, it's always
been my view that we should find a way under our Federal tax policy to give
an opportunity for those who want to send their children to nonpublic schools
should get some tax relief.
One final comment: On July 4 this country celebrated its 200th birthday. It
was a glorious day. I think more Americans were thrilled by what took place
that day than almost any day in recent history.
On that occasion we honored the achievements of the past, but in the third
century I think we have to write a new and better history for America. We have
to have jobs for our people. We have to have homes for our old as well as
young. We have to have safety on our streets. We have to have the opportunity
for better health care. We have to have a strong nation with peace at home and
with peace abroad.
This nation, over the years, has done a good job in keeping itself strong and
healthy both here and abroad. But sometimes it's helpful for us to learn about
the sadness and tragedy of other nations.
Just this past week, if you have been reading the papers, our strong and good
ally, Great Britain, has been faced with a very serious crisis. You may have read
that the Prime Minister of Great Britain appeared before his own Labor
Party Convention, calling for them to support him in a strong fiscal and mone-
tary policy so that Great Britain could meet the crisis that has confronted them
in the last year or two, a crisis which has reached a peak within the last few
weeks.
I read of the speech that Prime Minister Callaghan gave to his Labor Con-
vention, and one sentence in that speech impressed me tremendously. And it is
a sentence that I think we should take a good look at and perhaps learn some-
thing from. And let me read it to you.
"Britain for too long has lived on borrowed time, borrowed money, and
borrowed ideas. We will fail if we think we can buy our way out of our present
difficulties by printing confetti money and by paying ourselves more than we
earn."
That is a very, very powerful sentence given by a courageous Prime Minister,
2393
