[846]
October 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
portant, representing their congressional districts but also their ethnic groups.
All of you as leaders in your communities are vitally important for success in
this campaign.
I have said on many occasions, at the convention in my acceptance speech
and down in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida, that I don't concede
a single State and I don't concede a single vote. The election is going to be
close. We started from behind, but we have the momentum. And I believe very
strongly that this election can and will be won by the Ford-Dole ticket.
It just so happens that the record and the program of the Ford administra-
tion coincides with the aspirations of the groups that you represent. It's my obser-
vation that those who have an ethnic background want a job, a meaningful job
opportunity. They are willing to work and will go out and try to find a job.
This administration believes that everybody who wants a job should have a
job, and this administration is going to achieve that result. We don't think
the situation is adequate today, but our program of trying to expand the domes-
tic economy, the private sector, where five out of six jobs exist, is the way to get
a job for the young American, for those who want a job and who are willing to
work.
American ethnics want a home in a decent neighborhood. This administra-
tion believes that everybody who will work and save can get a home in a
decent neighborhood under the program that we believe in. We have to reduce
downpayments. We have to have variable mortgage payments so that young
couples, when they start out, won't have to pay as much when their income is
down, but as their income situation improves, they will be able to pay more.
This administration has established under the Secretary of HUD, Carla Hills,
a Committee-a joint Cabinet committee-on Urban Development and Neigh-
borhood Revitalization, and this committee will do a good job in making
certain that your ethnic communities are preserved in our major metropolitan
areas.
With a job and a home, you can raise a family, you can support your schools,
and you can support your social clubs. You can preserve your cultural and
spiritual heritages, and those are vitally important.
This administration believes that we also have to take a forward step in the
area of education. We have supported the elementary and secondary education
programs—that where the Federal Government makes contributions to State
and local educational bodies. We don't think the system works as well with some
24 categorical grant programs. We believe that the same amount or more money
ought to go to elementary and secondary schools in a block grant program so
2392
