September 18
[792]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
this country, that we have done a good job and that we want the opportunity
to do an even better job in the next 4 years.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:03 p.m. in the
opening remarks, he referred to Mrs. Betty Ford
State Dining Room at the White House. In his and Patricia Hutar, president of the federation.
792
Remarks Announcing Intention To Nominate Edward
Aguirre as Commissioner of Education.
September 18, 1976
I AM very pleased to announce that I am nominating as the Commissioner
of Education, Dr. Aguirre. He will succeed Dr. Bell. And Dr. Aguirre comes
from the Arizona area—Arizona State. He taught school in the public school
system of Phoenix, Arizona, went on to San Diego State and was on the faculty
there for a number of years, and then went with the Department of Labor,
and then, for the last several years, has been the Regional Director for the
Office of Education in San Francisco.
Dr. Aguirre has not only the experience and the background but he firmly
believes, as I do, that our approach to elementary and secondary education,
where we would have a block grant program of $3,300 million, with money
going directly to the local school systems, is the way to relieve bureaucratic
redtape and get the teacher and the principal and the administrator working
without the heavy hand of Washington bureaucracy dictating the policies at
the local school level.
Dr. Aguirre also firmly believes that our approaches to the problems of higher
education are in the best interest of the students and that with the help of Con-
gress in the next session, we hope to achieve real success in sending the money
from the Federal Government, but letting the local decisions be made at the
local level.
So, I am very, very pleased, Doctor, that you are going to be our new Com-
missioner of Education and will be working with Secretary of HEW, David
Mathews. We think we have a good team.
Congratulations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House,
2269
