[685]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
(less than 30 years) with an increased annuity when they would have
reached 30 years of service.
—use of the highest average basic pay for one year instead of terminal basic
pay in computing retirement annuities.
-integration of military and social security retirement benefits at age 65.
-payments to both voluntary and involuntary separatees who leave before
completing 20 years of service.
RESTRAINT ITEMS REQUIRING PERMANENT LEGISLATION
1. Wage Board pay reform.
2. Phase out commissary direct labor subsidy.
3. Eliminate 1% "kicker" from retired pay adjustment computation.
4. Eliminate administrative duty pay for Reserve and National Guard
Commanders.
5. Reduce the number of annual paid drills for the National Guard.
6. Eliminate dual compensation of Federal employees for National Guard
and Reserve annual training.
7. Revise cadet and midshipman pay policy.
INTERNATIONAL
BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS
This legislation would authorize the United States to accept fundamental
amendments to the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund.
The amendments to the Articles generally concern: members' exchange ar-
rangements; reduction in the role of gold in the international monetary sys-
tem; changes in the characteristics and uses of the special drawing right; and
simplification and modernization of the Fund's financial operations and trans-
actions. The bill would also authorize the United States to consent to an increase
in its quota in the Fund equivalent to 1,705 million Special Drawing Rights.
PROTECTION OF INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
This legislation is designed to protect intelligence sources and methods from
unauthorized disclosures. It provides for criminal and civil sanctions against
those who are authorized access to such intelligence information and who re-
veal it to unauthorized persons. The bill contains provisions to prevent damag-
ing disclosures of intelligence sources and methods in the course of prosecution
and also includes safeguards to adequately protect the rights of an accused.
2070
