[667]
July 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
First, Congress has not approved a number of essential defense programs.
Second, Congress has added funds to the FY 1977 budget for programs which
are not needed in FY 1977. Finally, Congress has not yet acted upon certain of
my legislative proposals which are necessary to permit the Defense Department
to restrain manpower cost growth, reduce waste and inefficiency, and to achieve
economies. These three areas require remedial action by the Congress.
Programs Not Approved
Shipbuilding. Congress has failed to authorize $1.7 billion requested for
new ship programs that are needed to strengthen our maritime capabilities and
assure freedom of the seas. In particular, they have denied funds for the lead
ships for two essential production programs-the nuclear strike cruiser and the
conventionally-powered Aegis destroyer-and for four modern frigates. The
FY 1977 program was proposed as the first step of a sustained effort to assure
that the United States, along with its allies, can maintain maritime defense,
deterrence, and freedom of the seas. I plan to resubmit budget requests for
FY 1977 to cover these essential shipbuilding programs.
Other Programs. Congress has also failed to authorize nearly $900 million
requested for other defense procurement and research and development pro-
grams. As with the shipbuilding program, I will resubmit the requests needed
to meet our minimum national security requirements.
Programs Not Needed in FY 1977
At the same time that the Congress disapproved several programs which are
vital for our national security, they added over $1 billion to the original budget
request for items for which I did not request funds in FY 1977. For example,
Congress added:
A fourth attack submarine (357 million) for which funds cannot be used
in FY 1977 owing to shipyard capacity limitations.
• Conversion of the cruiser Long Beach ($371 million) which can be readily
postponed.
• Six Navy A-6E attack aircraft ($66 million), which are not a high priority,
particularly at the uneconomical production rate of six per year proposed by
the Congress.
• Repair and modernization of the cruiser Belknap ($213 million) damaged
in a collision, for which funds should have been authorized prior to FY 1977.
I propose that Congress delete the funds for these programs in FY 1977,
and authorize funds for repair of the Belknap in the current transition quarter.
If the Congress does not act favorably on this request, then funds have to be
2014
