September 14
[778]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
vacation over the past weekend, but now that he is back, it's my impression, my
belief, that he will be campaigning hard for the ticket as well as for the party.
CONGRESSIONAL ADJOURNMENT AND CAMPAIGN SCHEDULE
[6.] MISS MACKIN. On the subject of Congress and your staying in the White
House, can one conclude from what you said that if Congress would wrap up its
business this week, then you would get out on the campaign trail immediately?
THE PRESIDENT. The odds would be far greater, but as you know, Cassie, the
Congress has said it's not going to adjourn at least until October 2. And from my
25-plus years in the Congress, when they set a tentative deadline, they usually go
beyond that. So it would be my expectation that Congress will adjourn some
time in the week following October 2, and, certainly, by that time I feel that it
will be possible for me to take broader opportunities around the country. But
until Congress adjourns, I think the President has a pretty important responsi-
bility to stay here and keep his eye on them.
EXPECTED VOTER TURNOUT
[7.] MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, I know that you have often said that the
only poll that counts is the one on election day, but at the same time, I know you
also read the polls. And you no doubt saw the recent survey that indicated that
fully half, perhaps a majority, of the voting-age people in this country may not
go to the voting booths at all in November. Isn't that a commentary of sorts on
your leadership? After all, you have been in office now for 2 years, and wouldn't
one expect you would be able to arouse the voting public more than that?
THE PRESIDENT. Tom, I am disappointed that the polls do indicate that some-
where between 65 and 70 percent (million) of the people who are eligible to vote
won't participate. It's hard to understand, because there is a political difference
between Governor Carter on the one hand and myself on the other. I believe,
in certain things, he has committed himself to a different philosophy. This ought
to be a very important election. It is, I hope that between now and November 2,
in the next 50-some days, we will be able through the debates, through the dif-
ferences that will be developed, that we will generate an interest on the part of
the American people in this critical election, which means whether Mr. Carter
on the one hand or myself on the other will be leading this country in the first
4 years of our third century.
I am going to delineate the difference between Mr. Carter and myself—they
2245
