October 8
[864]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
government gave its citizens property. Nowadays, government just tries to take
it away from you, and we are going to stop it.
In the last few days I have had the privilege and honor of visiting San Fran-
cisco, Los Angeles, Beverly Hills, Universal City, and now Glendale. The
weather gets better, and the welcome is warmer, and I thank you very, very
much. But with this kind of welcome in Glendale, I know we are going to win
California on November 2.
One of the most important issues in this campaign—especially here in Cali-
fornia—is taxes. The people of California have already heard all four sides of
the tax question. Unfortunately, three of them came from Jimmy Carter. Let
me give you some examples.
First, back in February, Mr. Carter said he wanted to eliminate the home
mortgage interest deduction on your Federal income tax. That was one of those
loopholes he keeps talking about. Not long after that he said maybe he would
not eliminate the deduction. As it stands now nobody is sure, least of all
Mr. Carter.
Second, a few weeks ago Mr. Carter suggested he would raise income taxes
for everyone over the median-income level, about $14,000 per year. Now he says
that isn't what he meant. He says he has not studied the subject at all, but he
will let us know what he decides after he has been in office for a few weeks. I
say that is too late, and I say that very sincerely and very specifically. I say we
should know-215 million Americans—before election what Mr. Carter plans
to do about your taxes.
Third, Mr. Carter's platform calls for between $100 billion and $200 billion
in new Federal spending. Yet, he talks about balancing the budget without rais-
ing anybody's taxes. He can't have it both ways. You know it, and I know it.
He can't talk about compassion and not have compassion for the hard-working,
middle-income taxpayers in this country.
The American people have a big heart, but too many politicians mistake that
big heart for a blank check. It is not an act of compassion to rob older citizens
of their fixed income by feeding inflation with more Federal spending. It is
not an act of compassion to prevent a young couple from buying a home because
Federal borrowing for deficit spending drives up interest rates. It is not an act
of compassion to put coming generations of Americans deeply in debt and
mortgage their futures before they are born.
You work hard for every dollar that you earn. Your tax dollars should work
just as hard for you, and that is the way it will be under a Ford administration.
2461
