September 13
[776]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
without excessive restrictions on industry and without the creation of super-
fluous new government agencies.
I would like to commend the bipartisan efforts of the Congress in rapidly
responding to the clear need for the legislation now before me, and I am pleased
to see the turnout of Members of Congress, here today, who were instrumental
in the passage of this legislation. Your constructive efforts have earned the
strong support of all the major farm organizations and livestock producer
groups.
The competitive, free enterprise nature of the livestock industry in particular
and American agriculture in general has long been the envy of the world. No
other nation can match the ability of American farmers and ranchers to provide
food for the consumer at a reasonable cost.
H.R. 8410 will help make a good system even better. I take pleasure in signing
this bill today.
776
Statement on Signing the Fire Prevention Appropriations Bill.
September 13, 1976
I HAVE today signed into law S. 2862, a bill which authorizes appropriations
for the National Fire Prevention and Control Administration and the Fire
Research Center.
While I have consistently supported the important work of the National Fire
Prevention and Control Administration, I vetoed a similar bill, H.R. 12567, 2
months ago, because it provided for an unacceptable legislative encroachment
on the President's constitutional responsibilities over executive branch operations.
Upon returning the earlier bill for congressional reconsideration, I noted it
provided that:
"Congress may, by concurrent resolution, 'veto' a plan to commit funds for
construction of the National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control. This
provision extends to the Congress the power to prohibit specific transactions
authorized by law, without changing the law and without following the con-
stitutional process such a change would require. Moreover, it involves the
Congress directly in the performance of Executive functions in disregard of the
fundamental principle of separation of powers.
“Provisions of this type have been appearing in an increasing number of bills
which this Congress has passed or is considering. Most are intended to enhance
2239
