October 13
[893]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
interfere more and more in your daily lives in the next 4 years? I think the
American people have been overtaxed, overburdened, and with Jerry Ford as
President, we're going to change that in the next 4 years.
The American people have had enough doubletalk, fuzzy talk, doubtful
promises. The American people want a government that will promise only
what it will deliver and will deliver everything that it promises.
You have heard my opponent say that he is going to balance the Federal
budget. And then the next thing, he turns around and he approves of, endorses,
supports about all of these programs that are going to cost $100 billion more
each year. He can't get away with it. The American people won't let him get
away with it, and you in Paramus won't let him get away with it.
I think you in New Jersey know how risky it is when a candidate says one
thing on the campaign trail and then does something else when he gets in public
office. You have been burned before here in New Jersey. You have learned what
it's like when a candidate faces the voters with a smile and then turns his back
on them later. You have learned it with every dollar you pay for your State
income tax here in New Jersey.
There's a good alternative to that kind of political acrobatics. You know where
I stand. I am for the little taxpayer and against the big tax spender.
But let's talk about taxes. Jimmy Carter wants to withdraw the income tax de-
duction of the interest on your mortgage payments. I am against his position; I
am for the taxpayer. He wants to collect more money from you, from with-
drawal of that income tax deduction. Jimmy Carter wants to tax your churches,
except the church property. I am against that tax proposal. Jimmy Carter wants
to increase Federal income taxes on all medium- and middle-income taxpayers
on up. Jerry Ford wants to increase your personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
I want to cut your taxes. He wants to increase your Federal taxes.
I happen to believe that the best tax reform is tax reduction, and this admin-
istration holds the lid on Federal spending, cuts down on our national deficit,
makes it possible for us to have an honest tax deduction. That is the kind of gov-
ernment you are going to get with Jerry Ford as President for the next 4 years
and a better Congress to work with.
When I became President 2 years ago, America was deeply troubled. In the last
2 years America has made an incredible comeback. In 2 short years we have
added 4 million new jobs in this country. In the last 2 years we have cut the rate
of inflation in half. In the last 2 years we restored trust in the White House.
And let me emphasize right today that there is not a single young American
2513
