September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
veloped over the last few years. It doesn't seem to me that it's needed or
necessary to have legislation in this particular regard.
I have recommended to the Congress, however—I'm sure you are familiar
with this-legislation that would make it very proper and in the right way that
the Attorney General could go in and get the right for wiretapping under
security cases. This was an effort that was made by the Attorney General and
myself working with the Congress. But even in this area where I think new
legislation would be justified, the Congress has not responded.
So, I feel in that case as well as in the reorganization of the intelligence
agencies—as I've done-we have to do it by Executive order. And I'm glad
that we have a good Director in George Bush; we have good Executive orders.
And the CIA and the DIA and NSA are now doing a good job under proper
supervision.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, one of the very serious things that's happened in our
Government in recent years and has continued up until now is a breakdown
in the trust among our people in the—
[At this point, there was an audio failure which caused a delay in the debate until 11:18 p.m.]
THE MODERATOR. Ladies and gentlemen, probably it is not necessary for me
to say that we had a technical failure during the debates. It was not a failure
in the debate; it was a failure in the broadcasting of the debate. It occurred
27 minutes ago. The fault has been dealt with, and we want to thank President
Ford and Governor Carter for being so patient and understanding while this
delay went on.
We very much regret the technical failure that lost the sound as it was leav-
ing the theatre. It occurred during Governor Carter's response to what would
have been and what was the last question put to the candidates. That question
went to President Ford. It dealt with the control of Government intelligence
agencies. Governor Carter was making his response and had very nearly fin-
ished it. He will conclude that response now, after which President Ford and
Governor Carter will make their closing statements.
MR. CARTER. There has been too much Government secrecy and not enough
respect for the personal privacy of American citizens.
THE MODERATOR. It is now time for the closing statements which are to be
up to 4 minutes long.
Governor Carter, by the same toss of the coin that directed the first question
to you, you are to go first now.
2309
