September 8
[765]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
During the remainder of 1976, the Council on Wage and Price Stability will
continue to play an important role in supplementing fiscal and monetary poli-
cies by calling public attention to wage and price developments or actions by
the Government that could be of concern to American consumers.
The White House,
September 8, 1976.
NOTE: The report covering the period April through
June 1976 is entitled "Quarterly Report: July 1976-
Council on Wage and Price Stability, Executive
GERALD R. FORD
Office of the President, Washington, D.C., No. 7"
(Government Printing Office, 56 pp.).
765
Statement on International Air Transportation Policy.
September 8, 1976
INTERNATIONAL aviation is essential in a world that has become economi-
cally interdependent. Historically, the United States has had a leadership role
in the development of international air transporation and intends to continue
that role.
Aviation is an essential part of the foreign commerce of the United States. It
is required for mail, high priority cargo, government business, and urgent
personal travel. A desirable, low-cost means of international pleasure travel, avi-
ation helps bring the people of many cultures and nationalities together, cre-
ating a greater sense of friendship and mutual understanding.
The United States seeks an international economic environment and air
transportation structure conducive to healthy competition among all air car-
riers. We shall rely upon competitive market forces to the greatest extent feasible,
for it is a basic tenet of our economic philosophy that marketplace competition
provides improved services and permits the well-managed carrier to earn a profit
while lowering total costs. At the same time, we recognize that other nations
may differ in their view as to how such transportation should be organized and
operated. We shall work through appropriate bilateral and multilateral forums
to bring about constructive change for the benefit of air travelers, shippers, and
carriers of all nations.
The international air carrier industry should continue to have the primary re-
sponsibility for adapting its air transport product to public demand. Regulatory
2221
