January 19
[1081]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tion signed at Manila on October 1, 1976, between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines with
Respect to Taxes on Income, and an exchange of notes between Secretary of the
Treasury William E. Simon and Secretary of Finance Cesar Virata interpreting
Article 23(2) of the Convention, done at Washington on November 24, 1976.
There is no convention on this subject presently in force between the United
States and the Philippines.
The Convention follows generally the form and content of most conventions
of this type recently concluded by this government. Its primary purpose is to
identify clearly the tax interests of the two countries so as to avoid double taxa-
tion and make difficult the illegal evasion of taxation. The exchange of notes
confirms that certain provisions of the Philippines tax system comply with the
Convention.
I also transmit, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Depart-
ment of State with respect to the Convention.
Conventions such as this one are an important element in promoting closer
economic cooperation between the United States and other countries. I urge the
Senate to act favorably on this Convention at an early date and give its advice
and consent to ratification.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
January 19, 1977.
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive C (95th Cong., 1st sess.).
1081
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
Federal Ocean Program. January 19, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to P.L. 89-454, I am herewith transmitting the 1975 annual report
on the Federal Ocean Program. The report represents a summary of national
efforts to comprehend, conserve and use the sea, and lists significant activities
of the Federal Government related to the marine sciences in 1974 and early 1975.
During this period, the United States:
—intensified programs to appraise energy resources of the oceans and assess
the environmental impact of their development;
2971
