September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that he paid, and when you analyze the requirements that I had to spend all
of my time working on the economy, which was in trouble, that I inherited,
working on our problems in Southeast Asia, which were still plaguing us, it
seemed to me that Mr. Nixon had been penalized enough by his resignation
in disgrace. And the need and necessity for me to concentrate on the problems
of the country fully justified the action that I took.
MR. REYNOLDS. I take it, then, sir, that you do not believe that you are going
to reconsider and think about those 90,000 who are still abroad? Have they
not been penalized enough? Many of them have been there for years.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Carter has indicated that he would give a blanket
pardon to all draft evaders. I do not agree with that point of view. I gave in
September of 1974 an opportunity for all draft evaders, all deserters, to come in
voluntarily, clear their records by earning an opportunity to restore their good
citizenship. I think we gave them a good opportunity. I don't think we should
go any further.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, I think it's very difficult for President Ford to explain the
difference between the pardon of President Nixon and his attitude toward those
who violated the draft laws. As a matter of fact now, I don't advocate amnesty;
I advocate pardon. There is a difference, in my opinion, and in accordance with
the ruling of the Supreme Court and in accordance with the definition in the
dictionary.
Amnesty means that what you did was right. Pardon means that what you
did, whether it's right or wrong, you are forgiven for it. And I do advocate a
pardon for draft evaders. I think it's accurate to say that 2 years ago, when Mr.
Ford put in this amnesty, that three times as many deserters were excused as
were the ones who evaded the draft.
But I think that now is the time to heal our country after the Vietnam war.
And I think that what the people are concerned about is not the pardon or the
amnesty of those who evaded the draft, but whether or not our crime system is
fair.
We have got a sharp distinction drawn between white collar crime. The
bigshots who are rich, who are influential, very seldom go to jail. Those who
are poor and who have no influence quite often are the ones who are punished.
And the whole subject of crime is one that concerns our people very much.
And I believe that the fairness of it is what is the major problem that addresses
our leader, and this is something that hasn't been addressed adequately by this
administration.
2291
