[998]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
998
Remarks at a Republican Party Reception in Buffalo, New
York. October 31, 1976
Thank you all very, very much.
It's wonderful being in Erie County, Buffalo, in the great State of New York.
I am extremely proud, Mr. Chairman, to have with me on the platform this
morning, friends of mine—one, a person who is not running for reelection in
1976, but he has been a loyal, dedicated, hard-working Republican for the
ticket, and I am delighted that he should be here with me this morning, and
that is my good friend, Senator Jack Javits.
But, on my right and your left is an equally good friend of mine. He served
with me in the House of Representatives for 6 years or thereabouts, and I learned
that he's a team player, he's a hard, tough kind of a guy that goes after a problem
and gets it solved, and I'm honored and privileged that Jack Kemp is here, and
you need him.
Unfortunately, your Senator, Jim Buckley, is not here for good reasons. I just
hope that all of you work very, very hard to make sure that Jim Buckley comes
back to the United States Senate.
I don't know how many times I have been to Buffalo in Erie County, but
it is really countless. The welcome this morning was fantastic. And as I said
in the other room, and I will repeat it here, we have the momentum going. They
are putting their fingers in every hole in the dike trying to stop the problems
that they themselves created. And the net result is with our momentum I think
I can, with good reason, on behalf of Betty and myself, invite all of you to come
to Washington on January 20. That will be a great inauguration, and Senator
Javits and Senator Buckley and Congressman Kemp, at the White House-we'll
try to find you someplace to sleep, don't worry about it. [Laughter]
Now, I know from practical experience that those of us who represent you
in Washington don't really always do the jobs that are important to you or
to your respective neighbors, and so I am delighted, I am pleased, that your
county executive, Ed Reagan, is here with us on the platform today.
The countdown is just about 50-some hours away, and what you decide and
what you are able to get your neighbors and friends to decide could very well
make the difference of the direction of this great country for the next 4 [years],
but possibly for the next century.
We just celebrated a magnificent 200th birthday on July 4. We started in
2806
