July 31
[706]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
This action was made necessary by the expiration today of the Federal Energy
Administration and the failure of the Congress to complete action on legislation
extending the expiration date.
It has been clear for months that functions assigned to the FEA must be
continued beyond its statutory expiration date. Last February, I reminded the
Congress of this need and asked for an extension of 39 months-a period which
was consistent with major program responsibilities assigned by the FEA by
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act which the Congress passed in Decem-
ber 1975.
Both the House and the Senate have passed extension bills, but the periods
of the extensions differ, and both bills include provisions unrelated to the ex-
tension. A House-Senate conference committee has been attempting to reconcile
these differences in order to produce an acceptable bill, but it is clear that the
Congress will not complete action on this legislation before midnight tonight,
when the existing FEA authorization expires. Furthermore, the bill currently
under review by the conferees includes a number of provisions that will require
very careful evaluation before I make a decision.
The Executive order I am signing today will permit continuation of the
essential energy programs of the FEA while consideration of a legislative ex-
tension continues.
706
Letter to 1976 Republican National Convention Delegates
Requesting Suggestions for the Vice-Presidential Nominee.
July 31, 1976
THE SELECTION of a Vice President is one of the most critical choices any
candidate for the Presidency has to make. First, the nominee must be a person
of character and experience, capable of leading the country. Second, the nomi-
nee must articulate and support the principles of the Republican Party and be
disposed to work in full harmony with the Chief Executive. Finally, the nomi-
nee must be an asset in the November campaign and a major contributor to
governing the country in these next four years.
There are many qualified people in our Party, I am asking that you send me
your suggestions by August 11, 1976, to help me in my deliberations. I would
hope that you would be willing to furnish not less than five choices in order of
2113
