September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have just advocated this past week a consolidation of the responsibilities
for energy. Our country now has no comprehensive energy program or policy.
We have 20 different agencies in the Federal Government responsible for the
production, the regulation, the information about energy, the conservation of
energy spread all over Government. This is a gross waste of money. So, tough,
competent management of Government, giving us a simple, efficient, purposeful,
and manageable Government will be a great step forward. And if I am elected—
and I intend to be—then it's going to be done.
MR. GANNON. Well, I'd like to press my question on the number of Federal
employees-whether you would really plan to reduce the overall number or
merely put them in different departments and relabel them? In your energy
plan, you consolidate a number of agencies into one, or you would, but does that
really change the overall?
MR. CARTER. I can't say for sure that we would have fewer Federal employees
when I go out of office than when I come in. It took me about 3 years to com-
pletely reorganize the Georgia government. The last year I was in office our
budget was actually less than it was a year before, which showed a great
improvement.
Also, we had a 2-percent increase in the number of employees the last year,
but it was a tremendous shift from administrative jobs into the delivery of
services. For instance, we completely revised our prison system. We established
84 new mental health treatment centers, and we shifted people out of adminis-
trative jobs into the field to deliver better services. The same thing will be done
at the Federal Government level.
I accomplished this with substantial reductions in employees in some depart-
ments. For instance, in the Transportation Department we cut back about 25
percent of the total number of employees. In giving our people better mental
health care, we increased the number of employees. But the efficiency of it, the
simplicity of it, the ability of people to understand their own government and
control it was a substantial benefit derived from complete reorganization.
We have got to do this at the Federal Government level. If we don't, the
bureaucratic mess is going to continue. There is no way for our people now to
understand what their Government is; there is no way to get the answer to a
question. When you come to Washington to try to—as a Governor-to try to
begin a new program for your people, like the treatment of drug addicts, I
found there were 13 different Federal agencies that I had to go to to man-
age the drug treatment program. In the Georgia government we only had
one agency responsible for drug treatment.
2293
