October 25
[965]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The President. This was a well-planned campaign, and we followed the pro-
gram that we outlined after Kansas City almost precisely. And we are now uti-
lizing the legal resources the way we thought they could best be utilized. And
I think they are going to be effective, because we have good television advertise-
ments, they are all affirmative.
Our campaign strategy was decided right after Kansas City. It is working, as
we have gone from a deficit of 33 points around the country. So, we are neck-
and-neck, and we have the momentum, and I would rather win in the fourth
quarter than be ahead in the first.
Q. Why didn't you appear with Ronald Reagan at any time during this Far
West campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Because he had other commitments, I think there was a
telegram which I understand-
Q. Some of your aides said they didn't believe that excuse, that they felt that
he was up at his ranch forming another party so if you lose on November 2,
he can come out.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, you are in a very disagreeable mood today. [Laughter]
And you are such a nice guy. Why are you so disagreeable today?
Q. You don't have any suspicions?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, because I called him and talked to him the day
before, and he had a longstanding commitment and he made the suggestion
himself-
Q. That he not be on the show with you?
THE PRESIDENT. That he could not break these irrevocable commitments. And
he made the suggestion that he would send a telegram, which he did which was
circulated with the press. And I talked to him personally. So, I know precisely
what his plans were, how firm those commitments were, and he made the
suggestion to send the telegram.
Gosh, Phil.
Q. You believe him?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, don't be so disagreeable.
Q. Mr. President, would you be inclined to go to Texas if you had a choice?
THE PRESIDENT. We hope to go to Texas before November 2.
Q. Would you invite Governor Connally to share the trip with you?
THE PRESIDENT. I would certainly hope that he would. And I know from the
last trip to Texas that John Connally is doing 110 percent on behalf of President
Ford and Bob Dole, so I am confident that unless he has some other commit-
ments that make it impossible, that John Connally will be on the program.
2695
