October 19
[920]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
flagging devotion of organizations such as the AMVETS, through lean years
as well as good years, and I am proud to salute you and all of those associated
with you.
But I rapidly say, we must not be lulled into complacency so that we make
wrong decisions today when the penalties will be great tomorrow. There still
remains an insistent cry that we slash billions and billions of dollars from our
defense budget in order to pay for a galaxy of new social programs, that we with-
draw our forces from many places in the world, and that we bargain differently
with our adversaries.
Let me be very blunt. Those who preach to us that we must slash billions
of dollars from our military forces fail to understand that our Armed Forces
are the bulwark of freedom throughout the world. America will be free only
as long as America is strong.
Those who preach to us about withdrawing our military forces from around
the globe fail to understand that America's presence and America's continuing
commitment to our allies is the single greatest force in the world today. Only
so long as other nations can rely upon our firmness and steadiness will world
peace remain intact.
And finally, those who preach to us that we must be tougher with our adversar-
ies while simultaneously cutting our defense budget totally fail to understand
international diplomacy. If the day ever comes when America goes back to
the bargaining table with one hand tied behind her back, she will return not
on her feet but on her knees.
If I may, I would like to borrow a line from Adlai Stevenson in another
campaign, 24 years ago. He said, “Let's talk sense to the American people. Let's
tell them the truth. There are no gains without pains."
The truth is that in today's world we are at peace only because we are strong
and we are willing to pay the price of a mighty military force. We are at peace
only because we are firmly committed to our friends and to our allies, and we
are at peace today only because we are firm and determined in dealing with our
adversaries.
So long as I am President, and so long as the AMVETS and many other
Americans prevail—and I think we will-we will never succumb to the voices
of those who would reduce our capability to deter aggression and to maintain
the peace.
Mr. Commander, I thank you from the bottom of my heart, again, for your
2581
