January 13
[1060]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that would have fundamentally reformed the manner in which the Civil Aero-
nautics Board regulates the airline industry. The bill was designed to make that
industry more competitive and responsive to the needs of the American con-
sumer. At the same time, the bill would have permitted efficient, well-managed
companies to earn a fair return on investment and to attract the large amounts
of capital needed for long-term growth, thus helping to make the industry
healthier.
Many events have taken place since late 1975. Although my proposed aviation
regulatory reform bill was not enacted, major and thorough hearings were
held in both houses of the Congress on the many proposals to reform the eco-
nomic regulation of the airlines. These hearings attracted wide public partici-
pation and discussion. They built an impressive record of detailed economic
study and practical airline industry experience.
We have carefully reviewed testimony presented in these hearings and de-
bates. The record is clear: The present regulatory system is costly to the con-
sumer and is also sapping the financial health of the industry. Reform of air-
line economic regulation is needed, as soon as possible, and it must be thorough
and substantial-even beyond my original proposal. Accordingly, I am sub-
mitting today the Aviation Act of 1977.
This new proposal is based on the same concepts as the 1975 bill and, like it,
would reform aviation regulation in three key areas: Pricing, entry and exit,
and antitrust exemptions. In each of these areas the Aviation Act of 1977 pro-
vides meaningful reform of the current, archaic regulatory system to allow this
naturally competitive industry to reach its full potential. This proposed legisla-
tion is an improvement over the Aviation Act of 1975 since it builds upon the
experience and information developed during the Congressional hearings and
incorporates constructive concepts contained in other aviation reform proposals
considered last year. The result is a simpler bill which provides a more appro-
priate approach to pricing and entry reform than was originally proposed.
Furthermore, the bill contains other improvements, including a provision which
would assure the continuation of essential air service to small communities.
The case for reform has been made. It is now time to act. My firm hope is that
the Aviation Act of 1977 will receive prompt consideration and action by the
Congress.
The White House,
January 13, 1977.
GERALD R. FORD
2929
