[996]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
to elect me with your ballots on November 2. And I pledge to you that Jerry
Ford won't let you down in the next 4 years.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:38 p.m. at the
Oxford Valley Mall. In his remarks, he referred to
Harry W. Fawkes and Ruth Nemetz, cochairmen
of the Bucks County President Ford Committee, and
Joe Garagiola, NBC sports commentator.
997
Remarks in Syracuse, New York. October 30, 1976
THANK YOU, Bill Walsh, Senator Jack Javits. I can't express adequately my
appreciation to Jack. Whether I'm in California or St. Louis, Missouri or Syra-
cuse, New York or New York City, Jack Javits is out there fighting for the
principles that we believe in. And I thank you from the bottom of my heart,
Jack.
It's great to see Bob McEwen. You know, long before some of you were born,
I used to go up skiing in Lake Placid, and I look forward to going to the
Winter Olympics in Lake Placid as your President in 1980. I know Bob McEwen
will be your Congressman at that time, too. But Bill Walsh, former great mayor
of this city of Syracuse, when I was in the House as the minority leader, Bill
did a super job. And for your benefit, for the country's benefit, let me say you
darn well better send Bill Walsh back to Congress.
Then I owe a special debt of gratitude to Dick Rosenbaum. He did a tre-
mendous job and significantly helped me have the opportunity of representing
our party in this great campaign. And I thank you very much, Dick. I know
Joe Garagiola was introduced, but Joe has been campaigning with me for the
last 10 days. I'll tell you, his enthusiasm, his integrity, his support, his friendship,
I will never forget. Joe, in front of these great people from Syracuse and upper
New York, I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart. You know we're
in the last quarter or we're in the ninth inning. That's when you win. That's
when Dolph Schayes ยน used to win for you here in Syracuse, that's when Joe
Garagiola pulled it through, and that's when Jerry Ford is going to win this
election on November 2.
I said in Kansas City that I wouldn't concede a single State, I wouldn't con-
cede a single vote, and we haven't. Let me invite all of you wonderful people
here in the War Memorial Stadium-I want to invite you to a great party on
1 Former Syracuse Nationals basketball player.
2802
