[965]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, could I ask you again the question that I asked you earlier
in the day?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, Phil [Philip H. Jones, CBS News].
Q. Why have you stopped attacking Jimmy Carter by name, as you were doing
just a few days ago, or before the last debate? Have you stopped because you
found it was backfiring?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. We found that his programs were not catching
on. We found that our affirmative approach was making significant headway,
and when you are doing the right thing by talking about programs that the
public supports-peace, restoration of trust, and a healthier economy—the people
support it. Why should I bother about the programs the public is apparently
turning down that he recommends?
Q. So, from now on you are not going to attack Jimmy Carter by name in the
rest of the campaign?
The President. I am not going to go that far. There may be some slip or some
mistake that he is prone to make, and if he does, I will remind the American
people of it so I can get the press to do the same.
Q. But no more of this waffler and all this other business that you were calling
him just a few days ago?
The President. I said we were going to be very affirmative, Phil, and I hope
that the American people will do as I think they are doing-they are going to
accept and endorse and embrace the affirmative Ford programs, and the polls
show we are doing real well.
Q. Mr. President, on your schedule, I believe you were to meet with a bunch
of labor leaders from Oregon here at 5 o'clock. Did you, in fact, meet with them?
There were some reports that none of them showed up.
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding that for various reasons which you
ought to ask them, they were not available.
Q. Did you meet with any labor leaders while you were here?
THE PRESIDENT. You would be very pleased to know, I am sure, that Tom
Murphy, the head of the Bricklayers [International Union of Bricklayers and
Allied Craftsmen], a week or so ago, endorsed the Ford candidacy. He is the
head of the international group.
Q. But you didn't meet with any of the important leaders?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I did not.
Q. Mr. President, the last-minute saturation campaign on TV and on radio
that you are conducting, do you think this is a last-ditch attempt to gain the
momentum that you need, or was this planned all along?
2694
