[696]
July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
you for your generous hospitality and for the op-
portunity that it has given us to see America cele-
brating her Bicentennial.
We were delighted to have your Vice President
and his wife in Australia a short while ago. During
his visit we reaffirmed the friendship that has long
existed between our peoples. And I would like to say,
Mr. President, that your Vice President was a warm
and gifted ambassador for your country, and the
discussions we had were constructive and useful.
Australians were delighted to have him amongst us,
even though it was for a short while.
Earlier this year we were also delighted to wel-
come Mrs. Kissinger. And I would like also to express
our appreciation to the Secretary for making him-
self so frequently and readily available on one
occasion, at least, I know at an inconvenient hour of
the night-for discussions between my Foreign
Minister and myself. Thank you very much, Doctor,
for that.
I have noticed here and have been glad to see
there are other people with associations with
Australia, and there are Australians who are on
your guest list, and I thank you for that. But there is
one in particular, whom I won't name, who reminds
me of a story once when somebody who is not here
won the hearts of everyone who lives in Sydney
when she said that Melbourne was the best possible
place to make a film about the end of the world.
[Laughter] Nothing could have done more for
Sydney. I come from Melbourne. [Laughter]
Australians probably have more cause to celebrate
the Bicentennial with you than any other country,
Mr. President. If it had not been for your successful
war of independence against the English, it is most
unlikely that they would have settled Australia in
the way that they did. [Laughter]
But that story is not quite finished because, Mr.
President, while we have many things in common-
and you have referred to a number of them-there
is one thing which we have in common to which you
did not refer. There were a certain number of citizens
before your war of independence, undesirable citi-
zens, who were sent to your shores. After your war
of independence, a much larger number were sent to
ours. But what we both need to remember-and this
is the real bond perhaps that we have in friend-
ship-is the great majority of those undesirable
citizens remain to this day in England. [Laughter]
My wife is under a pledge to prevent me telling
that story in England. [Laughter]
Mr. President, I know I speak for many Australians
here when I say how pleased we have been to make
some contribution to your Bicentennial celebrations.
We did have cause to be grateful for the United
States, even in earlier days.
There are many who think that our beef trade is a
recent development and something to our advantage,
but in 1972 the struggling colony of Port Jackson
near Sydney received an important shipment from
the American ship Philadelphia. The local crops had
failed, and I think they were nearly starving. The
voyage took 9 months, and by the time it arrived, the
cargo of barrels of American beef were well cured.
[Laughter] I can only assure you, Mr. President, that
that is a trade that we wish to repay a thousand, a
millionfold in the other direction. And I don't know
if there are any members of the cattlemen's associa-
tion here tonight. [Laughter]
Mr. President, Australia and the United States have
many things in common-our frontier experience
and the fact we are both migrant nations. We both
value our independence and our democratic institu-
tions, our ideals of freedom and opportunity. Our
histories have taught us both that we have our
freedom, not as a right, but only so long as we remain
vigilant and resourceful. I know that in support of
our ideals we will work together in the future as we
have in the past.
In our countries the state is regarded as the servant
of its people; in some others these values are set
aside and the state is paramount. In the past, differ-
ences in values of these kinds have often led to
conflict. The great challenge of the rest of this
century will be whether or not countries with differ-
ing social systems can learn to live together and
resolve their international differences by negotiation.
In the uncertain world that faces us, the need
for cooperation is strong, and this is especially so
because over recent years there has been criticism
where I believe there ought to have been under-
standing. We are aware that there has been vigorous
debate within the United States herself on her world
role, but we believe that out of such debate emerges
a stronger and a freer nation, one more able to pro-
vide the leadership that the world requires.
We appreciate the manner in which the United
States has persisted. In future years the resolution of
the American people is, in our view, going to be
more important for securing the peace of the world.
than it has ever been. That is by no means to sug-
gest that countries such as mine don't have their own
responsibilities. Whatever some others may feel, I
don't believe any Australian assumes that we are
entitled to a free ride, not even on the sheep's back.
But your efforts are no reason why we should be
complacent or negligent about our responsibilities.
This is merely recognition that as the world's greatest
free power there are many things that only the
United States can do. If the United States does not
do them, they will remain undone. Others may con-
tribute, but your strength is indispensable in sup-
porting the diplomacy and negotiation essential for
2096
