[714]
August 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
America will be in good hands, that the America of the third century will be a
better place, and the great American dream will become a reality.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:52 p.m. in the East
Garden at the White House. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Commander Harry G. Wiles,
national commander of the American Legion, Mrs.
Alan Schanel, national president of the American
Legion Auxiliary, and Vince Marazita, president
of Boys/Girls Nation.
715
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the Senate
Majority Leader on the National Swine Flu
Immunization Program.
August 4, 1976
ON MARCH 24, 1976, after meeting with a distinguished group of physicians,
scientists and public health experts, I asked the Congress to appropriate $135
million for the production of sufficient swine flu vaccine to inoculate every man,
woman and child in the United States. I also directed the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare to develop plans that would make this vaccine avail-
able to all Americans. The Congress moved quickly on my appropriation re-
quest, and I was pleased to sign it into law April 15.
Since that time HEW, working with the medical profession, State and local
health officials, vaccine manufacturers, and other groups, have developed exten-
sive plans to see to it that our original goal of making this vaccine available to
all Americans can be met.
We continue to be faced, however, with a major problem in meeting our
goal. Although experience indicates that there is a very low risk of untoward
reactions to the vaccine, the drug manufacturers producing this vaccine for
HEW need some form of appropriate liability protection.
govern-
On June 16, in anticipation of this situation, I directed HEW Secretary
Mathews to immediately submit legislation to the Congress to enable the
ment to assume a proper share of risks so that this important program might
move ahead.
This morning I received a report from the Secretary that after seven weeks of
discussions and negotiations, the Health and Environment Subcommittee of the
House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee acted last night to report
legislation that would, if enacted by the House and Senate, correct this problem,
which has unnecessarily delayed this vital program.
2130
