[935]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
same institutions can solve problems which are beyond the power of men and
women to meet as individuals and beyond the power of government to even
understand. They are the communities which a free people freely formed—
the communities of families, of neighborhoods, of friends; the communities of
faith and charity.
The Jewish-Christian tradition from which this great country emerged en-
couraged people to help other people in need, especially the stranger, the new-
comer. Those of us who were called upon to serve a people born into that tradi-
tion do well to recognize the abundance of good will and neighborliness that
characterizes such people.
If we ask everything of government, as powerful as government in America
is today, we soon may end up looking to government to set the standards for
compassion and for care. We may soon forget that the highest standards were
already set for us—not on Capitol Hill, but long ago on two loftier peaks: on
Sinai and the Mount of Olives.
So, it has been a great honor, Your Eminence, to take part in this evening's
demonstration of how good and how great is the heart of this great city and
how strong are the bonds of compassion and concern that unite us as Americans.
Before I go, I note that among those absent tonight is one distinguished Ameri-
can who has brought his infectious good humor to many gatherings just like
this one, one we can justly call the rightful heir in our time of Al Smith's nick-
name, “The Happy Warrior." My good friend and the good friend of many
people here, Hubert Humphrey, is fighting another battle just tonight in Sloan-
Kettering Hospital. He should know that he has our heartfelt prayers for a very
speedy and complete recovery. We look forward to having him with us again
next year, and I may dare say, that vote among us all is unanimous.
Many years ago, I shared a banquet podium just like this with the then Vice
President, Hubert Humphrey. What I said then I say again to you, to all my sup-
porters and to all Governor Carter's supporters, and to Governor Carter him-
self: As we head into the final days of this great campaign, the things that unite
us as Americans are far more enduring than the things that divide us. Let's all
remember that both Democrats and Republicans are striving together to create
a more perfect Union with liberty and justice for all.
Our unwritten compact of respect for the convictions of others and faith in
the tendency of others allows Americans the luxury of rugged political compe-
tition. Let's all work to banish war from our shrinking world and hate from our
2608
