[898]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
of this country? A Marshall plan sort of approach has been offered. Would you,
if elected, move in that direction?
The President. I would not embrace any spending program that is going to
cost the Federal Treasury and the American taxpayers billions and billions and
billions of dollars. We have good programs for the rehabilitation of our major
metropolitan areas. I just signed the general revenue sharing bill. We fully
fund the Community Development Act. We fully fund the mass transit legis-
lation. We have a number of very good programs that are in operation today.
And about 3 months ago I appointed the Secretary of HUD, Carla Hills, to
head a Cabinet Committee on Urban Development and Neighborhood Revitali-
zation. That committee is working together very closely so that we get the full
benefit out of all the Federal dollars now available to help our inner cities and
major metropolitan areas.
I think we're doing a good job, and to all of a sudden just throw money in
doesn't make any sense, because you're bound to have more deficits, more taxes,
and more inflation. So, I think we ought to make the programs we have today
work, and they are working and will solve the problem.
THE PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN TRAVEL
[9.] Q. Mr. President, a review of your travel logs from this fall and last fall
shows that for a comparable period last fall you spent exactly as much time on
the road-15 days last fall-when there was no campaign and no election
than you have this fall when there is a hotly contested Presidential election.
Doesn't this lend a little bit of credence to Governor Carter's charge that you've
been kind of hiding in the White House for most of this campaign.
The President. Tom [Tom De Frank, Newsweek], didn't you see that
wonderful picture of me standing on top of the limousine with, I think, the
caption "Is he hiding?" The truth is, we are campaigning when we feel that
we can be away from the White House and not neglect the primary responsibili-
ties that I have as President of the United States. I think you are familiar with
the vast number of bills that I've had to sign. We've done that. That's my prime
responsibility, among other things.
We do get out and campaign. We were in New York and New Jersey earlier
this week. We're going to Iowa, Missouri, and Illinois between now and Sunday.
We will be traveling when we can. But my prime responsibility is to stay in
the White House and get the job done here. And I will do that, and then we
will campaign after that.
2526
