[955]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
955
Remarks in La Mesa, California. October 24, 1976
Thank you very much, Congressman Bob Wilson, Mayor Pete Wilson, Congress-
man Clair Burgener, Mayor Fordem, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me thank this wonderful group of entertainers, superb performers, celeb-
rities: Peter Graves, thank you very much; Hugh O'Brian, thank you; Zsa Zsa,
we love you; Lance Alworth, thank you; Rod McKuen; and those super
singers, Serendipity Singers; and the chicken, I love it. [Laughter] And then
we have four wonderful bands-the Helix, Grossmont, Miguel, and El Cajon.
Thank you all very much.
But now I brought with me two super people who were on a program with
me this afternoon, which was shown all over the State of California. They are
known to all of you. First, Joe Garagiola, and then one of the finest Members
of Congress that I have ever known, a tough adversary—when she was with you,
you couldn't lose—supporting me, Edith Green of Oregon.
What a treat to be in San Diego and its wonderful surrounding communities.
I love you, and thank you very, very much.
As I said in Kansas City, I won't concede a single State, I won't concede a
single vote. The Ford-Dole ticket, as I see California today, will win in Cali-
fornia, and thank you very, very much. Let me extend to all of you a wonderful
invitation, a very special invitation: Come to Washington next January for the
inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole.
You know where I stand. I stand on your side for limited government, for
fiscal responsibility, for rising prosperity, for lower taxes, for military strength,
for peace in the world. And I say with pride, not a single young American is
fighting or dying on any foreign soil tonight, and we will keep it that way.
After so many years in which America's defensive needs were shortchanged,
I proposed the last 2 years the two biggest defense budgets in the history of the
United States. And I convinced the Congress in 1976 that they should stop
slashing, stop cutting, stop gutting the defense appropriation. And the net
result is America today and America in the future will be number one, and we
are going to keep it that way.
But let me add parenthetically, my opponent in this campaign has promised
defense cuts of at least $5 to $7 billion. What does that mean? That kind of
defense cut would require troop withdrawals from many strategic outposts
around the world. It would delay or cancel our advance new weapons systems
2670
