[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
Union and the Communist-dominated government of Iraq are neighbors of
Iran, and Iran is an ally of the United States. It's my strong feeling that we
ought to sell arms to Iran for its own national security and as an ally, a strong
ally, of the United States.
The history of our relationship with Iran goes back to the days of President
Truman, when he decided that it was vitally necessary for our own security,
as well as that of Iran, that we should help that country. And Iran has been a
good ally. In 1973 when there was an oil embargo, Iran did not participate;
Iran continued to sell oil to the United States. I believe that it's in our interest
and in the interest of Israel and Iran and Saudi Arabia for the United States
to sell arms to those countries. It's for their security as well as ours.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Valeriani, a question for President Ford.
MR. VALERIANI. Mr. President, the policy of your administration is to nor-
malize relations with mainland China. That means establishing, at some point,
full diplomatic relations and, obviously, doing something about the mutual de-
fense treaty with Taiwan. If you are elected, will you move to establish full dip-
lomatic relations with Peking, and will you abrogate the mutual defense treaty
with Taiwan? And, as a corollary, would you provide mainland China with
military equipment if the Chinese were to ask for it?
THE PRESIDENT. Our relationship with the People's Republic of China is
based upon the Shanghai communique of 1972. That communique calls for the
normalization of relations between the United States and the People's Repub-
lic. It doesn't set a time schedule; it doesn't make a determination as to how
that relationship should be achieved in relationship to our current diplomatic
recognition and obligations to the Taiwanese Government. The Shanghai com-
munique does say that the differences between the People's Republic on the one
hand and Taiwan on the other shall be settled by peaceful means.
The net result is this administration—and during my time as the President
for the next 4 years-we will continue to move for normalization of relations
in the traditional sense. And we will insist that the disputes between Taiwan
and the People's Republic be settled peacefully, as was agreed in the Shanghai
communique of 1972.
The Ford administration will not let down, will not eliminate or forget our
obligation to the people of Taiwan. We feel that there must be a continued
obligation to the people, the some 19 or 20 million people in Taiwan, and as
we move during the next 4 years, those will be the policies of this administration.
MR. VALERIANI. Sir, the military equipment for the mainland Chinese?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no policy of this Government to give to the People's
2420
