I
August 23
[736]
Public Papers of the Presidents
736
Message to the Congress on the 1977 Defense Budget.
August 23, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
My total fiscal year 1977 Budget request for national defense, including amend-
ments, is $114.9 billion in budget authority. This budget request is based upon
a careful assessment of the international situation and of the contingencies we
must be prepared to meet. The request is substantial, as it must be to provide
what is necessary for our national security.
When I submitted my budget last January, I pointed out that the request might
need to be increased for three reasons: (1) in the event that the Congress did
not approve legislative proposals necessary to reduce spending in lower-priority
areas involving manpower and related costs and sale of unneeded items from the
stockpile; (2) in the shipbuilding area, where a National Security Council study
then under way, could lead to an increase in the shipbuilding budget; and (3)
a possible increase later in the year depending on the progress of the SALT II
negotiations and our continuing assessment of Soviet ICBM programs. Indeed,
there have been changes in these areas and they have been reflected in my revised
budget request.
On July 14, 1976, I approved legislation authorizing 1977 appropriations for
procurement and for research and development programs. At that time I in-
dicated that in a number of important respects the Congress has not fully faced
up to the nation's needs. First, the Congress has not approved a number of essen-
tial Defense programs. Second, the Congress has added programs and funds
which are of a lower priority. Finally, the Congress has not yet acted upon
certain of my legislative proposals which are necessary to restrain manpower cost
growth and to achieve other economies. These three areas require remedial action
by the Congress.
Therefore, today I am advising the Congress that failure to take the necessary
remedial actions will result in a revised 1977 estimate for National Defense of
$116.3 billion. This revised estimate reflects the following adjustments:
Amended budget request.
Congressional adjustments, net.
Congressional action to date.
Budget
Authority
($ billions)
$114.9
-1.8
113.1
2168
