October 22
[939]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The legislation also provides for State and local development of methods for
solid waste management which are environmentally sound and which will en-
courage the utilization of valuable resources and resource conservation. This will
be accomplished through Federal financial and technical assistance to State and
local communities for planning and implementing alternatives that address the
management, intergovernmental, financial, and technical problems associated
with the disposal of solid wastes. Federal guidelines for State and regional plan-
ning will include information on solid waste management practices, resource re-
covery measures, and guidance for the gradual elimination of open dumps. This
latter provision is aimed at ensuring the protection of the quality of ground and
surface waters from leachate and surface runoff contamination, and the protec-
tion of ambient air quality.
Provision is also made in the act for EPA to conduct and encourage studies
of resource recovery systems, fuel recovery from solid wastes, and solid waste
reduction. The Administrator of EPA will serve as Chairman of a Resource
Conservation Committee, which will study economic incentives and product
charges, and EPA could enter into contracts with and provide financial assist-
ance for full-scale demonstration facilities.
Finally, the legislation recognizes that the real impediments to local develop-
ment of resource recovery facilities are not financial, but institutional and tech-
nical in nature. Its enactment will thus lead to greater encouragement of the mar-
ket forces capable of generating demand for recovered materials.
I believe this legislation is another step forward in improving the quality of
the environment.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2150, approved October 21, 1976, is Public Law 94-580 (90 Stat. 2795).
939
Statement on Signing the United States Grain Standards
Act of 1976. October 22, 1976
I HAVE signed into law H.R. 12572, the United States Grain Standards Act of
1976. This legislation fills a real need-a need to guarantee the integrity of our
national grain inspection and weighing system so that both domestic and foreign
buyers of United States grain can be assured of the quality and quantity of grain
they purchase.
Investigations conducted over the past 2 years by the Department of Agricul-
ture, the FBI, the Justice Department, and by several committees of the Con-
2611
