October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We still have no comprehensive energy policy in this country, and it's an
overall sign of weakness. When we are weak at home economically-high un-
employment, high inflation, a confused Government, a wasteful Defense Es-
tablishment—this encourages the kind of pressure that's been put on us suc-
cessfully. It would have been inconceivable 10, 15 years ago for us to be brought
to our knees with an Arab oil embargo. But it was done 3 years ago and they're
still putting pressure on us from the Arab countries to our discredit around the
world.
These are the weaknesses that I see, and I believe it's not just a matter of ideal-
ism. It's a matter of being tough. It's a matter of being strong. It's a matter of
being consistent. Our priorities ought to be, first of all, to meet our own mili-
tary needs; secondly, to meet the needs of our allies and friends, and only then
should we ship military equipment to foreign countries. As a matter of fact,
Iran is going to get 80 F-14's before we even meet our own Air Force orders for
F-14's, and the shipment of Spruance Class Destroyers to Iran are much more
highly sophisticated than the Spruance Class Destroyers that are presently being
delivered to our own Navy. This is ridiculous, and it ought to be changed.
MR. TREWHITT. Governor, let me pursue that, if I may. If I understand you
correctly, you would, in fact, to use my examples, withhold arms from Iran and
Saudi Arabia even if the risk was an oil embargo and if they should be securing
those arms from somewhere else. And then, if the embargo came, then you
would respond in kind. Do I have it correctly?
MR. CARTER. If-Iran is not an Arab country, as you know, it's a Moslem coun-
try. But if Saudi Arabia should declare an oil embargo against us, then I would
consider that an economic declaration of war. And I would make sure that the
Saudis understood this ahead of time, so there would be no doubt in their mind.
I think under those circumstances, they would refrain from pushing us to our
knees as they did in 1973 with the previous oil embargo.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. Governor Carter apparently doesn't realize that since I've been
President, we have sold to the Israelis over $4 billion in military hardware. We
have made available to the Israelis over 45 percent of the total economic and
military aid since the establishment of Israel 27 years ago. So, the Ford admin-
istration has done a good job in helping our good ally, Israel, and we're dedi-
cated to the survival and security of Israel.
I believe that Governor Carter doesn't realize the need and necessity for arms
sales to Iran. He indicates he would not make those. Iran is bordered very ex-
tensively by the Soviet Union. Iran has Iraq as one of its neighbors. The Soviet
2419
