October 18
[914]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Passage of this bill provides us with a major opportunity to improve the statis-
tical information which is often the basis for decisions on major issues of public
policy. With better information available at 5-year intervals, we will no longer
need to rely on data which are often obsolete. The historic method of counting
the population every 10 years simply does not meet the Nation's current needs.
This legislation will also make it possible for us to update Federal statistical
programs dealing with social statistics, since the mid-decade effort will provide
for a periodic updating of significant national, social, and demographic char-
acteristics. This is important because
• $39 billion are distributed annually using formulae which use population
data.
• Federal, State, and local planners depend heavily on current population
data.
• The need for a variety of expensive “ad hoc" surveys between censuses will
be reduced.
• We will be able to identify the needs of various groups in the American
public.
By authorizing the use of sampling techniques to collect mid-decade census
data, the bill will reduce the burden on respondents. It also allows considerable
flexibility in the design of the effort, making possible major cost savings in spe-
cial purpose statistical programs now conducted between decennial census
dates.
The bill also strengthens the provisions of law relating to the confidentiality
of census information, and thus helps to assure that the privacy of the individual
is preserved.
I commend the Congress for passing this legislation. It will provide us with
better data, of greater consistency, at a reduced cost.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11337, approved October 17, 1976, is Public Law 94-521 (90 Stat. 2459).
914
Remarks Upon Presenting the National Medal of
Science Awards for 1975. October 18, 1976
Distinguished medal recipients, members of the Cabinet, Dr. Stever, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
This afternoon, I have the high honor and the very rare privilege of sharing
2573
