July 22
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
airline service; eliminate anti-competitive air carrier agreements; and ensure
that the regulatory system protects consumer interests rather than special
industry interests.
MOTOR CARRIER REFORM ACT
The Motor Carrier Reform Act would benefit the consuming public and the
users of motor carrier services by eliminating excessive and outdated regula-
tions affecting trucking firms and bus companies. It would stimulate competi-
tion in these industries, increase their freedom to adjust rates and fares to chang-
ing economic conditions, eliminate restrictions requiring empty backhauls,
underloading, or circuitous routing, and enhance enforcement of safety
regulations.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ACT
The Financial Institutions Act is intended to remove Federal restrictions on
the interest rates and services banks and savings and loan associations can offer
to the public. It is designed to offer more competitive returns to small savers
and a more diversified range of services to all banking customers.
ENERGY
NEW NATURAL GAS DEREGULATION
This bill is designed to reverse the declining natural gas supply trend as
quickly as possible and to insure increased supplies of natural gas at reasonable
prices to the consumer. Under the proposal, wellhead price controls over new
natural gas sold in interstate commerce would be removed. This action will
enable interstate pipelines to compete for new onshore gas and encourage drill-
ing for gas onshore and in offshore areas.
ALASKAN NATURAL GAS TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
This bill was designed to expedite the selection and construction of a system
for the transportation of natural gas from the North Slope of Alaska to the
lower 48 States through the establishment of new administrative and judicial
procedures. The bill is necessary because of expected prolonged litigation of
any Federal Power Commission decision and to assure that all necessary con-
siderations are brought to bear in selecting a system. The bill would enable
reaching a decision on this vital issue by no later than October 1, 1977 while still
providing adequately for the detailed technical, financial and environmental
2065
