[866]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Bellmon and Senator Bartlett tell me you have a pretty good football team in
Oklahoma this year. My alma mater, the University of Michigan, learned it the
hard way last year. I told them that the University of Michigan was not bad this
year. I hope they're good. Dewey, maybe I can win that 2 bucks back again.
Tomorrow, I'm going to have the honor of attending the Texas-Oklahoma
football game. Anyone here know who's going to win that game tomorrow? I
just thought I would ask. As I said, we're stopping down at the Texas State Fair
tomorrow, and I may get a question about it. As President, I have to be impartial
about the game. I even have to change sides during the half. Of course, if my
opponent were there, I am sure he would find some way to sit on both sides at
the same time.
Now, let me give you some straight talk about taxes and national defense. You
love America, as I do. You want an America strong and decent here at home.
You want an America strong and at peace, with freedom, throughout the world.
This country has restored trust in the White House in the last 2 years. This
country has restored peace abroad. We should be proud of the fact that not a
single young American is fighting and dying on any foreign soil tonight. And
we're going to keep it that way. You should be proud that we have turned our
economy around, that America sees brighter stars, skies, like you see in Okla-
homa right here today. We're proud of that progress.
Now, let me give you a little straight talk about taxes, because if I could put
a tax on empty rhetoric in this political year, we would have the national debt
paid off in 1 week. When we talk about taxes, we're talking more than just
about money. Every tax dollar represents your time, your energy, your hard
work. Those tax dollars ought to work just as hard for you as you have worked
for them.
Mr. Carter's platform calls for new Government programs that would cost
between $100 billion and $200 billion each year. He never puts a price tag on
those programs. He just says he will soak the rich, close the loopholes, and every-
thing will be just fine.
Let me say this: If we put a 100 percent tax on all personal income over $50,-
000 in America, it would produce less than $9 billion a year. Where is the other
$191 billion going to come from? Two choices: One, Mr. Carter can have a $191
billion deficit; two, he can do what he said he would do and raise taxes on every
American family above the median income of $14,000, and we don't want that.
I say to you there's a better way: Cut spending, cut taxes, keep more of your own
money. To me, tax reform means tax reduction.
For 10 years now your Federal Government has been spending-spending
H
2466
