[861]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
As dedicated Americans, we are not motivated by the love of governmental
power, but by the concern and the fear of it. I am talking about those who work
hard, pay their taxes, obey the laws and want to enjoy their God-given liber-
ties. We are committed to a policy of peace through strength in a world where
freedom is still threatened by aggressors who would destroy our freedom. The
United States of America must remain number one.
I know how deeply all of you are devoted to these wonderful principles. I
thank you for your steadfast support. But there is one more effort I ask of you.
Republicans alone cannot win this election. The principles we hold are just
as dear to millions of our friends and neighbors who prefer to be Democrats and
Independents.
Between now and November 2, I ask every Republican to persuade just one
Independent and one Democrat-two concerned citizens who feel as we do
about the new direction that this country must take to go to the polls and vote
their true convictions. If you do this-person to person, friend to friend—we can
win, and we will win a great victory for the American people.
We must go forward together. There is no way we can lose, except by rest-
ing before the last poll closes.
Together, not as partisans but as proud Americans, let's get America off to a
good start on our third century of freedom and liberty.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:52 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Beverly Hilton Hotel,
and his remarks were heard over closed-circuit tele-
vision at 22 fundraising dinners across the United
States.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Bob Hope, entertainer and master of ceremonies at
the dinner, Holmes Tuttle and Margaret Brock, co-
chairmen of the dinner, The Most Reverend Timothy
Cardinal Manning, archbishop of Los Angeles, and
Rabbi Edward F. Magnin of the Wilshire Boulevard
Temple.
Prior to his remarks, the President met privately
with former Governor Ronald Reagan and then, ac-
companied by Mrs. Ford and the Reagans, greeted
guests at the dinner in the Empire Room at the
hotel.
862
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in Los Angeles
With Members of the San Fernando Valley Business and
Professional Association. October 8, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Matt. And it goes without saying that I am
delighted to be in this wonderful valley and to have an opportunity of making
a few comments and then responding to some questions, which I am sure that
you have on your mind.
2448
