[774]
September 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
will reassure producers, provide stability in the marketplace, and help to ensure
an adequate supply of meat for American consumers.
I am happy to see so many Members of the House and the Senate who were
very instrumental in the passage of this legislation. Their bipartisan efforts
gave Americans a sensible and a rapid response to a clearly demonstrated need.
Without creating excessive restrictions on any segment of the industry, with-
out creating a superfluous, new government agency, and without significantly
modifying our Federal bankruptcy laws, this legislation provides reasonable
protection in the best interests of the producers, packers, and consumers. Signing
this bill will help to ensure that America's hard-working producers and packers
who handle their livestock will continue to provide Americans with a depend-
able supply of meats unequaled anywhere on this globe.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:05 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 8410) is Public Law
94-410 (90 Stat. 1249).
775
Statement on Signing Amendments to the Packers and
Stockyards Act of 1921. September 13, 1976
I AM pleased today to sign into law H.R. 8410, which assures that our livestock
producers will receive payment due for livestock sold to meatpackers. This
legislation arose out of a demonstrated need for greater protection of livestock
producers. I commend the Congress for developing H.R. 8410 to provide this
protection which is in the best interest of producers, packers, and consumers.
This bill makes constructive amendments to the Packers and Stockyards Act
which will both reassure livestock producers and help provide stability in the
marketplace. Producers will be reimbursed for livestock sold to meatpackers
covered by the Act which go out of business unexpectedly. Consumers will be
able to count on more stable meat supplies at retail stores.
Without this legislation, sales of livestock to meatpacking firms would have
continued without adequate assurances of payment-as was the case last year
when a major Midwestern meatpacker went bankrupt while many of our
cattle producers were left holding over $20 million of worthless checks. Produc-
ers will be protected against this kind of catastrophe in the future.
Although I am opposed to unnecessary interference by government in private
business enterprise, Federal action in this instance was necessary and appro-
priate. The legislation I am signing today accomplishes its legitimate objectives
2238
