[895]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
For the last 10 years now Federal spending has grown at an alarming rate,
thanks to an overtaxing, overspending, overburdening Congress.
The budget that I submitted to the Congress last January sought to cut the
rate of growth in Federal spending by 50 percent. I asked for a $28 billion tax
reduction, coupled with a $28 billion reduction in Federal spending. The Con-
gress sent me a $10 billion tax reduction and an $18 billion increase in Federal
spending. That's going the wrong way, and that's another reason why we have
got to change this Congress in this election.
The most meaningful tax reduction, the one you understand the best, the one
that helps the middle-income taxpayers the most, is an increase in the personal
exemption from $750 to $1,000. If you take a family of three children, a husband
and wife, one taxpayer—that family gets, under my proposal to increase the
personal exemption by $250—that family would get $1,250 more, more, more in
tax reduction. That's the kind of a meaningful tax reduction that you ought to
get, 215 million Americans ought to get. And that's what President Ford pro-
posed, and that's what he will propose in January of next year as President of the
United States.
As I have said before, the middle-income taxpayer gets shortchanged. He has
been shortchanged for the last 22 years. He has been shortchanged by a Con-
gress controlled for 22 years by the Democratic Party.
Mr. Carter calls our tax laws a disgrace. Well, he ought to look back and see
the pages of history. What political party has controlled both the House and
the Senate for the last 22 years? They have passed every tax law; they have
passed every loophole. I think you know where to put the blame. Let's make
sure, darned sure we get more good Republicans from the State of New Jersey
to go down and help us with this tax problem in the next session of the Congress.
We have got less than 3 weeks to go. It hardly seems possible. It is a very
crucial 3 weeks, but the decisions that people make in the State of New Jersey,
New York, Michigan, and 47 others, those decisions will determine the direc-
tion of the American people in our great country for the first 4 years of our
third century.
Mr. Carter and his party platform offer more promises, more programs, more
spending, more taxes, more inflation, and more unemployment. I say the
Government is already too big, too powerful, too costly, too remote, and too
deeply involved in your personal life. I want your Government to be made
your servant, not your meddling master.
I am a candidate for the Presidency because I have a deep conviction and
2518
