[971]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
reason a lifetime of savings should be lost to pay medical bills. There is no rea-
son older Americans should have to go broke just to get well.
Fourth, older Americans are concerned about crime. I believe greater em-
phasis should be placed on protecting the potential victim of crime. The career
criminal program, which I initiated in several key cities last year, identifies
habitual criminals, sets up special prosecution procedures, and in 95 percent
of the cases, results in the conviction of those brought to trial with prison
sentences that average more than 20 years.
Finally, older Americans are concerned with the moral direction of our
country. They believe, as I do, that we are only as strong as the moral founda-
tions on which we stand. They believe, as I do, that private morality and pub-
lic service can—and must―go hand in hand. Older Americans have given us
everything we have. They have made this country what it is today. I invite
them, and all Americans, to join me on November 2, as we begin a new
generation of freedom for America.
NOTE: The President's remarks were recorded for
broadcast over the Mutual Radio Network.
The text of the address was released at Arlington
Heights, Ill.
972
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters in
Atlantic City, New Jersey. October 27, 1976
IT IS great to be in sunny New Jersey. We left the snowy banks of Illinois this
morning, so it is nice to be here.
It is always a great pleasure for somebody in politics to be able to correct the
record. I understand one of the members of the opposition ticket was in New
Jersey, maybe in this area, a few days ago, and made some inaccurate state-
ments about the National Aviation Facilities Experimental Center. I know a
little bit about that.
I was here in March of 1974, and at that time, Senator Case and the then
Congressman Charlie Sandman had briefed me very fully about the deep con-
cern of the people of this area for the possibility of a movement, or closing of
this famous facility in this part of the State.
I went back to Washington, looked into it, and we started the action which
culminated in my decision, as President, to keep the facility here. And it had
been contemplated, or at least talked about, being transferred from here to
Oklahoma. It is here because I made the decision to keep it here. And I am
2718
