January 10
[1051]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
munities can live in freedom and have a large voice in their own affairs. Finally,
security arrangements which would permit the withdrawal of foreign military
forces other than those present under international agreement are essential
for a lasting settlement.
Based upon these concepts, the United States has engaged over the past
several months in extensive consultations on the Cyprus issue with the nine-
member states of the European Community, seeking their support for a new
and accelerated approach. Through these consultations we are jointly develop-
ing the basic principles which we hope will stimulate the negotiations. We have
been greatly impressed and encouraged by the extent to which there is a con-
sensus in these consultations on both the principles and the urgent need to re-
open substantive intercommunal negotiations.
I remain convinced, however, that neither the United States nor any other
outside country or group of countries should seek to impose a settlement on
Cyprus. The principles we are developing should serve only as a basis for nego-
tiation. It is the Cypriot communities themselves who must ultimately decide
their relationship and final territorial arrangements.
In addition it is clear that a final solution must also have the support of the
Greek and Turkish governments. It is my firm conviction that we must seek
to maintain the trust and friendship of both these NATO allies. Thus my Ad-
ministration has sought to strengthen through negotiation our security ties with
both Greece and Turkey. We have consistently sought to follow a balanced
course in strengthening our relations throughout the area. We therefore wel-
comed the steps taken by the Congress to relax the arms embargo on Turkey
so that Turkey can better meet its NATO obligations. We have demonstrated
through tangible assistance our support for Greece. We have worked actively,
both directly and through the United Nations Security Council, to defuse recent
tensions between Greece and Turkey over the Aegean. These two countries have
now agreed to a negotiating process called for in the U.S. sponsored Security
Council Resolution which I hope will lead to a settlement of their dispute.
It is essential to the success of an equitable and lasting Cyprus settlement that
the United States maintain a balanced relationship among all concerned parties.
It would be a mistake to place undue pressure on any one party for the sake of
what appears to be a quick settlement. I believe the Congress would agree that
such a path would neither promote lasting progress on Cyprus nor serve the
cause of stability in the Mediterranean.
I am not pessimistic about the future of the Cyprus negotiations. I continue
2907
