September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
out of work, or a total of 7½ million. We've also got a comparison between
himself and Mr. Nixon. He's got four times the size of the deficits that Mr.
Nixon even had himself.
This talking about more people at work is distorted because with the 14-
percent increase in the cost of living in the last 2 years, it means that women
and young people have had to go to work when they didn't want to because
their fathers couldn't make enough to pay the increased cost of food and housing
and clothing.
We have, in this last 2 years alone, $120 billion total deficits under President
Ford, and at the same time we've had in the last 8 years a doubling in the num-
ber of bankruptcies for small business. We've had a negative growth in our
national economy, measured in real dollars. The take-home pay of a worker
in this country is actually less now than it was in 1968, measured in real dollars.
This is the kind of record that is there, and talk about the future and a drastic
change or conversion on the part of Mr. Ford at the last minute is one that
just doesn't go.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Reynolds.
MR. REYNOLDS. Governor Carter, I'd like to turn to what we used to call the
energy crisis.
Yesterday a British Government commission on air pollution, but one headed
by a nuclear physicist, recommended that any further expansion of nuclear
energy be delayed in Britain as long as possible. Now, this is a subject that is
quite controversial among our own people, and there seems to be a clear dif-
ference between you and the President on the use of nuclear powerplants,
which you say you would use as a last priority. Why, sir? Are they unsafe?
MR. CARTER. Well, among my other experiences in the past I've been a nu-
clear engineer, and I did graduate work in this field. I think I know the capa-
bilities and limitations of atomic power.
But the energy policy of our Nation is one that has not yet been established
under this administration. I think almost every other developed nation in the
world has an energy policy except us.
We have seen the Federal Energy Agency [Administration] established, for
instance, in the crisis of 1973. It was supposed to be a temporary agency; now
it's permanent. It's enormous; it's growing every day. And I think the Wall
Street Journal reported not too long ago they have 112 public relations experts
working for the Federal Energy Agency [Administration] to try to justify to
the American people its own existence.
We've got to have a firm way to handle the energy question. The reorganiza-
2297
