[951]
October 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole. Or to put it another way, y'all
come, and we'll have a great party. [Laughter]
I think all of you know where I stand—for limited government, for fiscal
responsibility, for rising prosperity, for lower taxes, greater military strength,
for peace in the world with freedom. Not a single young American today is
fighting or dying on any foreign battlefield, and that's because America is strong.
After so many years-the last 10 years in which America's defensive needs
have been shortchanged-I proposed the two largest defense budgets in the
history of the United States. And this year, with the help of Strom Thurmond,
we were able to convince the Congress to give us virtually all that we asked for.
And the net result is we can look forward to real progress in maintaining our
strategic capability, our conventional capability. We have the will. And let
me say, as long as I'm President of the United States, we're going to stay
number one.
After so many years of runaway growth in Federal spending, I submitted
last January a budget which for the first time put a cap on the growth in
Federal spending. I have held the line on Federal spending with 66 vetoes,
which saved the hard-pressed taxpayer something like $9 billion. I've not been
afraid to say no to the excessive spending of a liberal Congress, and let me say
we'll keep the pressure on in the next Congress.
But speaking of the Congress, you have here in this congressional district
one of the strongest, one of the best Members of the House of Representatives
in Floyd Spence. You need him, and I need him.
I think it goes without saying that you're proud of the wonderful job that
Strom Thurmond does for you. And let me say without any hesitation or
qualification, believe me, I know Strom Thurmond is up there fighting for a
strong national defense, fighting for restraint on spending, fighting for your
lowering of taxes. Strom, I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
We've heard a great deal about tax reform. The best tax reform that I
know is tax reduction. And the best tax reduction that I know is the kind of
tax reduction that goes to the middle-income taxpayer who, in the process of
legislation in the last 10 or 15 years, has been shortchanged. And therefore, I
think if we're going to get equity in our Federal tax laws, we have to increase
the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That gives that great, vast middle-
income taxpayer the kind of fairness, the kind of equity that he deserves.
Congress didn't pass what I recommended this year, but let me look them
right in the eye. We're going to keep the pressure on them next year; if they
don't pass it, the next year. We're going to get that kind of tax relief, and the
2660
