December 9
[1025]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Governor Rockefeller-and that I would be asked to take it on the basis of not
taking it as a full-time job, which flies in the face of the rules that now exist.
And I thought that in itself was a sufficient answer to indicate that I'd laid down
two conditions, neither of which probably would be met. But I want to make it
stronger today to be sure there is not any misunderstanding. And I do not fore-
see any circumstances under which I would be available.
1
Q. Mr. President, what did you think of Mrs. Smith's ¹ description of Gov-
ernor Reagan as being part of the far right?
THE PRESIDENT. It's my understanding that Governor Reagan answered that
question, and I would let his words speak for themselves.
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us who the five or six qualified chairmen
are that you all have agreed on, one, and, two, would you and the Vice Presi-
dent endorse Governor Connally for chairman as he has given that as a
qualification?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me say I would hesitate to list those individuals.
The names have been bandied around, but I don't think we should say here
today that this is the only particular group. There may be another candidate
or two that might appear. And, therefore, if I mentioned five, it would be unfair
to those that might emerge in the future.
Q. Mr. President, what role do you see for yourself in party affairs after
January 20, with particular reference to the coordinating committee you
speak of?
The President. I certainly intend to be involved in Republican politics. I
would hope to be a member of the coordinating committee. I think it worked
in 1965 and 1966, and I'm confident that it can be a very effective organization
in 1977 and 1978.
Q. Mr. President, do you see any problems of ideological differences after-
wards in an attempt to get party unity?
THE PRESIDENT. One of the major purposes of this gathering was to achieve
party unity, recognizing that in some areas each of us may have a difference
from the other. But I think the Republican tent is big enough and broad
enough to encompass the four individuals who met here this afternoon. And I
was impressed with the degree of unity that was expressed by each of us to
one another. We recognize those differences, but we have a common objective—
a strong two-party system—and I think it will be healthy and beneficial to the
country.
Mary Louise Smith, Republican National Committee chairman.
2857
