August 3
[710]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I
appropriate, agencies are authorized to combine reporting and record-keeping
in single forms.
In this regard, I also wish to recognize and build upon the Securities and Ex-
change Commission's acknowledged expertise in financial reporting. Persons
subject to the Commission's jurisdiction must maintain books and records that
are sufficient to provide data the Commission believes should be disclosed. The
requirement that persons subject to SEC jurisdiction maintain adequate books
and records is now implicit in existing law; the legislation recommended by the
Commission, which the Task Force and I support, would make that requirement
explicit. It is contemplated that the Commission will take further steps to assure
that companies it regulates maintain adequate systems of internal accounting
controls. Thus, it may well be unnecessary for the Secretary of Commerce to
impose additional record-keeping requirements on companies regulated by the
Commission to enable compliance with the proposed legislation.
We remain mindful that the questionable payments problem is an interna-
tional problem which cannot be corrected by the United States acting alone.
Consequently, we are continuing our efforts to secure an international agree-
ment which will establish a mutually acceptable framework for international
cooperation in eliminating improper business practices.
The legislation I am proposing today can contribute in an important way to
the restoration of confidence in America's vital business institutions. I urge its
prompt consideration and enactment by the Congress.
The White House,
August 3, 1976.
710
Veto of a Bill To Exempt Congressmen From
Local Income Taxes.
August 3, 1976 ·
To the Senate of the United States:
GERALD R. FORD
I am returning today without my signature S. 2447, which would exempt
Members of Congress from certain local income taxes. This bill provides that
a Member of Congress need not pay the income tax levied by a state or munic-
ipality in which the Member lives for the purpose of attending Congress.
Since Virginia and District of Columbia laws already exempt from payment
of their income taxes Members living in such jurisdictions only while attend-
2121
