[846]
October 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
telling not only the people in his party but the people of Great Britain that they
have to take strong action in a time of crisis.
Let me say that as long as Jerry Ford is President, Jerry Ford will never let
the United States of America reach this kind of a crisis.
Now it is my great privilege to introduce your chairman, an outstanding
Member of the United States Senate, a real leader, Senator Pete Domenici.
SENATOR DOMENICI. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
You know, you indicated to our advisory group that is here that I am the son
of immigrant parents, and indeed I am. Both my mother and father were born
in the country of Italy.
Mr. President, how proud my mother is that I am here today and that you
have asked me to do this. And I am sure my beloved father would probably
have flown back on the "red-eye" with me if he were alive, Mr. President, so
he could be here today on this occasion.
Let me tell you a little bit about your advisory group. We have 26 nationalities
represented here, Mr. President, from 13 States. We have been working to put
this team together. We have a wonderful team of staff workers, and we are
going to commit to you, Mr. President, that the Democratic Party and the
Democratic candidates are going to find out this year that they cannot take the
ethnic vote for granted anywhere in the United States.
Mr. President, we all support you for the same reason, because basically we
love our families, we love our country, we love our little homes that we have
bought. Our sons and daughters have had a great opportunity in this land,
and we admire and respect two things: integrity—and you abound in that—
and, secondly, you have a great respect for all people. You treat all people the
same, and that means you are going to treat our ethnics just as other Americans
have been treated.
That means, Mr. President, when you are elected and begin to serve your
first year of your elected term, that we are going to look to you, Mr. President,
to give back to us what we are giving to you. We are going to give you a full
American treatment from ethnics, and we only want a full American treat-
ment back to our ethnics from you and from government.
There is one thing, Mr. President, that those who came to our country from
foreign lands—probably, above all else—one thing that they retain and that they
will never let go away, and that is their religion; their love for their church
and their desire that their children and their family participate in all the
things that churches that they belong to can provide.
And with that, Mr. President, I want to tell you that something disturbs me
2394
