[937]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
occurs only through small but carefully considered steps. The Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act of 1976, which I sign today, is such a step.
This legislation will enable American citizens and foreign governments alike
to ascertain when a foreign state can be sued in our courts. In this modern world,
where private citizens increasingly come into contact with foreign government
activities, it is important to know when the courts are available to redress legal
grievances.
This statute will also make it easier for our citizens and foreign govern-
ments to turn to the courts to resolve ordinary legal disputes. In this respect,
the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act carries forward a modern and enlight-
ened trend in international law. And it makes this development in the law
available to all American citizens.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 11315, approved October 21, 1976, is Public Law 94-583 (90 Stat. 2891).
938
Statement on Signing the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act of 1976. October 22, 1976
I HAVE approved S. 2150, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
1976.
I believe this bill provides a workable program aimed at solving one of the
highest priority environmental problems confronting the Nation, the disposal
of hazardous wastes. This legislation provides for State responsibility for the
control of hazardous wastes while at the same time assuring uniform national
standards for the protection of public health and welfare. The legislation also
provides sound State and local programs to deal with ever increasing amounts
of municipal solid wastes generated in this country.
These new controls over hazardous wastes will assure that such wastes are dis-
posed of in a manner which is protective of public health and environmentally
sound. The act directs the Federal Government through the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) to establish criteria for identifying and listing of
hazardous wastes; to promulgate standards for generators and transporters of
hazardous wastes; and to establish permit requirements for the owners and
operators of sites disposing such wastes. States are encouraged to issue these
permits in lieu of the Federal Government. Civil and criminal penalties are
provided to ensure compliance with the act.
2610
