October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
velt was President, Panama retained sovereignty over the Panama Canal Zone.
We retained control as though we had sovereignty.
Now, I would be willing to go ahead with negotiations. I believe that we
could share more fully responsibilities for the Panama Canal Zone with Panama.
I would be willing to continue to raise the payment for shipment of goods
through the Panama Canal Zone. I might even be willing to reduce to some
degree our military emplacements in the Panama Canal Zone, but I would not
relinquish practical control of the Panama Canal Zone any time in the fore-
seeable future.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
The President. The United States must and will maintain complete access
to the Panama Canal. The United States must maintain a defense capability of
the Panama Canal, and the United States will maintain our national security
interests in the Panama Canal.
The negotiations for the Panama Canal started under President Johnson
and have continued up to the present time. I believe those negotiations should
continue. But there are certain guidelines that must be followed, and I've just
defined them.
Let me take just a minute to comment on something that Governor Carter
said on nonproliferation. In May of 1975, I called for a conference of nuclear
suppliers. That conference has met six times. In May of this year, Governor Car-
ter took the first initiative, approximately 12 months after I had taken my
initiative a year ago.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Valeriani, a question for President Ford.
MR. VALERIANI. Mr. President, the Government [General] Accounting Of-
fice has just put out a report suggesting that you shot from the hip in the
Mayaguez rescue mission and that you ignored diplomatic messages saying
that a peaceful solution was in prospect. Why didn't you do more diplomatically
at the time? And a related question: Did the White House try to prevent the
release of that report?
THE PRESIDENT. The White House did not prevent the release of that report.
On July 12 of this year, we gave full permission for the release of that report.
I was very disappointed in the fact that the GAO released that report because
I think it interjected political, partisan politics at the present time.
But let me comment on the report. Somebody who sits in Washington, D.C.,
18 months after the Mayaguez incident can be a very good grandstand quar-
terback. And let me make another observation. This morning I got a call from
the skipper of the Mayaguez. He was furious, because he told me that it was the
2431
