October 28
[984]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
as President has remained the same; that is, the spirit of the peoples of Eastern
Europe has never been broken and never will be.
The United States, as a matter of fundamental principle, supports the aspira-
tions for freedom and national independence of the peoples of Eastern Europe.
And as long as I am President of the United States, our great country will never
recognize or acquiesce in the Soviet domination of Eastern Europe.
As we celebrate our Bicentennial-and wasn't that a wonderful day on July 4
of 1976-we must make certain that the whole wide world knows the torch of
freedom in the Statue of Liberty still burns brightly and always will.
What a great day this has been in Cincinnati, here in Cleveland, culminating
in this great occasion in Karlin Hall. But let's make November 2 an even greater
day with its victory for all 215 million Americans.
I ask for your help, I ask for your support, I ask for your vote so we can con-
tinue to keep America strong, proud, and free. With your help, we will do it, and
I will never let you down.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:41 p.m. at Karlin
Hall.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
984
Remarks at the Sun Newspaper Good Neighbor Awards
Banquet in Cleveland.
October 28, 1976
Thank you very much, David, Governor Rhodes, Mayor Perk, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It really is a great honor and a very high privilege to congratulate the Good
Neighbors selected in 46 suburban neighborhoods in the greater Cleveland area,
to congratulate not only the winners but the families as well, and your dis-
tinguished mayors and your community leaders.
I commend, David, the 12 Sun newspapers, as very good neighbors for provid-
ing this recognition to all of you for bringing a ray of sunshine into the lives
of others. It is a wonderful occasion, and I am honored to be here.
My understanding is that none of the winners of the Good Neighbor Awards
sought the nomination. [Laughter] In politics you have to do that. But no
politics were involved in your selection. Nevertheless, you won the popular
vote and all of the electoral votes in each and every one of your communities.
Believe me, as I understand it, there was no apathy on behalf of each and every
one of you.
2759
