October 20
[925]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
What can you point to in his career that shows that he has that judgment,
that initiative, and that leadership that Americans are looking for in a Vice
President and a potential President?
THE PRESIDENT. He served in the House of Representatives and in the United
States Senate, I think, for 16 years. I believe his record as a Representative and as
a Senator is an excellent record. In fact, it's a record of longer tenure than
Senator Mondale.
So on that basis, he is better qualified than Senator Mondale. They have
different philosophies. Mondale is a very liberal Senator, and Dole is a moderate-
to-conservative. But I think Bob Dole, on the basis of his record of service in
the Congress, is fully qualified to be Vice President.
JIMMY CARTER'S INTERVIEW IN PLAYBOY MAGAZINE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, if I could go back to that Playboy interview for a
moment, sir. If you haven't read it or seen Playboy, why do you think it is fair
to criticize Mr. Carter about it?
THE PRESIDENT. I have read the article. I haven't read it in the magazine.
Q. Well, if I could follow up on that, when you criticize him, is it because
you specifically disagree with some things that he said in that, or is it because
of the political benefit that a person might be expected to get in criticizing
Playboy magazine?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know why Mr. Carter agreed to the interview. That
is not for me to judge. That was a decision made by him. I don't think a President
of the United States ought to have an interview in a magazine that has that
format. It's a personal conviction.
ARAB BOYCOTT AGAINST CERTAIN AMERICAN BUSINESSES
[8.] Q. Mr. President, a moment ago, when you were talking about the
Arab boycott, you were accusing Mr. Carter of inferring that previous Presi-
dents had done nothing about it, but you prefaced that with a statement that
the Ford administration is the only one that had done anything about it since
1952. Aren't you and Mr. Carter making the same accusations?
THE PRESIDENT. I've done it. He says that he is going to end it. I think the
affirmative action that I've taken-and it has been proven, I think, helpful,
because of what has transpired since, I think it was October 7, when the actual
order was issued that would force companies who had participated to have their
names revealed-I think this will be a big difference. I hope it will.
I am against that Arab boycott. But I repeat: I am the first President that
2589
