[784]
September 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
make this America's Bicentennial birthday gift to all of our future generations.
Today, America enjoys the most precious gift of all. We are at peace. No
Americans are in combat anywhere on the Earth and none are being drafted,
and I will keep it that way.
We will be as strong as we need to be to keep the peace, to deter aggression,
and to protect our national security. But if our foreign policy is to have public
support, it must represent the moral values of the American people. What is
more moral than peace with freedom and security in the United States?
As the leader of the free world, America has a special responsibility to explore
new paths to peace for all mankind. It is a responsibility we have not shirked.
We have been a force for peace in the Middle East, not only in promoting new
agreements, but in building a structure for a more lasting peace.
We have worked for peace with the Soviet Union, not only in resolving our
many conflicts but in building a world where nuclear armaments are brought
under control.
We are working for peace in Europe where the armies of two major coalitions
confront each other.
We will continue to build our relationship with the People's Republic of
China, which contributes importantly to peace and stability throughout the
world.
Now, in the face of a new challenge, we are on a mission for peace in southern
Africa. This is the first administration in America's history to develop a com-
prehensive, affirmative African policy. This policy has won respect and trust on
that troubled continent. At my direction, Secretary Kissinger is now engaged in
an intensive effort to help all the parties, black and white, involved in the mount-
ing crisis in southern Africa, to find a peaceful and just solution to their many
and complex differences. The African parties in the very grave and complicated
problems of Namibia and Rhodesia have encouraged us to help them in the
search for peace and justice. We are also backed in our efforts by our European
allies with traditional bonds to the African Continent. In particular, we are
working in close collaboration with the United Kingdom which has historical
and legal responsibility in Rhodesia.
Success will depend fundamentally on the cooperation of the parties directly
concerned. We will not and we cannot impose solutions, but will depend upon
the good will and determined efforts of the African parties themselves to achieve
negotiated settlements.
We seek no special advantage for ourselves in these negotiations. We share
with the people of Africa these fundamental objectives: a peaceful outcome; a
2256
