[866]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mr. Carter can change his mind as often as he wants to-and he does it plenty
of times—but he can't change the facts. He was wrong when he denied that he
ever said we should slash, we should gut our defense budget by $15 billion.
The American people asked Mr. Carter what are they supposed to believe.
Mr. Carter replies, don't worry, I will tell you what I plan to do after No-
vember 2.
But let's talk about national defense. You have got a great national park here
just a few miles away. A great American President, Teddy Roosevelt, once said,
"Speak softly and carry a big stick." Mr. Carter speaks loudly and carries a
flyswatter.
He wants to cut $15 billion out of your Army, your Navy, your Air Force,
and Marine Corps. He wants to cancel or delay the B-1 bomber, which is aimed
at replacing the B-52. The B-52's are about 20 years old, and by the time we
phase in the B−1, they will be another 5 years older. But let me be very, very
precise in this. President Ford doesn't believe in sending young pilots in planes
in combat that are older than the pilots themselves. They deserve better than
that from the American people.
Now, let me give you a little advice. If I were concerned about keeping
America strong and Jimmy Carter were President, I would be worried sick.
If I were concerned about inflation and high taxes and Jimmy Carter were
President, I would be very, very worried. If I were concerned about bringing
unemployment down without spending billions and billions on dead-end
Humphrey-Hawkins jobs and Jimmy Carter were President, I would be very
worried.
My friends, that is really what this campaign is all about. Mr. Carter and
his platform offer more promises, more programs, more spending, more infla-
tion, and more taxes. Jerry Ford says that government is already too large, too
powerful, too costly, too remote, and too, too deeply involved in your lives. I
want to make government your capable servant but not your meddling master.
That's why I am a candidate for President in 1976.
Now let me make one final observation and comment. This country is strong,
and this country is beautiful. But we ought to learn from past history. As we
look around the world, one of our great and staunch allies over the years has
been Great Britain. But Great Britain today is faced with the gravest financial
crisis in its illustrious history.
Just earlier, a week ago, Prime Minister Callaghan had the courage to say as
he spoke to his Labor Party Convention in England—and I quote him, because
I think his words are what we ought to listen to. Prime Minister Callaghan had
2468
