October 30
[996]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The other day, I was in a factory talking to a group of working people, and
one of the men said, "Well, how are you going to reduce my taxes?" I looked
him right in the eye and I said, "How many children do you have?” He said,
"Three." So, he had himself, his wife, and three children. I said, “If the
Congress had acted responsibly, next April when you were going to make out
your income tax return, you would have had $1,250 more in personal exemption,"
which, in a family like that gentleman had, would have permitted him to do the
things to upgrade his living, improve his quality of life.
The Congress didn't do it. But let me put them on warning. I am going to
have a tax reduction proposal on their desk when they reconvene in January,
and if they don't pass it next year, it will be on their desk the next year. And if
they don't pass it in 1978, you and I will go out and lick'em in 1978 in the next
election.
But we also have an obligation to stimulate the economy so that business can
expand, so that business can build new factories, buy more equipment. So be-
tween giving a tax reduction to the middle-income people who have been short-
changed by the Democratic Congresses for the last 10 years and a tax reduction
to stimulate business, we are bound to have a healthy economy under the Ford
administration for the next 4 years. I pledge that to you right here in Orchard
Valley, Bucks County-Oxford. Let me apologize to Oxford Valley. [Laughter]
We were in the right county, anyhow. [Laughter]
But one final observation: We have an obligation to our older people. We
have an obligation to do better in the reduction of the rate of crime. We have
an obligation to make sure that our water is clear and our air is free. We have
an obligation to make certain that the quality of life, so that an individual, a
family can buy that home in a decent neighborhood, so that health care is avail-
able at affordable prices, so that recreational opportunities are available for
all of you.
Yes, now that we are over the hump of the recession and on the way to the
right kind of prosperity with peace throughout the world, we can look forward
to a new era, the first 4 years in America's third century, a century that can be
the brightest and the best in the history of this great country.
2
I have been proud to be your President during the troubled times of the last
years. I would be honored to be your President for the next 4 years.
And so I say to you tonight that 2 years ago you confirmed me with your
prayers. Tonight, I ask you to not only confirm me with your prayers but also
2801
