[827]
September 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
gram; to impose mandatory sentences for certain Federal crimes; to explore
new ways of preventing juvenile crime; and to take other steps to make the
Federal fight against crime a model for State and local efforts throughout the
Nation.
There is no more important work to be done in our society than ensuring
domestic tranquility, as the Constitution requires, and protecting the lives and
property of the American people. This means that America's 600,000 Federal,
State, and local public service officers are among our most important and valu-
able citizens. We owe these dedicated public servants more than gratitude, more
than praise. We owe them as well as their families the fullest measure of pro-
tection that we can provide.
We are now providing the most sophisticated equipment, the best training,
and the greatest financial and moral support that we can. But it is these cour-
ageous men and women themselves who stand on the frontlines of America's
war on crime. They take the risks, they suffer the injuries, and they are the ones
why lay their lives on the line every day for the rest of us in this country.
In 1975, 126 officers were killed in the line of duty; 49 were killed in the first 4
months of this year. Violent death has also claimed its grim toll of firefighters
and other public safety officers whose courage is equally admirable, whose jobs
are no less essential, and whose lives are just as precious. There is no way that
we can fully compensate for this loss of life in our public service, but we have a
clear obligation to help as much as we can.
The Congress has passed-and I congratulate the Members of the House and
Senate on both sides of the aisle-the Public Service [Safety] Officers' Benefits
Act of 1976. This legislation provides that the Federal Government will pay a
$50,000 benefit to the surviving dependents of public service officers who are
killed in the line of duty. This includes not only policemen but firemen, prison
guards, parole and probation officers, and court officials. This act demonstrates
the esteem of a free society for those whom it entrusts with our public and per-
sonal safety.
It's with great pride and pleasure that I sign this legislation, and I congratu-
late the Congress for its efforts which I think are long overdue in this regard.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:02 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 366) is Public Law
94-430 (90 Stat. 1346).
2360
