[1084]
January 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
compass 34 million acres provide habitat for a wide variety of the Nation's fish
and wildlife. Funds authorized by the Bicentennial Land Heritage Act will be
used to increase the size of the staff which manages refuges, and to repair, re-
habilitate, construct, and maintain facilities. In addition, funds will be available
for the acquisition of new refuges.
To assist in needed maintenance and improvement of urban parks and recrea-
tion facilities the Program would also authorize $200 million of additional funds
for the Community Development Block Grant Program, pursuant to the Hous-
ing and Community Development Act of 1974. It will be strongly urged that
these additional funds be used for recreation programs.
In my August 31 message originally transmitting this bill, I urged the Con-
gress to join with me in reaffirming our Nation's commitment to preserve the
best of our vast and beautiful country and the wildlife inhabitating it. I now
repeat my request. This program represents a sound investment in America
which will pay off handsomely by permanently insuring and enriching the
natural treasures to be inherited by future generations. All Americans must stand
committed to conserve and cherish our incomparable natural heritage—our wild-
life, our air, our water resources and our land itself. As our Nation begins its
third century, we must renew our commitment to save this great natural heritage
for the enjoyment of future generations of Americans.
Accordingly, I strongly urge the Congress to enact the proposed "Bicentennial
Land Heritage Act" which establishes a program designed to ensure the fulfill-
ment of this national commitment.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
GERALD R. FORD
the House of Representatives, and the Honorable
Nelson A. Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
1085
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
January 20, 1977
[Dated January 19, 1977. Released January 20, 1977]
ARMS CONTROL as a means of maintaining peace and security has been a
principal objective of my Administration. In this nuclear era our arms control
policy and defense efforts must be complementary. We must seek to influence
2976
