August 29
[743]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
This national commitment means we may have to tighten our belts elsewhere
a bit, but it is the soundest investment in the future of America that I can
envision. We must act now to prevent the loss of treasures that can never be
replaced for ourselves, our children, and for future generations of Americans.
This is a big job, one that requires government action at all levels. But like
most of the big jobs Americans undertake, it cannot be left to government
alone. In the past the cause of land conservation has been advanced by many
concerned citizens, companies, and private organizations. The Rockefeller
family, represented here today by Mary and Laurance Rockefeller, is an out-
standing example of this dedication. I thank them and all such farsighted
Americans for their generous contributions to our national park system and
the preservation of our priceless natural heritage.
I call upon all Americans-our Bicentennial generation which has enjoyed
the blessings of liberty and the pursuit of happiness, ours for 200 years—to join
in a great new undertaking to improve the quality of our lives and of our land.
I recall that snowy day in 1961 when President Kennedy was inaugurated.
I can still see that great American poet, Robert Frost, standing on the steps of
the United States Capitol, reciting these moving lines "The land was ours
before we were the land's. She was our land more than 100 years before we
were her people."
I remember as a ranger the first time I stood alone on Inspiration Point over
at Canyon Station looking out over this beautiful land. I thought to myself how
lucky I was that my parents' and grandparents' generation had the vision and
the determination to save it for us.
Now it is our turn to make our own gift outright to those who will come
after us, 15 years, 40 years, 100 years from now. I want to be as faithful to my
grandchildren's generation as Old Faithful has been to ours. What better way
can we add a new dimension to our third century of freedom?
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:12 p.m. at Old
Faithful Lodge. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Secretary of the Interior Thomas S.
Kleppe, Senator Clifford P. Hansen of Wyoming,
and Representative George Hansen of Idaho.
2191
