October 14
[898]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I made the decisions, and that decision is mine. And they may
have been a little disappointed that they didn't have an opportunity to leak the
decision beforehand. And I felt that it was a decision only for the Commander
in Chief, and I made it as such, and based on recommendations that were made
to me by responsible people, the top people giving me advice in this regard.
On the other question, regarding the increase in the loan rates, in May of 1975,
I vetoed an agricultural bill on the basis that I thought it was not good legisla-
tion at that time. But I said at that time, in the veto message, that I would be very
watchful to make certain that if conditions changed we would increase the
loan rate.
In May of 1975, for example, the price of wheat was about $3.35 a bushel.
Recently, the price of wheat was about $2.79 a bushel. There was a very severe
drop. And in order to make certain that wheat will be marketed properly and the
farmer will have an opportunity to market that wheat which he produced—at
our request of full production—and in order for the farmers, the wheat farmers,
to have adequate financing to proceed with their full planting of winter wheat, I
decided that it was in the best interest of full production for the American
farmer that those loan rates be increased. They were based on a commitment I
made in May of 1975 and changed conditions today.
INVESTIGATION OF THE PRESIDENT'S FINANCIAL RECORDS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, in the course of the Watergate Prosecutor's investiga-
tion of your income taxes, your taxes were made public-leaked to the press at
one point. And in those taxes it showed that at one point you took money from
your political organization and used over $1,000 for a family vacation to Vail
and several hundred dollars for personal clothing. I wonder if you would address
the propriety of action like that.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you have to bear in mind that, as I recall, those
initial payments for airline tickets and for the others were made out of what we
call the Fifth District account. And within, I think it was a week or 2 weeks at
the most, I reimbursed that account fully in both cases.
Q. In the case of reimbursement, the tax information also showed that your
personal bank account, as it were, went down in the red something like $3,000,
but it was soon reimbursed. And there was a question left as to how you reim-
bursed that $3,000.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that was my next paycheck. [Laughter]
I think a few people in this country have written checks and then waited until
2523
