August 3
[707]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I
Humanity respects and values Finland's efforts to help bridge differences
among nations and overcome obstacles to international peace and stability.
Mr. President, you honor us by this Bicentennial visit. Your personal partici-
pation in celebrations organized by Finnish-Americans contributes to the
'wonderful mood the Bicentennial has generated. As a people, we are deeply
grateful for Finland's participation. The establishment at the University of
Helsinki of a Bicentennial Chair of American Studies, the American Days Pro-
gram in Finland in June, and Bicentennial programs in more than a dozen
Finnish cities are vivid reminders of our friendship and kinship.
Mr. President, the nations of the world now face many, many challenges.
Their solution requires our best common efforts in the counsel and under-
standing of nations working together. With a positive spirit, with understand-
ing, and with full dedication, we will prevail.
I look forward to our discussions, Mr. President, today and future good
relations between Finland and the United States. Americans, one and all, bid
you welcome and wish you an enjoyable and productive visit.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where President
Kekkonen was given a formal welcome with full
military honors. President Kekkonen responded as
follows:
Mr. President, I thank you for your very kind
words of welcome. Indeed, it gives me great pleasure
to have this opportunity to pay a visit to your
country. I am particularly delighted that this
occasion coincides with the Bicentennial celebration
of the independence of the United States.
We, in Finland, realize very well the enormous
responsibility which the United States as a great
power bears in solving international problems. Mr.
President, your active conduct of foreign policy and
your efforts to solve these problems in an equitable
manner, dependably and honestly, are respected all
over the world.
Your visit in Finland, Mr. President, last summer
in connection with the Helsinki summit provided me
with the personal occasion for talks that I hope will
be both found informative and constructive. Then we
had the privilege of acting as host for the Conference
on Security and Cooperation in Europe, and mem-
ories of those days are still present in the hearts of
the Finnish people.
In a sense, my present visit has a twofold purpose.
Firstly, I wish to transmit the greetings of the people
of Finland to the people of the United States in their
Bicentennial Year. This is a most welcome task for
me. The good political relations between our coun-
tries have traditionally been complemented by ties
of friendship and common heritage between our
peoples.
Secondly, I am looking forward to the oppor-
tunity of exchanging views on topics of mutual
interest, particularly on the problems related to the
relaxation of international tension. As you know,
Mr. President, it is our policy to give high priority
to this development. I am very much looking
forward to the discussions and meetings that I am
going to have with you, Mr. President, and with
other leaders of your country.
Thank you for the invitation, and let me once
more express my joy for this opportunity of visiting
the United States.
Thank you.
2115
