[663]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
663
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the National Exchange
Club. July 12, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Jack, Lee Wells, distinguished guests, fellow
Exchangeites, ladies and gentlemen:
I'm deeply grateful, Jack, for your very kind introduction. It's really a great
thrill and a wonderful honor to have the opportunity of saying a few words
at your 58th annual convention here in Washington, D.C. And I congratulate
you, Jack, on your year of service as national president of the Exchange Clubs-
as you've called it, “a duty to destiny." Congratulations.
I also congratulate your president-elect, Leaborne Eads, who was chosen,
as I understand it, for his motto of the year: "the challenge of achievement."
A fine example of that challenge is the record of your 1976 National Youth
of the Year, David H. Daniel. Obviously, his school, his community, and his
parents—who I understand are here tonight—are mighty proud of his accom-
plishments and achievements. And may I say to you, David, congratulations
from me and all of those here tonight.
Jack sort of stole part of my speech-[laughter]-because I look back a good
many years ago when I had the great privilege of going with my father to the
Exchange Club father-and-son banquets in Grand Rapids, Michigan. That
was the third Exchange Club, as I understand it, in the entire United States.
Dad and I used to go, or he used to take me, and I can vividly recall those
experiences. They were great then, and I hope you continue them now. And
may I say, they are not unconstitutional; they are not illegal; they are pretty
wholesome, I think. I learned a lot, and I got a great deal from the opportunities
of friendship and service. They brought me a lot closer to my father, and I
don't think my mother objected very much, either.
I also enjoyed the opportunities of going to a number of father-and-son
banquets with our own sons-Mike, Jack, and Steve—and I thoroughly enjoyed
the opportunity of attending a father-and-daughter banquet with our daughter,
Susan. And let me assure you, we aren't going to stop them if I have anything
to say about it.
Last Sunday and Monday-our great 200th birthday—those were two of the
most memorable days in my entire lifetime. I was fortunate. I went to celebra-
tions in five historic places-Valley Forge, Philadelphia, Washington, New
2006
