September 25
[812]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
automobiles are produced which meet the Nation's conservation goals-espe-
cially in the critical area of new engine research. However, it must be recognized
that private industry has substantial expertise and interest in the development
and production of advanced automobiles. The appropriate Federal role in this
area should be confined to research and development only, and not extend into
borderline commercial areas which private industry is best able to perform.
This highly complex technological program, moreover, would eventually
require a massive spending program not reflected in the bill's $100 million start-
up authorizations for the first two years of the program. This bill would unnec-
essarily expand research and development programs now underway, and would
provide no commensurate benefit for the taxpayers who must pay for this
program. I am therefore returning the bill without my approval.
The White House,
September 24, 1976.
NOTE: The Senate sustained the President's veto on September 29, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
812
Remarks Aboard the SS Natchez During a Trip Along
the Mississippi River in Louisiana. September 25, 1976
[1.] LUTCHER (9:54 a.m.)
Thank you very much, Henson. And before I make any remarks, may I intro-
duce to you my bride, Betty Ford. Congressman Moore, Congressman Treen,
Senator Thurmond, distinguished members of my Cabinet, distinguished guests,
the skipper of this great ship, Doc Hawley:
Ladies and gentlemen, Betty and I are delighted to be in Louisiana, in Lutcher,
and in Gramercy.
In Kansas City I said that I would not concede a single State, I would not
concede a single vote. I said I would campaign from the snowy banks of Min-
nesota to the sandy plains of Georgia. We are going to be in Louisiana, Missis-
sippi, Alabama, and Florida, and we are going to win.
Let me thank you from the bottom of my heart for your warm and wonder-
ful welcome, on behalf of both Betty and myself. We are delighted to be here
in the South. As I said, we are delighted because I want to talk affirmatively
about what we are going to do and what we have done in the last 2 years.
2323
