[892]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
American who wants a job has a job, period. And as Dick Rosenbaum said,
when I became President there was a loss of faith and trust in the White House
itself. I believe that in the last 24 months, we have restored that trust that is
essential in the Oval Office. And I can assure you in the next 4 years, we will
maintain that trust, that confidence, that candor, that openness, and that straight
talk, and that is what the American people want.
But let me say this one final word to all of you. Between now and November 2,
you have to make a very important choice. I need your help. This is a critical,
crucial election. It is an election that will make the determination whether the
United States goes down one path or down another. Our path-the path I
represent—is a healthy economy at home, peace throughout the world, and
trust in the White House. I want to represent you in your White House in the
Oval Office in the next 2 (4) years. I need your help. Can I count on it?
Thank you very much. Good luck, and God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:25 p.m. at the
Rockland County Courthouse. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Richard Rosenbaum, chair-
man of the New York State President Ford
Committee.
893
Remarks in Paramus, New Jersey. October 13, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Senator Cliff Case, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
As I came in from the highway into the plaza, I saw a wonderful sign. It said,
"Jersey Loves Jerry." Let me reciprocate―Jerry loves Jersey.
Let me thank you all from the bottom of my heart for all of you being present.
And I believe the fact that there's such a tremendous crowd here today puts to
rest the allegation that the American people are not concerned about this elec-
tion. You are concerned, the American people are concerned, and you all have
good reason to be concerned. We're right, they're wrong, and we are going to
win in Jersey and 49 other States.
You in Jersey care, and you care very deeply because you have a great stake
in this election. Despite what my opponent tries to say and the hedging that he
does, despite his attempts to take both sides of almost every issue, there is a clear
choice between Jimmy Carter and President Ford.
The choice is: Do you want the Federal Government to spend more and more
of your money in the next 4 years? Do you want the Federal Government to
2512
