[672]
July 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Here in Connecticut, as in all 50 States, there is a growing feeling of confi-
dence in the future. The American people feel good about themselves and about
their country. The Bicentennial celebration reached its climax 2 weeks ago and
revealed a spirit of harmony, good will and optimism about America which had
been eclipsed during the turmoil of the last decade and a half.
It comes as no surprise to me for all our past troubles we have emerged as
a stronger and wiser people. The American people, the descendents of the har-
diest stock of many, many nations, have a deep reservoir of strength which has
served the Nation well for the past 200 years and will serve us well in the future
as we move forward for the betterment of our country and for mankind
as a whole.
That powerful American spirit brought us through the worst economic crisis
America has faced in 40 years. Two years ago inflation was running at a rate
of more than 12 percent. Thousands of men and women were being laid off.
A climate of fear threatened to engulf our people. What has happened since
August of 1974?
Inflation has been cut in half. Since the bottom of the recession last year,
3,400,000 of our fellow Americans have found new jobs or gotten their old
jobs back, and more people are being added to payrolls each and every day.
More people have been on the job in America in 1976 than ever in the history
of this great country. We have broken the back of the recession. Everything
that is supposed to be going up is going up, and everything that should be
going down is going down.
We are in the full surge of a strong recovery. We look with confidence to
an era of enduring prosperity without the cruel tax of runaway inflation.
That's a good record. I am proud of it, but there is more good news.
Two years ago America was mired in what seemed like an endless war in
Southeast Asia. After a decade in which the Congress had consistently short-
changed America's defenses, the future of our military strength was in danger.
In August of 1974, America's will to respond to international challenges was
being called into question by allies and adversaries alike. What has happened
since August of 1974?
Today, America is at peace. There are no American boys fighting anywhere
on the face of the Earth, and I will keep it that way.
I have proposed the two largest defense budgets in history, reversing the
trend of the last decade in order to ensure that our military capability commands
the respect of every nation. A strong military capability is the best insurance
for peace, and we are going to keep that Defense Department ready, able, and
2026
