[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
very glad to point out has since 1969, during a Republican administration, we
have had 10 million people taken off of the tax rolls at the lower end of the tax-
payer area. And at the same time, assuming that I sign the tax bill that was
mentioned by Mr. Gannon, we will, in the last two tax bills, have increased
the minimum tax on all wealthy taxpayers.
And I believe that by eliminating 10 million taxpayers in the last 8 years and
by putting a heavier tax burden on those in the higher tax brackets, plus the
other actions that have been taken, we can give taxpayers adequate tax relief.
Now, it seems to me that as we look at the recommendations of the budget
committees and our own projections, there isn't going to be any $60 billion divi-
dend. I've heard of those dividends in the past. It always happens. We expected
one at the time of the Vietnam war, but it was used up before we ever ended
the war, and taxpayers never got the adequate relief they deserved.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Reynolds.
MR. REYNOLDS. Mr. President, when you came into office, you spoke very
eloquently of the need for a time for healing. And very early in your admin-
istration you went out to Chicago and you announced, you proposed a program
of case-by-case pardons for draft resisters to restore them to full citizenship.
Some 14,000 young men took advantage of your offer, but another 90,000 did
not. In granting the pardon to former President Nixon, sir, part of your ra-
tionale was to put Watergate behind us, to, if I may quote you again, truly end
"our long national nightmare."
Why does not the same rationale apply now, today, in our Bicentennial Year to
the young men who resisted in Vietnam and many of them still in exile abroad?
The President. The amnesty program that I recommended in Chicago in
September of 1974 would give to all draft evaders and military deserters
the opportunity to earn their good record back. About 14 to 15,000 did
take advantage of that program. We gave them ample time. I am against an
across-the-board pardon of draft evaders or military deserters.
Now, in the case of Mr. Nixon, the reason the pardon was given was that
when I took office this country was in a very, very divided condition. There was
hatred; there was divisiveness; people had lost faith in their government in
many, many respects. Mr. Nixon resigned, and I became President. It seemed
to me that if I was to adequately and effectively handle the problems of high
inflation, a growing recession, the involvement of the United States still in
Vietnam, that I had to give 100 percent of my time to those two major problems.
Mr. Nixon resigned; that is disgrace—the first President out of 38 that ever
resigned from public office under pressure. So, when you look at the penalty
2290
