October 29
[992]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
992
Statement on Proposed Administration Program To Aid Older
Americans. October 29, 1976
ONE OF the major concerns of my administration during the next 4 years will
be to help provide conditions under which older Americans can continue to live
secure and fulfilling lives.
We all owe a debt to our older citizens. They are the ones who built our econ-
omy and established the moral bases on which our country has grown. We must
not let them down.
First of all we must make sure that they can look forward to futures that are
economically secure. But even more important than that, we must see to it that
we continue to have a society and a country of which our older citizens can be
proud. That, above all, is the reward that they ask.
I am proposing a specific program to help provide the foundation on which
older Americans can continue to build constructive lives.
First, I will work with the next Congress to enact a catastrophic insurance
plan for older Americans so that never again will the savings of a lifetime be
wiped out through a single illness. Under this plan, medical and hospital costs
will never rise above $750 in a single year.
Second, I will call on the next Congress to assure the integrity of the social
security system. Social security benefits are rights that have been earned by re-
tired workers and their families. The Federal Government is legally and mor-
ally bound to make sure that the fund is secure. But because of the rise in the
cost of living, the social security fund is now paying out more than it takes in. It
is therefore essential to the security of retired citizens, both now and in the fu-
ture, that we raise the level of the fund to the point at which it will meet pro-
jected costs.
Third, I will continue to check the rise in Federal spending in order to keep
the inflation rate going down. Inflation hits hardest at our older citizens, many
of whom are living on retirement incomes. If we devalue their dollars, we are
robbing them of savings and pension benefits that they built up through years
of labor.
Fourth, I will call on the next Congress to enact my anticrime package,
which will help protect the security of our streets and homes. Legislation that
I have placed before Congress will provide tougher sentencing procedures
2789
