[698]
July 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
as a stablizing influence in the region. They reaffirmed an interest they share
with ASEAN that no one power should dominate Southeast Asia.
The President and the Prime Minister discussed the current situation in the
Middle East and Southern Africa. They expressed concern about the continu-
ing instability in Lebanon. The Prime Minister commended the continued
efforts of the United States in its search for a settlement in the Middle East. Both
deplored the continuation of racial injustices in the minority-ruled countries
of Africa, and condemned any practices which did not accord true dignity to all
people as equals regardless of race.
In reviewing the world economic situation the President gave the Prime Min-
ister an outline of discussions at the recent economic summit in Puerto Rico.
They agreed that the United States and Australia, together with other industrial-
ized democracies, must continue to pursue an economic strategy directed at
achieving sustained economic expansion and a reduction in unemployment
while not jeopardizing the common aim of reducing, and avoiding a new wave
of inflation. This strategy would require the continued application of disciplined
measures in the field of fiscal and monetary policies.
They recognized that a period of sustained non-inflationary growth in the
major industrialized nations will make a major contribution to the economic
progress of the developing countries. The President and the Prime Minister re-
viewed developments in the dialogue between the industrialized and developing
nations and agreed on the need for a continued effort in the various interna-
tional fora for a constructive long-term relationship of common benefit.
The President and the Prime Minister agreed that a more open international
trading system was in the interest of both developed and developing nations,
and stressed the need for increasing momentum in the Multilateral Trade Nego-
tiations now being held in Geneva. They agreed that increases in trade oppor-
tunities, particularly in processed goods and agricultural products, would help
to lift the standard of living in the developing countries.
The President and the Prime Minister had discussions about Australia's com-
mercial relations with the United States. It was agreed that further progress
in the trading relationship would be to the advantage of each country.
The Prime Minister gave the President an outline of recent changes in
Australia's foreign investment policy. He indicated an increased need for foreign
investment in Australia in partnership with Australian investors. He therefore
welcomed such investment to help develop Australia's great national resources
to the advantage of Australia and of Australia's trading partners.
The Prime Minister conveyed to the President the good wishes of the Austra-
2100
