September 26
[814]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
814
Remarks in Gulfport, Mississippi. September 26, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Trent Lott, Congressman Thad
Cochran, Mayor Lang, Mayor Maxwell, Mayor Saucier-that's not bad is it?
[Laughter]
It is wonderful to be here in the great State of Mississippi. It is just so encour-
aging and wonderful to be here in the city of Gulfport. But I want to remind
you of one thing: At the convention in Kansas City, I said we would not con-
cede a single State; I said we would not concede a single vote; I said we would
campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sunny plains of Georgia.
We had a wonderful day in Louisiana. It's been tremendous in Mississippi
and it will be good in Alabama, and it will be good in Florida. We want to win.
Let me express my deep appreciation to Trent Lott and Thad Cochran.
They are outstanding Members of the Congress. Send them back. We need
them, and you need them.
And let me say to Mayor Lang, I will tell you this is a tremendous welcome,
and I appreciate your help and the help of other local officials.
Let me take just a minute to speak about the things that concern all of us.
If you will refresh your memory, 2 years ago, this country was in trouble. We
were divided. There had been a great loss of trust in the American people in
their government and in the White House. There had been a tremendous
adverse impact because inflation was over 12 percent. We were on the brink
of the worst recession in 40 years. We had still an involvement in Southeast
Asia. It was not a very good time for America.
But I found that the character of the American people, the kind of govern-
ment we have, has given us a chance to turn the ship of state around. And in
the last 2 years we have made incredible progress, and we should be proud of it.
But the progress we've made is not enough. What we have to do is move from
where we are to a better opportunity, more progress.
And as I travel around the country, I find that America is on the upbeat.
We have restored trust in the White House. We have turned our economy
around. Instead of 12-percent inflation, we are down to under 6 percent, and we
are going to do better and better.
But the way to whip inflation is not to add more Federal spending. The way
to whip inflation is to keep the cost of government down, and you will keep
the rate of inflation down. One way I've found that we can hold the lid on
2333
