October 8
[866]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
President Ford does not believe that the Polish people over the long run-
whether they are in Poland or whether they are Polish Americans here—will
ever condone domination by any foreign force.
REPORTER. Mr. President, today, in virtually all of Eastern Europe, does the
Soviet Union have military dominance ?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said the other night the Soviet Union does not have
domination of Yugoslavia. The Soviet Union does not militarily dominate Ro-
mania. I was perhaps not as precise as I should have been. I recognize there are
Soviet divisions in Poland. I regret it. And I am very proud of the courageous
attitude of the Polish people who want freedom, who have the aspirations for
liberty, just as we do in the United States. And I fully support their hopes and
aspirations.
There are several other countries in Eastern Europe that tragically have
Soviet military forces in their country. That is not what President Ford wants,
and that is not what the American people want.
Q. Mr. President, has this caused you any political trouble?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no way of knowing. I firmly believe that the Polish
Americans in this country know of my strong support over the years, not just
recently, for the Captive Nations resolution. It was enacted frequently in the
Congress of the United States, and I always supported it.
So, any Polish American or any other ethnic American who knows of
President Ford's record of full support for the Captive Nations resolution
knows where I stand.
Q. Did you come out to put an end to this misunderstanding?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope and trust that my observations this morning will put
an end to a misunderstanding. It was a misunderstanding, and I hope and trust
that my very deep and firm convictions have now been said again, as they have
over the years.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:05 p.m. at Glendale City Hall.
866
Remarks in Lawton, Oklahoma. October 8, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Senator Dewey Bartlett, Senator Henry Bellmon,
Senator Paul Laxalt, my good friend Tom Steed, my good friend John Jarman,
Mayor Gilley, distinguished guests on the podium, ladies and gentlemen:
It's great to be back in Oklahoma, and thank you very, very much. Senator
2465
