October 15
[904]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
would require affirmative action by the President in recommending an exten-
sion subject to a “one-house veto” provision. As I have stated on previous occa-
sions and reiterate again, provisions for review of executive actions by
resolutions of one House are unconstitutional. In the context of the instant
legislation, this provision—a nullity—is severable from the balance of the bill.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 969, approved October 15, 1976, is Public Law 94-502 (90 Stat. 2383).
904
Remarks at Iowa State University in Ames.
October 15, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Bob Ray, Dr. Parks, Mrs. Peterson, Jill
Wagner, Congressman Grassley, Mayor Fellinger, Ken Fuller, students, faculty,
and guests:
It's great to be in Ohio-Iowa State. [Laughter] You know we Michiganders
have Ohio State on our mind. But it is great to be at Iowa State University. This
university has a long, long tradition of excellence in agricultural education,
training, and research, and you have a pretty good football team, too. You score
a lot of touchdowns. I congratulate you. But we're going to score a lot of touch-
downs for the United States of America in the next 4 years, also.
Just 3 days ago, the Department of Agriculture released its October forecast
predicting the second largest wheat crop and the largest corn crop in American
history. This new record will be achieved in spite of serious drought conditions
in many areas of this great country.
I am delighted to be in the heart of America to see some of that bumper crop
being harvested this afternoon. We are all proud of you wherever we come from
in the United States of America. This record corn crop is a graphic illustration
of an overriding nonpolitical fact that transcends all the noise, the rhetoric of
this election year. America is blessed with farmlands and farm know-how un-
equaled anyplace on this Earth. The corn belt and the other great growing areas
of our bountiful country are renewable, nondepleting assets worth far more than
all the diamonds in Africa, all the oil of the Middle East, and all the gold in
Fort Knox.
Today, a single American farmer can feed 56 people. No other nation comes
close to that record. The Soviet Union has one-third of its people engaged in
agriculture and they frequently fall short of their needs.
2539
