July 28
[698]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The Prime Minister expressed the belief that the United States had a unique
leadership role and mission as the world's most powerful democracy. The
President and Prime Minister agreed that the steady pursuit of that mission was
essential for the stability and peaceful development of the nations of the world.
The President noted the need for continuing close collaboration with friends
and allies including Australia. The President and Prime Minister noted the
importance of maintaining the cohesion and constancy of alliances in present
international circumstances, and the importance of conventional forces in condi-
tions of nuclear parity. In this connection they agreed on the desirability of
maintaining the excellent record of consultation and cooperation that has char-
acterized the ANZUS relationship. The President and the Prime Minister
agreed on the political and strategic importance of the Indian Ocean to many
countries including Australia and the United States. Noting the importance of
achieving and maintaining an adequate balance, Australia supported United
States efforts to upgrade the facilities at Diego Garcia. Both leaders expressed
the hope that all parties concerned would exercise restraint in this key area.
The President and Prime Minister agreed that the sustained growth in the
military capability of the Warsaw Pact countries beyond levels apparently justi-
fied for defensive purposes, to which the NATO countries had drawn attention,
was a matter of concern not only in Europe but throughout the world. The
Prime Minister gave the President an account of his recent visits to the People's
Republic of China and Japan. He explained the great importance to Australia of
its relationship with Japan and the steps taken during his visit to enhance the
political and economic relationship and to forge closer links of understanding
between the two peoples. The President and Prime Minister agreed that the close
and cordial relationships Australia and the U.S. enjoy with Japan are essential
to the continued stability, progress, and prosperity of the international com-
munity. They each pledged to maintain and strengthen those ties. The Prime
Minister emphasized that widening communication between Australia and
China and between China and many other countries, was of great importance.
The President agreed that effective communication with and the involvement of
the People's Republic of China are important to the promotion of peace and
progress, and reaffirmed that the United States is determined to complete the
process of normalizing its relations with the People's Republic of China on the
basis of the Shanghai Communique.
The Prime Minister and the President reiterated the fundamental importance
which their countries attach to their relations with Southeast Asian nations and
noted the significance of ASEAN, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,
2099
