[888]
October 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
for their consideration and action, major revisions to this bill, especially in the
area of higher education, and I ask the support of those who participated in
the development of S. 2657 to assist in its improvement.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2657, approved October 12, 1976, is Public Law 94-482 (90 Stat. 2081).
889
Statement on Signing the Health Professions Educational
Assistance Act of 1976. October 13, 1976
I HAVE approved H.R. 5546, the Health Professions Education Assistance Act
of 1976, which will materially assist in ensuring that all Americans throughout
the country will have sufficient access to physicians and dentists. Last year, the
administration submitted to Congress a legislative proposal based on findings
which showed that while there was no longer a shortage in the total number
of physicians in the United States, there were alarming signs that this country
was facing two growing problems with respect to these practitioners. There are
not enough doctors in rural and inner-city areas, and there is a continuing decline
in the number of doctors practicing primary care-i.e., the problem of specialty
maldistribution.
I am pleased that the bill specifically addresses those issues which we iden-
tified as being of greatest concern. Although the bill contains some undesirable
features, I believe that, on balance, it represents a definite step toward improving
health care delivery and, accordingly, warrants my signature.
There are several provisions of this legislation which will be instrumental in
solving the problems of geographic and specialty maldistribution. The bill con-
tinues and expands a scholarship program which will provide individuals with
financial assistance to attend medical school. In exchange for these scholarships,
each recipient will be required to serve in a health manpower shortage area for
a period of at least 2 years. Coupled with this scholarship program, the bill au-
thorizes the establishment of a Federal program of insured loans—a proposal I
have supported—to assist health professions students. This program virtually
assures that no individual will be denied a medical education for financial rea-
sons. Also, the bill establishes a program of special assistance to disadvantaged
students, in an effort to equalize opportunities among all individuals who wish
to become health professionals.
In order to deal with the problem of specialty maldistribution and increase the
number of doctors who deliver primary care, the bill authorizes the continua-
2502
