January 18
[1070]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and monetary affairs and of relying on a restored vitality in the private sector
must continue. We need tax reductions to support a lasting economic recovery
and to provide relief from the increases in real tax burdens induced by inflation.
In the long run, inflation and real economic growth will constantly push tax-
payers into higher and higher tax brackets unless tax laws are changed. Some
believe that these additional tax receipts should be spent on new Government
programs. I do not. Instead I believe that the Congress should counteract the
growing burden imposed by the tax system-and the reduction of private in-
centives that it implies-by periodically providing offsetting tax cuts while con-
tinuing to restrain the rate of growth of Government spending.
The creation of permanent, meaningful, and productive jobs for our growing
labor force requires a higher level of private investment. Tax reductions must
be so designed that measures to stimulate consumption are balanced by those
which will increase investment. Investment has for some time been falling short
of the levels required if we are to provide enough productive jobs for our people
at rising real wage rates, and if we hope to renew and improve our capital stock
so that we can meet our requirements for energy and make headway toward
environmental, job safety, and other goals. Investment has grown more slowly
than would normally be true at this stage of a recovery. A stronger spur to in-
vestment in productive plant and equipment is necessary for the further improve-
ment in production and employment in 1977 and beyond.
TAX REDUCTIONS
In October 1975, I presented to the Congress a program of tax cuts and spend-
ing restraints that would have reduced the burden of government for all tax-
payers. It would have given the American people more freedom to spend their
incomes as they choose rather than as Washington chooses for them, and it
would have increased incentives to expand investment. However, the Congress
decided otherwise—to increase spending far more than I wanted and to cut
taxes far less than I wanted.
Earlier this month I again sent to the Congress my recommendations to cut
taxes. I have once more urged a permanent increase in the personal exemption
from $750 to $1,000 to replace the system of temporary tax credits that has so
greatly complicated the individual income tax return. I am also recommending
a higher income allowance and a series of permanent tax rate reductions. My
proposals provide income tax relief for individuals that will total $10 billion
in 1977.
2947
