[1056]
January 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Sinai, and as long as it continues to enjoy this support, the United States role
will represent a meaningful contribution to the prospects for attaining a just
and lasting peace in the Middle East.
The White House,
January 11, 1977.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "Second Report to the Congress, SSM, United States Sinai Support Mission,
October 13, 1976."
1057
Address Before a Joint Session of the Congress Reporting
on the State of the Union. January 12, 1977
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of the 95th Congress, and distin-
guished guests:
In accordance with the Constitution, I come before you once again to report
on the state of the Union.
This report will be my last-maybe-[laughter]—but for the Union it is only
the first of such reports in our third century of independence, the close of which
none of us will ever see. We can be confident, however, that 100 years from now
a freely elected President will come before a freely elected Congress chosen to
renew our great Republic's pledge to the Government of the people, by the
people, and for the people.
For my part I pray the third century we are beginning will bring to all
Americans, our children and their children's children, a greater measure of
individual equality, opportunity, and justice, a greater abundance of spiritual
and material blessings, and a higher quality of life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.
The state of the Union is a measurement of the many elements of which it is
composed—a political union of diverse States, an economic union of varying
interests, an intellectual union of common convictions, and a moral union of
immutable ideals.
Taken in sum, I can report that the state of the Union is good. There is room
for improvement, as always, but today we have a more perfect Union than when
my stewardship began.
As a people we discovered that our Bicentennial was much more than a cele-
bration of the past; it became a joyous reaffirmation of all that it means to be
2916
