October 23
[949]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
My idea of tax reform is tax reduction. I'm sure you recall that I submitted
to the Congress a proposal to increase the personal exemption from $750 to
$1,000. That is meaningful tax reduction to the long shortchanged middle-
income taxpayers. Congress didn't pass it, but I make a pledge to you: I'm
going to keep the pressure on the next Congress until they do, and if they don't,
they'll hear about it in the next election.
After so many years of uncontrolled inflation, we have cut the rate of inflation
by better than 50 percent. We'll do even better in the future. After the worst
economic recession in 40 years, we have added 40 million jobs to the American
economy in the last 18 months, not by creating dead end jobs at the taxpayer's
expense; we've added these 4 million jobs by stimulating the private econo-
my, where five out of the six jobs are in America today.
Too many people are still out of work. We are not satisfied with the progress
we've made, but more Americans were on the job in 1976 than ever before in
the history of the United States, nearly 88 million. And that's a tremendous
comeback from where we were just a year and a half ago.
After suffering a tragic betrayal of public trust 2 years ago, America has
had its faith restored in the White House. My administration has been open,
candid, straightforward, and we'll keep it that way for the next 4 years. As I
told the Southern Baptist Convention in Norfolk earlier this year, I firmly be-
lieve that private morality and public service can and must go hand in hand.
I mentioned only a part of the Ford administration's record in the past 2 years,
but let me add just a few more. Farm exports and farm income are at an alltime
high. A major effort is already underway to cut redtape in the Federal bureauc-
racy. We are working for peace and justice in the Middle East and throughout
the world. In every field, America is on the move, on the march.
We made an incredible comeback in the past 2 years, and we're not through
yet. You can believe me when I tell you that America is strong and will be kept
strong, because the American people are willing to pay for that kind of national
security.
You can believe me when I say this Nation is sound, this Nation is secure, this
Nation is on the way to a better quality of life for all Americans, and this admin-
istration has earned the trust of the American people for the next 4 years.
My record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises.
We don't need government to do everything for us or to tell us everything we
can or cannot do.
We have a great reservoir of talented industry in this country, and it's not all
concentrated on the banks of the Potomac River. You've got it here in North
2655
