December 9
[1026]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
honored tonight, and I noticed that when I came to Congress on January 3,
1949, Congressman Carl Albert from Bug Tussle, Oklahoma, was a senior Mem-
ber of the House. He had come 2 years before me. And then I noticed that
Senator Mansfield, who was also a Member of the House at that time, was quite
senior. He had come 4 years before I did. And then the record shows that Hugh
Scott was very, very, very senior because he had come to the House of Repre-
sentatives 6 years before I was honored to take the oath.
So, if you added up all of their seniority-Hugh Scott with 34 years, Mike
Mansfield with 32, and Carl Albert with 30—the total is 96 years of seniority
in the Congress of the United States. So, I think we have with us three of the
most distinguished, most experienced, and most honorable and dedicated peo-
ple that I have known in the House and/or the Senate during my time of serv-
ice in the Federal Government.
But I think it's appropriate to recognize the wives of the people that we honor
as Members of the Congress. I know that Mary Albert did a super job all the
time that Carl has been in the House of Representatives. I know that Maureen
Mansfield did the same for Mike when he was in the House as well as in the
Senate, and Marian Scott did as well for Hugh as the others did for their
husbands.
So, Betty and I are just pleased and honored to have the privilege of recog-
nizing these three very distinguished statesmen for their long service and effec-
tive service as far as our Government is concerned. They are personal friends
of both Betty and myself. They have done a superior job, whether I agreed
with them or not, or whether they agreed with me or not.
I might add parenthetically, I have found that it's great to be a part of a
government where all of the troops without hesitation or qualification, follow
whatever the leaders tell them to do. [Laughter] I know that's true on the Dem-
ocratic side, and I know it is true on the Republican side.
But regardless of the problems that come as a result of a lack of political and
party uniformity, it's a great institution, the Congress. And Betty and I had
the privilege of serving there for almost 26 years. It was, without a doubt, the
most enjoyable time of our lifetime. We missed it. We miss it now.
And we wish you all, each and every one of you, a very, very Merry Christ-
mas and the best wishes for a Happy New Year. We will be thinking of you,
and we will be wishing you the very best.
And I think all of us can now join in giving the proper recognition to three
very distinguished Members of the Congress of the United States-Carl Al-
bert, Mike Mansfield, and Hugh Scott.
2861
