[1000]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
have cut it by more than 50 percent. And I pledge to you we will do better
in the next 4 years.
In the last 18 months, we have added 4 million jobs in America. We have
88 million people gainfully employed, the highest number in the history of the
United States. But I won't be satisfied in the next 4 years until we find a job
for everybody who wants to work, and we're going to do it.
I think in the last 2 years the White House has been open. I have been candid
frank, forthright. And the net result is that even people who disagree with me
have faith and trust that the White House is their White House, it is an honest,
frank, open White House, and it will be that way for the next 4 years.
But one of the things that pleases me the most is that I can stand before you
tonight and say I am the first President seeking election since Dwight D. Eisen-
hower who can say America is at peace.
I thought I asked you to be quiet so you would hear a pin drop. But I like
it. [Laughter]
But let me add on the point I just made: Not a single young American is
fighting and dying on any foreign soil tonight, and they won't during the next
4 years. And they won't because we have the finest Army, Navy, Air Force,
Marines. They are number one, and we are going to keep them number one.
I am proud of the fact that we have given additional support to our national
defense program to make sure that in the future, when a President sits down
to negotiate with his allies, his allies will understand that the United States is
strong in weapons systems and strong in will. I am glad that the defense
program we have today is a strong one so that when I sit down to negotiate
with any adversary, they know we have the strength and the will to stand up
for freedom and liberty in the United States.
But in order to do that, yes, we have to spend a good bit of money. But we
have to spend that money for the finest weapons systems, not to fight a war,
but to preserve the peace, and I am proud of the contribution that you in Suffolk
County make with the Grumman plant and the F-14.
But let's talk now about how we can keep America strong at home. There
are some in this political campaign who say the way to increase employment
is to put people on the Federal payroll, dead end jobs, vast expenditures out
of the Federal budget. I don't think that will work in the United States. It
certainly hasn't worked in Great Britain.
The better way, and the Ford way, is to give tax reductions to the middle-
2812
