December 20
[1034]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
About a week ago, there were some inquiries made about how snow was in
Vail. One of my staff said to me, "Mr. President, why don't we change our
plans and go somewhere else where you can play some golf?" I said we were
coming to Vail, and between the Indians and myself, we knew very well there
would be some snow very shortly.
But let me just thank all of the people who live in Vail, all that come here to
seek employment, all who come to ski. We are deeply indebted to all of you for
your many courtesies, your hospitality, your friendship. And I hope and trust
that we will see you on the slopes, having dinner, walking the streets, just en-
joying ourselves in this wonderful atmosphere with so many nice people.
Thank you. Merry, Merry Christmas.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. at the Town Square. In his remarks, he referred to Mayor John
Dobson of Vail.
1034
Statement Announcing Federal Recognition of
“Expo '81” as a World's Fair. December 20, 1976
IT GIVES me great pleasure to announce that I have today granted Federal
recognition to Expo '81, a world's fair to be held in San Bernardino County,
California. Accordingly, I have directed the Secretary of State to notify the
Bureau of International Expositions, which decided at its November 17 meet-
ing in Paris that Expo '81 would be formally registered once it received Fed-
eral recognition.
Pursuant to Public Law 91-269, the Department of Commerce has evaluated
the plans for the exposition, and I have received Secretary [Elliot L.] Richard-
son's report recommending that Federal recognition to Expo '81 be granted.
This report recognizes that other tasks remain to be accomplished—for ex-
ample, environmental factors will be further considered upon receipt of public
comments on the draft environmental impact statement now being circulated,
and additional financial arrangements must still be made, including the
planned authorization of a $35 million bond issue by the State of California. I
am satisfied, however, that the preparations made and the commitments ob-
tained to date fully justify my decision to grant Federal recognition.
Those who were fortunate enough to visit other recent world's fairs-in
Spokane, in San Antonio, in Seattle, or in Montreal know the great economic,
social, and cultural benefits which such an undertaking brings to a region as
2875
