October 31
[998]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Valley Forge, where George Washington and that straggling army went
through the most difficult winter you can imagine. We then went to Phila-
delphia, and saw where it all began. Senator Javits was with me when we saw
those "Tall Ships" from all over the country (world) coming to the United
States to pay respect to the greatest country in the history of mankind.
That is our history. We can read it. But now our job is to make it for the
next 4 and the next 100 years. We have an obligation to do as well for those
future generations as our predecessors did for us. But what does that mean?
It means that we have got to preserve our form of government, our free enter-
prise system. We have to preserve the liberty and freedom that is so priceless.
We can't do it by building the government bigger and bigger. We can do it by
stimulating the efforts of individuals and the efforts of business.
So I say to you, as we face our economic problems—and we have had them,
believe me—when I took that oath of office, August of 1974, America was in
real trouble. We had unemployment. We had inflation of over 12 percent. We
were still involved in Vietnam and many, many, many thousands of Americans
had lost faith and trust in the White House.
Some of you may recall that I, after taking the oath of office, said, "I have not
been confirmed by your ballots, but I ask that you confirm me by your prayers."
You did, and things have been turning for the better in America.
We have gone through a tough economic problem, but inflation is cut less
than half. We have 4 million more jobs today than we had 18 months ago. We,
I think, have restored trust and faith in the White House. And I'm proud to
say that there's not a single young American fighting or dying on any foreign
soil today.
But everything we have done is only the foundation from where we can go.
We can go by a tax reduction that gives to each and every one of you, and all of
your fellow American taxpayers, a kind of meaningful tax cut by increasing the
personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. Mr. Carter says that is going to help
the rich. Well, he has been wrong so many times that's just another error on
his part. Wouldn't that kind of a tax reduction help every one of you?
That is your tax reduction that you will get under a Ford administration,
and Mr. Carter's was one way yesterday and another way the day before. I
cannot forecast-[laughter]—I honestly can't tell what his position will be in
the next 2 days.
But I want you to know that on this crucial countdown day, I stand for tax
reduction, I stand for fiscal responsibility, I stand for a smaller government, I
2807
