[952]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
your Golden Circle participation. It's wonderful to be in California after a hard
day yesterday in Virginia, where we got a wonderful reception; in North
Carolina, where the enthusiasm was really spectacular; and where the results in
South Carolina were far beyond our expectations.
I might just give you one poll that is somewhat indicative. I went to the
Notre Dame-South Carolina football game, the last half of it. And I went to
the right half because in that half, South Carolina outscored Notre Dame-
[laughter]—even though they didn't win the ball game. But anyhow, we went to
the State Fair, and they have a big poll like you see for the community chest and
the like. And 10 days ago, we were behind on a ratio of 3 to 2. Yesterday, we had
roughly 10,500 votes and my opponent had 7,300.
What I'm really saying is that we're making substantial inroads in those
areas where my opponent thought he had a free ride. He doesn't, and the net
result is we're going to do very well in many parts of the country where a
month ago it didn't look very optimistic. But when you get to the bottom line,
for us to win this election and to keep the direction that this country is on—
which I think is a solid, a very optimistic future-it's critical that we win
California.
California is a State that we must win. And all of you coming here early
on a Sunday morning, and your long support for the party and the principles that
we stand for, is indicative of the concern you have. So, if you can just double,
redouble, quadruple your efforts between now and November 2 and we win
California, we'll keep America going in the right direction.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 a.m. in the Georgian
Room at the Huntington-Sheraton Hotel. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Paul Haerle, chairman of
the California State Republican Central Committee.
953
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Pasadena. October 24, 1976
Thank you very, very much, John Rousselot, Carlos Moorhead:
Let me say this a great, great thrill for me to be in California, to see all of you
wonderful volunteers who will, on November 2, give us a victory in California,
which means a victory for the United States that day.
In Kansas City, I said we would not concede a single vote, we would not con-
2662
