September 13
[772]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
present, through the combined efforts of Governor Holshouser and the many,
many people in the State of North Carolina, the people's will has now been done.
An ancient and majestic river, and the beautiful land that surrounds it, has been
saved for future generations to enjoy just as we have.
With special pride and a great deal of pleasure, I now sign this act into law,
and I join you in the hope that the New River will flow free and clear for another
100 million years.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. at a
ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Senator
Jesse Helms and Gov. James E. Holshouser of
North Carolina.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 13372) is Public Law
94-407 (90 Stat. 1238).
772
Remarks Upon Signing the Government in the Sunshine Act.
September 13, 1976
Distinguished Members of the House and the Senate, members of the adminis-
tration, and guests:
It is my great privilege and honor this morning to sign into law S. 5, the
Government in [the] Sunshine Act.
I strongly endorse the concept which underlies this legislation, that the
decisionmaking process and the decisionmaking business of regulatory agencies
must be open to the public.
And I congratulate the Members of the Congress in making certain that this
legislation comes to the White House and is available for my signature on this
occasion.
In a democracy the public has a right to know not only what the government
decides but why and by what process. Today many citizens feel that their gov-
ernment is too remote, that it is not responsive to their needs. This legislation
should go a long way in reaffirming that government exists for the people, not
apart from the people.
Under this law some 50 regulatory agencies, including the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Civil Service Commission, and the National Science
Board, are required to give advance notice of their meetings and then hold
these meetings in public. If an agency votes to close a session for one of the
specific reasons set forth in the law, verbatim transcripts of most such meetings
would be available to the public.
The law also prohibits any communication between agency officials and out-
2235
