[1022]
December 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
million and a General Revenue Sharing deferral in the Department of the
Treasury is increased by $11.1 million.
The details of each deferral are contained in the attached reports.
The White House,
December 3, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of December 3, 1976 (41
FR 53744).
1023
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti of
Italy. December 6, 1976
PRIME MINISTER Andreotti, I am delighted to welcome you and your party
to Washington, D.C., our National Capital.
Mr. Prime Minister, I have long looked forward to this meeting since July,
when you took office as President of the Council of Ministers. Since that time
you have worked intensely and with great courage and determination on the
difficult issues facing your nation and your government. I am extremely pleased
that you have found time for this visit and for consultations on the broad
range of interests shared by our two governments.
During the last 2 years the United States and Italy have consulted at the
highest levels with greater frequency than ever before. President Leone's state
visit to the United States in 1974 was the first state visit of this administration.
Our leaders have met at NATO summits and economic summits and at the
European Security Conference. I remember with great warmth my own trip to
your country a year and a half ago and the friendship extended to me on behalf
of the American people by the Italian people and by your government.
We are friends. We are allies. We have worked together and solved problems
together. We will do so in the future.
Few countries have so special a place in the hearts of the American people.
The United States and Italy are committed to freedom and share a firm dedica-
tion to democracy. We are both committed to the strength of the North Atlantic
alliance and to the reduction of tensions which threaten international peace and
stability.
Americans value the constructive role of Italy in the world today and in the
past. We deeply appreciate Italy's contribution to NATO, your contribution to
2850
