October 14
[898]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN DEBATES
[15.] Q. Mr. President, you've had some harsh words for your opponent's
performance in the second debate, and yet every public opinion survey that I've
seen showed that you lost that debate—and it was one that was on foreign and
defense affairs, which are supposed to be your strong suit. Do you agree that
you lost that second debate and, if so, why? Or, if you think you won it, why
do you think that happened?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is a poll that shows the conclusion you have
just set forth. I don't necessarily agree with that. But there were some very
specific answers that were given by people who were interrogated afterwards.
And if you look at that list of special questions that were asked of people who
responded, it showed that in those cases—and I think they were the very funda-
mental ones on specific issues—knowledge, firmness, strength—that a majority
of the people thought I had prevailed.
NEW NATURAL GAS PRICES
[16.] Q. Mr. President, the Federal Power Commission has authorized the
increase in the price of new natural gas. That's something you favored. The
original estimate was that it would cost the American consumer $1.3 billion a
year. Now we're told that it may be as high or higher than $3 billion a year.
Do you think that that price increase should be rolled back or should it stand?
THE PRESIDENT. The fundamental issue is, if you don't get a price increase
you aren't going to have any new natural gas. So the question is, are you
willing to pay for enough gas to heat our homes and to heat our factories so
people will have jobs? We have to give an incentive to people to go out and
find new natural gas sources, and if you don't give them that incentive, there
won't be any heat for their homes or heat for their factories, and we will lose
the jobs.
Q. Are you willing to risk another jolt to the economy from this large price
increase?
THE PRESIDENT. I think a bigger jolt would be to have the jobs lost and the
houses cold.
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN THEMES
[17.] Q. Mr. President, earlier in your campaign you said you intended
to stress positive themes, yet in your most recent campaign appearances you
have concentrated on attacking Governor Carter. Tonight you accused him
of slandering the name of the United States. Do you think you've done all you
2529
