[703]
July 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
behalf of Trent Lott, who was successful, and he is one of your fine
Congressmen.
But in the 2 years since I became President, we not only have restored the trust
of the American people in the White House itself, with a candid, straightforward
approach that we have followed, but we have turned this economy around. And
I think if you go back 24 months ago, this country was in serious economic
trouble.
We have, through good policies, fiscal responsibility, despite the opposition
that controls the Congress, where they have sought to pile one spending bill after
another on the desk of the Oval Office—and incidentally, I vetoed 53 bills, 42
of them have been sustained-and the net result is we have saved the taxpayers
of this country $13 billion. And I might add parenthetically, if they send any
more of those bills down with those wild spending programs, they will be vetoed
again and again and again.
But we have also—not only in restoring confidence in the White House but
in turning the economy around so everything that ought to be going up is going
up and everything that ought to be going down is going down-but we have
achieved peace. And we have the military capability and the diplomatic skill and
strength to maintain the peace.
So, we will have an affirmative program going to the American people, saying,
that for 2-plus years we have made great headway, but it is only the foundation
for greater success in the next 4 years.
I think an affirmative approach is the way to win this election. But in addi-
tion, I firmly believe that as a candidate at the head of the Republican ticket we
must add to the numbers of our Republican ranks in the Congress. We are out-
numbered better than 2 to 1 at the present time. And if we are going to be affirm-
ative for the next 4 years, we have to add to those on our side of the aisles good
people who believe as we do, who will fight for those things that are going to
keep the strength of this country, both at home and abroad.
But in addition, you might be interested in how I believe we can successfully
take on our opponents. The Democratic nominee has embraced in toto the Dem-
ocratic platform. That platform, if you read it very carefully, calls for a number
of things that I don't believe coincide with the philosophy of the people of the
great State of Mississippi.
I believe we can attack the leader of the Democratic Party in that he has em-
braced the voting record of the Democratic Congress. And if you look down that
record, whether it is in excessive spending or legislation that will impose more
and more regulations on the American economy or any one of the other areas
2110
