[763]
September 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Minister Vorster gave us his reactions. As a result of these discussions, Assistant
Secretary Schaufele is currently in Africa discussing the situation. On the basis
of his report, I will decide whether further progress can be made through a
visit by Secretary Kissinger to Africa, starting with black African countries
most concerned. We want to create the opportunities and conditions for all races
to live side by side.
The United States cannot solve by itself these complicated problems. We
need the continued good will and dedication of the parties involved.
The process that is now beginning is an extremely important one. It is ex-
tremely complicated. There is no guarantee of success. But I believe the United
States must now make a major effort because it is the right thing to do. It is
in our national interest, and it is in the interest of world peace.
I will be glad to answer any questions.
QUESTIONS
SENATOR ROBERT DOLE'S CAMPAIGN FINANCES
[2.] Q. Mr. President, when you selected Mr. Dole as your running mate,
did you make a thorough check of his finances over and beyond, independently
of what he gave you, and how was that done? Was it done through Justice, or
where?
The President. The Office of White House Counsel made a very thorough in-
vestigation of all of the individuals who were being considered for the office
of Vice President. That was done by demanding that they send to us various
information concerning their finances and related matters.
Subsequent to that information being furnished, a member of my staff at
the Office of the White House Counsel interrogated the individuals who were
being considered, including Senator Dole. As a result of that interrogation and
information voluntarily supplied by Senator Dole, it was concluded by the Office
of the White House Counsel that all things were in order.
PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN STRATEGY
[3.] Q. Mr. President, have we gotten a fair sample of your campaign this
week, or do you have something else in mind for the future?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say at the outset, Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, As-
sociated Press], that I decided a long time ago—in fact, when I made my first
announcement that I was a candidate—that the principal responsibility I had
2212
