[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
require further, decisive international action. Effective control of the parallel
risk of spreading uranium enrichment technology is also necessary. To meet
these dangers:
—I call upon all nations to join with us in exercising maximum restraint in
the transfer of reprocessing and enrichment technology and facilities by avoid-
ing such sensitive exports or commitments for a period of at least 3 years.
This will allow suppliers and consumers to work together to establish reliable
means for meeting nuclear needs with minimum risk, as we assess carefully
the wisdom of plutonium use. As we proceed in these efforts, we must not be
influenced by pressures to approve the export of these sensitive facilities.
III. Assuring an Adequate Energy Supply for Customer Nations
-I urge nuclear suppliers to provide nuclear consumers with fuel services,
instead of sensitive technology or facilities.
Nations accepting effective nonproliferation restraints have a right to expect
reliable and economic supply of nuclear reactors and associated, nonsensitive
fuel. All such nations would share in the benefits of an assured supply of nuclear
fuel, even though the number and location of sensitive facilities to generate this
fuel is limited to meet nonproliferation goals. The availability of fuel-cycle
services in several different nations can provide ample assurance to consumers
of a continuing and stable source of supply.
It is also desirable to continue studying the idea of a few suitably-sited multi-
national fuel-cycle centers to serve regional needs, when effectively safeguarded
and economically warranted. Through these and related means, we can mini-
mize incentives for the spread of dangerous fuel-cycle capabilities.
The United States stands ready to take action, in cooperation with other
concerned nations, to assure reliable supplies of nuclear fuel at equitable prices
to any country accepting responsible restraints on its nuclear power program
with regard to reprocessing, plutonium disposition, and enrichment technology.
-I am directing the Secretary of State to initiate consultations to explore with
other nations arrangements for coordinating fuel services and for developing
other means of ensuring that suppliers will be able to offer, and consumers will
be able to receive, an uninterrupted and economical supply of low-enriched
uranium fuel and fuel services.
These discussions will address ways to ensure against economic disadvantage
to cooperating nations and to remove any sources of competition which could
undermine our common nonproliferation efforts.
To contribute to this initiative, the United States will offer binding letters of
2770
