October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that Governor Carter would take the first question, and he now goes first with
his closing remarks.
Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. The purpose of this debate and the outcome of the election will
determine three basic things—leadership, upholding the principles of our coun-
try, and proper priorities and commitments for the future.
This election will also determine what kind of world we leave our children.
Will it be a nightmare world, threatened with the proliferation of atomic bombs,
not just in five major countries, but dozens of smaller countries that have been
permitted to develop atomic weapons because of a failure of our top leadership
to stop proliferation? Will we have a world of hunger and hatred, and will we
be living in an armed camp, stripped of our friendships and allies, hiding behind
a tight defense that has been drawn in around us because we are fearful of the
outside world? Will we have a government of secrecy that excludes the Amer-
ican people from participation in making basic decisions and therefore covers
up mistakes and makes it possible for our Government-our Government-to
depart from the principles of our Constitution and Bill of Rights? Or will we
have a world of peace with the threat of atomic weapons eliminated, with full
trade, with our people at work, inflation controlled, openness in government, our
people proud once again; Congress, citizens, President, Secretary of State, work-
ing in harmony and unity toward a common future, a world where people have
enough to eat, and a world where we care about those who don't? Can we be-
come a breadbasket of the world, instead of the arms merchant of the world? I
believe we can and we ought to.
Now, we have been hurt in recent years in this country, in the aftermath of
Vietnam, Cambodia, Chile, Pakistan, Angola, Watergate, CIA. We have been
hurt. Our people feel that we have lost something precious. That's not neces-
sary. I want to see our Nation return to a posture and an image and a standard
to make us proud once again. I remember the world of NATO and the world
of point four and the world of the Marshall plan and a world of the Peace Corps.
Why can't we have that once again?
We ought to be a beacon for nations who search for peace and who search
for freedom, who search for individual liberty, who search for basic human
rights. We haven't been lately. We can be once again.
We will never have that world leadership until we are strong at home, and we
can have that strength if we return to the basic principles. It ought not to be a
strength of bombast and threats. It ought to be a quiet strength based on the
integrity of our people, the vision of the Constitution, and an innate strong will
2435
