October 25
[960]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
respect his tremendous job for you, and I'm deeply appreciative of his personal
friendship. Thank you very, very much, Dan.
I said in Kansas City, in August, just a few months ago, that we wouldn't
concede a single State and we wouldn't concede a single vote. We haven't, and we
won't, and that's why we're going to win on November 2.
When I see such a tremendous crowd here on the waterfront of Seattle, I'm
absolutely confident with the enthusiasm that you have that we're going to
carry the State of Washington on November 2, and we'll win in this election
across the country. And while I am here in Seattle, let me extend a very special
invitation for all of you to come to Washington, D.C., on January 20, 1977, to be
a part of the inauguration of Jerry Ford and Bob Dole.
You know where I stand. I stand on your side for limited government, for
fiscal responsibility, for rising prosperity, for lower taxes, for military strength,
for peace in the world. And I'm proud to stand here in Seattle and say not a
single young American is fighting and dying on any foreign soil today, and we'll
keep it that way. After so many years in which America's defensive needs
were short-changed, I proposed the two largest defense outlays in America's his-
tory. And that was tough to convince the Congress to stop slashing away—in
effect, cutting away-our military capability.
The people of Seattle not only understand the importance of a strong national
defense, you've been doing something about it. The Nation is proud of the
vital role which Seattle and the Boeing Company have played in making
America the leader in aviation, both civilian as well as military. Congratulations.
At this moment, the Boeing B-52 is the backbone of our strategic bomber force,
an absolutely indispensable element in preserving peace through strength.
Let me add that my opponent in this campaign, I think mistakenly so, has
promised a defense cut of at least $5 to $6 billion. That kind of defense cut
would require troop withdrawals from strategic bases overseas; delay or cancel
advanced weapons systems like the B-1 bomber; a slowdown in our ship
construction program, which helps to keep the peace throughout the world. It
would mean closing defense plants and military bases right here, possibly—not
only in the United States as a whole but the State of Washington as well.
You don't want that, either. I don't want it. And we'll keep our defenses
strong in the next 4 years of a Ford administration, so we can maintain the
peace, deter aggression, and stand tall and strong with our allies as well as
facing up to any challenges of our adversaries. That's my pledge to you for the
next 4 years.
After so many years of runaway growth in the Federal budget, I submitted
2679
