September 25
[812]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
like to thank Senator Strom Thurmond, who is on board, Governor Jim Edwards
of South Carolina, former Governor Kennon of Louisiana, and former Gov-
ernor Griffin of Georgia.
I like that sign, “Georgians for Ford."
It is great to have on board here the next Congressman from this area, Bob
Livingston.
But I have two favorite girls of mine alongside of me on board. First, I'd like
to introduce to you my bride, Betty Ford. And it's been a great privilege and
pleasure for us to have on board all day long the very attractive, beautiful wife
of the Great Governor of the State of Louisiana, Elaine Edwards.
At Kansas City, in my acceptance speech, I made the statement that I would
not concede a single State, that I would not concede a single vote, that we were
going to carry the campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy
plains of Georgia.
Today, we've been in Louisiana; tomorrow, we go to Mississippi and Ala-
bama, and then we end up in Florida. This campaign on this weekend has been
by car, by airplane, and then we've had this wonderful experience of going
down the Mississippi in the finest riverboat in the country today, the Natchez.
And I thank the crew and everybody.
It must be perfectly obvious that I want to win in Louisiana, and from every
reception that we have gotten-the three stops-has been tremendous. And I
want to thank all of them, through you, for the warm, warm welcome given
to Betty and myself.
Let me tell you why I think we can win Louisiana. All of you know that
when I became President in August of 1974 this country was in deep trouble.
The American people had lost faith in the White House. We were suffering
inflation of over 12 percent, and we were on the brink of a serious economic re-
cession. And we were still deeply involved in Vietnam. We had troubled times.
And in the last 2 years, we have turned that ship of state around.
It's taken a little longer than I wanted—and I'm sure you wanted—but look
at the progress that we've made. Instead of inflation over 12 percent, it's under
6 percent. Instead of losing jobs, we have gained 4 million jobs in the last 17
months, and we are going to get more and more in the future. And I won't be
satisfied until every person who wants to work will get a job and a good job.
We are out of the war in Vietnam. We have the peace, and we have an all-
volunteer military force, and we are going to keep it that way. And we have
the military capability and the diplomatic skill to continue the peace.
But let's talk for a few minutes, if I might, about what we want to do in the
2329
