[902]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
ideal. In a recent ceremony with American athletes who participated in the
Summer Games, I pledged that every team recognized by the International
Olympic Committee will be welcomed at Lake Placid in 1980. I repeat that
pledge to you.
I would hope that the IOC will continue to urge all nations to refrain from
political interference in the Games.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[Lord Michael Killanin, President, International Olympic Committee, Hotel Princess Sofia, Place Pio #12,
Barcelona, Spain]
903
Statement on Signing the Veterans' Education and
Employment Assistance Act of 1976.
October 15, 1976
I AM signing into law today S. 969, the Veterans' Education and Employment
Assistance Act of 1976. This bill marks a new era in our Nation's programs of
education assistance for veterans.
S. 969 brings to an end the GI bill program enacted a decade ago for post-
Korean and Vietnam-era veterans as were GI bill education programs for World
War II and Korean veterans at the termination of those conflicts. This legisla-
tion makes an equitable distinction between those who have been required to
perform military service and those who in the future choose to serve in the all-
volunteer Armed Forces. The termination of the existing GI bill program will
not affect the eligibility of Vietnam veterans already discharged or those pres-
ently serving in the Armed Forces.
Effective January 1, 1977, individuals entering the Armed Forces will be eligi-
ble to participate in a new contributory program under which the Veterans
Administration will make matching contributions for those veterans who wish
to pursue educational programs.
S. 969 also provides for an 8-percent increase in GI bill benefits, effective Oc-
tober 1, 1976, and contains a number of provisions that will aid the Veterans
Administration in improving the administration of its education programs and
eliminating abuses.
S. 969 purports to provide a mechanism for possible extension of the new con-
tributory education program beyond the authorized period of 5 years. This
2538
