[939]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
gress, have identified numerous irregularities and instances of malfeasance in
our grain inspection and weighing system.
I have indicated on a number of occasions that we must not permit this in-
tolerable behavior in the grain inspection and weighing system to continue. An
open, honest, vigorous international export market for our American grain is
vitally important to the Nation and our farmers. I have been committed to doing
all that is necessary to ensure the confidence of our grain export customers in the
American grain trading system.
During the past 2 years the Department of Agriculture has taken a number
of administrative steps to strengthen its supervision of the grain inspection sys-
tem, but it has been clear that legislative improvements are also needed. Conse-
quently, my administration proposed legislative changes last year. This proposal
and others have been carefully considered by Congress. The bill which I am
signing today is the result of that deliberation.
The permanent legislative reforms provided in H.R. 12572, coupled with the
administrative actions already undertaken by the Agriculture Department, will
provide our Nation with an effective and honest system of grain inspection and
weighing-one that is more responsive to the needs of both buyers and sellers
of U.S. grain.
Specifically, H.R. 12572 provides for (1) a system of Federal/State grain
inspection at export locations, with provision for “grandfathering in” qualified
State agencies in existence as of July 1, 1976; (2) a system of State/private grain
inspection at inland locations under strengthened Federal supervision, with
authority for the Department to perform original inspections as needed; (3) a
system of Federal/State official weighing and certification of weights of grain
at export points—here again with authority to "grandfather in" those qualified
State agencies in existence as of July 1, 1976. There would be Federal supervi-
sion of weighing at export, but the extent of supervision at inland locations
would be left to the discretion of the Department of Agriculture.
This new law provides for a cooperative approach between Federal, State,
and private inspection and weighing agencies. Such an approach is far superior
to earlier congressional proposals for total federalization of inspection and weigh-
ing. It will provide more thorough inspection at a lower cost to taxpayers.
Other provisions of the bill I am signing-such as increased civil and criminal
penalties, improved investigatory powers, and expanded overseas grain ship-
ment monitoring-will help the Department of Agriculture prevent grain in-
spection and weighing irregularities in the future.
2612
