[758]
September 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
but government can and government should act quickly to minimize the pain
of a great disaster and help to begin the healing process.
On the morning of June 5, 1976, the Teton Dam in eastern Idaho ruptured
and the flood waters carried death and destruction to thousands of families in
the Snake River Valley. The next day, after conferring with Governor Andrus,
I declared the affected counties to be a Federal disaster area, and emergency relief
centers were quickly established to provide assistance to the victims.
Five days later, I submitted to Congress legislation appropriating $200 million
for compensation of the victims of this terrible tragedy.ยน Within 10 days follow-
ing the flood, special offices were established and operating in Idaho to handle
damage claims.
Today, I am signing a bill which provides legislative authority for the com-
pensation of personal and property damage sustained by the victims of the flood.
Many of these claims have already been settled, and the money is now at work
rebuilding the lives of the survivors.
The legislation which I sign today ensures that this vital aid will continue.
Let me thank the Members of Congress for their strong, bipartisan support
of this measure. I know, for example, how hard the Idaho delegation worked
on it. Great credit must also be given to the many volunteer and church groups
represented here today which played such a key role in the initial relief efforts.
Each of them displayed great courage under exceptionally difficult conditions.
Together, the public and private sectors of this great country have extended to
the victims not just our sympathy but a strong and steady helping hand.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:03 a.m. at a cere-
mony in the Rose Garden at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (S. 3542) is Public Law
94-400 (90 Stat. 1211).
759
Remarks Upon Signing the Child Day Care Bill.
September 7, 1976
Members of the Congress and members of the administration and distinguished
guests:
Ensuring an adequate day care bill for children is an important social service.
It protects the well-being of thousands of American children and the economic
independence of their working parents.
1 See Item 587.
2206
