[904]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
fiscally sound government. And you and I together, working for the next 4
years, can make this great country better and better and better. Let's do it.
We believe in a minimum of bureaucratic control over farming. We believe
in agricultural policies geared to a free market economy. We believe that the
farmer himself should decide how to use his land, his capital, and his labor for
a profit.
We don't believe that profit should be capriciously taxed away from him or
his family. The choice is clear. Government is already too large, too powerful,
too costly, and too deeply involved in the lives of every American. Mr. Carter
cannot carry out his promises without bigger bureaucracies and higher taxes.
I want a new generation of freedom in America, freedom for all of us to do
what we want to do and what we ought to do. The kind of an America you
want and I want is an abundant America, one of record farm income, record
crops, record exports, and record acreage back into production, and freedom
for the farmer to make his own decisions and to reap the rewards of his hard
labor.
I have come here today to ask for your support and for your vote on Novem-
ber 2. You know where I stand. I will not let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:22 p.m. outside
Fisher Theatre on the Iowa State University cam-
pus. In his opening remarks, he referred to Dr.
Robert Parks, president, and Jill Wagner, student
body president, Iowa State University, Mary Louise
Peterson, president of the Iowa Board of Regents,
Representative Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, Mayor
Lee Fellinger of Ames, and Kenneth R. Fuller, Re-
publican congressional candidate.
905
Remarks in Ames, Iowa, Upon Signing Legislation Extending
the Emergency Livestock Credit Act. October 15, 1976
Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I'm glad to be in the Iowa version of the Rose Garden. [Laughter] I don't
think they can say we are hiding out in the Rose Garden in Washington, D.C.,
because we're in the beautiful new complex of the Iowa State School of Vet-
erinary Medicine, and it is a pleasure and a privilege to be here.
But it's also a great pleasure and a privilege to be able to sign this legislation
which extends the Emergency Livestock Credit Act through Sepember 30,
1978.
American agriculture and our livestock industry in particular is the envy of
2544
