October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
troops that it's a Communist zone, whereas on our side of the line the Italians
and the French are still flirting with the possibility of communism?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe, Mr. Frankel, that the Yugoslavians consider
themselves dominated by the Soviet Union. I don't believe that the Romanians
consider themselves dominated by the Soviet Union. I don't believe that the
Poles consider themselves dominated by the Soviet Union. Each of those coun-
tries is independent, autonomous; it has its own territorial integrity. And the
United States does not concede that those countries are under the domination
of the Soviet Union. As a matter of fact, I visited Poland, Yugoslavia, and Ro-
mania, to make certain that the people of those countries understood that the
President of the United States and the people of the United States are dedicated
to their independence, their autonomy, and their freedom.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter, have you a response?
MR. CARTER. Well, in the first place, I am not criticizing His Holiness the
Pope. I was talking about Mr. Ford.
The fact is that secrecy has surrounded the decisions made by the Ford ad-
ministration. In the case of the Helsinki agreement, it may have been a good
agreement at the beginning, but we have failed to enforce the so-called Basket 3
part, which ensures the right of people to migrate, to join their families, to be
free to speak out. The Soviet Union is still jamming Radio Free Europe. Radio
Free Europe is being jammed.
We've also seen a very serious problem with the so-called Sonnenfeldt docu-
ment which, apparently, Mr. Ford has just endorsed, which said that there is
an organic linkage between the Eastern European countries and the Soviet
Union. And I would like to see Mr. Ford convince the Polish Americans and the
Czech Americans and the Hungarian Americans in this county that those
countries don't live under the domination and supervision of the Soviet Union
behind the Iron Curtain.
We also have seen Mr. Ford exclude himself from access to the public. He
hasn't had a tough, cross-examination-type press conference in over 30 days.
One press conference he had without sound.
He's also shown a weakness in yielding to pressure. The Soviet Union, for
instance, put pressure on Mr. Ford, and he refused to see a symbol of human
freedom recognized around the world—Alexander Solzhenitsyn.
The Arabs have put pressure on Mr. Ford, and he's yielded, and he has per-
mitted a boycott by the Arab countries of American businesses who trade with
Israel, who have American Jews owning or taking part in the management of
American companies. His own Secretary of Commerce had to be subpenaed
2417
