[805]
September 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Much of what America celebrates in its Bicentennial Year we owe to Polish
Americans. Before the Pilgrims even landed at Plymouth, Poles had already
first built the first factory in America in the colony at Jamestown. Poles had
already pioneered American civil liberties, demanding and receiving from the
Virginia colony a voice in their own government.
For more than three and a half centuries, Polish Americans have been work-
ing hard to build a better life for themselves and for their children. You have
been soldiers and settlers, teachers and clergymen, scientists, craftsmen and
artists. You have earned a distinguished place in the New World as your ances-
tors did in the old.
Yet today, you are troubled. You look abroad and see friends and relatives who
do not fully share your freedom in America. You look at home and see too
many of your neighborhoods deteriorating. I share your deep concern, and I am
also troubled.
But there is much we can do, as much as we have been doing, both at home
and abroad. In the first 2 years of this administration, I have worked hard to
build a positive and expanding relationship with the people and the Government
of Poland. A powerful motivation for that policy has been the knowledge that
for many, many Americans, Poland is the home of their ancestors and their
relatives.
I have sought to tie our countries closer together economically and culturally.
In the last 2 years, trade between our countries has almost doubled. For Amer-
ica, that means more jobs and more production. For Poland, that means a
higher standard of living and greater exposure to the American way of life.
A valuable worker in this important task has been the head of the Small Busi-
ness Administration, Mitch Kobelinski. Last week in Washington, I met with
Mitch. He told me personally how badly he wanted to be here this weekend, but
this week he is in Poland discussing how and by what means we can expand
trade between our two peoples.
My own meetings with Polish officials in Washington, in 1974, and in Warsaw
and Krakow, in 1975, have led to a better understanding between our two
countries. In 1974, we signed a Joint Statement of Principles of Polish-American
Relations. In that statement, I reaffirmed for the United States the importance
we attach to a sovereign and independent Poland. That statement was a part of
a broader policy I have advocated throughout my entire life.
The United States must continue to support by every peaceful and proper
means the aspirations for freedom and national independence of peoples of
Eastern Europe. As I have said many times before, as I told a group of Polish-
2314
