[742]
August 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
going to see a surge that is going to take that trend that we have watched in the
polls and just going to see that moving up right to the line.
Some of us had a little experience with that, being an underdog, and then
just that last week, you know, and that's what is going to happen. He's going
to win this in November. And this country is going to continue on the road
toward the kind of security and stability and peace which we have enjoyed
in this country and which we look forward to on the basis of the world as a
whole.
So, I'm thrilled to be here and delighted. And as the President knows-he
has said that he wants ideas relating to the implementation of the areas of his
concern—and we are all going to work through Rog Morton, who will be
right next to him, who has got this committee. We will feed our thoughts in
through Rog, and I don't know anyone who has a greater sensitivity to human
values, to the political process, and to a faith and belief in America and what it
stands for.
So, I'm delighted to work with him for the President, both of which are for
our country and the peace in the world.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Nelson.
I think most of you know Bob Dole, who I'm confident is going to be the
next Vice President for many good reasons: his fine record in the Senate-and
the job he will do not only on the campaign trail but as the next Vice President—
a man of compassion, a man of intelligence, a man of the kind of ideals that
I think are important.
Bob?
SENATOR DOLE. Thank you, Mr. President.
I think the general overview has been outlined. This certainly is a working
group. I arrived at 6:20, and I had my first meeting at 6:25, and got to bed after
midnight. So we have had a good start.
Following this press conference, I will be meeting with Stu Spencer¹ and
others on, really, the Vice-Presidential-not the role—but budget matters and
staff matters, and for the rest of the day we will be working on that.
Then this evening, I will be meeting again with the President, talking again
in general thoughts about the campaign. I brought back to the President what
I felt was an accurate view of the States of Washington and Iowa, those two
events, and what I feel is a very upbeat feeling around this country—reactions
from people.
1 Deputy chairman of the President Ford Committee for political operations.
2182
