July 16
[672]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for trade between America and Europe in both
directions. This world trading route, like others
such as the old route around the Cape of Good
Hope, is at the same time of eminent strategic im-
portance. The security of the democratic countries
of Europe, which are linked in friendship with
America, depends very much on these sea routes
being safeguarded. And this calls for the mainte-
nance of an adequate maritime presence.
To this latter we Germans are making our con-
tribution. With our Federal Navy and the men of
this training ship who are preparing for their future
responsibilities, we are helping to fortify NATO's
northern flank.
This training ship of the Federal Navy did take
part in the Operation Sail parade in New York as
part of our contribution to the festivities marking
the Bicentennial of the United States.
The fighting yet sporting spirit which led the
captain and his crew to victory is admired just as
much in Germany as it is here. To all of you,
many thanks for that.
When I heard you were to moor in Baltimore, it
was the obvious thing for me, coming as I do from
Hamburg, to invite my American guests here. May
the fact that we meet today aboard this ship make
us conscious of the fact that Americans and Ger-
mans are in the same boat. [Laughter]
Ladies and gentlemen, like the master of a
ship, also the political leader has the task of
guiding the ship entrusted to him safely through
often stormy waters. At certain intervals he is
faced with the question of whether he will stay
at the helm. Usually at such times strong cross-
winds are blowing. But it is the task of the political
leader, as of the seamen, to cope with all the
winds-both must even love storms a little if they
like their profession.
On this note, I wish us all, and I personally wish
you, Mr. President, at all times bon voyage.
672
Remarks at the Connecticut State Republican Convention
in Hartford. July 16, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Fred. Senator Lowell Weicker, Congressman Ron
Sarasin, Congressman Stu McKinney, Governor John Lodge, distinguished
party leaders, delegates, alternates and guests and Pearl:
Pearl, I understand you gave quite a speech last night. Pearl is our American
ambassador of love. You will be a tough act to follow. But it's great to have a
person who portrays the finest image of America around the world, and, Pearl,
I thank you not only for what you have done but what you are going to do.
It's a very high honor and a great personal privilege to speak to the people
of Connecticut and to have an opportunity of addressing this great Republican
convention in the State of Connecticut. It has been wonderful to be here all
morning and to see so many of my old friends.
Quite a few years ago I had the privilege of living for approximately 6 years
in the State of Connecticut, where I worked and learned, and as a result I have
tremendous admiration and affection for the people of Connecticut. And I thank
you for this very, very warm welcome.
The long series of primaries and State conventions come to a conclusion
today, here in Connecticut and across the continent to Utah. This healthy
and vigorous competition has taught us much about the mood of the American
people in 1976.
2025
