[742]
August 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Do you expect to be talking with Governor Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sure I will.
Q. Mr. President, on your issues that you mentioned for the coming campaign,
your predecessor, Mr. Nixon, also promised that he was going to reduce crime,
and yet, as you just pointed out, he didn't do so. What specifically can you do
or what kind of things can you do to reduce the increase in crime rates?
THE PRESIDENT. About 9 months ago I sent to the Congress a very specific
plan that called for stiffer penalties, mandatory penalties, in the area of indi-
viduals who commit major crimes using a gun, specific recommendations that
do something affirmatively about the illegal drug traffic, et cetera.
If the Congress would help us with that, instead of doing nothing-I pointed
it out very emphatically in the acceptance speech—we would have many more
tools to do something to reduce crime rather than let it drift as it is. But I indi-
cated a few moments ago, we will have some additional proposals between now
and November 2.
Q. Mr. President, how much money will you allocate from your campaign
funds for New York, Texas, and the South?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you those details. But there will be a fully ade-
quate allocation on a national basis, so our campaign doesn't write off any State,
and we will run a national campaign.
Q. Do you plan to allocate the same amount to every State?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, no. I can't give you those details. It's just impossible at
this time.
Q. Governor Connally said that there is a growing trend of fear among the
American people of Governor Carter. Do you agree with that, that the Ameri-
can people are afraid of Governor Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. There certainly is. We find a distinct uneasiness, and I think
many polls reflect that.
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned before that there were a number of issues-
you said education to a certain extent. Can you elaborate on that?
The President. We have some proposals that I think will be forthcoming
that will show the concern this administration has for an improved educational
opportunity program within the quality of life suggestion.
Q. Are you talking about busing?
THE PRESIDENT. We will submit those to you at the proper time.
Q. Mr. President, could Governor Connally tell us what he meant by the fear
he found of Governor Carter across the country?
GOVERNOR CONNALLY. Mr. President, let me respond in part by saying, yes,
2186
