[816]
September 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
But speaking of hunting, I want to make one comment because I think it is vitally
important for all of us who have a great dedication to the Constitution. No law-
abiding citizen should be deprived of the right to have a gun in his possession
under our Constitution.
But let me talk for just a minute, if I might, about where we have been and
where we are going. Two years ago when I became President, August 9, 1974,
this country was in tough shape. I recall vividly, as I think you do, the American
people for understandable reasons-had lost faith and trust in the White
House. The American people were faced with economic conditions which were
very difficult. The cost of living was 12 percent or more, we were on the brink
of a serious recession, and we were still involved in Vietnam.
That was a tough time. But something really wonderful happened in this
country. We got together. We realized what a blessing we had in the kind of
government we have, and instead of the division that we had among our people,
we began to heal. And the net result is that 2 years later we have made an incredi-
ble comeback, and we are going to do better and better.
But let's talk about the future because that is what we really are all here about.
I appreciate your coming. I am grateful for you to give me the opportunity to
talk affirmatively. What do we have in mind for the future?
We want a better quality of life now that we have taken care of the immedi-
ate problems. What we want is a job for everybody who wants to work, a mean-
ingful job. And I won't be satisfied until we have a job for everybody who wants
a job and who will look for a job. And I don't mean a dead-end job for the
Government. I mean a job where you have got an opportunity for advance-
ment, where you can make yourself a career. We also want everybody who will
work and save to have a home in a decent neighborhood. And under the next
4 years of this administration, that is what we will get. And we want to get rid
of crime on our streets. We want to give people the kind of health care that they
can afford. Nobody should have to go broke just to get well.
Now let me talk just a minute about the national security. This is my third
visit to Pascagoula. I came down here in 1962 with my wife, Betty. She commis-
sioned a new submarine over here in the Ingalls shipbuilding yards.
But let me talk about the Navy and what the Ingalls shipbuilding yard means
to the kind of a Navy that we have to have. We are being challenged by the
Soviet Union on the sea. We have had our Navy gradually go down in ship
numbers, although we've done very well in tonnage. But you have a big ship-
building contract out here in Ingalls shipbuilding. I understand 27,000 people
work here building those fine ships. I compliment you. But let me say this: We
2338
