[974]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
officials to participate more actively in the planning of federally supported
education programs, especially in the field of vocational education.
These have been moves in the right direction. But in a major proposal I sent
to the Congress in March of 1976, I urged the further consolidation of Federal
education programs in the interest of service to local schools, effective adminis-
tration, as well as economy. Under this proposal-and it was encouraging that
most State school administrators with whom I talked personally strongly
favored it, and many local school officials with whom I met and discussed it
with personally favored it-it would have consolidated 24 categorical grants
into a single block grant.
The States, the communities—not some well-intentioned but not locally
oriented bureaucrat in Washington—would decide how this money would
best help their schools. That is what we really want-the money to go to your
school districts directly with a minimum of redtape as far as Washington,
D.C., is concerned.
This proposal, which I have tried to describe in very general terms, recognizes
and enhances the important role of school board members like yourself. Within
certain, very broad guidelines, each State would establish its own plan for
spending Federal education funds. It would be required to take your views
into account in establishing the structures and the procedures for drawing up
that plan. Furthermore, each State plan for spending Federal funds would have
to provide that at least 75 percent of the funds supplied are passed through to
local education agencies.
Since I made this block grant proposal, some positive suggestions have come
forward from the working people in the educational system of this country that
I think will improve it. And I firmly suggest to you that in January of this
year, we will submit it again with those improvements, and I hope the Congress
responds.
But whatever the final form-and I am sure with the reaction from the educa-
tional organizations and educational leaders-I am certain that it will be a
great improvement in the delivery of Federal aid to education and to community
control of community schools.
So, I urge the kind of cooperation that I know I can get, the Congress can
get, so that we can all work together, because each and every one of us is totally
dedicated to a better and better educational opportunity for all of our children.
In spite of my conviction that Federal spending must be held in check-and
I hold that very deeply-I have, because of my strong personal dedication to
2726
