[993]
October 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Today, I think the American people, whether they agree with me on every
issue, believe that the man in the White House can be trusted, that confidence
has been restored in the Oval Office.
But we have also made great progress. Instead of inflation at 12 percent, the
latest figures are 4.4 percent. That's headway. Yes, we had a recession. Unem-
ployment was too high; employment was dropping. But again, the American
people recognized that quick fixes and phony programs are not the solution,
are not the solution to make America healthy and prosperous. And because
we moved steadily and progressively forward, today we have 4 million more
people working than we had 18 months ago, and that is progress.
We have 88 million people working in America, an alltime high. But I make
a pledge to you. I am not satisfied with the unemployment we still have, but I
will promise you that President Jerry Ford will not be satisfied until every
person who wants a job has a job, period.
But I am also very, very proud to say--and look each and every one of you in
the eye and say—isn't this great that there is not a single young American
fighting or dying on foreign soil today? And we are at peace because America
is number one militarily, and we are going to stay that way under President
Ford. We are not going to cut and slash and gut the Defense Department. We
want the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines to have the kind of
military hardware so that they can deter aggression, that they can protect our
national security, that they can give to the President the kind of strength that
makes it possible for him to negotiate from strength with our adversaries, and
to stand with our allies, and put together this free world so it can stand against
aggression and stand for freedom and liberty for all people throughout the
world.
As I look around this great audience, there are some wonderful people here,
and I suspect most of you fall in what is called the middle-income class. You
should be proud of that. We are proud that America has a middle-income class,
because they are the strength, the real life-blood of American society. But the
middle-income people in the last 10 years have been shortchanged under Federal
taxes. Last January, I made a proposal to the Congress that would have remedied
that situation. I recommended that the Congress increase the personal exemption
from $750 to $1,000. That's a one-third increase.
And I was out to a factory the other day talking to some people, and one of
the men said, "Well, what would that do to me if Congress passed it?” I said,
"How many kids do you have?" He said, “I have three." So, it turns out to be a
2792
