[898]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
the end of the month and then mailed the checks and—maybe you haven't
done it, but I suspect a few people have—[laughter]—and we mailed those
checks after we had the money in the bank account. But I wrote the checks be-
fore the end of the month. It's a perfectly legitimate thing, and there was never
an overdraft in my account.
THE PRESIDENT'S GOLFING VACATIONS AND TRAVEL
[5.] Q. Mr. President, there have been some questions a few weeks ago
about your taking, accepting golfing vacations and travel from lobbyists and
corporations. It's been quite some time since these allegations were made. I'm
wondering if you can clear this up tonight. Just how often, how many times,
did you accept free travel and golfing vacations from lobbyists and corporations?
THE PRESIDENT. To the best of my recollection, the ones that came to light
are the ones that are involved. There may be one or two more, but I can't recol-
lect the instances.
ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING THE PRESIDENT AND WATERGATE INVESTIGATIONS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up on Frances Lewine's first question,
I don't think you quite answered the question. The question is not about your
testimony at the time specifically, it's about the new allegations from John
Dean that, in fact, you did discuss six times with Mr. Cook the matter of
blocking the investigation, by the House, of Watergate. And at the time you
said—at the time that you went through your investigation that you've men-
tioned—you said that you did not recollect such discussions. Do you now recol-
lect discussions with Mr. Cook on that subject?
THE PRESIDENT. I will give you exactly the same answer that I gave to the
House committee and to the Senate committee, and that answer was satisfactory
to the House committee by a vote of 29 to 8 and, I think, a unanimous vote in
the Senate committee.
The matter was fully investigated by those two committees, and I think that's
a satisfactory answer. And I'm not going to pass judgment on what Mr. Dean
now alleges.
Q. Mr. President, would you oppose—on the Dean matter would you oppose
a review of White House tapes and investigation by the Special Prosecutor
that's been called for by Congressman Conyers and Congresswoman Holtzman?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a decision for the Special Prosecutor to make. I have
never, at any time in the just previous investigations or at any other time, inter-
2524
