October 9
[871]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The record shows that in 4 years he was the Governor of the great State of
Georgia, employees went up 25 percent, the cost of government went up over
50 percent. And when he left the State of Georgia, the bonded indebtedness was
$200 million more than when he came in. That's a lousy record. With that kind
of a record, just imagine what he would do with the Federal Government.
Let's take one other totally inaccurate statement. I had said last Wednesday
that he had advocated a $15 billion reduction in the Defense Department. He
denied it. The record shows that in a meeting in Savannah, Georgia, it shows
that when he was interviewed in Los Angeles, California—on two occasions he
said in print, quoted, that he had advocated a $15 billion reduction in the De-
fense Department. That's a matter of fact, and his denial is a total untruth,
period.
Now let's talk about what he wants to do to the Defense Department. He
wants to reduce it $15 billion. That was a year ago. He now wants to reduce it
9 to 7 or 7 to 5. I really don't think he understands what the Defense Depart-
ment is all about, except he wants to either cancel or delay the B-1 bomber.
Let me just take that as an illustration to show how irresponsible his ideas
are on what we need to protect the peace and to keep the United States number
one. The B-1—it is a replacement for a B-52 bomber. The B-52's are about 20
years old. Before the B-1's come in in any sufficient number, it will take another
4 to 5 years.
Jimmy Carter wants to cancel or delay the B-1, which means that the young
men—the pilots, the copilots, and the crew-if Jimmy Carter wins and he can-
cels the B-1, our young pilots and crews will be flying aircraft older than they
are. That's not the way to run the Defense Department.
You can depend on this: Jerry Ford won't send an American pilot in combat
in an aircraft older than he is. We want the most modern weapons. We want
the best trained crews. We want the best leadership, and under our adminis-
tration we have it, and we will keep it that way.
A $5, a $7 or a $9 or $15 billion cut in the Defense Department will gut our
defense strength. We won't stand for it, and we're going to win on it.
Now let's take the third issue. This last January I recommended to the
Congress of the United States that we ought to have a $28 billion limitation
reduction in the rate of growth of Federal spending, and in return we ought
to have a $28 billion tax cut. For every dollar that we save in spending we should
have a dollar reduction in Federal taxes. Jimmy Carter, what does he want?
He talks in platitudes, he talks in inconsistent positions, flip-flops one day from
one position to another.
2475
