[1019]
November 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
organizational structures, to improve evaluations of their programs, to reduce
substantially the burdens imposed by Federal reporting and regulations, to
hold down overhead costs, to increase the use of the private sector in carrying
out Government's acquisition of goods and services, and to improve personnel
management.
Pursuant to my direction, the Office of Management and Budget is issuing
a circular which will serve to formally integrate the process for review of
agency management plans with the annual preparation of the budget. I con-
sider this a very important step toward better management of the Federal Gov-
ernment and look forward to using the process fully in connection with prep-
aration of the budget for fiscal year 1978, to be submitted in January.
1020
Remarks Following a Meeting on the Transition With
President-elect Carter. November 22, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Carter and myself have had about an hour's discus-
sion. I reemphasized to Governor Carter that my administration would cooper-
ate 100 percent in making certain that the transition from my administration to
his administration would be carried out in the best interests of the American
people. That is my obligation and the obligation of those that work with me,
because we are all interested in what is best for the United States. It is my
judgment that the transition is working smoothly, but we will continue to
maximize our efforts to continue that. And it has been a real pleasure and a
privilege for Mrs. Ford and myself to have Governor Carter and Mrs. Carter
as our guests on this occasion.
PRESIDENT-ELECT CARTER. Thank you, Mr. President. There cannot have been
a better demonstration of unity and friendship and good will than has been
shown to me by President Ford since the election. I believe that this year's
debates and the election itself has reached a conclusion which leaves our Nation
unified. And I've expressed many times in the last few weeks my deep apprecia-
tion to President Ford for the gracious way in which he has welcomed me to
meet with his heads of departments to teach me about the future responsibilities
which I will assume.
It's very reassuring to me, and I hope to the Nation and to other nations in
the world, to realize that the transition period will be handled in a way that's
2848
