August 3
[708]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
on the rolls after December 1973-a disparity equal to the amount of the
original State supplementation.
Adoption of this recommendation would have two effects. First, it would
dictate to the States how they should spend the taxes they assess on their resi-
dents. Such action would distort the original concept of the program of sepa-
rate but complementary roles of the States and the Federal Government. Sec-
ond, it would require the States to maintain payments to people based on the
date they started receiving assistance, even though other residents of the States
may have equivalent needs and incomes.
The Council also recommends that the Veterans' Administration (VA) be
directed to study the problem of benefit reduction rates caused by simultaneous
receipt of benefits from pensions for veterans with nonservice-connected dis-
abilities and other Federal programs. We share the concern of the Council.
This problem is being studied by the Veterans' Administration within the con-
text of total reform of the veterans' pension program. The Agency has discussed
pension reform with both the House and Senate Veterans' Affairs Committees,
and is committed to continuing these discussions with Congress this year. The
relationship of veterans' pensions to other Federal benefits can best be addressed
in the course of these discussions.
To assess the tax burden on the elderly, the Older Americans Act also re-
quired the Council to undertake a study of the combined impact of all taxes
on the elderly. Since many of the tax recommendations of the Council are di-
rected towards State and local government, consistent with the enabling au-
thority I am also transmitting this study to the Governors and legislatures of
the States for their consideration.
In recognition of the Bicentennial and the many contributions made by
older Americans to the welfare of the nation, the Council's annual report re-
quests the promulgation of a Bicentennial Charter for Older Americans. I
have asked Secretary Mathews of the Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, in consultation with the Administration on Aging, to promote dis-
cussion of these vital matters at forums of older persons organized by Advisory
Committees to the Area Agencies on Aging.
The Federal Council on Aging Annual Report and attendant studies reflect
an earnest effort to deal with the lack of equity and efficiency in the present
patchwork of income security programs. This unfortunate situation, which
has developed over the years, presents problems not only to the elderly and
other population groups, but to the taxpayer who must pay the added costs
resulting from such inefficiency. My legislative proposals reflect careful con-
2117
