October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I believe in the greatness of our country, and I believe the American people
are ready for a change in Washington. We have been drifting too long. We
have been dormant too long. We have been discouraged too long. And we have
not set an example for our own people, but I believe that we can now establish
in the White House a good relationship with Congress, a good relationship with
our people, set very high goals for our country, and with inspiration and hard
work we can achieve great things and let the world know-that's very im-
portant, but more importantly, let the people in our own country realize—that
we still live in the greatest Nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, Governor Carter, and thank you, President
Ford. I also would like to thank the audience and my three colleagues—Mr.
Kraft, Mr. Maynard, and Mr. Nelson, who have been our questioners.
This debate has, of course, been seen by millions of Americans, and in addi-
tion tonight is being broadcast to 113 nations throughout the world.
This concludes the 1976 Presidential debates, a truly remarkable exercise in
democracy, for this is the first time in 16 years that the Presidential candidates
have debated. It is the first time ever that an incumbent President has debated his
challenger, and the debate included the first between the two Vice-Presidential
candidates.
President Ford and Governor Carter, we not only want to thank you but we
commend you for agreeing to come together to discuss the issues before the
American people.
And our special thanks to the League of Women Voters for making these
events possible. In sponsoring these events, the League of Women Voters Educa-
tion Fund has tried to provide you with the information that you will need
to choose wisely.
The election is now only 11 days off. The candidates have participated in pre-
senting their views in three 90-minute debates, and now it's up to the voters, and
now it is up to you to participate. The League urges all registered voters to vote
on November 2 for the candidate of your choice.
And now, from Phi Beta Kappa Memorial Hall on the campus of the College
of William and Mary, this is Barbara Walters wishing you all a good evening.
NOTE: The debate began at 9:30 p.m. at the Phi Beta
Kappa Memorial Hall on the campus of the College
of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia. It
was broadcast live on radio and television.
2649
