Appendix A
June
11 Advance text: remarks upon signing
an appropriations request for collapse
of the Teton Dam in Idaho..
12 News briefing: on the President's meet-
ing with academic leaders and school
board representatives to discuss bus-
ing-by David Armor, Rand Corpora-
tion, Santa Monica, Calif.; James Cole-
man, professor, department of sociology,
University of Chicago; Nathan Glazer,
School of Education, Harvard Univer-
sity; Charles Hamilton, Applied Re-
search Center, New York, N.Y.; John
Hardy, member, Pasadena Board of
Education; Henry Marcheschi, presi-
dent, American Telecommunications
Corporation, and president, American
Freedom Foundation; Michael Novak,
writer, lecturer, and writer-in-residence
for the Washington Star; Diane Ravitch,
assistant professor of history, Teachers
College, Columbia University; Thomas
Sowell, department of economics, Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles;
and Henry Wilfong, director of the
city of Pasadena. . . .
14 Fact sheet: the President's announce-
ment of new initiatives concerning
questionable corporate payments
abroad...
14 News briefing: on the President's an-
nouncement of new initiatives concern-
ing questionable corporate payments
abroad by Elliot L. Richardson, Sec-
retary of Commerce...
Page
14 Appointment: Byron M. Cavaney, Jr., as
Special Assistant to the President..... 1057
14 Appointment: eight members of the
President's Commission on Personnel
Interchange; and designation of Chair-
man
14 News briefing: on the President's meet-
ing with civil rights leaders to discuss
busing-by Representative Yvonne B.
Burke, chairperson, Congressional Black
Caucus; Jack Greenberg, director and
counsel, NAACP Legal Defense Fund;
Nathaniel Jones, general counsel,
NAACP; Vernon Jordan, executive di-
rector, National Urban League; Clar-
ence Mitchell, legislative chairman,
Leadership Conference on Civil Rights,
and director, Washington bureau,
NAACP; Joseph L. Rauh, counsel,
1057
June
Leadership Conference on Civil Rights;
Roy Wilkins, chairman, Leadership
Conference on Civil Rights, and execu-
tive director, NAACP; and James M.
Cannon, Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs. . . .
15 Advance text: remarks at the Southern
Baptist Convention in Norfolk, Va...
16 Biographical data: Patrick Rowland,
Special Assistant for Legislative Affairs
(House of Representatives).....
16 Biographical data: Douglass C. Blaser,
Director of the Press Advance Office..
Page
16 Nomination: Thomas L. Longshore to
be a member of the Board of Directors
of the Tennessee Valley Authority... 1059
17 Nomination: Thomas L. Lias to be As-
sistant Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare (Legislation).
19 News briefing: on the President's meet-
ing with educational leaders to discuss
busing-by John W. Porter, State
superintendent of public instruction,
Michigan; Raymond Shelton, superin-
tendent of schools, Tampa, Fla.; Wilson
C. Riles, State superintendent of pub-
lic instruction, California; Ursula Pin-
ero, principal, Rochester, N.Y.; Robert
Schreck, principal, New Haven, Conn.;
and Roland W. Jones, superintendent of
schools, Charlotte-Mecklenberg, N.C..
21 Nomination: Alan M. Lovelace to be
Deputy Administrator of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
21 Nomination: Robert C. Chase to be
Deputy Director of the Community
Services Administration..
1065
1072
1072
21 Nomination: Leonard S. Matthews to
be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
Domestic and International Business.. 1073
23 Nomination: Edward O. Vetter to be
Under Secretary of Commerce........ 1077
23 Nomination: William W. Maguire to be
United States Ambassador to Guyana...
1077
23 Nomination: James J. Blake to be
United States Ambassador to Iceland.. 1077
24 Announcement: transfer of additional
lands for park and recreational use
under the Legacy of Parks program..
1079
2990
