[942]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
for every American who wants a job. There will be a home in a decent neigh-
borhood for every person or couple that wants to work and save and buy a
home. It's the direction of security on the streets for our young as well as our
old, against crime in America. It means giving to the American people the best
medical care available at affordable prices. It means greater opportunities for
recreation in the wonderful, scenic places we have all over America. It
means that the American people can live in a society where there has been heal-
ing, not division; where we can disagree without being disagreeable; where we
can look forward in the next 4 years and far beyond to a quality of life, peace
abroad and peace at home, with prosperity for all. That's the direction we want
to go, and that's what is going to win November 2.
So, I thank you all for being here. We will be out there working every day
from now until November 2. And when the polls close on that fateful day, I
want to be able to say, and I know each one of you wish to be able to say, that
you made a maximum effort to see to it that the direction of America is the
right direction for the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:02 p.m. on the South Lawn at the White House.
943
Statement on Signing the Food Stamp and Supplemental
Security Income Amendments Bill. October 22, 1976
I HAVE signed H.R. 13500, amendments to the Food Stamp and Supple-
mental Security Income (SSI) programs.
This Food Stamp amendment gives to the States needed flexibility in decid-
ing how to manage their food stamp programs. It makes optional a previous
legislative requirement which was often inappropriate because of its com-
plexity, cost, and the occasional unintended hardships it created.
The bill also has a provision which guarantees that the aged, blind, and dis-
abled recipients of Supplemental Security Income benefits will receive annual
cost-of-living increases from the Federal Government. Under current law,
these increases do not always get passed on to the recipient. However, I think
it is important that this guarantee be available. SSI recipients are particularly
vulnerable to the ravaging effects of inflation. This bill will at least provide
this deserving group a minimum level of protection.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13500, approved October 21, 1976, is Public Law 94-585 (90 Stat. 2901).
2616
