[979]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
but I had a personal observation. I hoped that Mr. Carter would answer his
questions and that I would question my answers. [Laughter]
As I was saying, I was asked in the debate last Friday—or my opponent was
asked what were the reasons behind his rather drastic slippage in the polls.
In my view, one very important reason for his precipitous decline in popularity
is that since his party's convention he has relied very, very heavily on the dis-
credited old formula of more promises, more programs, and more spending.
The American people today are in a very realistic frame of mind. They know
that every promise has its price. The price in Governor Carter's case would be
a minimum of $100 billion up to maybe $200 billion every year out of the
Federal Treasury. That's the price of the new spending programs that he
endorses.
You and I know that there are only two, only two alternatives: The Federal
Government can pay for those programs by increasing taxes or it can borrow the
money to pay for them, putting more pressure on the credit markets, making it
harder for business and industry to find the money that they need, adding to the
deficit, and fueling the fires of inflation. That, in my judgment, is the wrong
approach altogether, and I will vigorously disapprove of it in the next 4 years.
We need to hold down the rate of growth in Federal spending, and as the
Members of Congress who are here know, when I submitted the budget in
January of last year, I said we could not afford the 11-percent increase in
Federal spending that had been the trend for the last 10 years. So, I submitted
a budget that would reduce that rate of growth by 50 percent to an increase of
52 percent.
Congress didn't respond. They did a little better than they had been doing,
but they've got a long way to go. Let me say to every Member of Congress,
Democrat or Republican, we're going to submit a budget in January next year
that will have the same pressure on Federal spending, and I want their support
to keep the lid on that spending.
Well, I've been trying to keep that lid on, and we've done that with some 66
vetoes, saved the American taxpayer-or saved the American Treasury-about
$9 billion, averaging approximately $200 per family in Federal spending.
In addition, let me say, we can reduce taxes if we act responsibly in restrain-
ing the growth of Federal spending. We can reduce taxes for private individuals
and corporations as well.
I have proposed—and I reiterate here—the increase in the personal exemp-
tion by one-third, from $750 to $1,000, and trimming the corporate income tax
rate at the same time. The most necessary tax reform today is tax relief for the
2748
