October 25
[964]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1985-where we must have a much higher degree of energy independence than
we have today—as you look at the potential sources of energy that we have in
the United States, if we're going to make ourselves more invulnerable between
now and 1985 against any Arab oil boycott, nuclear energy has to play a sig-
nificant part. But I, at this point, like to emphasize that nuclear energy utiliza-
tion must have the highest safety standards possible that our scientific genius
can give us.
Now, since I've been President, we have significantly increased our research
and development funds in the energy resource and development agency so that
by whatever means we can scientifically, we can increase that safety factor.
But I would like to add this parenthetically: The statement I make on nuclear
energy I make in Washington, D.C., I made it in California in May, and I
make it in Oregon today. It doesn't change. Nuclear energy is an important, sig-
nificant part of our overall energy program and, therefore, with adequate safety
and adequate safeguards, I think that we must have in Oregon and the other
49 States a nuclear energy program.
Q. First, I commend you on being able to pronounce the name Oregon prop-
erly. [Laughter] We are very proud as broadcasters for having been able to bring
debates to the public and to provide an opportunity for the public to see both you
and your opponent. We would ask you whether or not you would support the
permanent or regular removal of the problems of 315¹ on Presidential debates
in the future in order that they can be held without the exigencies and the burden
that was previously employed by that act.
Secondly, would you also suggest removal of 315 for other debates at other
levels so that we could take another step forward on the first amendment rights?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a very difficult question to give any pat answer to, and
I think you and this industry recognize it probably better than I. I believe in free
debate among political candidates at all levels.
When I was a candidate on 13 occasions for the House of Representatives, I
either challenged my opponent, when I first ran against an incumbent, or I
accepted a challenge whenever an opponent challenged me in the succeeding
12 elections. And as you know, I challenged Mr. Carter to the debates that we've
had this year.
I think they should be institutionalized in our American political system. Now,
how you can do it in a legislative way without precluding candidates who might
have a legitimate reason to be a participant, that's one problem; the other, I
1
Section 315 of Title 47 of the United States Code requires that legally qualified candidates for public
office be afforded equal opportunities in the use of a broadcasting station.
2687
