[1051]
January 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
to believe that a way can and will be found to achieve a just and equitable set-
tlement which will enable all of the people of Cyprus to shape a harmonious
and prosperous future.
The White House,
January 10, 1977.
GERALD R. FORD
1052
Remarks Upon Presenting the Presidential
Medal of Freedom. January 10, 1977
Distinguished honorees, ladies and gentlemen:
Betty and myself are delighted to welcome all of you to the East Room of
the White House today. And it is a great privilege and pleasure for us to par-
ticipate in this auspicious occasion where we have the opportunity of honoring
such an outstanding group of men and women on this occasion. Some of you
we know personally, others we are meeting for the first time, but you are all
here because of your great contributions to American life.
It is a particular privilege for me because honoring extraordinary Americans
on behalf of their fellow citizens is one of a President's most enjoyable duties.
The Medals of Freedom you are about to receive are the highest civilian honor
that our country can bestow. Of course, excellence has its own reward, not only
to those who strive for it but also to the free society which encourages it. You are
men and women who have used that freedom to achieve extraordinary excel-
lence. Your outstanding accomplishments have made our lives better and set
stirring examples for others to follow.
As we move from the Bicentennial Year into our third century, America
must remain a place where men and women are encouraged to create, to inno-
vate, to explore, and to set the very highest standards, whatever their vocation.
Our country and all mankind will always need people like you whose energy,
whose imagination reveal our country's greatest potential.
With those remarks let us proceed with the presentations.
[At this point, Terrence O'Donnell, Aide to the President, read the citations for the award
winners. Following the reading of each citation, the President personally presented the
medal to each recipient or his representative.]
2908
