[914]
October 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
in two events that reflect great credit upon the United States in this Bicentennial
Year. The first involves the latest announcements by the Nobel Prize Selection
Committee.
Some have recently raised some doubts about America's continuing leadership
in the family of nations. These doubts were surely put to rest this morning by
this announcement.
Three more Americans today were named recipients of the 1976 Nobel prizes.
Americans have now swept the 1976 prizes in economics, medicine, physics,
chemistry, marking the first time in history that a single country has been the
home of all of these winners. We should be very, very proud.
Speaking on behalf of a proud and very grateful Nation, I wish to take this
opportunity to salute these six outstanding Americans who have earned this
magnificent distinction. They have contributed immensely to their profession,
to their country, and to all of mankind.
Now let me turn, if I might, to the matter at hand. One of the privileges of
an American President is to personally present the National Medal of Science,
the Nation's highest achievement in the science and engineering fields.
This afternoon, it is my pleasure to present this award to 15 distinguished
Americans. They are joining a very select group of Medal of Science award
winners who have achieved recognition since 1962 for their outstanding con-
tribution to knowledge in the physical, biological, mathematical, and engineer-
ing sciences.
The recipients we honor today have added to our understanding of the natural
environment; they have increased productivity in agriculture; they have im-
proved our Nation's health; they have helped bring new energy sources within
our reach; and they have made contributions in mathematics and its application
that will permit further progress in computer technology and systems research.
Their accomplishments underscore the importance of scientific research itself.
The freedom and the means to question and explore are not just branches of
the American experience, they lie at its very roots. The discovery of this Conti-
nent, the birth of this Nation, were the results of experimentation and
exploration.
For 200 years, this Nation's strength has been in its economic health, its mili-
tary security, and the general well-being of its people, and these, in turn, have
depended on the intellect and creativity of America's inventors, scientists, and
engineers.
Our founders believed that the ideas of such searching inquiry-men and
women encouraged and protected by a free society-would produce benefits ex-
2574
