October 2
[842]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
through the main activities of the United Nations system during Calendar
Year 1975. It describes the outcome of important meetings such as the seventh
special session of the General Assembly on world economic cooperation and the
landmark International Women's Year conference; it covers the work of the
Security Council in the Middle East and other areas; and it reports on such
contentious political issues as the resolution of the 30th General Assembly
equating Zionism with Racism with which we vigorously disagreed. These
events, and many other UN activities, reflect an active year for the United
States in the United Nations during which we persisted in our long-term effort
to promote peace, economic progress and social justice within a worldwide
framework.
In the area of security and crisis management, the United Nations was effec-
tive in carrying out its primary purpose: contributing to the maintenance of
international peace. United Nations peacekeeping forces in both the Sinai and
the Golan Heights areas of the Middle East continued to separate previous
combatants while the search for a more durable peace continued. Similarly, in
Cyprus, United Nations peacekeeping forces helped to patrol the lines where
confrontation existed and contributed to humanitarian needs. The Security
Council, in addition to making the arrangements for the continuation of the
mandates for these forces, also helped reduce tensions over the Western Sahara
and East Timor.
A major area of activity of direct importance for American interests was the
seventh special session of the General Assembly on development and inter-
national economic cooperation. Convened September 1 just prior to the 30th
regular session, this meeting established a new agenda for international co-
operation on the planning of our emerging global economic system. Prior to
this meeting there had been division, confrontation and acrimony within the
United Nations and elsewhere, over how to improve the world economic sys-
tem and how to accelerate the process of development. Determined to make the
most of this opportunity and to search for common ground, the United States
outlined a broad program of practical initiatives which would be of benefit to
both developing and developed countries. The participants in this historic meet-
ing responded positively to the U.S. approach, adopting a consensus resolution
which embraced most of our proposals. This session demonstrated that the UN
can help to advance America's fundamental interests when we exercise leader-
ship in the organization.
An international conference of great importance to the United States was the
World Conference of the International Women's Year in Mexico City. This
2387
