October 25
[964]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ask you what your view is on the siphoning of free broadcast programing to
pay cable?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's my recollection that I just signed a bill within the
last week that in effect had an agreed solution as far as cable television taking
some of the programs from some of the networks that are now handling our
sports programs. The copyright legislation which Edith and I, along with
Wendell Wyatt-who I think is here—I'm sure can remember the debate that
Dick Poff and Manny Celler 2 and others had about 7 or 8 years ago. But it's my
understanding in the bill that I signed there is an agreed resolution of how that
problem between regular broadcasters and cable people will handle the picking
up of programs. Am I wrong in that?
Mr. Wasilewski. Unfortunately, sir, it does not apply.
Q. I guess perhaps your general view about pay cable, highest price to the
smallest market, you know, the philosophy of it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I love sports broadcasts, and anything that takes that
away from me as a viewer or listener, I'm going to raise the devil about it.
[Laughter]
Q. Broadcasters have been working for an increase from 3 years to 5 years for
license renewal periods. I wonder if you would comment on this longer license
renewal period.
The President. As I recall, Congressman Jim Broyhill of North Carolina
has been sponsoring the extension from 3 to 5 years. I have supported that
proposal. I think it's in the interest of the industry and in the interest of the
public as a whole.
Q. Many of us have applauded your efforts and your speeches on the general
area of deregulation. When you are elected President, will you support the
proposals to deregulate the radio and television stations in this industry?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not submit to the Congress any deregulation legislation
in this area. I did submit to the Congress regulatory reform in the trucking,
the airline, and the railroads. I am not familiar with any specific legislation—at
least none has come to my attention from my staff-for any deregulation of this
industry by the Federal Communications Commission.
Until I see what such proposals might be, what impact such proposals might
have, I think the current circumstance, with the exception of going from a 3-
to a 5-year license period, I think the situation has been reasonably well
2U.S. Representatives Edith Green of Oregon 1955-75, Wendell Wyatt of Oregon 1965-75, Richard H.
Poff of Virginia 1953-73, and Emanuel Celler of New York 1922-73.
2689
