[693]
July 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
throughout the Nation. The mountain of Federal requirements and redtape
imposed upon States and localities prevents them from using limited health
resources in the most effective way and adds needlessly to administrative costs.
I urge the Congress to enact my proposed Financial Assistance for Health
Care Act. I firmly believe that is the right way to meet our health needs and the
sound way to develop health systems that work for the American people.
In the meantime, I have signed S. 3184 so that in the interim assistance will
be provided for these important programs.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (S. 3184), approved July 26, 1976, is Public Law 94-371 (90 Stat. 1035).
694
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
on John Connally's Endorsement of the President for the
Republican Presidential Nomination. July 27, 1976
I HAVE a very old and very good friend. I have known John Connally since
1961, when he was Secretary of the Navy and I was on the Mahon subcommittee.ยน
He was an outstanding Secretary of the Navy. I followed his political career as
Governor of the State of Texas for three terms. He came down to be Secretary of
the Treasury. I have had a number of opportunities to work with him as the
minority leader of the Republican Party in the House of Representatives.
Over the years John Connally and I have not only had a professional relation-
ship in a political sense but we have also been close personal friends. We have
had a number of meetings over the last 2 years, and we had a meeting this
afternoon that followed in the natural course of events. He was in town, and I
asked him to stop by.
I think Governor Connally has an announcement that may be of some interest
to you, and I want to thank him for what I think he is going to say.
MR. CONNALLY. Mr. President, you don't know exactly what I am going to say
because I am not sure I do myself, except that I came to tell the President that
notwithstanding my neutrality in the Presidential primaries all spring, I think
the time has now come when no useful purpose is to be served by my maintain-
ing that position. But rather, the best interests of the country will be served
by my stating my unequivocal position that I do support President Ford for the
1
ยน Representative George H. Mahon of Texas, chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee,
2092
