October 26
[969]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
know that their President is a person that they can trust and a person who
will, in his own way, seek to do what is right for America above all else.
Then we had the very difficult problem of how to meet the challenge of the
worst recession in 40 years and, at the same time, make a tremendous effort to
reduce the rate of inflation which, as I said, was 12 percent or more.
But by being firm in the restraint on Federal spending, by not succumbing
to quick fixes—and many of them emanated from the Congress-we were able
to gradually and, I think, positively reduce the rate of inflation, so that as of
today the annual rate of inflation is somewhere between 5½ percent and 6
percent.
Now, that is still too high, but I can assure you the policies this country is
following today are policies that will keep the pressure on, and we will win
that battle and get the rate of inflation down so that we can have a healthy, sus-
tained economy, and the kind of prosperity that all of us know is possible in this
great, great country.
Early in 1975, I am sure some of you can recall—I can—unemployment began
to soar and employment started to plummet. The net result was we had a real
trauma in America, the worst recession since the depression days of the 1930's,
and a few of us here can remember the hardships that many, many families went
through in those days.
But instead of losing our cool and trying to do some things that might have
been appealing on the surface but fundamentally wrong in an economic sense,
we did the things that were compassionate to help those that were tragically
unemployed. But at the same time, we initiated programs and restored the con-
fidence of the American people in their economic system. And the net result
was we have come out of this recession.
You may have heard me say that we have regained 4 million jobs in the last
18 months. That is true. You have heard me say perhaps that we have 88 million
people working today—an alltime high—and that is true.
You may have heard Mr. Carter say the other day in the debate that we had
more people unemployed than any day since the Depression of the 1930's.
That is true.
But there is one point I think we have to make in all honesty; it is historically
accurate. As he alleged, or said, in the 1950's, the early 1950's, we had a low
unemployment rate. That is accurate. But let me point out, at that time we had
3,500,000 young men and women in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines,
and a good share of them were overseas. At the present time, we have 2,100,000
2711
