August 18
[728]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
million people 200 years ago. For the first 100 years of our Nation's history, we
developed the greatest form of government in the history of mankind. And
then, in the second century of America's history, we were the leaders in develop-
ing an industrial revolution that made it possible for us to lead the world in
worldly goods.
But it is my feeling that in our third century—and I think this came through
during that wonderful Fourth of July celebration—we have to make the third
century of America the century of the individual, so that he lives-we have to
have the opportunity for that individual, wherever he or she may live, a cen-
tury where we have peace abroad and peace at home; where we have the en-
vironment where a quality of life is meaningful to each and every one of us;
where a job is not just a government-promised job, but a job with some real
commonsense, with an opportunity for advancement and permanency; a third
century where you and your children and your grandchildren can have a vision
for a broadened opportunity for each and every one of you every day of every
year. We have to have that vision of a better America.
Our forefathers gave us much-a good government, the opportunity to in-
crease our worldly goods-but if we don't keep and strengthen the opportunity
for individual liberty, all of which we believe in won't have much meaning.
And so I say to you, Jerry Ford is on your side. I will stand with you, work with
you, and we will win a great victory on Wednesday.
You have got a thousand wonderful young people here today, but we have
to multiply and multiply and multiply our efforts so we win on November 2.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 a.m. at the Trade Mart Building.
728
Remarks to President Ford Committee Staff
in Kansas City. August 18, 1976
LET ME just thank all of you that I didn't have a chance to express my
appreciation with a handshake.
It was a great night last night, and it came about because of all the hard
work of people like yourselves, not only here but all over the country. It is a
big step toward the result that we are going to get tonight and the more
important result we are going to get November 2.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:45 a.m. in the Liberty Room at the Crown Center Hotel.
2147
