December 14
[1028]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
term for which a vacancy may have occurred. For so
long as possible, members shall be appointed pri-
marily from among persons who have been identified
or associated with my public life. For the museum
collection, whenever funds for a suitable building
have been provided, the local civic group or other
organization by which or under whose auspices the
funds have been provided or raised (hereinafter
referred to as the "sponsoring organization") shall
appoint a similar council of not less than five mem-
bers on the same basis and shall similarly appoint or
make provisions for appointments of successor mem-
bers. The council for the archival depository shall
advise and make recommendations to the University,
which shall seek and receive the same, for the bene-
fit of the administration of the archival collection
and facility; and the council for the museum collec-
tion shall advise and make recommendations to the
sponsoring organization, which shall seek and receive
the same, for the benefit of the administration of the
museum collection and facility. The Archivist and
each director shall seek and receive advice and
recommendations from the University or the spon-
soring organization on matters of general policy in
the administration of the archival collection and
facility and the museum collection and facility,
respectively, on any arrangements made pursuant to
subparagraph (c) below, and on significant questions
of interpretation and application of the terms and
restrictions of this conveyance.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
annex, to the extent provisions of Federal law may
allow for administration and operation by the Uni-
versity or other appropriate organization of the col-
lections and of the respective facilities in which they
are located, under contract, subsidy or other arrange-
ment with or from the Federal Government, then on
terms the Archivist considers proper, the University
or other appropriate organization may succeed to the
authority and responsibility otherwise to be exercised
by the Archivist.
5. Access to materials in the archival collection.
(a) Processing of materials. For purposes of this
Annex B and related documents, the term "processed
materials" refers to those materials belonging to a
coherent segment that in its entirety has been
physically readied for research use, has been de-
scribed in the form of finding aids, and has been
reviewed for the purpose of identifying materials
subject to any of the restrictions specified in sub-
paragraph (c) below. Materials shall be processed as
soon as possible. Also, in order to comply in any
particular instance with subparagraphs (d), (e) or
(f), those particular materials to which access is
required, if not already processed materials, shall be
processed promptly to whatever minimum extent will
serve that purpose only and will assure compliance
with the other terms and restrictions of this Annex.
(b) General standards for access to processed ma-
terials. Paragraphs 1 through 6 of the "Standards for
Access to Research Materials in Archival and Manu-
script Repositories" adopted by the Society of Ameri-
can Archivists on December 29, 1973, (copy of which
is attached) shall be applicable to all processed ma-
terials insofar as practicable, subject, however, to
application of restrictions upon access, as contem-
plated by paragraph 7 of such standards, that are
stated below.
(c) Restricted materials. Except for access by
qualified persons employed and engaged in the per-
formance of normal archival work on the materials
and except as otherwise provided in subparagraphs
(d), (e) and (f), no materials coming within any
of the following categories shall be made available
for inspection, reading, copying, or other use,
whether or not processed:
(i) Material relating to my personal, family,
and confidential business affairs or to those of
other persons in their communications to me
(although it is not my present intention to include
material of this nature in the archival collection).
(ii) Material relating to investigations of indi-
viduals and organizations, to proposed appoint-
ments to office, or to personnel matters.
(iii) Material involving communications made
in confidence to me or between my advisors for
the purpose of assisting or advising me in my
duties and responsibilities as a Member of Congress
or as Vice President or President.
(iv) Material containing information or state-
ments that might be used to harass or injure any
living person or to interfere with a person's right
of privacy or right of association.
(v) Material containing information or state-
ments where disclosure is prohibited by statute.
(vi) Material containing statements or infor-
mation, the divulgence of which might prejudice
the conduct of foreign relations of the United
States of America or which would adversely affect
the security of the United States of America.
(vii) Materials that are security-classified pursu-
ant to law or Executive Order.
Except as required by law or Executive Order,
and subject to the other provisions hereof, material
originally falling within any of the foregoing
categories shall not continue to be restricted beyond
January 20, 1990, unless and to the extent the
director of the library determines otherwise, and
then only for such additional period or periods
for particular materials in any category as may be
reasonable under the then existing circumstances.
Except with regard to materials restricted under
categories (v), (vi), or (vii), above, particular
materials originally restricted may be sooner made
available when in the judgment of the director
of the library the reasons for having restricted such
2869
