January 18
[1070]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have accomplished their original mission. By one recent count there were 1,200
Federal Government organizations alone having significant powers to regulate
a wide and growing range of economic activities.
The direct Federal outlay to control practices in the private sector is substan-
tial. Even more important are the losses that these activities impose on the pro-
duction and distribution of goods and services throughout the economy. No
accurate measure of the total costs and benefits of actions by the regulatory agen-
cies is possible at this time or perhaps ever. Although all Americans are aware of
the substantial benefits which regulations produce in their everyday lives, we fre-
quently lose sight of the efforts of such programs in restricting the growth of
productivity.
The use of newly developed technology, the development of new companies
and products, and the opening up of new occupations have all been impeded
by the need for licenses, certification, review, and legal judgments introduced by
one agency or another. When innovative activities are discouraged progress is
curbed throughout the economy, even in those areas where some regulation is
justified. Regulations must therefore be reexamined to ensure the removal of
costly and counterproductive regulations and to identify those whose need has
passed. Where benefits seem large we should make sure that the benefits are
realized at the least possible cost.
To reduce the regulatory burden, I asked the Congress in the last year to elimi-
nate unnecessary and anticompetitive regulation in the airline and trucking
industries. This action was to follow the path of regulatory reform that the rail-
road industry achieved in the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform
Act of 1976. I also urged the Congress to eliminate the Federal Power Commis-
sion's controls on new gas prices, which have held back exploration and sales
to the interstate pipelines serving northern and western cities. Earlier this month
I once again submitted to the Congress a plan to eliminate controls on gasoline
refining and marketing.
Among agencies under my jurisdiction I have set out new regulatory pro-
cedures which will make controls more effective and less costly to all concerned,
but such steps are only a beginning. The Congress and the executive branch
must undertake a comprehensive review to ascertain the effects of present con-
trols, and then offer to the American people a corrective program that will cut.
across administrative boundaries. Only a sweeping reform will remove the reg-
ulatory burden where it is no longer justified and place the initiative for pro-
duction and distribution back in the more efficient hands of private enterprise.
2951
