[826]
September 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe it can be fairly said that few Federal programs have given more
wholesome recreation to Americans than the activities financed from the Land
and Water Conservation Fund. In the decade of the Fund's existence, some
$2 billion has been channeled into the purchase and development of outdoor
recreation lands-places where Americans can participate in competitive sports,
learn about nature, or simply find relief from crowds and bustle.
About $800 million over the last 10 years has been used to finance the purchase
of Federal recreation lands-over 1.5 million acres of land for national parks,
wildlife refuges, wilderness, and other recreational areas. $1.2 billion has been
channeled to States and local communities as matching grants supporting the
purchase of 1.4 million acres of land and the development of 10,000 recreational
projects.
With the increased authorization for the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, we estimate that over 6 million more acres of land will be purchased
and set aside for recreational purposes through fiscal year 1989. Over the 25-
year life of the Fund, land in excess of the area of the States of Connecticut,
Rhode Island, and Massachusetts will have been bought for Land and Water
Fund recreational purposes. This truly will be a heritage treasured by future
generations.
In addition, S. 327 will establish the National Historic Preservation Fund to
provide matching Federal assistance to State governments and private indi-
viduals for the acquisition and preservation of important historic sites.
What better way can there be, in this Bicentennial Year, to commemorate
our Nation's rich history than to pledge to preserve outstanding examples of it
for future Americans? In celebrating our Bicentennial this year, I and millions
of others have been inspired to reflect on our history and the progress we have
made. The National Historic Preservation Fund will assure that our historic
sites and structures will continue to be available to provide this inspiration.
This preservation of historic sites and structures will be achieved through a
creative partnership between various levels of government and the private
sector. The Federal Government will provide technical and financial assist-
ance, the States will plan the programs, and the bulk of the actual preserva-
tion work will be done at the local level, by private individuals. This is appro-
priate. The preservation movement is a citizen's movement, an example of
productive cooperation among the Federal, State, and local governments, and
the private sector. Government can nurture this movement, but we must remem-
ber that it gains its greatest strength from the individual pride in the Nation's
past.
2358
