September 17
[790]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
790
Remarks at the Annual Leadership Seminar of the
United States Jaycees. September 17, 1976
I AM delighted to welcome all of you in this leadership seminar to the Rose
Garden here at the White House. I hope and trust you have had a good experi-
ence with the various people in the executive branch of the Government. I am
sure they have been helpful in laying out some of the programs and problems
we face, but I would like to share some good news with you today.
The Department of Commerce just announced that for the month of August,
we have had a very substantial increase in housing starts. It also indicates that
there has been a very sharp rebound in multifamily starts, which is vitally impor-
tant if we are going to get the housing and construction industries moving as
they should.
Secondly, we are extremely encouraged by the continuous increase in new
building permits which certainly foreshadows that we will have an even better
housing market in the months ahead.
Ì think I can take some satisfaction from the fact that this good economic news
comes from what we've done, and done successfully, is to continue to win the
battle against inflation. And that, of course, means that interest rates are down,
that money is available in the mortgage market. It also reflects, I think, the fact
that there is a growing optimism in America as far as a healthy economy is con-
cerned. So that kind of good news is nice to be able to announce to a group of
leaders from all parts of the country-individuals who have a great stake in the
future of this country.
As it was indicated, I used to belong, a few years ago, to the Jaycees. Ì had
some wonderful experiences and was fortunate enough to have received, back
in 1949—that's a long time ago—the honor that goes to 10 young men in this
country each and every year. And I am proud of it.
But let me speak, if I might, about leadership. When I was an active Jaycee
in Grand Rapids, Michigan, we undertook a great many civic projects and com-
munity programs. That is a hallmark of the Jaycees throughout this country, has
been, will continue to be. And the things that I learned in my 3 or 4 years as an
active Jaycee in leadership gave me the competence and gave me the certainty
and the assurance that I could handle some of those problems of leadership.
And now, I would like to talk about what we have tried to do in leadership
down here at the White House. And the background I got as a Jaycee has been
2265
