[711]
August 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
contest. I think it indicates very clearly that you are the embodiment of Finland's
worldwide reputation for physical fitness.
To change the subject, Mr. President, it was just a year ago last week that
Mrs. Ford and I visited Helsinki on the occasion of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. As host of that conference, Finland, again, showed
all of the world its deep interest and active role in promoting international un-
derstanding and amity in working for peace and for stability.
We in the United States value Finland's creative participation in world
affairs under your wise and skillful leadership. We welcome Finland's contribu-
tions to the United Nations peacekeeping efforts in Cyprus, as well as in the
Middle East.
Our strong ties between us, bilaterally, are based on many shared ideals and
genuine mutual respect. Above all, in this country Finland is respected as a
nation that meets its obligations. Just a few weeks ago, Finland wrote a new
page in international relations by paying off in full its World War I debt to
the United States, 8 years ahead of schedule. I know that you share my satisfac-
tion in the knowledge that this last payment will be used to send young people
from Finland and the United States on exchange visits for generations to come.
Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a toast to a distinguished world statesman,
the President of the Republic of Finland, and to the continued close and friendly
relations between the governments and the peoples of the United States and
Finland.
Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:40 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. Prime Minister Kek-
konen responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
I wish to express my sincere thanks to you, Mr.
President, for the warm welcome this morning and
for the words of friendship you have just spoken.
You know as well as I do that the friendship and
mutual understanding existing between our two
countries is highly valued and cherished among the
Finnish people.
We are deeply honored and gratified in receiving
your invitation to pay an official state visit to the
United States this year. The American Bicentennial
has gained much public attention also in Finland.
We in Finland take certain pride in the fact that
among the Founding Fathers there was the early
Finnish settler John Morton, originally Jussi Mart-
tinen, who, of course, cast his vote in favor of the
Declaration of Independence.
Therefore, we have every reason to make this
commemoration of the American Revolution our
own and remember those early Finnish settlers who
disembarked from 1638 to 1654 on both shores of
the Delaware River, established their settlements,
and later on were one of the nationalities that helped
to settle the original 13 States of the Union.
We do not know much about the hopes and the
feelings of the very first Finns coming to America.
But the Finnish settlers of later days seemed to have
been happy and hopeful when they left the shores
of Europe, if we give credence to a Finnish immi-
grants ballad reading as follows: "I am going to
America. Everyone is on his way. The American
shores are sanded with gold, they say." Although
they did not find golden sand, I know they were
not disappointed when they disembarked on the
shores of the new country.
My motivation for looking forward with great
expectations to this visit was different. It re-
minded me of my two or three previous visits to
this great country. They were both very valuable
and important from the Finnish point of view.
In July 1970, the possibility of convening a Con-
ference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
2124
