October 15
[904]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
dent, agriculture will have an understanding friend in the White House in the
Nation's Capital.
Of course, Mr. Carter says he's a farmer's friend, too. But what kind of a
friend is he? Mr. Carter wants to go back to the old discredited Government
meddling in the farmer's affairs. He wants to build up a stockpile of farm sur-
pluses once again. He has proposed a stockpile of 25 million metric tons of grain
with half of it to be held in Government bins.
His underlying philosophy of Government interference won't change. His
philosophy is best exemplified by the Humphrey-Hawkins bill, embraced by
Mr. Carter, which envisions export controls and licensing unprecedented in
peacetime economy.
Mr. Carter does have a strange way of changing his accent as he moves about
this great country. [Laughter] In California, he tries to sound like Cesar Cha-
vez. In Chicago, he sounds like Mayor Daley. In New York, he sounds like
Ralph Nader. In Washington, D.C., he sounds like George Meany. Then Mr.
Carter comes to the farm belt. He becomes a little old peanut farmer. [Laughter]
The President has to take the same position wherever he goes, and that's the
kind of a President I've been and will continue to be for the next 4 years.
When the Agriculture Department was created by Abraham Lincoln in 1862,
its motto was "Agriculture is the foundation of manufacturing and commerce."
It was true then; it is true today. The farmer is the mainspring of the American
economy. U.S. farm exports have provided the foundation for our economic
recovery, which is now underway. It has taken mankind countless centuries
to reach a worldwide population of 4 billion, but just 35 years from now there will
probably be 4 billion more people living on this Earth.
We initiated a World Food Conference in Rome in 1974, and one of our
delegates at that time was Senator Bob Dole, who will be the next Vice President
of the United States. At that Conference, experts concluded that the United
States, Canada, and Australia combined-the three biggest food-exporting coun-
tries in the world-could not hope to meet the food demands of the world if the
population doubled in that short a time. Yet we must. The American farmer
can do anything he sets out to do if the Government will just leave him alone.
The Ford administration and the American farmer share the same ideals,
the same confident approach to the future, the same belief in our land, and
the same concern for the undernourished and starving millions throughout
the world. You and I together stand for hard, productive work, for honesty,
straight talk, and basic morality. You and I together stand for lean, responsive,
2543
