October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the American strategic arsenal. Now, may I assume from that that you are tend-
ing to exclude the cruise missile from the next SALT agreement, or is it still
negotiable in that context?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the cruise missiles which we are now developing
in research and development across the spectrum—from air, from the sea, or
from the land- -can be included within a SALT II agreement. They are a new
weapons system that has a great potential, both conventional and nuclear armed.
At the same time we have to make certain that the Soviet Union's Backfire,
which they claim is not an intercontinental aircraft and which some of our
people contend is, must also be included if we are to get the kind of an agreement
which is in the best interests of both countries.
And I really believe that it's far better for us and for the Soviet Union and,
more importantly, for the people around the world that these two super powers
find an answer for a SALT II agreement before October 3, 1977. I think good
will on both parts, hard bargaining by both parties, and a reasonable compro-
mise will be in the best interests of all parties.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, Mr. Ford acts like he is running for President for the first
time. He has been in office 2 years, and there has been absolutely no progress
made toward a new SALT agreement. He has learned the date of the expira-
tion of SALT I, apparently.
We have seen in this world a development of a tremendous threat to us. As a
nuclear engineer myself, I know the limitations and capabilities of atomic
power. I also know that as far as the human beings on this Earth are concerned,
that the nonproliferation of atomic weapons is number one. Only in the last
few days, with the election approaching, has Mr. Ford taken any interest in a
nonproliferation movement.
I advocated last May, in a speech at the United Nations, that we move imme-
diately as a nation to declare a complete moratorium on the testing of all nuclear
devices, both weapons and peaceful devices, that we not ship any more atomic
fuel to a country that refuses to comply with strict controls over the waste which
can be reprocessed into explosives. I've also advocated that we stop the sale by
Germany and France of reprocessing plants to Pakistan and Brazil. Mr. Ford
hasn't moved on this. We also need to provide an adequate supply of enriched
uranium. Mr. Ford again, under pressure from the atomic energy lobby, has
insisted that this reprocessing or rather reenrichment be done by private industry
and not by the existing government plants.
This kind of confusion and absence of leadership has let us drift now for
2425
