[907]
October 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
deduction for homeowners' interest payments. I pointed out to the Governor in
my telegram that last February—last February, 1976—in a debate sponsored by
the League of Women Voters, he stated that he would advocate eliminating the
tax deduction for interest paid on home mortgages. President Ford is against
the elimination of that deduction for homeowners on their mortgage payments.
Governor Carter denied that his new spending program would cost $100 bil-
lion annually. I pointed out to him in my telegram that the spending programs
proposed in the Democratic platform that Governor Carter helped to write
would probably cost close to $200 billion annually. Specifically, such proposals as
the Humphrey-Hawkins bill, the national health insurance proposal, the Perkins
education bill, a negative income tax, would cost approximately $100 billion
annually.
I firmly believe that we should keep a lid on Federal spending. The only way
to hold down the cost of living is to hold down the cost of Government. I would
much rather give tax cuts to the American people than to think up new ways to
have the Federal Government spend your hard-earned tax dollars.
Governor Carter, in the telegram to me, stated that he had not called for a
$15 billion reduction in the defense budget. I pointed out in my telegram to him
that in March of 1975, in Savannah, Georgia, and again in a press conference in
Los Angeles, California, he called for a $15 billion reduction in the defense
budget.
I firmly believe that it's in our national interest, I strongly believe that in
order to keep peace throughout the world, the United States must remain num-
ber one. And you can't stay number one with a $15 billion reduction in the
defense budget.
We cannot preserve our independence and provide help and assistance for
freedom around the world, defend our own national interest, unless we are
willing to have the finest military capability that the American people can buy.
And under President Ford, we are number one, and under President Ford for
the next 4 years, we are going to stay number one.
I also suggested to Governor Carter that he might want to clarify his position
on a number of other issues that are of interest to the American people. First,
does he really believe, as he said in an interview with Liberty Magazine, that
church property should be taxed? Number two, does he agree with his own
economic adviser that his economic programs would lead to additional inflation?
Does he really believe that our Nation is not strong enough? Does he really
believe, as he stated in San Francisco, that America is no longer respected? And
I closed, in my telegram to Governor Carter, by saying that I eagerly await his
2554
