September 29
[829]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
828
Statement on Signing the Public Safety Officers'
Benefits Act of 1976. September 29, 1976
I HAVE today signed into law H.R. 366, the Public Safety Officers' Benefits
Act of 1976.
This law establishes a new program providing for the payment by the Fed-
eral Government of a $50,000 death benefit to the survivors of any State or local
public safety officer who loses her or his life as a result of injuries sustained in
the line of duty.
I fully recognize that no amount of money can fill the void left when these
brave officers make the supreme sacrifice in pursuit of their duties. The least the
Federal Government can do is to assure that their dependents have adequate
financial assistance to see them through their difficulties.
The signing into law of this bill is a solemn action by a grateful people and
their Government. It demonstrates the esteem of a free society for those of its
members entrusted with public safety.
While it is important that the survivors of public safety officers who die in the
line of duty be provided for, it is infinitely more important that steps be taken
to avoid unnecessary death or injury to those who protect our safety. This is
why I have pledged that a top priority during the first 100 days of my next ad-
ministration will be devoted to rallying the American people behind the legis-
lative proposals I have submitted to the Congress so that the Federal Government
may better do its part to reduce crime in the United States.
It is with great pride and pleasure that I have signed this act into law.
829
Statement on Signing the Olympic Winter Games
Authorization Act of 1976. September 29, 1976
I HAVE signed into law S. 2184, a bill to authorize Federal financial assistance
for planning, design, and construction or improvement of facilities for the 1980
Olympic winter games at Lake Placid, N.Y.
This legislation will not only furnish the resources necessary for the next
winter Olympic games to be held in the United States, it will also provide train-
2361
