October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Civil rights has been confirmed by the Burger Court. It hasn't been reversed.
And I don't think there is any inclination to reverse those basic decisions-of
the one man-one vote rule, which is a very important one that struck down the
unwarranted influence in the legislature of sparsely populated areas of the States.
The right of indigent or very poor accused persons to legal counsel-I think the
Burger Court has confirmed that basic and very controversial decision of the
Warren Court. Also, the protection of an arrested person against unwarranted
persecution in trying to get a false confession.
But now, I think there have been a couple of instances where the Burger Court
has made technical rulings where an obviously guilty person was later found to
be guilty. And I think that in that case some of the more liberal members of the
so-called Warren Court agreed with those decisions.
But the only thing that I have pointed out was what I've just said, and that
there was a need to clarify the technicalities so that you couldn't be forced to
release a person who is obviously guilty just because of a small technicality in the
law. And that's a reversal of position by the Burger Court with which I do agree.
MR. NELSON. Governor, I don't believe you answered my question, though,
about the kinds of people you would be looking for for the Court, the type of
philosophy you would be looking for if you were making appointments to the
Supreme Court as President.
MR. CARTER. Okay, I thought I answered it by saying that it would be on the
basis of merit. Once the search and analysis procedure had been completed, and
once I am given a list of the 5 or 7 or 10 best qualified persons in the country,
I would make a selection from among those persons. If the list was in my opin-
ion fairly uniform, if there was no outstanding person, then I would undoubt-
edly choose someone who would most accurately reflect my own basic political
philosophy, as best as I could determine it, which would be to continue the
progress that has been made under the last two Courts-the Warren Court and
the Burger Court.
I would also like to completely revise our criminal justice system to do some
of the things at the Federal level and court reform that I just described, as has
been done in Georgia and other States. And I would like to appoint people who
would be interested in helping with that. I know Chief Justice Burger is. He
hasn't had help yet from the administration and from the Congress to carry
this out.
The emphasis, I think, of the court system should be to interpret the Consti-
tution and the laws equally between property protection and personal protec-
tion. But when there is a very narrow decision—which quite often is one that
2641
