September 8
[763]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
it does not go down. It is not volatile like food prices. With respect to the auto-
mobile companies, the other basic manufacturing segments of the economy,
what would you like to see done? What do you think ought to be done? Or
do you think anything needs to be done to try to stabilize the industrial
component?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the wholesome competition in the American
free enterprise system will solve that problem better than any other way.
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES
[15.] Q. Mr. President, what sort of preparations are you making for these
debates? Do you, for instance, have one of your aides acting out the role of your
opponent so you can get ready that way?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, Fred [Frederic W. Barnes, Washington Star]. I am
obviously doing a great deal of study and preparation for these debates because
I want the American people to know not only my own views but the views of
Mr. Carter. And I think the best way for that to take place is for me and for
himself to set forth those views, and that will be done in three debates.
Q. Mr. President, what is it you are doing in preparation? Are you studying
some of Mr. Carter's statements? Are you watching videotapes of Governor
Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. The matter is being thoroughly studied by me compre-
hensively.
MINORITY RIGHTS IN SOUTHERN AFRICA
[16.] Q. Mr. President, you mentioned the African guaranteeing of minor-
ity rights. How many black governments in Africa do you regard as having
shown minority rights—or respected them? Could you name some, and how
could you go about guaranteeing such minority rights in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the plans that will evolve—and I hope they do—
there will be adequate protection for minority rights in the two areas being
considered at the present time.
FBI DIRECTOR CLARENCE KELLEY
[17.] Q. Can you tell us what went into your judgment not to fire or repri-
mand the FBI Director in light of the questionable allegations raised against
him?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the Kelley matter this way: I was disap-
pointed, to say the least, with the two responses given to the Kelley questions
to Governor Carter. One, I think it showed a lack of compassion in the one
2217
