October 28
[987]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
NEW INITIATIVES
Last summer, I directed that a thorough review be undertaken of all our
nuclear policies and options to determine what further steps were needed. I have
considered carefully the results of that review, held discussions with congres-
sional leaders, and benefited from consultations with leaders of other nations.
I have decided that new steps are needed, building upon the progress of the past
2 years. Today, I am announcing a number of actions and proposals aimed at:
—strengthening the commitment of the nations of the world to the goal
of nonproliferation and building an effective system of international controls
to prevent proliferation;
-changing and strengthening U.S. domestic nuclear policies and programs
to support our nonproliferation goals; and
-establishing, by these actions, a sound foundation for the continued and
increased use of nuclear energy in the U.S. and in the world in a safe and
economic manner.
The task we face calls for an international cooperative venture of unprec-
edented dimensions. The U.S. is prepared to work with all other nations.
PRINCIPAL POLICY DECISIONS
I have concluded that the reprocessing and recycling of plutonium should
not proceed unless there is sound reason to conclude that the world community
can effectively overcome the associated risks of proliferation. I believe that
avoidance of proliferation must take precedence over economic interests. I have
also concluded that the United States and other nations can and should increase
their use of nuclear power for peaceful purposes even if reprocessing and
recycling of plutonium are found to be unacceptable.
Vigorous action is required domestically and internationally to make these
judgments effective.
—I have decided that the United States should greatly accelerate its diplomatic
initiatives in conjunction with nuclear supplier and consumer nations to control
the spread of plutonium and technologies for separating plutonium.
Effective nonproliferation measures will require the participation and support
of nuclear suppliers and consumers. There must be coordination in restraints
so that an effective nonproliferation system is achieved, and there must be
cooperation in assuring reliable fuel supplies so that peaceful energy needs
are met.
-I have decided that the United States should no longer regard reprocessing
2767
