September 24
[805]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1
American leaders at the White House just 2 weeks ago, the so-called Sonnenfeldt
doctrine ยน never did exist and does not exist. The United States is totally opposed
to spheres of influence belonging to any power. That policy is fundamental to
our relationship with Poland, and that policy will continue as long as I am Presi-
dent of the United States.
In my several meetings with Polish leaders, I also stress the importance that
all Americans attach to humanitarian issues. People everywhere should have
the right to express themselves freely. People everywhere should have the right
to emigrate and travel freely. People everywhere should have the right to be
united with their families. I will continue to see that humanitarian matters are
treated with the highest priority not only in our relationships with Poland but
with the rest of the world.
If we are to keep the respect throughout the world that the United States has
today and must maintain, we must keep America strong. We must make sure
that America not only has strong defenses but a strong heart. Polish Americans
know what it means to be strong. Many of your families came here without
material wealth. In the countryside you cleared the land and made productive
farms. In the cities you built neighborhoods you could be proud of. You built
and paid for your own churches. You built your own schools and financial insti-
tutions. You built orphanages for the young and hospitals for the aged. You built
your own institutions, the great fraternal organizations represented here today.
We must ensure that what you have done, what you have earned, what you
have built, will be here for your children to enjoy these wonderful young peo-
ple here on this podium and in this hall. We must ensure that your families
will have the neighborhoods they need to build a decent life of their own.
A family needs a neighborhood that is safe. A family needs a neighborhood
that is stable. A family needs a neighborhood with local churches, local shops,
and local schools.
Some of the healthiest neighborhoods in our cities are Polish-American neigh-
borhoods, but today too many neighborhoods are threatened by urban decay.
You are paying a terrible price in lost property values-property you worked
hard to buy and maintain and that you love.
In cities like Philadelphia, Detroit, Chicago, too many young men and
women are finding it impossible to remain in the neighborhoods where they
were raised. Too many parents are forced to watch helplessly as all they have
worked and saved to build up is eaten away. This does not have to happen. I will
continue to do everything in my power to see to it that it does not happen.
ยน Helmut Sonnenfeldt, Counselor for the State Department.
I
2315
