October 27
[977]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ily, next April, in making out their income tax return, would have had $1,250
more of tax exemption. Congress failed you. We're going to put it on their
doorstep next January. If they don't do it in 1977, we're going to submit it in
1978, and if they don't do it then, we will beat 'em in the next election.
I firmly believe that the middle-income taxpayer-which is about 50 percent
of the American taxpayers—they've been shortchanged. Jerry Ford is on their
side, and we're going to get that kind of tax reduction out of the next Con-
gress, I pledge to you.
Since I've been your President, in August of 1974, we have cut the cost of
inflation by one-half, and I pledge to you we'll do even better in the next
4 years.
After the worst recession in 40 years, we have added 4 million jobs to the
American economy in the last 2 years, not by creating dead-end taxpayers' jobs,
but stimulating jobs with a future in the private economy. That's where we can
make this country prosperous again. We'll get tax reduction to get jobs, and
we will get tax reduction so you will have more of your own money to spend
for yourself and your family, and that's another pledge.
We still have too many people out of work. We're not satisfied with the prog-
ress we've made, but more Americans were on the job in 1976 than ever before
in the history of the United States-nearly 88 million-and that's a tremendous
comeback from where we were just a year and a half ago.
After the tragic betrayal of public trust 2 years ago, America has had its faith
restored in the White House itself. My administration has been open, candid,
forthright, and straightforward, and we're going to keep it that way in the next
4 years under Jerry Ford.
I can stand before this wonderful group in Plymouth Mall and say America
is on the move, America is on the march, the Nation is sound, the Nation is se-
cure, this Nation is on the way to a better quality of life for all Americans, and
this administration has earned the trust of the American people for the next 4
years.
My record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises. Yes,
we have our troubles, but in the last 2 years, we've come a long, long way. We've
made incredible progress, and we're going to make more in the next 4 years.
Here at home we're putting our old differences aside, we're putting old prob-
lems behind us, and we're healing the wounds. I'm proud to be a citizen of the
great United States of America. I look out here, and I know that every one of you
are just as proud to be an American as I am.
Since August of 1974, America has had a restoration of trust. We've ended the
2737
