[960]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
a budget for this fiscal year which cut the rate of growth of Federal spending
by one-half. I've held the line on Government spending with 66 vetoes and
saved you,
the hard-pressed taxpayers, more than $9 billion. And let me tell you
what that means to an individual tax-paying family. Nine billion dollars saved
in the Federal Treasury—those vetoes saved each American family about $200
in Federal spending in the last 12 to 18 months.
Because I've not been afraid to say no to excessive spending, we will sub-
mit a balanced budget for the Federal Government in 1978, and we'll have
another tax reduction for the American taxpayer in the meantime. Listen care-
fully. My idea of tax reform is tax reduction. I propose raising your personal
income tax exemption from $750 to $1,000. Congress didn't act on that pro-
posal. I can't understand why.
What would it mean to an individual tax-paying family? I was in a plant
the other day. One of the workers asked me, “What are you doing about tax
reduction?" And I told him how we wanted to raise the personal income tax
reduction by $250 per dependent or taxpayer. I said, "How many children do
you have?" And he said, "Three." A wife, three children, himself—under my
proposal, that would mean that that taxpayer, when he fills out that tax return
in 1977 or 1978, that he would get $1,250 more in a personal exemption. I think
that's good tax reform.
We all know that the middle-income taxpayer has been shortchanged in
America, and so the Ford proposal for tax reform, which is tax reduction, will
give the kind of tax relief that the middle-income taxpayer needs and wants.
And if the next Congress won't do it in 1977 or 1978, we'll go to the Ameri-
can people and we'll beat those that keep on shortchanging the middle-income
taxpayer.
Now, after so many years of uncontrolled inflation, as Dan Evans said, we've
cut inflation in half in the past 2 years, and I pledge to you we'll do even better
in the next 4.
Now, after the worst recession in 40 years-I didn't like it; you didn't like
it—we've added 4 million new jobs in the American economy in the past 2 years,
not by creating dead end, unproductive jobs at the taxpayers' expense, but by
stimulating jobs with a future in the private economy where five out of the
six jobs in America exist today.
Too many people are out of work. We're not satisfied with the progress
we've made, but I say with some pride, more Americans were on the job in
1976 than ever before in the history of the United States, nearly 88 million, and
that's a tremendous comeback from where we were just 18 months ago.
2680
