October 21
[934]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
caused by 1,550 older planes which fail to meet—and are not now required to
meet-proper noise standards.
Therefore, today, I am instructing the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, to extend
current noise standards to all domestic U.S. commercial aircraft.¹ These standards
will become effective January 1, 1977, and will be phased in over the next 8
years.
We will also begin immediately the necessary steps to make certain that all
international airlines flying into the United States meet these standards.
You understand what I mean.
One reason U.S. commercial airlines have been unable to meet FAA noise
standards is that some airlines could not afford to, because of the outmoded
regulatory approach of the Civil Aeronautics Board.
A year ago, I proposed aviation regulatory reform to make airline service
more competitive and thereby improve service to passengers, reduce fares, and
strengthen the financial condition of the airlines. Congress refused to pass that
legislation, which would have made it possible for the airlines to modify or to
replace their noisy jet aircraft.
I am now putting Congress on notice that I will not accept its failure to act. I
want the Members of Congress to know that aviation regulatory reform will
be on their doorstep when they convene in January 1977.
In the interest of the airline passenger and the airline industry, it is imperative
that Congress act on this reform within 90 days after the opening of the next
session of the Congress.
I am also directing Secretary of Transportation Coleman to begin public
hearings promptly to consider whether further financing arrangements may be
necessary to ensure that all U.S. air carriers can meet the noise standards on
time.
Solving the airport noise problem is an environmental imperative for the
millions of Americans, estimated at about 6 million throughout the country,
who live in the neighborhoods around our major airports.
With the steps I am announcing today, we will be able to quiet our Nation's
skies, conserve vast amounts of energy, and improve the quality of life for many
millions of Americans.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Mr. President, does this mean the SST would be in any way ex-
cluded, if it is not now, from flying into this airport?
1 See Item 941.
2605
