[673]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
improve insurance against really large medical bills while also saving the tax-
payers $1.5 billion in fiscal year 1977.
The Congress has also recognized the high priority that must be given to econ-
omies in the Medicare program. The congressional concurrent budget resolu-
tion for fiscal year 1977 calls for $300 million of net savings in Medicare.
I am keenly sensitive to the burdens borne by some of our elderly and dis-
abled in meeting their medical expenses. I believe we should take positive steps
to provide better protection against catastrophic health costs and inflation in
health costs.
Once again, therefore, I urge the Congress to turn its attention to meeting
the real needs of the aged and of the taxpayer and enact the Medicare Improve-
ments of 1976 before it adjourns this year.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13501, approved July 16, 1976, is Public Law 94-368 (90 Stat. 997).
674
The President's News Conference of
July 19, 1976
REQUEST FOR ACTION ON LEGISLATIVE PROGRAMS
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Good afternoon. Before responding to your questions,
I have two announcements to make.
First, I am sending later this week a message to the Congress calling for
prompt action on a number of legislative programs that Congress must act on
before adjournment. I am recommending affirmative action, as quickly as pos-
sible, on my further tax reduction proposals, on the remaining portions of my
energy independence recommendations, on my stronger anticrime proposals,
and, of course, general revenue sharing.
It seems to me that before Congress adjourns, it must undertake a vigorous
legislative program if it is to maintain its credibility with the American people.
Secondly, I am sending to the Congress today a recommendation which would
further advance our efforts to restore public confidence in the integrity of all
three branches of the Federal Government, including the executive branch, the
legislative branch, and the judicial branch. It is vitally important—I am deter-
mined and I trust Congress is—to ensure that those who hold public office main-
tain the highest possible standards and are fully accountable to the American
2030
