July 20
[680]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. When do you anticipate that Viking II will go through the
same process?
Mr. Martin. Viking II arrives at the planet on August 7, and we will put it
into orbit on that day. Right now, our nominal plan is to land it on September 4.
THE PRESIDENT. Have you picked the place where it will land, or not?
MR. MARTIN. Not yet, Mr. President.
DR. FLETCHER. No, Mr. President, we are still looking for two choices-
one south of the Equator, and one up closer to the polar cap, about 45 degrees
north latitude.
The President. Well, the two of them then will be there simultaneously and
operating from different locations?
MR. MARTIN. Yes, that is one of our hopes, because we have a seismometer
on board, and if we can measure a Mars quake with both landers, then we can
locate quite precisely where it is on the surface of the planet.
THE PRESIDENT. Do we have any plans for a Viking III, et cetera ?
DR. FLETCHER. Mr. President, we are thinking very hard about that right now.
I just got a big bunch of applause from our team on that question.
THE PRESIDENT. I suspected that there might be approval among all of you
for such a landing and such a project.
MR. MARTIN. Mr. President, the team is ready for Vikings III, IV, V, and VI.
The President. Well, give everybody my very best, will you, Jim Fletcher
and Jim Martin? And thank all of those there with you and transmit to all of
the others, whether they were in our colleges, universities, in NASA, or wher-.
ever else they were, for a job well done. And let me express to each of you and
all of the group, my very best wishes for a great job. We are all very proud of
you.
MR. MARTIN. We appreciate those kind words, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:21 a.m. from
the Oval Office at the White House to Dr. Fletcher
and Mr. Martin at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in
Pasadena, Calif.
680
Remarks at the Swearing In of Shirley Temple Black as
Chief of Protocol for the State Department. July 20, 1976
SHIRLEY, it's a great honor for me to have the opportunity of asking the
Ambassador to swear you in to this very important post. It's a great reward
2053
