October 28
[982]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have much to do to keep the economy strong so we have prosperity for
our people. We must do what is right so that our older people have an oppor-
tunity to enjoy the quality of life that they have so richly earned. But let's do
all these things together. I ask for your vote so we can keep America strong,
peaceful, prosperous, and free.
It would be the highest honor of my life for you to say to me here in southern
Ohio and all over this country, "Jerry Ford, you have done a good job. Keep
right on doing it for the next 4 years."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. at Foun-
tain Square.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
982
Remarks at a Parade in Cleveland, Ohio. October 28, 1976
WELL, let me express to the three wonderful young ladies here my apprecia-
tion for the opportunity of participating in this wonderful occasion. I know that
the bread comes from the fruits of your labor and that the salt comes from the
sweat of your brow, and I am deeply grateful for this expression of your friend-
ship and your hospitality. And may I express to all of you, the three of you and
the others, my deep, deep gratitude for this opportunity to have this honor. I
thank you very, very much.
Let me add a few words to what I have said. As I had the privilege of hav-
ing the bread and the salt, and as I said to the three fine women that made it
opportune for me to do so, I know the significance-that the bread is the fruit
of your labor and the salt is the sweat of your brow, and the participation in it
is an indication of your friendship and your hospitality.
Well, I am delighted to be here in the Karlin Hall area, and I thank you very,
very much. As we came down that Fleet Street highway, the opportunity to see
so many wonderful people, something that I was taught in Sunday school at a
very early age came to my mind. A Sunday school teacher told me that the
beauty of Joseph's coat is its many colors. All of us who make up America today,
215 million of us, come from all kinds of backgrounds, but we are all Americans,
and the fact that we are makes America great.
America stands for freedom here in the United States. Our Constitution pro-
tects our freedom. Our Government has an obligation to make certain that we
have freedom, liberty in America. But in addition, America is the symbol of
freedom for people all over the world, and we are going to keep it that way. But
2755
