October 28
[979]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
drop more sharply this year is the result of an unprecedented increase in the size
of the American labor force. That great increase in the size of the labor force is
a sign of renewed confidence in the health of our economy and the dramatic
increase in job opportunities.
Let me say very strongly, I won't be satisfied until every American who
wants a job has a job. But those jobs won't be secure, those pay checks won't be
protected unless we keep inflation under control. Inflation hurts all of us, espe-
cially our older citizens on fixed incomes. It robs their savings, their purchasing
power, and everybody else's.
Inflation not only cuts our purchasing power, it ultimately cuts confidence and
it is the most basic element in a sustained recovery. Consumers, fearful of infla-
tion, hold back on purchases. We vividly recall that in late 1974. Inventories
accumulate, production slows down, businessmen defer investment in plants and
equipment, and jobs are lost. We know this scenario much too well. We've seen it
happen before in our history. We must not let it happen again, and this admin-
istration will not permit it in the next 4 years.
America's confidence in its economy has been restored. We've shown that
inflation can be driven down, can be cured. Now we must keep America's con-
fidence by continuing to hold the line. We must keep raising America's high
standard of living. Our economic progress depends, as always, on our ability as a
nation to foster capital investment and increase the productivity of our workers.
I have proposed reforms to the Congress to stimulate what some call capital
formation through tax incentives. That's a big mouthful, but I prefer to use the
term-and it's much more meaningful-job creation, because that's what the
proposals would do as a practical matter.
To meet our employment goals, to create 10 million jobs over the next 4 years,
2,500,000 each year for the next 4 years, will require a substantial increase in
the share of our gross national product committed to the private sector.
Some of the so-called tax loopholes condemned by my opponent are in fact
important tools to encourage capital formation. They are incentives for busi-
ness expansion, for business investment, so our economy can employ more people
and produce more goods and more services. America's government must make
it easier, not harder, for American business to find the capital that makes the
whole system work.
In our third debate, last Friday—and I might make a comment about that-
I was asked if I had any suggestions about the debates. I said number one, they
ought to be institutionalized—and I hope they will in future campaigns—
2747
