October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I have added in the current year budget, the funds for the National Park
Service. For example, we proposed about $12 million to add between 400 and
500 more employees for the National Park Service.
And a month or so ago, I did likewise say over the next 10 years we should
expand—double—the national parks, the wilderness areas, the scenic river areas.
And then, of course, the final thing is that I have signed and approved of more
scenic rivers, more wilderness areas since I've been President than any other
President in the history of the United States.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter.
MR. CARTER. Well, I might say I think the League of Conservation Voters is
absolutely right. This administration's record of environment is
very bad.
I think it's accurate to say that the strip mining law, which was passed twice
by the Congress and only lacked two votes, I believe, of being overriden, would
have been good for the country. The claim that it would have put 140,000 miners
out of work is hard to believe when at the time Mr. Ford vetoed it, the United
Mine Workers was supporting the bill. And I don't think they would have sup-
ported the bill had they known that they would lose 140,000 jobs.
There has been a consistent policy on the part of this administration to lower
or to delay enforcement of air pollution standards and water pollution stand-
ards. And under both Presidents Nixon and Ford, moneys have been impounded
that would have gone to cities and others to control water pollution.
We have no energy policy. We, I think, are the only developed nation in the
world that has no comprehensive energy policy to permit us to plan, in an or-
derly way, how to shift from increasing the scarce energy forms-oil—and have
research and development concentrated on the increased use of coal, which I
strongly favor-the research and development to be used primarily to make the
coal burning be clean.
We need a heritage trust program, similar to the one we had in Georgia, to
set aside additional lands that have geological and archeological importance,
natural areas for enjoyment. The lands that Mr. Ford brags about having ap-
proved are in Alaska, and they are enormous in size, but as far as the accessibility
of them by the American people, is very far in the future.
We have taken no strong position in the control of pollution of our oceans.
And I would say the worst threat to the environment of all is nuclear prolifera-
tion. And this administration, having been in office now for 2 years or more,
has still not taken a strong and bold action to stop the proliferation of nuclear
waste around the world, particularly plutonium.
2633
