[925]
October 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
with the proposed Patman inquiry in 1972 at the request of the Republican
members of the Patman committee, were you also asked by either Mr. Nixon
or by anyone acting for him on the White House staff to do what you did?
THE PRESIDENT. As I recall my testimony, John [John Osborne, The New
Republic], before one-maybe both-committees, I said I had never been con-
tacted by President Nixon, by Mr. Ehrlichman, by Mr. Haldeman, or by Mr.
Dean. And I said that I had virtually daily contact with Mr. Timmons, who
was the head of the legislative liaison office, but, to the best of my recollection,
neither he nor anybody in his office asked me to take a hand in the Patman
action or the committee action.2 That was my testimony in 1973; it's my testi-
mony, or my answer to your question today.
DEFENSE BUDGET
[16.] Q. Mr. President, you stated that Governor Carter once advocated a
$15-billion cut in the defense budget. He said that's not so, that he only wants
to cut $5 billion or $7 billion out and he wants to take it all out of waste. I would
like to know, why don't you join Governor Carter in coming out in favor of
cutting that much waste out of the defense budget?
THE PRESIDENT. First, the record is clear that on two occasions, Governor Car-
ter did say—one in Savannah, Georgia, and one in Los Angeles—and he was
quoted in reputable newspapers-that he would cut the defense budget $15
billion.
Now it is true, according to what he says today, that he has gone from a $15-
billion cut down to a $5- to $7-billion cut. I am glad to see that as he gets better
educated in these matters, that he understands that you can't do that to the
Defense Department and be strong enough to meet the challenges of the Soviet
Union or anybody else.
All right. The Ford administration, in January of this year, recommended to
the Congress a military budget that called for spending—what we call obliga-
tion authority—of about $112.5 billion. We said that you could keep the military
strong and keep the peace as we have it with that kind of a military budget,
providing the Congress would take certain other actions to improve the efficiency
and achieve economies in the Defense Department, and I think those proposed
economies total about $4 billion.
Now, the Congress, when they got all through, only approved about a billion
and a half to $2 billion of those economies that the Ford administration rec-
ommended for the Department of Defense. So, we were on record in January
2U.S. Representative Wright Patman from Texas was Chairman of the House Banking, Currency, and
Housing Committee, which investigated the Watergate break-in.
2594
