October 7
[858]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
behind, but we are going to win. Thank you for making it possible. Thank
you for tonight.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:55 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the St. Francis Hotel. The party
was sponsored by the Bay Area President Ford
Committee.
Following his remarks, the President attended a
Republican Party reception at the hotel.
858
Remarks to Employees of the Rockwell International
Corporation in Hawthorne, California.
October 7, 1976
Thank you very much, Bob, Congressman Rousselot, Congressman Moorhead,
ladies and gentlemen:
Let me at the outset congratulate you, Bob, and the B-1 Division of the Rock-
well International. It's a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have
the opportunity of being here with you today.
Last night, as some of you may know, I engaged in a very serious discussion
about the need for maintaining a strong national defense. My opponent and I
differ on how to go about that process. One of those differences is represented
by the model that you work on, that I have just seen, and I think it's a crucial
issue in this campaign.
But first, let me congratulate all of you for winning the Zero Defect Award.
I'm glad you are not working for the Carter campaign. [Laughter] I might
say parenthetically that there are a lot of defects to choose in that campaign,
but one of the biggest of Mr. Carter's defects is his opposition to the B-1 bomber.
As you and I meet this morning, thousands of American servicemen all
around the globe are standing watch, some patrolling borders, some sailing a
ship, and some manning our aircraft. As Commander in Chief, I am responsible
for each one of them. We owe each one of those young Americans not just our
support and our prayers-we owe them the very best equipment that this
country can buy.
Our current manned bomber, the B-52, is already more than 20 years old,
and by the time the B-1 is ready to take its place, the B-52 will be in operation
over four decades. I don't believe that any President should ask any serviceman
to defend his country in a combat aircraft that is older than he is.
Last night, we both agreed on the need for toughness in facing the Soviet
Union. But toughness requires more than talk. It requires having the right
2439
