January 12
[1057]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
affecting coal development, expand nuclear power generation, and create an
energy independence authority to provide government financial assistance for
vital energy programs where private capital is not available.
We must explore every reasonable prospect for meeting our energy needs
when our current domestic reserves of oil and natural gas begin to dwindle in
the next decade. I urgently ask Congress and the new administration to move
quickly on these issues. This Nation has the resources and the capability to
achieve our energy goals if its Government has the will to proceed, and I think
we do.
I have been disappointed by inability to complete many of the meaningful
organizational reforms which I contemplated for the Federal Government,
although a start has been made. For example, the Federal judicial system has
long served as a model for other courts. But today it is threatened by a shortage
of qualified Federal judges and an explosion of litigation claiming Federal
jurisdiction. I commend to the new administration and the Congress the recent
report and recommendations of the Department of Justice, undertaken at my
request, on “the needs of the Federal Courts." I especially endorse its proposals
for a new commission on the judicial appointment process.
While the judicial branch of our Government may require reinforcement, the
budgets and payrolls of the other branches remain staggering. I cannot help but
observe that while the White House staff and the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent have been reduced and the total number of civilians in the executive branch
contained during the 1970's, the legislative branch has increased substantially
although the membership of the Congress remains at 535. Congress now costs
the taxpayers more than a million dollars per Member; the whole legislative
budget has passed the billion dollar mark.
I set out to reduce the growth in the size and spending of the Federal Gov-
ernment, but no President can accomplish this alone. The Congress sidetracked
most of my requests for authority to consolidate overlapping programs and
agencies, to return more decisionmaking and responsibility to State and local
governments through block grants instead of rigid categorical programs, and to
eliminate unnecessary redtape and outrageously complex regulations.
We have made some progress in cutting back the expansion of government
and its intrusion into individual lives, but believe me, there is much more to be
done-and you and I know it. It can only be done by tough and temporarily
painful surgery by a Congress as prepared as the President to face up to this
very real political problem. Again, I wish my successor, working with a sub-
2923
