[687]
July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
regulatory agencies, the Civil Aeronautics Board has cut its reporting forms by
26 percent.
Ordinarily, this news today would be warmly welcomed, but we shouldn't
try to fool anybody. Many of the forms that have been abolished, while infuriat-
ing to those who had to fill them out, are minor in character; the biggest, most
intricate forms remain in existence and must still be cleaned up.
More importantly, as we have proceeded during the past year in cutting
the number of Federal reports, the estimated number of hours required to
respond to Federal reports has actually increased.
Greater usage of the uniform Settlement Statement (HUD) and the addi-
tional reporting associated with the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act (Department of Labor) added over 6,400,000 hours to the reporting burdens
placed on American people—especially American business-during this same
period. This development is totally unsatisfactory. The people of this country
want and deserve a break from the growing suffocation of Federal paperwork.
In my meeting with the Cabinet and agency heads this morning, I have there-
fore directed that we set two new goals for ourselves:
—First, I am directing the departments and agencies subject to the Federal
Reports Act to cut their total reporting requirements by 7 million hours by the
end of fiscal year 1977, a 5-percent reduction.
—Second, I am asking for the recommendations of those departments and
agencies for ways that we can cut the reporting requirement by an additional
20 million hours by the end of fiscal year 1978, an additional 15-percent cut.
This extra time would permit legislative proposals to be made, enacted, and
implemented to help reach our goals.
688
Letter to the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Health
and the Environment on the National Swine Flu Immunization
Program. July 23, 1976
Dear Paul:
I want to convey to you once again the strong commitment of this Adminis-
tration to a National Influenza Immunization Program.
Almost four months ago to the day, I announced the initiation of this pro-
gram after a panel of the country's top health, medical and scientific leaders
unanimously recommended to me that we move forward. Those leaders con-
2082
