[714]
August 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the world. In the United States of America, more than a million students
have participated in Boys and Girls Nation over the past 41 years.
If I might indicate my own participation, going back when I first joined the
American Legion in the late fall of 1945, after World War II, I joined Furniture
City Post in Grand Rapids, Michigan. And for a number of years before I
became active in politics, I was an officer and a very active member of that post
and participated, in my way, in trying to stimulate Boys Nation, Girls Nation,
selecting the nominees. And subsequently, I had the privilege and honor of
participating at State conventions of Boys Nation, Girls Nation. And I can say
from personal experience over a long, long period of time, that these two or-
ganizations-Boys Nation, Girls Nation-have contributed very significantly to
making this country a better place in which to live.
I am proud of my association with the American Legion. Mrs. Ford is proud
of her affiliation with the Auxiliary of Furniture City Post. And I congratulate
you as another wave of young people who are having an opportunity to see
firsthand and to find out firsthand how government works. And so, I like the
American Legion, and I like the kind of young people that they have selected
over the years.
Your involvement in the political process is one of the keys—and I say this
with great emphasis one of the keys in maintaining an educated and respon-
sible electorate. As long as our citizens in all 50 States understand the vital issues
and responsibly evaluate the political leaders, America will remain strong and
America will remain free. This was the dream of our forefathers as they declared
our independence in 1776.
During this joint session here, you have traveled to many of the historic sites
that mark freedom's birth. During our national Bicentennial celebration, I had
a wonderful opportunity to visit many of these same places that you have visited.
I noticed something quite remarkable as I went from Valley Forge, to Philadel-
phia, to New York City and saw the "Tall Ships," and to Monticello. I saw
something quite remarkable taking place throughout our country-a new
reverence for the American dream and a new acceptance of the American
adventure.
I hope that each and every one of you had the same reaction, the same feeling
that I had, and you now have resolved to take a very active part in rekindling
a sense of pride in our great country.
The future holds many, many wonderful opportunities for each and every
one of you. One opportunity—and I say this with emphasis-is a career in
2128
