[685]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
NUCLEAR POWERPLANT SITING AND LICENSING PROCEDURES
This legislation is intended to shorten and improve the licensing process for
nuclear facilities by allowing licensing procedures for reactor sites and stand-
ardized reactor designs to be completed at an earlier point in time. It would
require the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to assure expeditious reactor siting
and licensing hearings consistent with the public safety, exclude from consid-
eration any issue which has either been decided or which could have been raised
and decided in previous proceedings, and coordinate planning and scheduling
of siting and licensing procedures with State agencies.
ELECTRIC POWER FACILITY CONSTRUCTION INCENTIVE ACT
This legislation is designed to provide tax incentives to stimulate the con-
struction of new electric power generating facilities other than petroleum fueled
generating plants. Construction costs of electric utilities would be reduced
through changes in the investment tax credit and allowances for amortization
and depreciation. These provisions would encourage utilities to reactivate their
plans for the construction of nuclear plants and coal-fired plants that were can-
celled or deferred in 1974 and 1975.
ENERGY FACILITIES PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ACT
This bill is designed to expedite the development of energy facilities. The
Federal Energy Administration would be required to develop a National En-
ergy Site and Facility Report with appropriate Federal, State, industry and
public input. Information in this report would be utilized by the Federal
Government, the States and industry in developing and implementing plans
to insure that needed energy facilities are sited, approved and constructed on a
timely basis. At the Federal level, FEA would be responsible for coordinating
and expediting the processing of applications to construct energy facilities.
NATURAL GAS EMERGENCY STANDBY ACT
This legislation would provide a limited exemption from the regulation of
natural gas in interstate commerce. It would grant the Federal Power Com-
mission authority to allow companies which transport natural gas in interstate
commerce to meet the natural gas requirements of their high priority users by
purchasing natural gas (a) from sources not in interstate commerce and (b)
from other companies on an emergency basis free from the provisions of the
Natural Gas Act, except for reporting requirements.
2068
