January 17
[1066]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
responsibilities of statehood are fully presented to the people of Puerto Rico-
before deciding whether their Commonwealth should become a state.
Second, Congress, after receiving the Commission Report, would set the terms
and conditions of statehood.
Third, the Act provides for an island-wide referendum among the people of
Puerto Rico on whether the Commonwealth should become a state.
Fourth, the Act proposes that if the referendum passes, delegates to a Consti-
tutional Convention will meet to frame a Constitution for the proposed state.
Fifth, the new constitution would be presented to the people of Puerto Rico
for ratification.
Sixth, the proposed State constitution, if ratified, would be submitted to the
President of the United States and to Congress for approval.
Seventh, upon approval of the proposed Constitution, the voters of Puerto
Rico would elect two Senators and five Members of the House of Representatives.
Eighth, the Governor of Puerto Rico would certify the results of the election to
the President, and the President would proclaim Puerto Rico a state.
After more than three-quarters of a Century of discussion about Puerto Rico,
it is time to act and act positively. By passage of this Act the representatives of
the people of the 50 States will say to the people of Puerto Rico: Join us as equals.
I urge the Congress to act.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and the Honorable
GERALD R. FORD
Nelson A. Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
A copy of the draft bill was included as a part of
the release.
1066
Annual Budget Message to the Congress, Fiscal Year 1978.
January 17, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
The budget is the President's blueprint for the operation of the Government
in the year ahead. It records his views on priorities and directions for the future—
balancing the American desire to solve every perceived problem at once with
the practical reality of limited resources and competing needs.
The thirty budgets I have either shaped or helped to shape are a chronicle
of our lives and times. They tell us what we have aspired to be and what we
2937
