[854]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
an amendment on that legislation which would take strong and effective
action against those who participate or cooperate with the Arab boycott.
One other point: Because the Congress failed to act I am going to announce
tomorrow that the Department of Commerce will disclose those companies that
have participated in the Arab boycott. This is something that we can do. The
Congress failed to do it, and we intend to do it.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Trewhitt, a very brief question for President Ford.
MR. TREWHITT. Mr. President, if you get the accounting of missing in action
you want from North Vietnam—or from Vietnam, I am sorry, now-would
you then be prepared to reopen negotiations for restoration of relations with
that country?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me restate our policy. As long as Vietnam, North Viet-
nam, does not give us a full and complete accounting of our missing in action,
I will never go along with the admission of Vietnam to the United Nations.
If they do give us a bona fide, complete accounting of the 800 MIA's, then I
believe that the United States should begin negotiations for the admission of
Vietnam to the United Nations, but not until they have given us the full ac-
counting of our MIA's.
THE MODERATOR. Governor Carter?
MR. CARTER. One of the most embarrassing failures of the Ford administra-
tion, and one that touches specifically on human rights, is his refusal to appoint
a Presidential commission to go to Vietnam, to go to Laos, to go to Cambodia
and try to trade for the release of information about those who are missing
in action in those wars. This is what the families of MIA's want. So far, Mr.
Ford has not done it. We have had several fragmentary efforts by Members of
the Congress and by private citizens.
Several months ago the Vietnam Government said we are ready to sit down
and negotiate for release of information on MIA's. So far, Mr. Ford has not
responded.
I also would never formalize relationships with Vietnam nor permit them
to join the United Nations until they have taken this action. But that is not
enough. We need to have an active and aggressive action on the part of the
President, the leader of this country, to seek out every possible way to get that
information which has kept the MIA families in despair and doubt, and Mr.
Ford has just not done it.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, Governor Carter.
That completes the questioning for this evening. Each candidate now has up
to 3 minutes for a closing statement. It was determined by the toss of a coin
2434
