October 25
[960]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
After suffering a tragic betrayal of public trust 2 years ago, America has had
its faith restored in the White House itself. My administration has been open,
candid, straightforward. We call'em as we see'em. We talk straight from the
shoulder, and we'll keep it that way for the next 4 years.
In every field, America is on the move, on the march. We've made an in-
credible comeback in the past 2 years, and we're not through yet. You can believe
me when I say this Nation is sound, this Nation is secure, this Nation is on the
way to a better quality of life.
And this administration has earned the trust of the American people for
the next 4 years. My record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not
promises. We don't need a Government in Washington to do everything for us
or to tell us everything we can or cannot do. As I travel the length and the
breadth of America, I find that we have a great reservoir of talent and industry
in America, and it's not all concentrated on the banks of the Potomac. You've got
it here in Washington and, believe me, we've got it in 49 other States.
Jimmy Carter says we're not respected anymore. This week, America made
a clean sweep of the Nobel Prizes for economics, chemistry, physics, medicine,
and literature. This is the first time in the history of the awarding of those
prestigious awards that a single country has been the home of all these winners.
That doesn't sound like a second-rate operation to me.
I'm proud to be a citizen of this great country, just like you are. We've
had our problems, but in the past 2 years we've come a long, long way. At
home and abroad we're putting our old differences aside; we're putting old
problems behind us, healing the wounds, the angers that existed some 2 years
ago. It's a record that I'm proud to run on, a record the people of Washing-
ton and concerned citizens throughout the whole United States-Democrats,
Independents, and Republicans—who can and will support this ticket of Jerry
Ford and Bob Dole on November 2.
Give me your mandate, and we'll reduce the growth of government even more.
Give me your mandate, and we'll ensure the integrity of the social security
system. We'll improve Medicare so that our older citizens can enjoy the health
and happiness that they have so richly earned. There is no reason that our older
citizens should have to go broke just to get well.
Give me your mandate, and we'll create a tax system that is fair to all, that
will preserve the family, the family home, the family business, the family
farm, that will give to business the tax incentives to build new plants, modernize
old ones, and create more and more jobs throughout America.
Give me your mandate, and I will lead this Nation on the paths of peace
2681
