July 19
[675]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
personal financial matters which could give rise to a conflict of interest in the
performance of their official duties.
My proposal would require Federal public officers and employees to file
financial reports with a designated office in their branch of government. In
addition, public disclosure would be made of the financial statements of (i)
all elected officials, (ii) high ranking officers or employees appointed by such
officials, (iii) significant policy making and confidential employees, and (iv)
other employees compensated at the rate of GS-16 or above (but not those
in competitive civil service or who, save for certain legal exemptions, would be
in the competitive civil service). My proposed legislation would also give the
Comptroller General oversight authority to audit such statements as well as the
authority to make findings of a conflict of interest and if the problem is not cor-
rected, to make those findings public. Thus, the public's right to have ac-
countability from public officers and employees is doubly protected: first, by
the executive, legislative or judicial branch office with which reports are filed,
and secondly, by the Comptroller General.
In addition, my proposal would close certain loopholes contained in the
current Senate bill. For example, the present proposal requires the reporting
of any item received in kind whose fair market value "for such item” exceeds
$500. Such provision would allow a series of gifts from the same source, each
valued at less than $500 to go unreported. Under my proposed legislation such
gifts would be aggregated and hence require reporting. Moreover, my pro-
posal would make clear that while property owned for personal use, such as the
family home, furniture, jewelry, the family car, etc., need not be inventoried in
disclosure forms, property of a business or investment nature must be reported.
Assets unknown to the individual because they are held in a bona fide “blind
trust" need not be identified, but the trust interest must be disclosed.
I believe these provisions better serve the public interest than those contained
in S. 495. Therefore, I urge the Congress to give prompt and favorable
consideration to my proposal.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
GERALD R. FORD
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
A copy of the proposed legislation was also in-
cluded as part of the release.
2047
