[904]
October 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
American agriculture has maintained an average of a 6-percent increase in
productivity year after year. No other segment of our society, or any other so-
ciety, has been able to do that well. And I congratulate you on behalf of 215
million Americans.
You have been so successful because you've used your own ingenuity, your
own inventiveness, your own initiative to produce the finest and the most
abundant food and fiber throughout the world. If you are to continue meeting
the needs of this country and our trading partners throughout the world, you
must continue to have this kind of freedom-freedom from the meddling hand
and the long arm of an arbitrary, autocratic government.
What are the results of this policy? Average farm income over the last 3 years
has been higher than ever before in the history of America. For the farmer in
Iowa, total net income on the average has risen from about $6,900 in 1965 to
about $14,800 in 1975. You no longer have heavy Government-held surpluses
hanging over the market depressing your prices, costing the taxpayers $1 billion
a year—or $3 million a day-in storage and handling fees.
Instead of storing grain in Government bins, we are selling it in a free market
in record volume. Farm exports hit a record of $22 billion in the last fiscal year,
our sixth straight year of record farm exports. And I am glad to say that exports
are expected to be about $22 billion again in this fiscal year.
We will export nearly 3 billion bushels of wheat and feed grains in this
marketing year, an alltime record. We did it without any Government board
selling your exports, as some countries do. And under a Ford administration,
we will never have that kind of arbitrary action—a Government board selling
your hard work, hard-earned products from your farms. We did it without any
international reserve where this country could be outvoted 100 to 1.
We have worked out a long-term agreement, as all of you know, with the
Soviet Union, which commits them to buy at least 6 million metric tons of
grain every year for the next 5 years. In dollars and cents, that's at least $1 billion
worth of grain sales every 12 months. This agreement gives us a stable, long-term
foreign market. It assures us of a more consistent flow of payments from abroad.
It assures the American farmer that the Soviet Union will be a steady customer
whether they have good crops or bad.
In the past, Soviet grain purchases have been erratic, secretive, unpredictable,
causing prices to fluctuate widely, leaving the American farmer on the short
end. The Soviets have already bought over 6½ million metric tons of wheat
and corn for the first year of this agreement. To date, we have sold the Soviet
Union more than 8 million metric tons of grain and soybeans from this year's
1
2540
