July 29
[702]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Aranda, Jr. Tom, where are you? If you have any trouble in the White House,
call Tom. [Laughter] We hope you have no reason to call him, and we will try
to avoid it, but that's his job. And we are proud to have you on board, Tom.
My new Assistant Secretary of the Department of Interior, Albert C. Zapanta.
I think most of you recognize that the Department of Interior has vast respon-
sibilities, and I can assure you that we have great faith in the fine job that Albert
will do. Congratulations.
We have two diplomatic appointments: Phil Sanchez, he's our new Ambas-
sador to Colombia, a very important post-and congratulations, Phil-and
Ignatio Lozano, whom I have nominated to be our Ambassador to El Salvador.
It, likewise, is a position of responsibility and an area where we must have a
greater and greater influence and interest. And I am sure that both of these two
outstanding appointees will do a fine job-and the very best.
And, of course, we have Sam Martinez. Where is Sam? There he is. Sam, of
course, came from Denver, and we brought him to Washington to fill a very
important post. And I am confident that this very difficult, very vital position
of responsibility as Director of the Community Services Administration will
be in excellent hands with Sam's experience and ability and dedication. Thank
you very much, Sam, for coming to Washington.
I think these appointments plus the others that have been made is very
indicative that this administration wants a vigorous involvement of Hispanic
Americans in governing our Nation. Just as you need more advocates in
government—and we are seeking to achieve and to accomplish that—America
needs more Hispanic representatives in Congress like my good friend Manuel
Lujan, of the great State of New Mexico.
I would like to thank Congressman Lujan for not only his help and assistance
when I was the minority leader—and I know he is doing the same for Congress-
man John Rhodes—but to thank him for the extraordinary effort that he made
under the most difficult circumstances when we had a State convention down
in the State of New Mexico. Manny, I think that your efforts will be vindicated
in several weeks.
But let me say that our common goal is to make life better for the Hispanic
community in the United States by assuring a number of very broad but
very important rights, such as the full voting rights; by improving the standard
of living for all; expanding the educational opportunity, particularly the quality
education, including bilingual programs; by including greater participation in
the minority business enterprise program; and by continuing our successful
efforts to reduce inflation and unemployment for all Americans. These are
2107
