July 20
[679]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and a few hundred feet for a yearlong journey to Mars, crossing some 440 mil-
lion miles.
Unfortunately, your search for a safe landing forced you to delay the Viking's
landing beyond the scheduled July 4 date. But by an extraordinary coincidence,
today is another historic anniversary. Seven years ago, July 20, 1969, we received
a transmission from the Moon telling us, "The Eagle has landed.”
Today's landing, like that one, represents the realization of a dream that is
many, many centuries old. In a sense it is even more significant, for today we
are touching another planet, one that has long excited mankind's imagination.
And this mission offers the possibility of a momentous discovery in the history
of mankind-the existence of life elsewhere in the universe.
If the experiments of Vikings I and II do not reveal living organisms, they
will learn other secrets of the universe. They will tell us a good many things
about our own planet-opening up new possibilities for exploration—and
should produce knowledge that will improve the quality of life right here on
Earth.
Our achievements in space represent not only the height of technological
skills, they also reflect the best in our country—our character, the capacity for
creativity and sacrifice, and a willingness to reach into the unknown.
To both of you Jims and your associates, I have designated today, July 20, 1976,
as Space Exploration Day [Proclamation 4449], and I strongly encourage all
Americans to follow the progress of our Viking missions and to reflect on our
journey into the unknown.
Now, either one of you two Jims, could I ask a few questions?
DR. FLETCHER. Carry on, Mr. President.
The President. As far as I can tell—what kind of shape is the spacecraft in?
MR. MARTIN. This is Jim Martin.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Jim.
MR. MARTIN. Mr. President, the spacecraft appears to be extremely healthy.
All the telemetry indications we have say that it landed softly and safely. It
is just taking beautiful pictures.
THE PRESIDENT. Just a few moments ago, before I came on the line, I saw
some of the pictures. And it's almost impossible to visualize that that quality of
photography could be transmitted from 400-and-some million miles back to
the United States and have such a clear resolution.
What kind of movement, if any, do we anticipate and, if there is any move-
ment on Mars, how will it appear?
MR. MARTIN. Well, Mr. President, if there is real fast movement, like an
2051
