[1005]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
have had, under President Ford's tax reduction program, $1,250 more in
personal exemption for you to spend and not have in the Federal Treasury.”
Now Congress didn't do it. But on January 3, when that next Congress
convenes—and I want all of this good Ohio delegation back there to help me—
I will have on their desk a tax reduction proposal that will include the increase
in the personal exemption; it will increase jobs incentive legislation to help
industry expand, to modernize. And if that Congress doesn't pass it in 1977,
they will have it on their desk in January of 1978, and if they don't give that
kind of decent, equitable tax reduction in 1978, I will join every one of you
trying to beat them in that election in 1978.
But now let's talk about defense. Today the United States, with our Army,
Navy, Air Force, and Marines—we are number one. And under President Ford
we are going to keep them number one. I have recommended appropriations
so they will have the best weapons, the best leadership, the best training. That
is the way to keep the peace. And under President Ford, with the strength
that we have, we will strengthen our alliances. We will be able to look our
adversaries straight in the eye, and they will respect us.
But let me say, you make a great contribution in the city of Columbus,
because in the recommendations that I made for a strong defense—and that is
the way you keep the peace-that we have a B-1 bomber to replace those aging
B-52's that are now 20 and 25 years old. If we don't get the B-1 bomber as an
instrument of peace, the President in the next 5, the next 10 years, if we continue
to rely on the B-52's, will be sending our young combat pilots to protect us in
aircraft older than they are, and that is not going to happen under President
Ford.
I am proud to stand before you and say that I am the first President since
Dwight D. Eisenhower who can tell the American people that America is at
peace. I am proud of the fact that not a single young American is fighting or
dying on any foreign soil today. And we are at peace because the United
States is strong. We are not at war because the United States is strong.
And let me say, wasn't it a great, great celebration on the Fourth of July
when America celebrated its 200th birthday? I happened to have the privilege
to fly over New York Harbor and see those "Tall Ships" coming in, representing
many, many countries. And why did they come to the United States? Because
they respect America. And we are proud of America, and we will continue to
be proud of America.
But now as this great campaign comes to a conclusion, I have the feeling
that we have reunited as a people. When I became President, people were
2828
