October 13
[892]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
My opponent leaves a lot of the issues up in the air, but he is clearly in favor
of additional Federal spending, Federal spending which he endorses of $100
billion or $200 billion each year.
I happen to believe—and this is where the choice is very clear—I happen to
believe in restraining Federal spending, holding the lid on expenditures from
the Federal Government so we can dampen the threat of inflation and let you
keep more of your own hard-earned money in your pocket. Do you want your
taxes raised so you can pay for those hundred billion dollar programs of Jimmy
Carter? I think I heard that loud and clear.
Let me talk for just a minute about taxes. You know where I stand. I recom-
mended last year a $28 billion tax reduction which included a tax reduction of
the personal income exemption, increasing that exemption from $750 to $1,000.
Do you want that tax reduction? I think you want your personal income taxes
cut. Jimmy Carter wants to raise them. Whose side are you on?
Mr. Carter wants to increase the tax or take away the deduction for those
people who are buying homes who get a deduction from the interest payments
on those mortgages. I am against Jimmy Carter on that. I am against Jimmy
Carter's plan to tax church property other than the churches themselves. Whose
side are you on?
Let me talk for just a minute. We want to have peace at home, a prosperous
economy, less inflation, less Federal spending, less Federal taxes. But if we are
going to keep peace at home, we have to have the peace throughout the world.
I don't think you can keep the necessary military strength to meet the challenges
around the world by cutting the defense budget $15 billion. I think we have
to have the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps number one,
and that's what Jerry Ford wants.
I am not willing to take a chance with a weakened national security. The
United States represents leadership throughout the world. We are at peace today.
Not a single young American is fighting or dying on a foreign battlefield today
because we are strong, and we are going to stay that way. But the United States
as a leader throughout the world has an obligation to stand tall and strong with
certain allies and friends throughout the world. The Ford administration
stands shoulder to shoulder with the State of Israel. We believe in its security
and survival and independence.
But let me conclude with just this final observation. I have been
your Presi-
dent for 2 years. Let's look at the record. Inflation is half of what it was when
I became President. More Americans are working today than at any time in the
history of the United States, but Jerry Ford won't be satisfied until every
2511
