October 28
[981]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
special announcement here. I am releasing a comprehensive statement on nuclear
policy, calling upon all nations of the world to join in a cooperative effort to
expand the benefits of peaceful uses of nuclear energy while preventing nuclear
proliferation.
The actions that I'm announcing today are designed to strengthen the
commitment of all nations to the goal of nonproliferation, change as well as
strengthen U.S. domestic policy and programs to support our nonproliferation
goals, and to establish a very strong foundation for increasing the use of nuclear
energy in the United States and abroad.
The State of Ohio will have an important role to play in meeting these new
objectives. We must have new capacity to provide fuel for nuclear powerplants
here as well as abroad. The additional uranium enrichment plant that we are
going to build at Portsmouth, Ohio, is critical to that capacity. Construction of
the Portsmouth plant is now expected to cost $4,400 million and will mean 6,000
new jobs for southern Ohio.
The Administrator of the Energy Research and Development Administration
has assured me that construction of that plant can begin early next year, which
means early 1977. Construction of that plant at Portsmouth, Ohio, will assure
a central role for Ohio for years to come in providing fuel needed for nuclear
powerplants in the United States and around the world.
And I thank the members of the Ohio delegation for the strong support that
they have given me in making this announcement possible. And I particularly
point out Bob Taft, Bill Harsha, and the rest of the southern Ohio delegation
that has done so much to make this announcement possible.
I thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon at the
Greater Cincinnati Airport. In his remarks, he re-
ferred to Governor James A. Rhodes of Ohio, Senator
Robert Taft, Jr., and Representative William H.
Harsha of Ohio.
981
Remarks at a Rally in Cincinnati, Ohio.
October 28, 1976
Thanks very, very much, Governor Jim Rhodes, Senator Bob Taft:
I am certainly looking forward to having Bob Taft down there to help me
in the next 4 years, so he can help Ohio in the next 6 years. Send him back. We
need him, and so do you.
But it is also great to see so many of my old and very dear friends from
the House of Representatives: Bill Gradison, Don Clancy, Tom Kindness,
2751
