September 7
[760]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ably assume that substantially all those to be served have incomes less than 90
percent of the State's median income.
This provision will make it possible for older persons and families who obvi-
ously qualify for federally assisted services to obtain those services without a de-
meaning scrutiny of their personal affairs. It will also eliminate unnecessary
and costly administrative trappings for many service programs, thereby freeing
more Federal and State funds for the actual delivery of services.
H.R. 12455 embodies, in part, still another central element of my Federal
assistance for community services proposal: that States should no longer be re-
quired to match their share of the Federal Title XX social service funds with
State and local tax dollars. Under this bill, as much as $200 million in new Title
XX funds would be distributed in fiscal year 1977 without a requirement for
State matching, if States choose to spend that amount for child day care services.
I am hopeful that this tentative step indicates the willingness of the Congress
to consider seriously the elimination of the matching requirement for all Fed-
eral social services funds under Title XX.
I do have serious reservations about the amount of additional Federal funding
provided in H.R. 12455, although it is less than the amount in the bill I earlier
vetoed. It is also unfortunate that this bill, for the first time under Title XX, des-
ignates levels of funding for specified purposes. This is the antithesis of the spirit
and intent of Title XX which permits States the maximum flexibility to deter-
mine their own priorities in using their share of Federal social services funds. I
am also concerned that the child care provisions of this bill have not been ade-
quately coordinated with child care provisions in the pending tax reform bill.
Much remains to be done to help the States improve their delivery of social
services funded under Title XX. I am gratified that the Congress, in this bill,
has moved in some measure toward accepting concepts in my proposed act to
provide financial assistance for community services. Further action is needed,
however, to provide more comprehensive reform that will provide States the
tools and flexibility to deliver social services to those in need without cumbersome
Federal regulation. I again urge the Congress to act promptly to give my pro-
posal a full and favorable hearing.
2209
