September 29
[830]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
billion, $700 million more than this year. Since 1970 expenditures for these pro-
grams have increased at a rate 75% greater than the rate of growth in the over-
all Federal Budget. Therefore, my 1977 proposals included substantial reforms
in the major areas covered by these appropriations designed to improve their
efficiency and reduce the growth of Federal bureaucracy and red tape.
The majority in control of this Congress has ignored my reform proposals and
added nearly $4 billion in additional spending onto these programs.
The partisan political purpose of this bill is patently clear. It is to present me
with the choice of vetoing these inflationary increases and appearing heedless of
the human needs which these Federal programs were intended to meet, or to
sign the measure and demonstrate inconsistency with my previous anti-inflation-
ary vetoes on behalf of the American taxpayer.
It is to present me with the dilemma of offending the voting groups who bene-
fit by these government programs, or offending those primarily concerned with
certain restrictions embodied in the bill.
I am sympathetic to the purposes of most of these programs. I agree with
the restriction on the use of Federal funds for abortion. My objection to this
legislation is based purely and simply on the issue of fiscal integrity.
I believe the American people are wiser than the Congress thinks. They know
that compassion on the part of the Federal Government involves more than
taking additional cash from their paychecks. They know that inflationary
spending and larger deficits must be paid for not only by all Federal taxpayers
but by every citizen, including the poor, the unemployed, the retired persons
on fixed incomes, through the inevitable reduction in the purchasing power
of their dollars.
I believe strongly in compassionate concern for those who cannot help them-
selves, but I have compassion for the taxpayer, too. My sense of compassion also
says that we shouldn't ask the taxpayers to spend their money for a tangled
mess of programs that the Congress itself has shown all too often to be wasteful
and inefficient—programs which all too often fail to really help those in need.
The Congress says it cares about cutting inflation and controlling Federal
spending.
The Congress says it wants to stop fraud and abuse in Federal programs.
The Congress says it wants to end duplication and overlap in Federal activities.
But when you examine this bill carefully you discover that what the Congress
says has very little to do with what the Congress does.
If the Congress really cared about cutting inflation and controlling Federal
2363
