[870]
October 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the friendship of the people from Dallas, from Texas, and those from Okla-
homa. It's just nice to be here.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:45 p.m. in the
Hall of Six Flags Room at the Hall of State
Building on the Texas State Fairgrounds. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Wayne H. Gal-
lagher, executive vice president and general man-
ager of the Texas State Fair, Governors Dolph Bris-
coe of Texas, David Boren of Oklahoma, and John
B. Connally of Texas 1963-69.
The luncheon was hosted by the Texas State Fair
Board.
871
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception
in Dallas. October 9, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Bill, and let me express from the bottom of
my heart my gratitude and appreciation for all of you 1,500 to 2,000 wonderful
Dallas County, Tarrant County, Texas workers for the Ford-Dole ticket. Thank
you.
We arrived this morning, and let me say to all of the people of the Lone Star
State that we have had, I think, one of the finest days in this campaign, one of
the finest days in my 2 years and plus of the Presidency. I can't express my grati-
tude deeply enough. It has been a super day—the State Fair, a great football
game, and then this great rally.
I would like to make three points, three points that I think are principal and
crucial in this campaign: number one, trust; number two, the national security
of the United States; and number three, taxes.
Some of you may have seen the debate last Wednesday. It was 90 minutes.
I have in my hand here an eight-page document that shows that Jimmy Carter,
in 90 minutes, made 14 distortions, misrepresentations, or inaccuracies. If my
mathematics is right-don't some professor cross me up-[laughter]—that is
about one inaccuracy, distortion, misrepresentation, or untruth, one each six
minutes—that is too darn many for a President of the United States.
And he made a few others in the first debate, and let me remind you of one.
The Governor says he is going to come in and reorganize the Federal Govern-
ment. I think the Federal Government has to be tightened up to be more re-
sponsible and more responsible to the American citizens. But I don't think I
would trust turning that job over to Jimmy Carter, based on his record in
Georgia.
2474
