October 13
[891]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the proper kind of tax relief that the taxpayers deserve. For example, I recom-
mended that we increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's a
meaningful tax return to the middle-income taxpayer, and we're going to get it
next year if we didn't get it this year.
You know we've heard a lot of talk in this campaign about compassion.
Our Government must always show compassion toward the truly needy. The
time has come, as I see it, to show as much compassion toward the people who
make the generosity of Federal Government programs possible in the first place.
But let me add this great, big, important, extra comment: How about a lot of
compassion for the American taxpayer? That is what Jerry Ford stands for.
The people of White Plains work hard for every dollar that you make. You
are the people who get up early every day, go to bed tired every night-quietly
building a better life for your families and your fellow citizens. You pay the
taxes, you obey the laws, you are the people who make possible the good things
that government does.
So, when a Federal spending bill reaches my desk, I keep each and every one
of you in mind. It may be congressional compassion, but it is your money. And
that's why I have vetoed 60 bills sent down to the Oval Office from Capitol Hill,
because they want to spend and spend and spend, and Jimmy Carter wants to
spend and spend and spend. And I'm going to be there to be compassionate
about your tax dollar, period.
The American people cannot afford to have leaders who try to be all things to
all people. The President of the United States must be the same thing to all
people.
When voters look at the record of the last 2 years, they will see that the United
States has made an incredible comeback. Today, we are on the steady road to
peace, prosperity, and trust. But on November 2 we'll reach a fork in that road.
We can continue the policies and the leadership that have brought us back from
a national nightmare, back from recession, back from international conflict, or
we can take instead the same old path that leads to bigger government, higher
taxes, and more inflation and more unemployment.
The choice to each and every one of you voters in this great State of New
York, that's your choice. Through 2 difficult years, I have stood for the little tax-
payer against the big tax spender. It's from your ranks that I come and on
your side that I stand. On November 2, I ask that each and every one of you
stand with me. I would appreciate your help.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:02 a.m. at City
Hall. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Richard Rosenbaum, chairman of the New York
State President Ford Committee, and Mayor Alfred
Delveccio of White Plains.
2509
