[969]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
very, very warm welcome. This stop this afternoon is another milestone in a
great day. We started in Pittsburgh this morning, going to the Jones & Laugh-
lin field steel plant. We first made a speech before the Economic Club of Pitts-
burgh, and then we flew to the Chicago area and had a wonderful greeting out
at Ford City. [Laughter]
I was delighted—and now to come to Allstate, it really is tremendous. But
let me say one thing, that if you have time tonight, I would hope that you
would take 30 minutes and watch a program we are putting on Channel 7. The
master of ceremonies is going to be somebody you have heard of, particularly
if you are interested in sports. Joe Garagiola is going to be the master of cere-
monies. Joe is one of the individuals who volunteered to come out and be an ac-
tive supporter and campaigner with me; in addition, a former colleague of
ours, a good Democrat from the State of Oregon, former Congresswoman
Edith Green, and I think we are going to have Chuck and maybe some others
on the program. It will give you, I think, a new flavor.
I should have added-and I apologize-I think Betty is going to be on it,
too. [Laughter] But I keep going around the country trying to get my votes up
to her polls.
But it is wonderful to be here. And let me take just a few minutes to outline
for you some points that I think are worthy of your attention and, hopefully,
will be persuasive to you when you make that very vital decision a week from
today. It is just 7 days from now.
Naturally, I can recall very, very vividly August 9, 1974. It was the day that I
took the oath of office and walked from the East Room of the White House to
the Oval Office. It was a period of great trouble in America. We had gone
through the trauma of Vietnam. There was anger, bitterness, divisiveness. We
were on the brink of the worst recession in 40 years, and we had had inflation
of 12 percent or more. There was still the problem in Vietnam, with some
50,000 Americans being withdrawn and the circumstances that brought back
bad memories. And then, of course, there was the lack of trust and confidence
in the White House itself.
It was not a very opportune time for a new person to become President of the
United States. But, it was my decision that we had to meet first things first, and
one of those was to restore, without any hesitation or qualification, the restora-
tion of trust and confidence in the White House itself.
I think my being open, by being candid, by being straightforward, the
American people-whether they agree or disagree with whatever policies-
2710
