[861]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
861
Remarks in Beverly Hills, California, to Republican Fundraising
Dinners. October 7, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bob, Governor Reagan, Mrs. Reagan, Holmes
Tuttle, Margaret Brock, Cardinal Manning, Rabbi Magnin, distinguished guests
at 22 dinners across the land, ladies and gentlemen:
It has been 7 weeks since Kansas City. We've got the issues, we've got the mo-
mentum, and we've got less than 4 weeks to win a great victory for the American
people, and we will.
I said in Kansas City that we wouldn't concede a single vote, we wouldn't
concede a single State-and we haven't, and we won't. Governor Reagan and I
are teaming up to say we are going to carry California with 45 electoral votes,
we are going to elect a Republican Senator and a number of new Republican
Congressmen America can be proud of in the next session of the Congress.
I told you in Kansas City that I was ready and eager to debate Mr. Carter
face to face on the real issues. I still am, if I can ever pin him down. [Laughter]
I don't think he knows what the real issues are.
We've heard a lot of doubletalk from Mr. Carter, a lot of conversation, a lot
of irresponsible promises. I still don't know where Mr. Carter stands on most
issues and I am not sure he does, either. I can sympathize when he says he will
have to take a few years of study to examine the problems and get all of the facts.
That's reasonable. Let's give Mr. Carter a few more years to prepare himself, but
not on the taxpayers' money or time.
You know what I will do, because you know what I have done for the past 26
months. You know where we were then, and you know where we are now—at
peace, recovering from a recession, rebuilding pride in America—America's 200
years of freedom. You know what I have done as President, despite the blockade
of a Congress stacked 2 to 1 against me.
We heard before the convention that our party was sick and dying. Now we
hear the voters are overcome with apathy and don't really care who wins this
great election. I don't believe that. I don't believe the American people believe
that. There will be a big election, and we are going to win.
The American people do have a clear choice; they do care. Our job is to get
them to the polls November 2 to register the right choice for this country for
the next 4 years. Make no mistake: This election is about the direction that
America will take in its third century of independence. Mr. Carter can be defi-
2446
