[925]
October 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
time. We certainly will continue to enforce the Civil Rights Act that was passed
when I was in Congress, which I supported. We will enforce it as to the right
to vote, as to housing, as to the opportunities for minority business. We will
cover the spectrum to make sure that any minority, not just blacks but any
minority-Mexican Americans, Chicanos, generally, blacks—all minorities in
this country ought to be treated equitably and fairly, and they will under the
existing laws as they have been for the last 2-plus years.
UNITED STATES RELATIONS WITH ISRAEL
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Barry Goldwater has said that he agrees with Gen-
eral Brown in the sense that Israel is a military burden of the United States
and that we may deplete our own armories to supply Israel and that we may give
Israel too many arms, too much arms. Is Israel a burden in your opinion, and
will we deplete our own arms in giving Israel arms?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a very good question, and I would like to expand a
bit in my response, if I might. The United States is dedicated to the security and
survival of Israel. The 3 million Israelis-they're a democratic state in an area
where democracy doesn't flourish. We have many, many good, firm, fine ties
with the people and with the Government of Israel. I want that to be understood
very clearly.
Now, you have to look at the broad picture when you look at the United
States and Israel's military circumstances. At the time of the Yom Kippur war,
the United States came immediately to the aid of Israel with substantial mili-
tary hardware, military equipment. We drew down from our reserves in Western
Europe, in the NATO forces, U.S. hardware that was sent to Israel. Now, that
was not an irreparable situation in NATO because in the interim, from 1973, we
have virtually made up that drawdown. But for a period of time, one could
say that the immediate needs of Israel in a crisis were a burden to the United
States.
On the other hand, since I have been President-August 9, 1974, to the present
time—in order to make Israel strong militarily, the Ford administration has
either granted or sold about $2½ billion worth of military equipment to the
State of Israel. And the net result is, today Israel is stronger militarily than it was
prior to the Yom Kippur war because of the support of the Ford administra-
tion. So today Israel is not a burden militarily to the United States because of the
forthright action of the Ford administration.
So, you have to take the comments that have been made in the proper context.
Israel is a strong ally who doesn't want U.S. troops to be participants in any
2592
