[934]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. All airports where an SST would land will have to meet the
noise standards prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation and by the FAA.
Q. You said they would be phased in over a period of 8 years, sir. What does
that mean? Let's say in January, will any of these old planes be able to meet these
standards by January or would the SST conceivably be?
a
THE PRESIDENT. We put the noise standards in as of January 1, and there is
mandatory requirement that all new commercial aircraft must meet the stand-
ards as they are now. But in addition, we will provide through regulatory
reform the financing necessary so that the airlines will be able to procure more
new aircraft faster that meet the newly imposed noise standards.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:31 p.m. at Kennedy
International Airport. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Senator James L. Buckley and Representa-
935
tives John W. Wydler and Norman F. Lent of New
York.
Remarks at the Annual Alfred E. Smith Memorial
Dinner in New York City.
October 21, 1976
Your Eminence, I thank you very, very kindly for your very warm and exceed-
ingly kind introduction. Members of the Smith family, Governor Carey, Sena-
tor Javits, Senator Buckley, Mayor Beame, Mr. Silver, Dr. Rusk, distinguished
officials, guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me say first how busy it is, keeping running the country and the campaign
at the same time. We seem to go from one place to another without pausing.
Sometimes it gets confusing, but it is always nice to come back here to Philadel-
phia. [Laughter] I should say thank you and good night—[laughter]—but you
are not going to get off that easy.
You know, one of the first speeches I made when I became Vice President-
designate, in 1973, was here at the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Dinner. I got out
a copy of that speech and read it. It was very short. I have in mind Al Smith's
famous political maxim, "Don't speak until you have something to say." He
also had a favorite line with a surprisingly modern ring, "Never promise any-
thing you are not perfectly sure you can deliver."
It is no wonder that so many politicians of both parties come here every year
to pay tribute to Governor Al Smith's memory. But the dinner also gives oppos-
ing candidates a chance to meet in good fellowship for a brief respite from the
ardors of their campaign, and I sincerely regret that Governor Carter is not here
yet. [Laughter]
2606
