October 8
[864]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and that insofar as it ever did exist, it worked by injecting inflation into our
economy."
He went on to say, “And each time that that has happened, the average level
of unemployment has risen. Higher inflation, followed by higher unemploy-
ment, that is the history of the last 20 years.”
And then the Prime Minister went on with another observation that I think
is so pertinent in this political campaign. He said, “Each time we did this the
twin evils of unemployment and inflation have hit hardest those least able to
stand them—the poor, the old, and the sick." My friends, this is really what this
campaign is all about.
Mr. Carter and his party platform offer more promises, more programs, more
spending, more taxes, more inflation, and more unemployment, and we are not
going to let that happen on November 2.
The unemployment figures for September came out this morning in Wash-
ington, D.C. Unemployment dropped by a tenth of a percent. We are moving
in the right direction, but not with make-work jobs at the taxpayer's expense.
We are moving in the right direction toward full employment by stimulating
the private economy where five out of the six jobs exist in America.
Let me make one other additional comment. I have been talking about how
we can strengthen our economy here at home. But it is equally important that
we strengthen our capability to meet the challenge of any aggressors abroad.
How many of you remember a statement made by a former great President,
Teddy Roosevelt, who said, “Speak softly and carry a big stick"? Mr. Carter
speaks loudly and wants to carry a flyswatter. Mr. Carter wants to cancel or
cut back the B-1. He wants to keep our pilots flying the B-52's that are 20 to 25
years old today. I don't believe we should send a young pilot in a plane that is
older than he is.
The best way I know to keep the peace is to be strong at home with an econ-
omy that meets the challenges that we must face, with a military capability
that will meet every challenge from any source around the world. And you
can't do that with the kind of a $15 billion cut in defense spending that Jimmy
Carter wants to make. You'll weaken us in our challenges from those countries
behind the Iron Curtain or the Bamboo Curtain.
But a military program that I stand for is one of strength so that we can
negotiate with our adversaries from a position of strength. Don't buy the weak
military program in this critical period that Mr. Carter wants to foist upon the
American people. It is wrong for America, and don't stand for it.
Let me conclude by saying that Jerry Ford says that government is already
2463
