[1070]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
To encourage the investment that will mean good steady jobs for our expand-
ing labor force, I am recommending once again a permanent reduction in the
corporate income tax from 48 to 46 percent. I urge as well the enactment of
legislation to make permanent the extension of the 10 percent investment tax
credit and the increased corporate surtax exemption provided by the Tax Reform
Act of 1976. In the longer run we must eliminate the double taxation of dividend
payments. I am therefore renewing my proposal to integrate corporate and
personal income taxes gradually over a period of years beginning in 1978.
I am also renewing my recommendation of accelerated depreciation for in-
vestment in new plants and equipment undertaken in areas where unemploy-
ment is 7 percent or higher. I am firmly convinced that this is a far better way
to raise employment where the economy has not caught up with the recovery
than adding layer upon layer of new spending programs.
Although such tax cuts for individuals and businesses are desirable at this time
to support stronger consumer and capital goods markets, we must be mindful
of the need to bring down our large Federal budget deficit as quickly as possible.
As the economy improves and the demand for private credit becomes greater,
Federal borrowing requirements to finance the deficit must be lowered to avoid
preempting funds needed for private investment and to ensure steady progress
in the battle against inflation. Accordingly, in my Budget Message I am again
recommending responsible restraint in the growth of Federal budget outlays.
These policies will also bring us closer to our goals of stable noninflationary
prosperity.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
Much progress was evident in the rest of the world last year, and international
economic cooperation continued to improve. Restoration of a stable growth
path, however, has proved difficult. Throughout the world, countries are still
grappling with the complicated and painful aftermath of inflation, recession,
and the sharp increases in the relative price of energy. Serious social and politi-
cal problems have made these adjustments more difficult.
When I met with the leaders of the major industrial nations in the summer
of 1976, the restoration of full employment in our several economies was the most
important item on our agenda. Stable full employment and continued improve-
ment in the well-being of our own peoples and the world population at large,
we agreed, will take a number of years. Although the course of faster expansion
seems attractive, it is clearly risky. Impatience which leads to a reacceleration
of inflation could jeopardize the significant progress we have achieved so far.
2948
