[1024]
December 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
As we noted this morning, Mr. Prime Minister, this is particularly a chal-
lenging time for Italy. But your government reacted vigorously and your gov-
ernment acted resolutely. I and, I believe, most Americans are tremendously
impressed by your efforts and your successes. Under your continuing strong
leadership I am confident that Italy can return to a balanced growth and eco-
nomic vitality. This is important to Italy, but it is equally important to Amer-
ica—in part because of the vital interests we share as industrial democracies.
The American people have made clear their commitment to democracy and
democratic methods. I am equally convinced that Italy will maintain its very
strong commitment to the common goals that we share as partners in the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization—a secure peace, democratic freedom, and
economic well-being for all of our people.
Mr. Prime Minister, I know that you are an admirer of the great Roman
statesman, Cicero—his words, and I quote, “When good men of like character
are joined in friendship, there we find the noblest and the strongest union."
In the discussions that we had this morning following your coming to the
White House, we had an opportunity to reinforce my conviction that his words
aptly describe the relationship between our two people.
It is with pleasure and a great deal of confidence, Mr. Prime Minister, that
I express the continued best wishes of the American people as well as the con-
tinued full support of the United States of America, our Government, for your
Government and the policies that it is following.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to the Prime Minister
of Italy, to the enduring friendship between our two countries, and to our
mutual commitment to peace, freedom, and progress for all mankind.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
The Prime Minister spoke in Italian. His remarks
were translated as follows:
Mr. President, first of all, I am particularly
grateful to you for having organized this gathering
of so many prominent American personalities
among whom I see so many connected with my
country by origin and by spiritual affinity. It is a
delightful crowning of the first part of my work-
ing visit to Washington. And this bears witness
once more to the fact that the ties between our
two countries are not represented only by political
and economic interests and in general by collective
interests, they are to be found in the ever more
numerous individual and private contacts at all
levels and in all sectors.
Your country offers us familiar images and
echoes. We can see the classical aspects of pal-
ladian inspiration in your Nation's Capital. There
is the presence of millions of individuals who are
deeply loyal American citizens, still deeply attached
to the land of their fathers. This presence makes our
relationship very spontaneous and creative. It ranges
from the contribution of untold thousands to the
individual achievements in the field of politics,
science, arts, information, show business, music,
and cinema.
We Italians look with pride to this other Italy
transplanted in the United States, and it is natural
for us to think back to the hopes of our navigators,
who came seeking a land of development and ex-
pansion for the overflowing energies of the Western
World. It is particularly appropriate to recall dur-
ing the celebration of the Bicentennial of your
Declaration of Independence that the strongest tie
between our two countries is represented by this
very possibility, which was offered throughout the
two centuries of your history, for the people com-
2854
