October 31
[1000]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
income people and to give tax reductions to industry so they can expand, build
new plants in Suffolk County, expand the ones that are here, and make this a
healthy economy through the free enterprise system.
My opponent, when he talks about taxes, he sort of escalates one day, then he
goes down the next, and really, even the finest newspaper people in this
country-and they are all over there-can't figure out where he stands on taxes.
But they know where I stand. I have told them and the American people I am
for a tax reduction. That is the best tax reform I know.
Last January I sent a tax reduction package up to Capitol Hill, and I said
you ought to cut taxes $28 billion and hold the line on Federal spending by
$28 billion. Well, Congress gave us half a loaf, but they didn't hit the tax
reduction where it should have been applied.
Fifty percent of the American people—50 percent—are middle-income tax-
payers. They have been short-changed over the last 10 years, and President Ford's
tax reduction proposal to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000
helps those people who obey the laws, raise their families, and make a better life
for America.
The other day I was out in a plant talking to a number of people working on
a production line, and they stopped and I chatted. One of them said, “Well,
what are you going to do about my taxes?" I said, "How many children do
you have?" He said, "I have three." It turns out he had a wife, three kids, and
himself. I said, “If Congress had acted responsibly and done what I suggested
they do, next April when they go to make out that income tax return,” I said,
"mister, you could have taken $1,250 more in personal exemption." He said,
"Why didn't Congress do it?" Well, you will have to ask the majority party.
They didn't want to give it to you.
But the point is they didn't do it. I am going to have a tax reduction package
right on their doorstep and on their desk when Congress comes back in January.
The American people want tax relief, and President Ford has recommended it,
he is going to fight for it, and we're going to get it for you.
But now that we have gotten over the hump where we have had an oppor-
tunity to pull together like we did—and wasn't that a magnificent day when we
celebrated our 200th birthday? I will never forget-never will I forget taking a
flight over Manhattan and seeing those beautiful "Tall Ships" from many,
many, many nations throughout the world who came to the United States to
pay their respect to the great and wonderful country in which we live.
2813
