[787]
September 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
From our first honorary Italian-American, Christopher Columbus, to contem-
porary figures as diverse as Enrico Fermi¹ and Vince Lombardi,² the Italian
fiber is woven deeply into the fabric of the United States of America.
Italian Americans have made their marks in many different areas, but they
have all shared at least one common quality, uncommon pride—pride in their
country, pride in themselves, pride in the roles they played in making America
what it is. In every century and in every field of endeavor, Italian-Americans
have given their country their energy, their talents, and their devotion and their
blood.
3
When the earthquake struck Italy earlier this year, the American response
was swift and bipartisan. Just this morning, Jeno Paulucci and Ambassador
John Volpe ³ reported to me on the way our $25 million of disaster relief assist-
ance is being spent to relieve suffering in the country which has given America
so much. I congratulate Jeno for his observations and recommendations, which
included not only his views as to how our program was being administered but
his very constructive recommendation that you needed something more than
government to just do the job; his proposal that Italian industry contribute in
this situation—as it has through his leadership in Minnesota in alleviating some
of the problems and making some progress in that State.
I hope and trust, Jeno, that the proper authorities in Italy will follow your
recommendations, and not only have the Italian Government and our aid
through our Government agencies do the job but do the same with the help
and assistance of the private sector in Italy, itself.
I remember also, if I might, something Vice President Rockefeller told me
after he visited the earthquake site at my request in May. He was struck by
the fact that in the midst of destruction and personal tragedy, one of the first
concerns of the people was to protect their monuments, their churches, and
their cultural heritage. There is a lesson in that for the United States, for we
also risk seeing some of our cultural heritage destroyed, not by a sudden shock
of an earthquake, but by a gradual erosion.
We must be aware of the growing danger of conformity of American
thought and American behavior. We need to encourage and protect individu-
ality. Our national wealth of culture, ethnic and religious traditions, is a valu-
able counterbalance to the overwhelming sameness and subordination of
1 Winner of the 1938 Nobel Prize in physics.
Head coach of the Green Bay Packers 1959-67 and Washington Redskins 1969, professional football
8 United States Ambassador to Italy.
teams.
2260
