September 20
[793]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, with all of this improvement in your productivity and your invest-
ment and your effort, it's absolutely essential that the American farmer be
adequately compensated and that means a fair price in a free market. And this
is what we must insist upon in the years ahead.
As I look around this audience, I am sure there are people like myself who
knew in the fifties, and to some extent in the sixties, we had substantial sur-
pluses of wheat and corn and other agricultural commodities. They were a
depressant on the market, and the fact that the Government had these substan-
tial surpluses were injurious to the American farmer. We have gotten rid of all
those surpluses by an expanded world market, and we are going to continue
to expand our markets around the world.
Last year, we exported some $21 billion worth of American farm commodi-
ties, and we will do better in 1976. And this will be good for us here at home,
and it will be extremely helpful to those customers overseas.
Now, as a result of a free market, as a result of our record exports in the last
3 years, American agriculture has had the highest net income in the history
of this country. But we are not satisfied with the record of the last 3 years.
We think the farm policies we have are farm policies that will increase the
economic circumstances of America's farmers and ranchers.
Let me say a word, if I might, about taxes. Most of you know that earlier
this year I recommended to the Congress that we increase the personal exemp-
tion for the estate tax from $60,000-what it was when it was established in the
first place back in 1942—and I proposed that it be increased to $150,000, or
higher. We've kept the pressure on the Congress, and there will be a significant
improvement in the estate tax exemption. The Congress didn't go along with
what I recommended entirely, but it's a major step forward. And I think it
means that what we will have is a farm or a small business can go from one
generation to the next without the tax collector coming in and taking over.
It seems to me that in addition, we have to do something affirmatively about
our personal income taxes, generally. Earlier this year, I recommended to the
Congress that we increase the personal exemption from $750 per person to
$1,000. Let's take a family of four. A family of four with that kind of a tax
reduction would get an additional $1,000 personal exemption. If you have a
family of six, it would be $1,500 added personal exemption.
This is an attempt—this recommendation came from me because our middle-
income taxpayers have been short-changed over the last 10 years. I believe that
that group ought to get additional tax relief.
I recognize fully that we are trying to get our Federal finances in order. We
2271
