[760]
September 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
importance, but supportive government action is acceptable as long as it does
not interfere with the family role.
Earlier this year, I vetoed the predecessor version of this bill, H.R. 9803, not
because I disagreed with its goals, but because that bill was the wrong means to
a worthwhile end. The Congress sustained my veto. Today I have signed a new
and better child day care bill-the result of compromise and cooperation between
the Congress and my administration. H.R. 12455 embodies a major compro-
mise on a key issue which led to that veto-the imposition on States and locali-
ties of costly and controversial Federal staffing requirements for child day care
services funded under Title XX of the Social Security Act.
H.R. 9803 would have imposed these standards effective July 1 of this year.
Had that bill become law, it would have brought about an unwarranted Federal
preemption of State and local responsibility to ensure quality day care services.
H.R. 12455, by postponing the Federal standards until October 1, 1977, will en-
able the States to operate day care programs for more than another year, free of
onerous and costly Federal intrusion, while HEW completes a required major
study and report with recommendations on the day care standards. In addition,
the Congress will have the opportunity to act on my proposed Federal Assist-
ance for Community Services Act, submitted to the Congress last February to
reform the Title XX social services program.
My proposal would provide the States with the opportunity to administer the
Title XX program with the necessary flexibility to meet their most pressing needs
as they themselves determine those needs. It would simplify program operations
and remove many of the burdensome and restrictive Federal requirements so
that social services can be provided in the most efficient and effective manner
and can be most responsive to the needs of our citizens. As part of this overall
approach, it would require the States to adopt and enforce their own standards
for federally assisted child day care.
While I am disappointed that the Congress has not, in H.R. 12455, clearly
placed this responsibility and authority in the States, the bill's lengthy suspen-
sion of the standards is a positive step toward this objective.
H.R. 12455 does adopt a concept contained in my Federal assistance to com-
munity services proposal by permitting States to provide Title XX services on a
"group eligibility" basis, except for most child day care services. Under this bill,
States will not have to require that senior citizens and other persons who need
and depend on social services programs be subjected to individual income and
assets tests in order to determine whether they can participate in these programs.
Such persons will be eligible as members of groups, when the States can reason-
2208
