October 16
[907]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to introduce them. And I thank them for joining Betty and me, indicating
their support for what we've done and what we will do to make a better America.
We will be down there.
[4.] LINCOLN (1:29 p.m.)
HI, everybody. It's great to be in Pontiac. I have just been corrected-Bloom-
ington and Lincoln. [Laughter]
Let me say on behalf of Betty that we have had a delightful day, starting
with Joliet, and we're-great to be here. It's just wonderful to see such a tremen-
dous crowd. Ed Madigan, your outstanding Congressman, tells me there are
more people here than in the community itself. Thank you very much.
Before saying a word or two-Betty and I reiterate our appreciation—let
me introduce some people who have joined us in this trip through the heart-
land of Illinois. First, I'd like to introduce to you the next Governor of the
State of Illinois, Jim Thompson. Let me add how grateful I am that Chuck
Percy, your outstanding United States Senator, has been with us all day long.
Thank you, Chuck.
It would be the best thing for the State of Illinois to have George Lindberg,
your State comptroller, for the next 2 years-4 years. Then it is so wonderful
to have the opportunity of saying that my association with Ed Madigan when
I was in the House and his support for me while I've been President of the
United States, I appreciate. He's good for you, he's good for Illinois, and he's
great for the United States.
Let me take just a minute to let you in on some inside information. This
morning I got a telegram from Governor Carter, who is attempting to clarify
his position on a number of important issues. Specifically, there seems to be
some confusion over exactly where Jimmy Carter does stand on a number of
issues.
I sent him a telegram indicating that I'm delighted to help him clarify his
position on such important issues as income taxes, the deductibility of mortgage
interest payments, Federal spending programs, and the defense budget.¹ The
Governor denies that he is for increasing taxes on middle-income families. I
pointed out to him that in an interview with the Associated Press he specifically
stated that he wanted to increase income taxes on those families whose income
level is above the medium, which is approximately $14,000 per year.
I'm against increasing anybody's taxes; I think we should cut taxes for the
American people. The Governor denied that he had advocated eliminating the
¹ See Item 908.
2553
