October 28
[979]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But equally important, I understand you have some topnotch congressional
candidates, Larry Buell, David Crane. Elect them. I need them. You need them
in Washington, D.C.
I'm deeply grateful to Mr. McAlister for heading up this wonderful affair,
and, of course, I'm extremely grateful to Forrest Tucker for being a great mas-
ter of ceremonies so early in the morning.
There are two friends, I understand, Forrest introduced, but I would like
to express my deep gratitude and appreciation to both of them. They're making
an extraordinary effort to be helpful. First, a fellow you've heard about, Joe
Garagiola.¹ Joe, where are you?
I am extremely indebted to one of the outstanding Members of the House of
Representatives—I should say really in the Congress—and I think Bill Bray and
Bud Hillis and John Myers would verify this—one of the outstanding Members
of the United States Congress during my many years there. She and I served
together, she on the Democratic side of the aisle and I on the Republican. But
there was no person in the Congress who was more knowledgeable and more
farsighted, more helpful to education in the Congress on either side of the aisle,
than former Congresswoman Edith Green, and I want to express my apprecia-
tion for her loyal and wonderful support. Thank you very, very much Edith.
Obviously, it's wonderful to be here in Indianapolis, a city growing stronger
under good Republican management and Hoosier pride, a city with a tradition
of outstanding leaders from such men as Dick Lugar and Bill Hudnut.
Before Bill became your mayor, he was a colleague of mine in the House of
Representatives. This year it's Dick Lugar's turn to go to Washington, and on
November 2 you're going to send him there.
Bill Hudnut and Dick Lugar are both so talented I think we ought to
agree to share them. You can keep one here to keep Indianapolis on the right
track, as long as we can have the other one in Washington to get Congress back
on the right track.
Let me say a word or two about your great Governor. When Doc Bowen came
to Indiana, to its State House, 4 years ago, that was one house call that helped
over 5 million people. His wisdom and his experience have served you so well
in the past 4 years, and I just am so encouraged to see that the voters of the great
State of Indiana are apparently going to give him an overwhelming victory.
And that's a great, great tribute to you Doc, for the superb job that you've done.
Now we have less than a week to go before Election Day. One of the major
issues in this Presidential campaign has been the state of our national economy.
1 NBC sports commentator.
2745
