[1063]
January 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
claims at a fair level. Ratification of Montreal Protocols No. 3 and No. 4 by the
United States will significantly advance these efforts to increase the economic
protection of users of the international air transport system. Ratification by
the United States will be an invitation to those States which have hesitated,
while awaiting United States action, to approve the Protocols.
Montreal Protocols No. 3 and No. 4 are part of what would be a compre-
hensive package of benefits available to United States citizens traveling to and
from the United States by air and to international shippers by air. This pack-
age would include a proposed domestic plan to supplement recoveries under
the new protocols in cases of passenger injury or death, which is now being
considered by the Civil Aeronautics Board.
The development of a comprehensive system of compensation for injured
parties in aviation accidents, and modernized rules relating to baggage, ticket-
ing procedures, and cargo documentation and damage provisions are achieve-
ments that, upon the entry into force of Montreal Protocols No. 3 and No. 4,
will bring the legal regime which has developed under the 1929 Warsaw Con-
vention into today's world. For these reasons, I recommend that the Senate give
prompt consideration to these protocols and give its advice and consent to
ratification at an early date.
The White House,
January 14, 1977.
1064
GERALD R. FORD
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Legislation To Provide
Temporary Secret Service Protection for Certain Former
Federal Officials and Their Families. January 14, 1977
I AM transmitting for consideration by the Congress an urgent Joint Resolu-
tion which would authorize the Secret Service to furnish protection to a person
who as a Federal Government official or as a member of such official's im-
mediate family had been receiving protection for a period immediately pre-
ceding January 20, 1977, if the President determined that such person may
thereafter be in significant danger. This protection could not continue beyond
July 20, 1977, unless otherwise permitted by law.
2934
