[862]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
velopment Act, which would replace the seven categorical programs for urban
renewal, model cities, et cetera, and made it one single block grant approach.
And let me illustrate what that can do. Under the old program, for the appli-
cations to proceed from the city to the regional office to the Federal office, it took
31 months. Now, I am sure there are some city officials here who can confirm
that was about the time it took. Under the present time, it takes 3 months. And
furthermore, those applications under those old seven categorical grant pro-
grams—they were 1,800 pages. Today they are 25 pages.
The net result is we have reduced the processing time and we have reduced
the paperwork from the point of view of city managers and others. And we are
going to keep on that kind of pressure in order to make the Government more
responsive and responsible.
Q. Mr. President, would your new administration be interested in and amen-
able to tax credit and tax incentives, maybe, to put small minority businessmen
on a par with their majority counterparts?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what we have recommended is that there be tax incen-
tives for any businessman who either moves the plant into the inner city or ex-
pands and modernizes his business within the inner city where unemployment
is 7 percent or higher, if I recall the precise figure.
That, to me, would be an incentive and a very substantial part to the black
businessman who wants to give jobs in the inner city to the unemployed, par-
ticularly the disadvantaged and the blacks, within a city.
I would have to look into whether it is constitutional to give a tax incentive
to a particular race or color or religion under the Constitution. I just would have
to give that some thought, but I do believe that the program we've recommended
would be a stimulant in the direction in which you think it would be wise.
I would have to, in all honesty-rather than give an answer that I might have
to change a week from now-take the thoughtful and, I think, responsible
course. And I will let you know. But I know that the program we have proposed
would be very helpful to the inner city where unemployment among the youth,
particularly the minority groups, is much too high. If we could have that kind of
a program, I think it would be a substantial solution to the problem that you
have raised.
Q. Mr. President, I am with Hydraulic Research Textron in Valencia, and my
question deals with your debate strategy. Mr. Carter keeps evading the questions
asked by the panel that probe his weaknesses. Why aren't you forcing him to
answer the questions directly?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is no question that in-for example, his 3-minute
2454
