September 23
[803]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
803
Presidential Campaign Debate of
September 23, 1976
THE MODERATOR. I am Edwin Newman, moderator of this first debate of the
1976 campaign between Gerald R. Ford of Michigan, Republican candidate for
President, and Jimmy Carter of Georgia, Democratic candidate for President.
We thank you, President Ford, and we thank you, Governor Carter, for being
with us tonight.
There are to be three debates between the Presidential candidates and one
between the Vice-Presidential candidates. All are being arranged by the League
of Women Voters Education Fund.
Tonight's debate, the first between Presidential candidates in 16 years and the
first ever in which an incumbent President has participated, is taking place
before an audience in the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia, just 3 blocks
from Independence Hall. The television audience may reach 100 million in
the United States and many millions overseas.
Tonight's debate focuses on domestic and economic policy. Questions will be
put by Frank Reynolds of ABC News, James Gannon of the Wall Street
Journal, and Elizabeth Drew of the New Yorker magazine.
Under the agreed rules the first question will go to Governor Carter. That was
decided by the toss of a coin. He will have up to 3 minutes to answer. One fol-
lowup question will be permitted with up to 2 minutes to reply. President Ford
will then have 2 minutes to respond.
The next question will go to President Ford, with the same time arrange-
ments, and questions will continue to be alternated between the candidates.
Each man will make a 3-minute statement at the end, Governor Carter to go
first.
President Ford and Governor Carter do not have any notes or prepared
remarks with them this evening.
Mr. Reynolds, your question for Governor Carter.
MR. REYNOLDS. Mr. President, Governor Carter.
Governor, in an interview with the Associated Press last week, you said you
believed these debates would alleviate a lot of concern that some voters have
about you. Well, one of those concerns-not an uncommon one about candidates
in any year—is that many voters say they don't really know where you stand.
Now, you have made jobs your number one priority, and you have said you
are committed to a drastic reduction in unemployment. Can you say now, Gov-
2283
