[860]
October 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
water that we drink and the air that we breathe. We must enlarge our capacity
for recreation, enrich and preserve our treasure of natural beauty and our heri-
tage of history throughout America.
We must keep America strong and secure, but with volunteers and not with
a military draft. Above all, we must keep the peace that America enjoys today,
the peace that finds no Americans in combat anywhere throughout the globe
right now. I am the first President in 20 years to stand for election in a time of
peace. You are the first generation of college graduates who in 15 years do
not have to face the prospects of going to war. And I intend to keep it that way.
Keeping peace with freedom is the key to all of our hopes and aspirations.
Without peace, we cannot concentrate on improving the quality of life in
America. Without freedom, life has no quality at all. Therefore, I will take every
possible step to build peace, not only for ourselves but for all of the world. We
are taking those steps today toward peace where the going is hardest, but where
the stakes are the highest-the Middle East, southern Africa, and the strategic
arms limitation talks with the Soviet Union.
After so many years of war, we are proud as a nation to stand for peace. We
are proud to stand for what is right in the world-human dignity, decency,
equality, and freedom.
Last night in the debate, I spoke of America's firm support for the aspiration
for independence of the nations of Eastern Europe. The United States has never
conceded—and never will concede-their domination by the Soviet Union. I
admire the courage of the Polish people and have always supported the hopes
of Polish Americans for freedom of their ancestral homeland. It is our policy
to use every peaceful means to assist countries in Eastern Europe in their efforts
to become less dependent on the Soviet Union and to establish closer and closer
ties with the West and, of course, the United States of America.
I am every much aware of the present plight of the Eastern European nations,
and as I declared in this year's Captive Nations proclamation [4448], and I
quote, "The United States supports the aspirations for freedom, independence
and national self-determination of all peoples. We do not accept foreign domi-
nation over any nation," period.
We really believe, as our founders did, that these are the inalienable rights of
people everywhere. We believe that America is a very special country, that in
200 years we have passed from open rebellion against foreign misrule to a peace-
ful, continuing revolution for the rights of free men and women.
If we are to be true to our heritage, Americans must continue to have the
confidence that we can control our own lives, that we can leave our children
2444
