[716]
August 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Jesse Owens is a modest man. Jesse may wonder why I am singing his praises
here today.
Jesse, would you please step forward?
Jesse, it is my privilege to present you today with the Medal of Freedom,
the highest civilian honor that your country can bestow. And I present you with
this medal on behalf of the people of the United States. For them in particular,
and especially for the athletes like those here today, your character, your achieve-
ments will always be a source of inspiration.
The citation reads as follows: "To Jesse Owens, athlete, humanitarian, speaker,
author—a master of the spirit as well as the mechanics of sport. He is a winner
who knows that winning is not everything. He has shared with others his cour-
age, his dedication to the highest ideals of sportsmanship. His achievements have
shown us all the promise of America and his faith in America has inspired
countless others to do their best for themselves and for their country."
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:15 p.m. in the
East Garden at the White House.
Mr. Owens' response to the President's remarks.
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presiden-
tial Documents (vol. 12, p. 1245).
717
Message to the Congress Reporting on Administration
Efforts To Settle the Cyprus Conflict. August 6, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Public Law 94-104, I am submitting my fifth periodic report
on the progress of the Cyprus negotiations and the efforts this Administration
is making to help find a lasting solution to the problems of the island. In pre-
vious reports I have emphasized my strong desire to see a just and lasting settle-
ment. I have reviewed in detail the efforts this Administration has made to help
realize that achievement, and the progress that has been made thus far. I have
indicated that while a Cyprus solution cannot be dictated by the United States,
or imposed by any outside party there are certain elements which are con-
sidered essential to an equitable settlement. These I detailed for the Congress
in my report of December 8, 1975.
These essential elements have not changed. Nor has my conviction, voiced
in earlier reports, that real progress can be achieved provided mutual distrust
and suspicions are set aside and both parties forego rhetoric which needlessly
hinders the search for a just settlement.
2134
