July 19
[674]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that are being considered, so I don't think we have to go through the similar
kind of routine that Governor Carter went through.
As I understood it, he had never met several of the people that he considered.
So, I could really understand why he went through that process. Because of my
experience and knowledge about all of the individuals that I think are being
considered, I don't think that kind of a process has to be carried out.
EFFECT OF COMMUNISTS IN ITALIAN GOVERNMENT ON U.S. POLICY TOWARD ITALY
[18.] Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up on the question of Italy, since it is
possibly related to other European countries, is there an American formula,
should the Communists go to power in Italy, which will be applied?
The President. We aren't going to dictate any formula to the Government
of Italy or to the people of Italy. That is a decision for them to make. But I have
expressed our views concerning Communist involvement in that Government as
far as its impact on NATO.
SWINE FLU IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM
[19.] Q. Mr. President, can we ask you about the swine flu program? We
understand it is in jeopardy now. The insurance companies will not insure the
pharmaceutical companies which are making up the batch of vaccine. What can
you do about it? Can the Government supply insurance?
THE PRESIDENT. Last week the Secretary of HEW and Dr. Cooper 2 met with
the four manufacturers and their legal counsel. I got a report Friday from
Secretary Mathews. He was more optimistic than some of the press stories
seemed to indicate. I have not talked to him today, but we are going to find a
way, either with or without the help of Congress, to carry out this program
that is absolutely essential, a program that was recommended to me unanimously
by 25 or 30 of the top medical people in this particular field. So, we are going
to find a way, and I think we will eventually do it. And I expect the full
cooperation of the industry and all other parties involved.
LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL TO RESTORE PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE GOVERNMENT
[20.] Q. Mr. President, that Watergate reform bill, the Senate version of
it goes to the floor today. Until last week the administration, I gather, was very
much opposed to it. Now you are in with a major proposal to change it. Can you
tell us how the administration came up with these proposals at the 11th hour?
2 Theodore Cooper, Assistant Secretary for Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.
2037
