October 11
[880]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
newspapers and the hard-working men and women who make them such an
indispensable force in our way of life.
GERALD R. FORD
880
Remarks at a Columbus Day Ceremony. October 11, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bonnie, reverend clergy, Mr. Ambassador, Mr.
Minister, Senator Domenici, Governor Lee, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
Almost 500 years ago a bold Italian mariner dared to challenge the unknown.
Each October we set aside a day to honor his memory. But Columbus Day, in
our Bicentennial Year, reminds us that the courage of 1776 was preceded by
the courage of 1492.
Much has changed in the five centuries since Columbus ventured into the
Atlantic Ocean in command of three small ships, flying the flag of Spain. In an
age of computers, laser beams, and space probes of Mars, it is hard for us to
appreciate the awesome danger Columbus faced—a wide and treacherous ocean,
fickle winds, unreliable equipment.
Columbus knew full well that his daring adventure could easily end in total
disaster. Yet, in spite of the enormous risk, he went forward, not just once but
four times. In doing so, he not only discovered a new world but blazed a nautical
trail for generations of Europeans to follow.
Today, the thread of many cultures and many nations are woven into the
American fabric, which reminds me of a story many times told to me by a Sun-
day schoolteacher in my early youth. He used to talk about the beauty of Joseph's
coat-the many colors—the beauty of Joseph's coat and its many colors. I be-
lieve that the beauty and strength of America is its diversity, just like the beauty
of Joseph's coat is its beauty.
I salute the Italian-American Bicentennial Commission and the Knights of
Columbus of the metropolitan area for cosponsoring this wonderful occasion on
this gorgeous day. Columbus Day is not just a celebration for Americans of
Italian or Hispanic heritage, but a truly national tribute by all Americans.
Over the years, millions of immigrants have come to America from every
corner of the globe. Many millions have been sons and daughters of Italy fol-
lowing the course of Columbus. Like Columbus, they crossed an ocean to pursue
a dream. Like Columbus, they took great risks. Their greatest reward was the
2483
