July 27
[692]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
particular environmental losses cannot be attributed to identifiable persons and
that grants for public facilities are used only to the extent that loans or loan
guarantee assistance is not available.
The Secretary of Commerce will act expeditiously to implement the energy
development impact provisions so that we can accelerate OCS energy develop-
ment to meet our Nation's energy needs in an environmentally responsible man-
ner and to work closely with the 30 coastal States which are now participating
in the Coastal Zone Management Program.
It is appropriate that this new program, established by this major innovative
piece of legislation, is being signed in the first year of our Nation's third century.
The issues of energy and our environment—to which this bill is directed—
will surely be high on our Nation's list of priority concerns throughout the
decades ahead.
692
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister J. Malcolm
Fraser of Australia. July 27, 1976
Prime Minister Fraser, Mrs. Fraser, ladies and gentlemen:
In this Bicentennial Year the United States has been honored to welcome
the leaders of many, many friendly nations, and we are especially and particu-
larly pleased that the Prime Minister of Australia has come to Washington,
D.C., our Nation's Capital.
Australia is especially close to the hearts of Americans throughout our coun-
try. The American and Australian people share common roots, common simi-
larities, and the strongest affinities. We hold in common a devotion to the pres-
ervation of liberty not only in our own countries but throughout the world.
We share great responsibilities for assisting the emergence of a more just and
stable international order.
Mr. Prime Minister, our countries have long been allies in war as well as in
peace. We have worked together to support other free nations and to improve
the condition of less fortunate people. Our two Governments have a tradition
of close consultation that will be continued in our meetings today.
Australia is assuming increased responsibilities on a worldwide basis. Its posi-
tions on international issues have not been narrowly confined to self-interest,
but have taken on a wider view that we share in this country. We respect this
friendly and independent voice across the Pacific. We welcome Australia's
2089
