September 14
[778]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1974 to conduct an appropriate electric vehicle development program. Under my
fiscal year 1977 budget, ERDA will focus on the research areas that inhibit the
development of practical electric vehicles, for wide-spread use by the motoring
public. Included is an emphasis on advanced battery technology.
Even assuming proper technological advances, the development of a com-
pletely new automobile for large-scale production is a monumental task requir-
ing extensive investment of money and years of development. While the Govern-
ment can play an important role in exploring particular phases of electric vehicle
feasibility—especially in the critical area of battery research—it must be recog-
nized that private industry already has substantial experience and interest in the
development of practical electric vehicle transportation. I am not prepared to
commit the Federal government to this type of a massive spending program
which I believe private industry is best able to undertake.
The White House,
September 13, 1976.
NOTE: On September 16, 1976, the House of Rep-
resentatives voted to override the President's veto.
With the vote in the Senate to override the veto on
GERALD R. FORD
September 17, H.R. 8800 was enacted as Public
Law 94-413 (90 Stat. 1260).
778
Interview on the NBC News' Program "Today."
September 14, 1976
SPEECH AT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
TOM BROKAW. [1.] Two weeks ago, here on the "Today" program, we had
Jimmy Carter, the Democratic Presidential candidate, in a live interview from
his hometown of Plains, Georgia. This morning we will have President Ford
live from the White House.
Mr. Ford, good morning, first of all, and thank you for joining us. Also,
tomorrow night I know that you begin your campaign by taking it on the road
for the first time since Labor Day at the University of Michigan, which is your
alma mater.
Briefly, can you describe for us what will be the main theme of your speech
tomorrow night?
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Tom. I'm looking forward to going to Ann
Arbor tomorrow. I haven't been back there a lot, but I have some great memories
of that fine campus.
2241
