[978]
October 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
something in the quality of life area to make certain, to make positive, that
those who commit a crime are convicted and go to jail.
My administration has always felt that the emphasis should be on the victims
of crime, not the people that commit the crimes. Let me tell you what we're
trying to do. There are, unfortunately, in our society, some who are what we
call hardened criminals, career criminals. Starting better than a year ago, we
tried in 12 cities, a program of helping State and local law enforcement officers,
the courts, with a career criminal program. They went in there and they identi-
fied two or three or five career criminals, and they went after them with an
amazing rate of success.
I think they, in the 12 cities, have a record of conviction of about 90 to 95 per-
cent, and the average sentence is 20 years in jail. That's what ought to happen
to them. But then, now that it has been successful, we are going to expand it, I
think, to 24 or 36 cities in the next 12 months. But it's an obligation of every
one of us to our senior citizens that they can walk to the store, go to church, visit
their friends in safety on the streets of wherever they may live.
But also, we need to make certain that our younger generation has a quality
education. The Federal Government does contribute to local and State educa-
tional programs. But I was dumbfounded just the other day to find that there
are 110 different Federal educational programs. If you can, imagine how many
bureaucrats in Washington are managing 110 educational programs.
But anyhow, what we've tried to do and what we are going to do is to sim-
plify it. Instead of having 110 individual programs, we are going to try and have
a single block grant program in the major areas, the major 25 programs. We'll
increase the money and, at the same time, we'll diminish the number of forms.
We'll get the money for the teachers and for the students. Doesn't that make
a lot of sense to you? Sure does to me.
And then, I think we have to see how we can finance some of these programs.
Last January, as the Members of the House and Senate know, I presented a
budget to them that was different than budgets had been in recent years. We
found that the rate of growth of Federal spending over the last 10 years had
been going up at a rate of 11 percent per year. Unbelievable. And if you projected
that for the next 25 years, this country would have been in dire fiscal circum-
stances. So we decided that we were going to put a lid on the rate of growth of
Federal spending, and we did. We cut it in half.
Now, the Congress didn't respond as well as they should; they did a little
better than they had been doing. But at the same time that I recommended
2742
