[1001]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
I said, “Ask your Congressman is he going to follow President Ford, or is
he going the other direction if Carter should happen to get in the White House.”
Because Jimmy Carter-and I asked all these wonderful press people, can they
find out where Jimmy Carter stands on taxes. I bet there isn't one of those
newspaper or other news media people who could sit down and give a straight
story on where Jimmy Carter stands on taxes.
So, here is a clear choice. You have President Ford, who wants to reduce your
personal income taxes, who wants to give industry a break so that it can expand,
it can modernize, it can do the things that produce jobs for you. That is where I
stand. Well, Jimmy Carter, he's up and down.
But, there are some other things that I think now that we are over the hump
after the tough 2 years we have had, I pledge to you that in the next 2 to 4 years,
with the help of the Congress, that I am going to give us an opportunity to
have a quality of life in America that we have never had heretofore. We are
going to have a job for everybody who wants to work. We are going to have a
home for every young couple that wants to work and save and buy a home in a
decent neighborhood. That is a pledge to you.
We are going to have quality education. We are going to have health care
that is affordable, the best in the world. We are going to see to it that the
criminal element in this country goes into prison and the victims of crime
are protected.
We are going to improve the quality of life. We are going to make the
water that you drink pure, the air that you breathe clean. We are going to
improve the environment of our whole United States so that we can live in the
kind of an atmosphere that is good for all of us.
And so as this great campaign nears its finish, I just know that Nassau
County is going to make a tremendous effort and produce results. I was glad to
hear what Joe said. With those kind of figures we will carry New York, and
with this kind of enthusiasm I know we will get those figures.
One final word: I leave New York with the kind of enthusiasm that I am
sure that other successful candidates for the Presidency have felt as they have
been to rallies like this one.
Yes, I have been proud to be your President during a period of 2 tough years,
but with your help and with your faith and with your determination, it will
be a great honor for me to serve as your President for the next 4 years. Our
forefathers have given us a tremendous history and we should all be deeply
grateful.
2818
