[964]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
electronic situation in this country would be an anathema to me, and I would
vigorously oppose it.
Q. Do you think that broadcasters might gain equal status with the print
media as far as the fairness doctrine is concerned, at least some time in the
near future?
THE PRESIDENT. Will you repeat that again, please? You're getting me in the
midst here. I like them all. [Laughter]
Q. Do you think that broadcasters might gain equal status with the print
media as far as the fairness doctrine is concerned, at least some time in the near
future?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in all honesty, when I say I feel friendly toward the
news media, period—and that's all-encompassing—I do. I don't always like every
story I hear or every comment made on radio or television, but I've always
adopted the feeling that I had a job to do in the Congress as minority leader or as
President, and I hope they understood my responsibilities.
In turn, I understand that they have a responsibility—a responsibility to the
public, a responsibility to their employer—and I've always felt that they
performed very admirably. Don't get me in-between who is the best or the
worst between the electronic and the writing press. I got enough troubles
without that. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:24 p.m. in the West
Ballroom at the Sheraton-Portland Hotel at the asso-
ciation's Northwest regional meeting. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Vincent Wasilewski, presi-
dent of the National Association of Broadcasters,
Representative Edith Green of Oregon 1955-75, co-
chairman of the Citizens for Ford Committee, and
Senator Bob Packwood.
Following the question-and-answer session, the
President met privately in the Washington Room
with Oregon labor leaders.
965
Exchange With Reporters on Departure From Portland,
Oregon. October 25, 1976
I JUST thought we might take a minute to answer some of your questions be-
fore we take off for Pittsburgh. We have had a wonderful 2 days in California,
Washington, and now in Oregon. We are very optimistic. We think the mo-
mentum is going with us. We are going to surprise some people. And to stop
here in Oregon, with Edith and all the others who came forward and indicated
their support, just makes this stop a wonderful one and a very fine last few days.
So, if you have any questions, go ahead.
REPORTER. Mr. President, are you surprised to be finding yourself running
2692
