[967]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
advance, your flexibility is limited and his is increased. He can probe with
impunity or redirect his efforts at more tempting targets. The acquisition of
knowledge about such intentions in advance is one of the major reasons why
countries spend vast sums of money for intelligence activities.
Thus, it was with some surprise that I heard a specific proposal for total
economic warfare against the Arabs in the event of another embargo. I thought
such a statement of a specific course of action in advance was a singular mistake
which once made would not be repeated. I was, therefore, surprised to hear him
make the same mistake at Williamsburg in an ill-advised comment concerning
what he might or might not do if the future security of Yugoslavia was threat-
ened. Statements of this kind-as we learned over 25 years ago-instead of serv-
ing the cause of peace invite conflict. I have assumed that this statement—and I
say this with some sorrow—simply reflects inexperience.
Ladies and gentlemen, even though America is at peace today, we must rec-
ognize that we continue to live in a very dangerous world, a world hostile to
freedom.
Unrest is still seething in many parts of the globe. The challenge to American
diplomacy during the next 4 years will be equal to any other period in our life-
time. We must complete negotiations on a SALT agreement to replace the cur-
rent treaty, which expires in October 1977. We must continue our efforts to
defuse the powder keg in southern Africa. We must work to achieve a just, stable
peace in the Middle East. We must restore economic prosperity. We must deal
intelligently and compassionately with the new agenda of world issues, such
as nuclear proliferation, economic interdependence, food, energy, pollution,
and growing populations.
We can succeed in these tasks only if we remain true to the great principles
that have guided United States foreign policy for more than a quarter of a
century.
This is not a time to weaken our defense, to refuse to equip our troops with
essential new weapons, to undermine democratic leaders by hinting at new
relationships with Communist leaders in Western Europe, to withdraw our
troops from South Korea, to upset the balance in the Middle East, or to concede
such nations as Yugoslavia to the Soviet sphere. This is a time to benefit from
and build upon the wisdom that we have inherited.
The peace that we enjoy today is not an accident. The peace we have today
is a product of the patient diplomacy and the determination of the past.
To preserve the peace, we must be willing to pay the price for a mighty force.
To preserve the peace, we must be willing to shoulder the burdens of our alli-
2702
