[852]
October 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
852
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Reporters in San Francisco on the Establishment of the Citizens for
Ford Committee. October 6, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody. It is typical San Francisco weather, which we
enjoy.
I am especially pleased this morning to have the opportunity of announcing
a Citizens for Ford Committee, and the three cochairpersons are all very good
friends of mine. Let me announce them individually.
First, former Congresswoman Edith Green of Oregon. Edith and I served in
the House of Representatives together for 19 years. She was on the other side
of the aisle, but we worked together in many, many areas in order to try and
enact good legislation. She was a wonderful person to have on your side, but
a person that was awesome if she was on the other side. But I always felt that
Edith Green was one of the most able, most articulate, most dedicated Members
of the House that I knew in my 25-plus years as a Member. So I am extremely
pleased to have Edith Green as one of the cochairpersons of the Citizens for
Ford Committee.
The next is George Feldman of New York and Massachusetts. I first got to
know George Feldman in 1958, when he was the staff director of the Select
Committee on Space. I was a member of that committee. He was chosen by the
then chairman of that committee, the former Speaker, John McCormack. I
worked with George Feldman for the whole time in the hearings and the
writing of the report and the preparation of the legislation. Subsequently,
George served under President Kennedy as the Ambassador to Luxembourg
and to Malta. In addition, he was a delegate to the United Nations. He was a
member of the Law of the Sea Conference in 1961. Our friendship has gone
on from 1958 to the present time, and I thank him for his willingness to par-
ticipate in the Citizens for Ford Committee.
The third member of this group is Dom DiMaggio. Dom is well-known
out here on the west coast. I have known Dom DiMaggio-because I am an
avid reader of the sports page-I know from the records that he was one of
the outstanding baseball players of alltime. He had a batting average of .300,
over a good many years in the American League. He contributed significantly
to the success of the Boston Red Sox. He is a person who has shown an active
2404
