[925]
October 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
of fact, that that's true. Now, the language is a little graphic, but there is nothing
personal about it. I didn't attack his integrity or anything close to that.
Now, Mr. Carter did have an interview in Playboy magazine. I haven't looked
at the magazine. I am sure there are about 7 million Americans, I understand,
who will look at it and will probably read the article. [Laughter] But I reiterate
what I said once before: I turned down an invitation by Playboy Magazine to
have an interview such as Mr. Carter did. These are all factual statements, either
by myself, or a factual statement as to an interview that he had in a certain
magazine.
ARAB BOYCOTT AGAINST CERTAIN AMERICAN BUSINESSES
[5.] Q. Mr. President, Mr. Carter yesterday said that if he was elected, he
would end the Arab oil boycott. I wonder if you consider this a legitimate
matter
THE PRESIDENT. You mean the Arab oil embargo or the Arab boycott?
Q. The Arab boycott on Israel—I misspoke. I wonder if you consider this
a legitimate objective, and if you would like to do the same thing?
THE PRESIDENT. The Ford administration is the only administration since
1952, when the Arab boycott went into effect, that has done anything in the
executive branch of the government. Now, Mr. Carter says that he would
end it very short sentence. I resent the inference of that. The Arab boycott
was initiated in 1952. In effect, he is saying that President Eisenhower didn't
do anything, that President Kennedy didn't do anything about it, that President
Johnson didn't do anything about it, President Nixon didn't do anything about
it, and he infers I haven't. Of course, he is inaccurate there. But I resent that
he is challenging those other four Presidents-Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson,
and Nixon-because I know they opposed the Arab boycott just as much as I
do and as much as Mr. Carter does. And I wonder how anybody can be so naive
as to say in one sentence that he is going to do something that four other out-
standing individuals didn't do, even though they opposed the same thing.
And I think it is ridiculous for him to make that kind of an allegation.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE ROBERT DOLE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, since your nomination, your decision to choose
Robert Dole as Vice President has been one of the most important ones you've
had to make. His record, both during the campaign and in Congress, has been
one of extreme partisanship; for example, in his support of nominations to the
Supreme Court of Haynsworth and Carswell and his actions on the Watergate
investigation.
2588
