[899]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
In America's third century the arts can help us more than ever before to fulfill
the humane values of our country's dedication—extending the vision, enriching
the minds, and raising the spirits of all Americans and all peoples everywhere.
900
Remarks Upon Presenting the Presidential Medal of
Freedom to Martha Graham. October 14, 1976
Martha and distinguished guests:
It's wonderful to have you here tonight. And let me say at the outset, I
apologize for being a little late. I had a friendly engagement with some of my
friends from the press here. [Laughter]
But it's nice to have you here. And particularly in this Bicentennial Year, I
think each of us has celebrated the spirit and the vitality of the United States.
And the person we are honoring tonight, Martha Graham, has been doing that
for as long as most of us can remember.
When Martha Graham began her career in modern dance—and I have
become a better authority on it since I married Betty—[laughter]—she has not
only raised people's eyebrows but she has raised sights. A true pioneer, she
continually broke new ground and challenged old assumptions.
Her innovations were so original that one startled traditionalist was reported
to have said, "How long do you intend, Martha, to keep this up?" I think today
America is very thankful that she is still keeping it up, and we congratulate her.
Martha Graham has not only expanded the horizons of modern dance but
she also moved inward to convey the deepest types of emotion. In doing so, she
created what one critic labeled, and I quote, “an original way of communica-
tion." Long before the phrase "body language," Martha, entered our vocabulary,
Martha Graham was using the human form to express human feelings.
Martha Graham's name, we all recognize, has become synonymous with
modern dance. In addition to her work as a performer and a choreographer,
she has provided inspiration and counseling to generations of young people,
including Miss Betty Bloomer of Grand Rapids, Michigan. [Laughter]
Her pupils learn that self-discipline is not an obstacle to creativity, but a
vehicle; that hard work does not distract from inspiration, but rather allows it
to reach its fullest dimension. And most of all, they learn to meet a situation
with courage and complete honesty.
Over the years as a great dancer, Martha Graham has received many, many
2534
