August 3
[711]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Mr. President, this summer the United States, as we have both mentioned
this morning, celebrates its 200th anniversary. We are honored by the fact that
you have participated in this occasion today. Your participation in Finnish-
American Bicentennial ceremonies at Suomi College, founded by Finnish im-
migrants in my State of Michigan, is a vivid reminder of Finland's great con-
tribution to America's background and America's present and America's
future.
To cite a single example, Americans from coast to coast know of Finnish
genius in Saarinen's¹ design of Washington's Dulles Airport, one of the out-
standing architectural achievements in our country in recent years. But whether
in steel or concrete, or in mind or in spirit, the Finnish involvement with the
United States continues to affirm the traditional ties of friendship between our
two peoples.
Mr. President, during this Bicentennial Year, Americans are especially grati-
fied by Finland's observance of our anniversary. The wonderful Tapiola Chil-
dren's Choir has already performed here, and Finnish musicians are now enter-
taining at the Smithsonian festival. The Sebelius Academy Choir, I am told,
will visit the United States this fall, thanks to the generosity of the Finnish
Government. For these and all of Finland's contributions to our Bicentennial,
Americans are deeply appreciative.
This summer, both our countries participated in the Olympic games. And I
was talking to you earlier this evening about your outstanding gold medal
winner 2 who won the 5,000 meter and the 10,000 meter and finished fifth in
the marathon. But I think it is appropriate on this occasion, Mr. President, to
note that you had the high honor, yourself, of being an Olympian. You made
your first trip to the United States as head of the Finnish team to the Olympic
games in Los Angeles in 1932. And I am pleased to note that Finland continued
to win, not only gold medals in those track contests that I mentioned but else-
where. And may I congratulate your country and your champions on this
occasion.
Mr. President, as a fellow skier I can only marvel at more than the 600 miles
you ski cross-country and downhill each year. I must confess, mine is downhill.
[Laughter] But your prowess as a jogger, fisherman, and hunter is legendary.
At one time, we all know who follow sports that you were the high-jump
champion of your country and represented Finland in the Olympics in that
Eero Saarinen.
2 The President was referring to Lasse Viren.
2123
