October 10
[877]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
877
Memorandum of Disapproval of the International
Navigational Rules Act of 1976. October 10, 1976
I AM today withholding my signature from H.R. 5446, a bill to implement the
United States obligations under the Convention on the International Regulations
for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972.
The bill includes a provision which I believe to be unconstitutional. It would
empower either the House of Representatives or the Senate to block amend-
ments to the Convention's regulations merely by passing a resolution of
disapproval.
This provision is incompatible with the express provision in the Constitution
that a resolution having the force and effect of law must be presented to the Presi-
dent and, if disapproved, repassed by a two-thirds majority in the Senate and
the House of Representatives. It extends to the Congress the power to prohibit
specific transactions authorized by law without changing the law-and without
following the constitutional process such a change would require. Moreover, it
would involve the Congress directly in the performance of Executive functions
in disregard of the fundamental principle of separation of powers.
I believe that this procedure is contrary to the Constitution, and that my
approval of it would threaten an erosion of the constitutional powers and respon-
sibilities of the President. I have already directed the Attorney General to become
a party plaintiff in a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of a similar provi-
sion in the Federal Election Campaign Act.
In addition, this provision would allow the House of Representatives to block
adoption of what is essentially an amendment to a treaty, a responsibility which
is reserved by the Constitution to the Senate.
This legislation would forge impermissible shackles on the President's ability
to carry out the laws and conduct the foreign relations of the United States. The
President cannot function effectively in domestic matters, and speak for the
nation authoritatively in foreign affairs, if his decisions under authority previ-
ously conferred can be reversed by a bare majority of one house of the Congress.
The Convention—which has already been approved by the Senate—makes
important changes in the international rules for safe navigation. It will enter
into force in July of 1977. The United States should become a party to it. If the
United States does not implement the Convention before it enters into force,
there will be major differences between the navigational rules followed by U.S.
2481
