[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
reaches the Supreme Court-I think the choice should be with human rights,
and that would be another factor that I would follow.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the answer as to the kind of person that I would select
is obvious. I had one opportunity to nominate an individual to the Supreme
Court, and I selected the Circuit Court of Appeals judge from Illinois, John
Paul Stevens. I selected him because of his outstanding record as a Circuit Court
of Appeals judge. And I was very pleased that an overwhelmingly Democratic
United States Senate, after going into his background, came to the conclusion
that he was fit and should serve, and the vote in his behalf was overwhelming.
So, I would say somebody in the format of Justice Stevens would be the kind
of an individual that I would select in the future, as I did him in the past.
I believe, however, a comment ought to be made about the direction of the
Burger Court vis-a-vis the Court that preceded it. It seems to me that the Mi-
randa case was a case that really made it very, very difficult for the police, the
law enforcement people in this country, to do what they could to make certain
that the victim of a crime was protected and that those that commit crimes were
properly handled and sent to jail. The Miranda case, the Burger Court is
gradually changing. And I am pleased to see that there are some steps being
made by the Burger Court to modify the so-called Miranda decision.
I might make a correction of what Governor Carter said, speaking of gun
control. Yes, it is true, I believe that the sale of Saturday night specials should be
cut out, but he wants the registration of handguns.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Kraft.
MR. KRAFT. Mr. President, the country is now in something that your advisers
call an economic pause. I think to most Americans that sounds like an antiseptic
term for low growth, unemployment, standstill at a high, high level, decline in
take-home pay, lower factory earnings, more layoffs. Isn't that really a rotten
record, and doesn't your administration bear most of the blame for it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Kraft, I violently disagree with your assessment,
and I don't think the record justifies the conclusion that you come to. Let me
talk about the economic announcements that were made just this past week.
Yes, it was announced that the GNP real growth in the third quarter was
at 4 percent. But do you realize that over the last 10 years that's a higher figure
than the average growth during the 10-year period. Now, it's lower than the
9.2-percent growth in the first quarter and it's lower than the 5-percent growth
in the second quarter. But, every economist-liberal, conservative—that I am
2642
