[665]
July 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
665
Remarks to Participants in the 1975-76 American Field
Service International Scholarships Program. July 13, 1976
Dr. Rhinesmith, our very welcome and special guests from foreign lands, and
American students, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me extend to each and every one of you, on behalf of Mrs. Ford and
myself, a very warm welcome here at the White House this afternoon. It is a
special privilege for me to see so many happy faces and to welcome so many
wonderful people here at the White House in our Nation's Capital.
The American Field Service deserves congratulations for bringing all of you,
the representatives of 62 nations, to the United States during the past year to
study, to see what life in America is really all about. American Field Service
has devoted over 25 years to building a network of international communica-
tion and cooperation at a very personal level.
We must remember that many thousands of host families and community
volunteers make this program and others like it possible in the United States
of America. Their dedicated support springs from the very best traditions of
American generosity and international idealism.
You have seen through personal experience how this way of sharing life
can promote harmony among people of different traditions and different cul-
tures. The spirit of seeking understanding through personal contact with people
of other nations and other cultures deserves the respect and support of all.
It is a work that goes on in many ways through private efforts in ongoing
government-supported programs of educational and cultural exchange. In
1959 Dwight D. Eisenhower talked to an earlier group of students visiting our
country under the auspices of the American Field Service, and he said, at that
time, he felt nothing could improve the program more than to multiply its
numbers.
On that July afternoon, President Eisenhower spoke to approximately 1,100
students. Today, your group numbers 2,700 or more students and, more impor-
tantly, an equal number of American young people whose homes and family life
that each of you have experienced. I am positive that you will agree that the best
hope of making the world a better, more peaceful place is to seek even greater
exchanges of persons of different backgrounds and different nationalities.
There are many compelling reasons for this program, which brings you to
the United States and brings American students to countries around the world.
2010
