September 27
[818]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
take into full account the terrible impact of crime on our society. We cannot
count in dollars, we cannot count in cents, the loss of a single citizen who is
murdered, the humiliation of one who is raped, the pain of one who is
assaulted. We cannot calculate the cost to a free society when people are
forced to barricade themselves in their own homes. It is time to give the
streets back to the law-abiding citizens and put the criminals behind bars.
Study after study has shown that crime is not the work of many offenders
but of a relatively small number of chronic lawbreakers who have chosen crime
as a career. The career criminal is a one-man crime wave. He commits between
50 and 80 percent of all serious crimes. In Washington, D.C., one man recently
confessed to 50 rapes, 80 burglaries, 10 armed robberies, and more stolen cars
than he could remember. The LEAA has reported that 49 criminals, unbe-
lievable, acting individually, committed over 10,500 crimes.
If we can bring the career criminal to a speedy trial, try him for his most
serious rather than least serious offense, and make sure that if found guilty he
is sent to prison, we can give the streets back to the people of the United States.
I do not advocate vigilante action, but I do advocate swift and certain justice.
You in this great audience know the criminals. Their names appear on police
blotters and court dockets every day. They have been on probation, in halfway
houses, and on parole. They had every chance for rehabilitation, but nothing
has worked. It is no encroachment on the presumption of innocence to identify
those whose business is crime. Our job is to put them out of business-the sooner
the better.
Two years ago I outlined to this association a career criminal program. Under
the auspices of LEAA, we targeted 12 jurisdictions for an initial demonstration,
In the last 16 months those jurisdictions have singled out more than 2,000
career criminals with an average of five prior convictions apiece-not five arrests,
but five convictions apiece. New cases involving these habitual offenders were
assigned to special units of the district attorney's offices. Every right of the ac-
cused was protected, including the right to a speedy trial. With absolutely no
plea bargaining for lesser offenses, the prosecutors achieved dramatic results. Of
those 2,000 defendants, 95 percent were convicted. The average time between
arrests and final sentencing was only 84 days. The average sentence for those
convicted was 20 years in prison in most cases. The crime rate demonstrably
went down. That's success.
I have directed the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration to signifi-
cantly expand the scope of this program to include not only more prosecutors'
offices but police and correctional organizations as well. In the next fiscal year
2345
