July 22
[685]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in winterizing their homes in order to reduce the long-term consumption of
energy. The combined savings in fuel, estimated to be thousands of barrels a
day, would not only lessen America's dependence on imported fuels, but would
also lower heating bills of low-income persons and families.
BUILDING ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARDS ACT OF 1975
This proposal would establish thermal (heating and cooling) efficiency
standards for all new homes and commercial buildings to conserve energy. It
is anticipated that this program will save the equivalent of 350,000 barrels of oil
per day in 1985. Standards would be promulgated by HUD and primary respon-
sibility for enforcement would be with State and local governments through
building codes.
UTILITIES ACT OF 1975
This bill is designed to help restore the financial health of electric utilities.
It would eliminate undue regulatory lags involved in approving proposed rate
changes and assure that rates adequately reflect the full cost of generating and
transmitting electricity. Though many States have already adopted similar
programs, enactment of the bill will establish certain standard regulatory pro-
cedures across the Nation, resulting in more equitable treatment of utilities.
FEDERAL ENERGY ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION ACT
The Administration has proposed a simple extension of the Federal Energy
Administration for 18 months. This will provide the continuity needed to in-
sure FEA's ability to implement the complex programs contained in the Energy
Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 and to adequately administer oil price
controls.
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AUTHORITY OF 1975
This Act would establish a $100 billion Energy Independence Authority, a
self-liquidating corporation designed to encourage the flow of capital and pro-
vide financial assistance, through loans and loan guarantees, to private enter-
prise engaged in the development of energy sources and supplies important
to the attainment of energy independence but which would not otherwise be
financed.
This bill also seeks to expedite and facilitate the Federal regulatory and li-
censing process and to hasten the commercial operation of new energy tech-
nologies subsequent to the research and development phase.
2067
