August 19
[733]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
feeling toward these high offices. To me, the Presidency and the Vice-Presidency
were not prizes to be won, but a duty to be done.
So, tonight it is not the power and the glamour of the Presidency that leads
me to ask for another 4 years; it is something every hard-working American will
understand—the challenge of a job well begun, but far from finished.
Two years ago, on August 9, 1974, I placed my hand on the Bible, which Betty
held, and took the same constitutional oath that was administered to George
Washington. I had faith in our people, in our institutions, and in myself. “My
fellow Americans," I said, "our long national nightmare is over."
It was an hour in our history that troubled our minds and tore at our
hearts. Anger and hatred had risen to dangerous levels, dividing friends and
families. The polarization of our political order had aroused unworthy pas-
sions of reprisal and revenge. Our governmental system was closer to stalemate
than at any time since Abraham Lincoln took the same oath of office. Our econ-
omy was in the throes of runaway inflation, taking us headlong into the worst
recession since Franklin D. Roosevelt took the same oath.
On that dark day I told my fellow countrymen, “I am acutely aware that you
have not elected me as your President by your ballots, so I ask you to confirm
me as your President with your prayers."
On a marble fireplace in the White House is carved a prayer which John
Adams wrote. It concludes, "May none but honest and wise men ever rule under
this roof." Since I have resided in that historic house, I have tried to live by that
prayer. I faced many tough problems. I probably made some mistakes, but on
balance, America and Americans have made an incredible comeback since
August 1974. Nobody can honestly say otherwise. And the plain truth is that
the great progress we have made at home and abroad was in spite of the majority
who run the Congress of the United States.
For 2 years I have stood for all the people against a vote-hungry, free-spending
congressional majority on Capitol Hill. Fifty-five times I vetoed extravagant
and unwise legislation; 45 times I made those vetoes stick. Those vetoes have
saved American taxpayers billions and billions of dollars. I am against the big
tax spender and for the little taxpayer.
I called for a permanent tax cut, coupled with spending reductions, to stimu-
late the economy and relieve hard-pressed, middle-income taxpayers. Your
personal exemption must be raised from $750 to $1,000. The other party's plat-
form talks about tax reform, but there is one big problem-their own Congress
won't act.
I called for reasonable constitutional restrictions on court-ordered busing of
2159
