October 25
[964]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
young American is fighting and dying on foreign soil today, and we are going
to keep it that way.
But the progress we have made in the last 2 years is not what we need or want,
but it is the foundation from which we can build. And in the next 4 years, with
your support, we can build those things that will give to all of us—you in
Oregon and all of the 215 million Americans in 40 other States—the quality of
life that is so essential, not only for us but those to follow. And I pledge to
you that in the next 4 years, we will do better than we have done, and you will
be proud of America, as I am.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. in the
Parkman Room at the Sheraton-Portland Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Senators Bob
Packwood and Mark O. Hatfield, Representative
Edith Green of Oregon 1955-75, cochairman of the
Citizens for Ford Committee, and Mrs. Tom McCall,
wife of Governor Tom McCall of Oregon 1967-75.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
964
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in Portland
With Members of the National Association of Broadcasters.
October 25, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Vince Wasilewski. I've learned a little Polish in the
last few days. [Laughter]
Well, it's great to be back in Oregon with so many good friends, and I
feel very self-conscious after hearing the wonderful observations and comments
and endorsement by Edith and the humor of your former Governor Tom McCall
and the fine comments made by Bob Packwood.
I just want to say to you that it is a great privilege to be here in Oregon. And
Edith hasn't asked me for any comments I might make about the debates, but
I have made the observation that I think they would be better if Jimmy Carter
answered the questions and I questioned my answers. [Laughter]
Well, thank you for the invitation to be here and participate in this regional
conference. I would greatly prefer the opportunity to just respond to your
questions.
I have a very brief statement.
Just one week from tomorrow about 215 million Americans, and roughly 150
out of that 215 have an opportunity to vote—tragically, it's indicated that no more
than 50 percent of those eligible will vote. But I hope and trust in the remaining
2685
