[675]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
675
Letter to the President of the Senate and Speaker of the
House on Proposed Legislation To Restore Public Confidence
in the Integrity of the Government. July 19, 1976
ONE OF the foremost objectives of my Administration has been to restore
public faith and trust in the integrity of all three branches of our government,
the executive, the legislative and the judicial. Much progress has been made,
but we must take additional steps to insure that public concerns are fully
satisfied.
The Senate now has before it a bill, S. 495, which could serve these important
objectives. However, as drafted, S. 495 contains serious Constitutional and prac-
tical problems, and it is so narrowly drawn that it does not fairly and adequately
meet the objectives of such legislation.
I am writing to you today to propose a substitute to S. 495 that would correct
the Constitutional deficiencies in the bill and would also expand its scope so that
it would apply in equal force to the President, the Vice President, major
appointees of the Federal government, and members of the Congress of the
United States. I believe this new bill represents a sound, constructive approach
and I would urge its adoption by the Congress.
In its current form, S. 495 provides for the appointment of temporary special
prosecutors to deal with allegations of wrongdoing by key members of the
government. The proposed legislation also would establish the Office of Con-
gressional Legal Counsel to represent Congress before the Courts, and it provides
for public financial disclosure by high level personnel in the government.
While I strongly support the principles underlying this legislation, I am
especially concerned about three particular aspects of the bill in its present form:
• Title I, which provides for a series of different independent and special
prosecutors for separate cases of alleged wrongdoing, is of highly questionable
constitutionality because it would invest in the judiciary the power to review
the role of the Attorney General in conducting prosecutions and the power to
appoint special prosecutors not subject to Executive direction. To grant the
judiciary such authority is contrary to the fundamental principles of separation
of powers. Moreover, S. 495 requires the appointment of a different special
prosecutor for each case, all on an ad hoc basis. The Department of Justice
estimates that if S. 495 were now law, approximately half a dozen special
prosecutors would have to be appointed, and close to 50 other matters possibly
2044
