July 12
[662]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Second, the bill permits for the first time in nearly 5 years the use of moneys
in the Airport and Airway Trust Fund for defraying expenses incurred by the
Department of Transportation in maintaining air navigation facilities, although
it unwisely makes the amount of funds available for maintenance dependent on
the amount of funds obligated for airport development purposes. This provision
is most important from the standpoint of equity to the general taxpayer, and I
am especially pleased that the Congress agreed to its inclusion in the bill. I con-
tinue to believe that the users of the airport and airway system who derive special
benefits from the system should contribute a fair share to the payment of system
costs.
Third, the bill will permit us to make important progress in our efforts to
shift to the State and local level governmental functions which can be carried
out by State and local governments more efficiently and with greater sensitivity
to the needs and desires of the people they serve. Under the amendments con-
tained in this bill, recipients of grants for airport development will be afforded
greater flexibility in managing their affairs and also will have the opportunity
to take on greater responsibility with respect to carrying out the purposes of the
statute.
H.R. 9771 also contains some undesirable provisions:
-It would shift from the airlines to the Federal Government the cost of
inspectional services provided to aircraft arriving in the United States on
Sundays and holidays. As long as the Congress continues to mandate that the
inspectors be paid at overtime rates for such work, I believe the airlines should
continue to pay for the special services they receive.
-It would also unnecessarily increase the Federal share of the cost of projects
at general aviation airports.
I am asking the affected agencies to determine whether corrective legislation
should be submitted to the Congress on these provisions.
Despite these questionable provisions, this bill is generally consistent with
the policy directions of my administration and will help to assure an improved
aviation system for all our citizens.
2005
