[863]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
if we are going to be strong so that we can maintain the peace that we have,
we have to beat Jimmy Carter and elect Jerry Ford.
I'm proud to stand before you, as well as any other audience in this country
today, and say that I am the first President in 20 years who can say as he seeks
election that America is at peace, that not a single young American is fight-
ing or dying on foreign soil. That's a record that we're going to keep for the
next 4 years.
One final word: This is a wonderful group. We have got a real mission to
perform. Before the convention in Kansas City, we were 30-some points be-
hind. We have been closing that gap rapidly. We have the momentum because
we have the right program. We tell the American people the truth. We don't
make a mistake one day and apologize for it the next. The United States be-
lieves that the policies of this administration-peace with freedom, a strong
economy predicated on the private enterprise system—is the way to keep Amer-
ica, not only for ourselves but, more importantly, for our children and our
grandchildren.
I go before you and the American people, proud of what we have done in the
last 2 years and optimistic about what opportunities we have for progress in the
next 4 years. We may still be behind by a narrow margin, but with your help
and with the right programs and the fact that Mr. Carter makes mistake
after mistake, we are going to win that election for the American people
November 2.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:22 a.m. in the
Studio Suite at the Sheraton Universal Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Mike Antonovich,
cochairman of the Los Angeles County President
Ford Committee.
864
Remarks at the "Days of the Verdugos" Festival in
Glendale, California. October 8, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mayor Haverkamp, Congressman Carlos Moor-
head and your former Congressman and my old and very dear friend, Allen
Smith, Jerry Keithley, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It's great to be in Glendale, first, and it is wonderful to be here on the opening
of the Verdugos Festival, and I thank you for inviting me. I can see why you
like to relive the romantic days of the Spanish land grants. In those days, the
2460
