January 17
[1066]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
shows us fairly close to balance in 1979 and shows balanced budgets thereafter.
The effects on 1978 and 1979 spending of congressional action in the last session
rejecting many of the restraints I proposed for the current fiscal year, 1977, made
total balance in 1979 impossible unless I was willing to abandon, at least in part,
the further immediate tax relief I have advocated since October of 1975 and, for
no reason other than being able to show such a 1979 balance, cut back from
program levels I feel are justified. These alternatives were unacceptable, but
given the greatly reduced deficit for 1979 this budget implies, congressional co-
operation on the restraints I propose and a slightly better economic perform-
ance in the months ahead than we have used in preparing this 1978 budget,
it is entirely possible that when the 1979 budget is due to be submitted, a year
from now, it could be in total balance as I have strived to achieve.
With restraint on the growth of Federal spending, we can begin to provide
permanent tax reductions to ease the burden on middle-income taxpayers and
businesses. For too long Government has presumed that it is "entitled" to the
additional tax revenues generated as inflation and increases in real income push
taxpayers into higher tax brackets. We need to reverse this presumption. We
need to put the burden of proof on the Government to demonstrate the reasons
why individuals and businesses should not keep the income and wealth they
produce. Accordingly, my long-term budget projections assume further tax re-
lief will be provided, rather than presuming, as has been the practice in the past,
that positive margins of receipts over expenditures that show up in projections
are “surpluses” or “fiscal dividends" that must be used primarily for more Fed-
eral spending, on existing or new programs or both.
One trend has been reversed in the past two years. After several years of
decline in real spending for national security purposes the Congress has agreed
in substantial part to my recommendations for increases in defense spending.
The budget I propose this year and the planning levels for the succeeding four
years assume a continuation of this real growth trend. My recommendations are
the result of a careful assessment of our own defense posture and that of our
potential adversaries. In this area as in all others, I am recommending spending I
consider essential while at the same time proposing savings in outmoded or un-
warranted activities. For the longer term, my recommendations recognize the
simple fact that we must plan now for the defense systems we will need 10
years from now.
This same approach was reflected last year in my recommendations for the
Federal Government's basic research and development programs. In spite of
the financial pressures on the Federal budget, I recommended real growth. I
2939
