[1045]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
bargo ended, the gasoline lines disappeared, and an adequate supply of most
forms of energy became available—though at higher prices.
Our Energy Problem
The principal energy problem now facing the United States is our excessive
and growing dependence on imported oil from a relatively few foreign na-
tions that own the majority of world oil reserves and have the ability to control
world oil prices and production. We are also faced with a problem of short-
ages of natural gas in some areas. This problem will become more serious this
winter if unusually cold weather continues and will grow each year as
production and interstate sales decline-resulting in job losses and economic
dislocation.
Our situation is the result of several factors. For example, our economy and
style of life—neither of which can be altered quickly—have been built upon
cheap and abundant energy. Low prices, resulting from government regula-
tions and policies, and heightened environmental concerns encouraged exces-
sive reliance on oil and natural gas, rather than coal which we have in plentiful
supply. This led to wasteful and inefficient uses of oil and gas.
Our domestic production of oil and natural gas peaked in the early 1970's
and has been declining steadily as cheap, easily developed reserves have
dwindled. In the early 1980's, oil and natural gas from Alaska and the Outer
Continental Shelf—our last frontiers-will help offset the decline in production
from on-shore areas. But, overall, domestic oil and gas production will again
decline precipitously unless higher prices are available to cover the costs of
developing resources which are not now economically feasible to produce.
Meanwhile, our energy demands are increasing to meet the needs of a grow-
ing economy. We are not expanding the use of coal and nuclear energy fast
enough as substitutes for oil and gas, where this is possible, or to meet growing
energy requirements. Instead we have turned to imports, and imports will con-
tinue to grow as we face declining production and depletion of oil and gas
reserves.
The Costs of Dependence
The real price paid for our growing dependence on imported oil is our vulner-
ability to significant economic and social disruption from the interruption of oil
imports. Apart from the inconvenience experienced by millions of people,
the 1973-74 embargo and the resulting higher prices caused a loss of
about 500,000 jobs and approximately $20 billion in our Gross National Prod-
uct. The sudden four-fold increase in OPEC oil prices contributed significantly
2888
