[748]
September 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
November 1, 1974. The report of the Department of State is enclosed for the in-
formation of the Senate in connection with its consideration of the Convention.
I also transmit a copy of the Final Act of the International Conference on
Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, held at London from October 21 to November 1,
1974.
Numerous technical amendments to the 1960 Safety of Life at Sea Conven-
tion have been proposed and accepted by the depository organization since 1966.
The United States has accepted all of these amendments. However, none of them
have received the necessary explicit acceptance by the required two-thirds of the
contracting governments to enter into force. The 1974 Convention incorporates
all of the amendments and contains an improved procedure which will acceler-
ate acceptance of future amendments to the technical regulations. I recom-
mend that the Senate give prompt consideration to this Convention and consent
to its acceptance.
The White House,
August 31, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive O (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
749
Remarks at the General Conference of the National
Guard Association. September 1, 1976
General Corning, Jim Lynn, distinguished platform guests, members of the
National Guard Association:
I am deeply honored to be in the company of the United States National
Guard, individuals who follow in the great tradition of the citizen soldiers who
responded to the call for freedom 200 years ago—congratulations.
As Commander in Chief, I am proud to have every single one of you on
America's national security team. This team has never been stronger nor better
prepared to meet any challenge to this Nation's safety or freedom. And we will
keep it that way.
Clear and painful lessons-lessons of history-have taught us—we, all Ameri-
cans—to demand nothing less. America is a nation that does cherish peace, but
we have learned in this century that the best insurance of peace is a military
capacity that commands respect throughout the world.
2196
