[997]
October 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
one hand and the building industry on the other. That's a goal of our next
4 years.
As I look around this wonderful hall tonight, I see some of what are some-
times called our senior citizens. We owe them a special obligation. They have
built the America that we live in today. Your parents and my parents and all of
our grandparents, what a great country they have given us. So, as they live in
their retirement, they should have our full and total support. They shouldn't
have to worry about the problems of inflation, even though they live mainly
on fixed incomes. That's the principal reason we have an obligation to put a
restraint on the increase in Federal expenditures, because the best way to beat
inflation is to cut Federal expenditures.
But we also owe them the opportunity of the best medical care that is
obtainable in America, and we have the best. Everybody in this room knows a
family, maybe your own, where somebody has had an extended illness with
terrible medical and hospital costs. It's a catastrophe for the individual and for
the family. We owe an obligation that no person among our senior citizens
should go broke just to get
well.
Among the other things that involve quality of life in America is the finest
education. We have the teachers and the administrators and the facilities and,
believe me,
under this administration, we will make a maximum effort to make
sure that quality education, with control at the local level, exists under the Ford
administration.
Nobody in this country can feel safe unless we do something effectively
about crime in America. We have made significant progress in the last 2 years
in reducing the rate of crime, but I'm not satisfied, nor are you. There are two
programs that must be implemented: The hardened career criminal who is a
repetitive individual in robbing or stealing must go to jail, and that person must
stay in jail.
Then, let me talk for just a minute about taxes. In January of last year, I
submitted to the Congress a sound tax reduction program. The best tax reform
that I know is tax reduction for the middle-income taxpayers. The middle-
income taxpayers have been shortchanged, and so I recommended to the Con-
gress last January that we increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
The other day I was out talking to some workers in a plant and one of the
men said, “What have you done to give me some tax relief?" I said, "How
many children do you have?" He said, “I have got three." It ended up he had
a wife, three children, and himself. I said, "If the Congress had been responsible,
2804
