[959]
October 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Solving the airport noise problem-and it's a serious problem in 26 airports
throughout the United States, affecting some 6 million people who live in the
vicinity of these airports—it's an environmental imperative that we make prog-
ress in this area. In solving this problem, we will bring into service a fleet of quiet,
new aircraft that will result in up to a 30-percent saving in fuel, lower operating
costs, lower fares, and less air pollution from older aircraft.
Replacing the older planes will also strengthen our aircraft industry, which is
absolutely vital to our world leadership in economic trade and our national
defense. And in building these new aircraft, we will create almost a quarter of a
million of useful, productive jobs for Americans.
The best way to make sure that our aerospace workers have lasting jobs and
create new, permanent jobs in the aircraft and related industries is to give the
free enterprise system its best chance to operate. We'll do it.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. at the
Boeing Field at the King County International Air-
port. In his opening remarks, he referred to Governor
Daniel J. Evans of Washington, Representative Joel
Pritchard, and T. Wilson, chairman of the board of
the Boeing Company.
960
Remarks in Seattle, Washington. October 25, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Dan, Joel Pritchard. And may I at the very
outset introduce a very good friend of mine. He's a good friend of yours. You've
seen a lot of him lately, but you'd like to see him in person-Joe Garagiola. Joe.
He can run as well as talk. [Laughter]
MR. GARAGIOLA. I'm not very good at making political speeches. I just believe
in people; I believe in President Ford, and for the first time in my life, I think
I've booked a winner.
THE PRESIDENT. I would also like to express my deep, personal appreciation
to the master of ceremonies, Peter Graves, who went with us in Illinois, who was
with us in California. Thank you very, very much, Peter.
In this process, you get some experience on bands. Well, let me say that the
Bellevue Band, the Queen Anne Band, and the Everett Band—they're all first-
class.
I can't express deeply enough my appreciation to Dan Evans. And when people
say he's a Governor's Governor, believe me, that means something to me. I
2678
