October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the then Secretary of Defense, Mr. Schlesinger, to tell me what had to be done
if we were going to reduce the defense budget by $3 to $5 billion. A few days
later Mr. Schlesinger came back and said if we cut the defense budget by $3
to $5 billion, we will have to cut military personnel by 250,000, civilian personnel
by 100,000, jobs in America by 100,000. We would have to stretch out our air-
craft procurement. We would have to reduce our naval construction program.
We would have to reduce the research and development for the Army, the Navy,
the Air Force, and Marines by 8 percent. We would have to close 20 military
bases in the United States immediately. That's the kind of a defense program
that Mr. Carter wants.
Let me tell you this straight from the shoulder: You don't negotiate with Mr.
Brezhnev from weakness. And the kind of a defense program that Mr. Carter
wants will mean a weaker defense and a poorer negotiating position.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Trewhitt, a question for President Ford.
MR. TREWHITT. Mr. President, my question really is the other side of the coin
from Mr. Frankel's. For a generation the United States has had a foreign policy
based on containment of communism; yet we have lost the first war in Vietnam,
we lost a shoving match in Angola, Communists threaten to come to power by
peaceful means in Italy, and relations generally have cooled with the Soviet
Union in the last few months. So, let me ask you, first, what do you do about
such cases as Italy, and, secondly, does this general drift mean that we're moving
back toward something like an old cold war relationship with the Soviet Union?
The President. I don't believe we should move to a cold war relationship.
I think it's in the best interest of the United States and the world as a whole
that the United States negotiate rather than go back to the cold war relationship
with the Soviet Union.
I don't look at the picture as bleakly as you have indicated in your question,
Mr. Trewhitt. I believe that the United States has had many successes in recent
years and recent months as far as the Communist movement is concerned. We
have been successful in Portugal where, a year ago, it looked like there was a
very great possibility that the Communists would take over in Portugal. It
didn't happen. We have a democracy in Portugal today.
A few months ago—or I should say maybe 2 years ago—the Soviet Union
looked like they had continued strength in the Middle East. Today, according
to Prime Minister Rabin, the Soviet Union is weaker in the Middle East than
they have been in many, many years. The facts are the Soviet Union relation-
ship with Egypt is at a low level; the Soviet Union relationship with Syria is
2411
