[970]
October 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
ible comeback in the past 2 years, and we are not through yet. You can believe me
when I say this Nation is sound, this Nation is secure, this Nation is on the way
to a better quality of life for all Americans, and this administration has earned
the trust of the American people for the next 4 years, and we won't let you down.
My record is one of progress, not platitudes; performance, not promises. Listen
to this very carefully. We do not need government to do everything for us or to
tell us everything we can or cannot do. We have a great reservoir of talent and
industry in this country, and it is not all concentrated on the banks of the
Potomac. It is right here in Illinois, in Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin, and the
other 45 or 46 States.
Jimmy Carter says that the United States of America is not respected anymore.
This week America made a clean sweep of Nobel peace prizes for economics,
chemistry, physics, medicine, and literature. This is the first time in the history
of Nobel prizes that a single country has been the home of all of these winners.
That doesn't sound like a second-rate operation to me. Does it to you?
I am proud to be a citizen of this great country and I kind of gather you are,
too. We have our problems, but in the past 2 years, we have come a long, long
way. At home and abroad we are putting our old differences aside. We are put-
ting our old problems behind us and healing our wounds. It is a record that I am
proud to run on, a record the people of Illinois and concerned citizens throughout
America―Democrats, Independents, Republicans—will support on Novem-
ber 2, and we are going to win.
Give me your mandate and we will reduce the growth of government still
more.
Give me your mandate, and we will ensure the integrity of the social security
system. We will improve Medicare so that our older citizens can enjoy the
health and the happiness that they have so richly earned. There is no reason why
they should have to go broke just to get well.
Give me your mandate and we will create a tax structure that is fair to all,
that will preserve the family home, the family farm, the family business; that
will give business tax incentives to build new plants, to modernize old ones, and
to create more jobs.
Give me your mandate and I will lead this Nation with pride on the path of
peace through strength, and we will live in peace and freedom in the United
States of America.
I have no fear for the future for America. The future is our friend, and as we
go forward together, I promise you once more—as I promised you before—to
uphold the Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me to see the right, and
1
2716
