[685]
July 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
providing a 5-year "grace" period before such payments must begin, reducing
the interest rate on those payments, and by extending the installment period
from 10 to 20 years.
JOBS CREATION INCENTIVE ACT
This legislation would encourage construction of new facilities and expansion
of old facilities in areas experiencing unemployment in excess of 7 percent in
order to increase employment opportunities in these areas. The increased con-
struction would be encouraged by allowing very rapid amortization for non-
residential buildings and capital equipment.
BROADENED STOCK OWNERSHIP
Tax incentives to encourage broader ownership of common stock by working
men and women would be provided by this proposal. Taxes on funds invested
in stock-purchase plans established by employers or directly by individuals
would be deferred provided such funds are invested for at least 7 years.
CRIME CONTROL
AMENDMENTS TO THE CRIMINAL CODE
Amendments would provide for the imposition of a mandatory term of im-
prisonment in certain cases. A mandatory term of imprisonment would be
imposed if the offender: (1) commits an extraordinarily serious crime involving
kidnapping, aircraft hijacking, or trafficking in hard drugs; (2) commits a
violent offense after previously having committed a violent offense. A separate
amendment would provide mandatory prison sentences for anyone who uses
a gun in the commission of a crime. This amendment would also ban the im-
portation, manufacture, assembly, sale or transfer of cheap, easily concealable
handguns (the so-called "Saturday Night Specials").
NARCOTIC SENTENCING AND SEIZURE ACT OF 1976
This legislation would improve the ability of law enforcement officials to
put traffickers of hard drugs into prison, take the easy profits out of drug traf-
ficking, and improve the capacity of law enforcement officials to detect and
apprchend drug smugglers. Major features of the proposal would require (1)
minimum mandatory prison sentences for persons convicted of opiate (heroin
and similar narcotic drugs) trafficking, (2) denial of bail to persons arrested
2060
