January 17
[1068]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1068
Message to the Congress Urging Approval of
Recommendations for Executive, Legislative, and
Judicial Salary Increases and Code of Conduct
Reforms. January 17, 1977
To the Congress of the United States:
As a part of my fiscal year 1978 Budget, I am recommending a substantial
increase in the level of compensation for members of the Federal Judiciary and
the Congress as well as senior officials in the Executive Branch. I have been
guided in this decision by the unanimous recommendation of the Commission
on Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Salaries.
At the same time, I am also strongly endorsing the recommendation of the
Commission that new and strengthened codes of conduct be adopted by each
branch. Like the Commission, I would not recommend the salary increases
if there is not a firm commitment to a new code of conduct.
I have personally discussed this matter with President-Elect Carter and he
authorized me to say that he fully supports my recommendations concerning
salary levels and the need for stronger codes of conduct for all three branches
as recommended by the Commission. Thus, the Executive Branch has made the
commitment to the improved code of conduct. I have also spoken to the Chief
Justice of the United States and he too supports the recommendations of the
Commission and is committed to the code of conduct principles outlined in the
report.
If the Congress commits itself to adoption of the proposed code of conduct
reforms, then I believe the Congress should permit their salary increases to
take effect. This will not only restore public confidence in national leaders,
but it will permit the country to be able to attract the most qualified citizens to
these important posts.
Congress enacted in 1967 the current procedure which provides for a special
Commission on Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Salaries to be established
every four years. This Quadrennial Commission reviewed the rates of pay for
the Executive Schedule and for positions at comparable levels in the Legisla-
tive and Judicial Branches and submitted recommended changes to me. I am
required to include my recommendations in the next annual Budget transmitted
after the Commission makes its report. These proposed rates go into effect a
month later if neither the Senate nor the House disapproves.
2943
