August 29
[743]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
they still do―[laughter]—was one of the most challenging experiences, one
of the greatest jobs I ever had following my graduation from the University of
Michigan. Now it seems more like fun than hard work, though we had plenty
of both.
I have been telling my family about that summer ever since. Maybe I overdid
those bedtime stories about my firefighting exploits and my heroic bouts with
the bears. [Laughter] At least that is what Mike, Jack, Steve, and Susan keep
on telling me. [Laughter]
So, this time, I brought some of the family along. Jack, as you know and has
been mentioned, is no stranger to Yellowstone. Two years ago this month he
was working as a ranger at a tower station-actually he was out fishing—when
he got a sudden summons to come to Washington to see his old man get a
new job.
So, today, it is a sentimental return to the scene of wonderful memories for
two of the Fords and a new experience for Susan, who hopes to get some good
Yellowstone photographs like she did last summer at Yosemite.
Family vacations—especially among the majestic mountains of the West—
are a tradition of our family. My parents always took my brothers and myself
to lakes and woods in my State of Michigan before I was big enough to go
myself as a Boy Scout. There is something wonderful about the wide open
spaces that is almost a necessity for Americans. Being alone with nature
strengthens our love for one another and for our country.
For those who live close to the land, this is nothing new. But as more and
more Americans live in cities, the lure of the mountains, the beaches, the lakes,
the rivers becomes more and more compelling. So, I have a serious as well as
a sentimental reason for this visit today.
Our Bicentennial Fourth of July turned out to be a very profound experience
for millions and millions of Americans. Amid the fireworks and parades, the
tall ships and the trips to historic shrines in our joyous celebration of 200 years
of our Nation under God, we found new meaning for the words of freedom,
equality, and unity.
[At this point, the President's remarks were interrupted by the eruption of the Old Faithful
geyser.]
I always knew the Park Service was efficient and effective, and they really
proved it just a moment ago. [Laughter]
If I might say, with our Bicentennial celebration, which was very meaningful,
on the Fourth of July we did find new meaning for the words freedom, equality,
2189
