[674]
July 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
whether they are the candidates for the highest office or the Members of the
Congress.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[5.] Q. Mr. President, sir, do you feel that the selection of Walter Mondale
as Vice President is going to change your selection of a Vice-Presidential
candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. I will make my choice known on the Vice-Presidency based
on the best person that could serve as President of the United States. My decision
will not be predicated on my Democratic opponent's recommendation of Senator
Mondale.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Carter took a month to select his Vice-Presidential
nominee. Will you be able to take very long? Will you have enough time to
consider?
The President. I have been thinking about this matter for some time. I
know all of the individuals who are being considered very well. I have worked
with them, known about them. I have studied carefully their records. Therefore,
it won't be a last-minute analysis. It will be one based on a good many years
of experience and opportunities to know how they performed in public office
or otherwise. So, it is not going to be a last-minute decision where we winnow
out individuals in a 48-hour period.
ASSESSMENT OF THE CARTER-MONDALE CANDIDACY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, how do you assess the Carter-Mondale ticket?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it was obviously the choice of the Democratic Conven-
tion, which was well organized and well put together and well controlled. It is
a ticket that can be beaten by an affirmative approach that I intend to have in
setting forth the improvements that I have made domestically and in foreign
policy during the time that I have been honored to be President of the United
States.
It is a rather typical Democratic ticket when you add up the platform, its en-
dorsement of the record of the Democratic Congress, and the comments that I
have heard, both in the acceptance speeches and in subsequent observations.
Q. Can I follow up?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure.
Q. You said that the ticket-on Saturday, I believe that the ticket tries to
be all things to all people. Just what did you mean by that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you look at the ticket itself, if you look at the plat-
form, and if you look at the record of the Democratic Congress, you can't help
2032
