October 22
[947]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
familiar with, recognizes that in the fourth quarter of this year and in the
first quarter of next year that we will have an increase in real GNP.
But now let's talk about the pluses that came out this week. We had an 18-
percent increase in housing starts. We had a substantial increase in new permits
for housing. As a matter of fact, based on the announcement this week, there
will be at an annual rate, 1 million 800-some thousand new houses built, which
is a tremendous increase over last year and a substantial increase over the earlier
part of this year.
Now, in addition, we had some very good news in the reduction in the rate
of inflation, and inflation hits everybody—those who are working and those
who are on welfare. The rate of inflation, as announced just the other day, is
under 5 percent, and the 4.4 percent that was indicated at the time of the 4
percent GNP, was less than the 5.4 percent. It means that the American buyer
is getting a better bargain today because inflation is less.
MR. KRAFT. Mr. President, let me ask you this: There has been an increase
in layoffs, and that's something that bothers everybody because even people
that have a job are afraid they are going to be fired. Did you predict that
increase in layoffs? Didn't that take you by surprise? Hasn't your administra-
tion been surprised by this pause? In fact, haven't you been so obsessed with
saving money that you didn't even push the Government to spend funds that
were allocated?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kraft, I think the record can be put in this way, which
is the way that I think satisfies most Americans: Since the depths of the recession,
we have added 4 million jobs. Most importantly, consumer confidence, as sur-
veyed by the reputable organization at the University of Michigan, is at the
highest since 1972.
In other words, there is a growing public confidence in the strength of this
economy. And that means that there will be more industrial activity; it means
that there will be a reduction in the unemployment; it means that there
will be increased hires; it means that there will be increased employment.
Now, we've had this pause but most economists, regardless of their political
philosophy, indicate that this pause for a month or two was healthy because
we could not have honestly sustained a 9.2 percent rate of growth, which we
had in the first quarter of this year.
Now, I'd like to point out as well that the United States economic recovery
from the recession of a year ago, is well ahead of the economic recovery of any
major free industrial nation in the world today. We are ahead of all of the
2643
