October 20
[925]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
PRESIDENT FORD'S VISION FOR AMERICA
[10.] Q. Mr. President, many people are saying that the candidates are show-
ing no vision. What is your vision for America?
THE PRESIDENT. My vision for America, first, is that we shall be a nation at
peace, as we are today. My vision of the next 4 years is also that we will have a
better quality of life; that we will have our younger people having a better
opportunity for quality education; that every person who wants a job will have
a job; that the best health care will be available at prices people can afford; that
we will have a record of safety and security in the streets of America for those
215 million Americans who ought to be able to walk in their community or any
other part of the country without the threat of crime. My vision would also
include an opportunity for greater recreation capability.
In other words, peace, a job, better health, better education, no crime-or
control over the criminal situation—and a better opportunity for recreation—
those are the visions that I have.
Q. Many people, though, are asking whether you truly have a vision for the
underprivileged, whether you really care.
THE PRESIDENT. When you say a job for everybody who wants to work, I think
that certainly indicates that you have a deep concern for the people who are
disadvantaged, unemployed.
OUTCOME OF NOVEMBER 2 ELECTION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you've made any wagers with your family,
your friends, or your staff, about what the popular and electoral vote will be on
November 2, and, if so, could you share them with us?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't made any wagers with my family as to the outcome,
but all of us—the four children, Betty, and myself—believe that when the votes
are finally counted, the American people will want 4 years of the progress
we've made in the last 2, and a better America during that period. But there are
no wagers as to whether we are going to win or not.
PROGRAMS FOR MINORITY GROUPS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, the comment by Secretary Butz that led to his
resignation was made in response to a question about the commitment of this
administration to blacks and other minorities. What is the commitment of this
administration? What plans do you have to expand the entering into the society
of blacks and other minorities in the next 4 years, if you are elected?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have a number of good programs at the present
2591
