[929]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
929
Statement on Visual Television Aids for Americans
With Hearing Impairments. October 21, 1976
MILLIONS of Americans suffer from hearing defects, a disability which affects
more persons than visual impairment, heart disease, or any other chronic physi-
cal ailment.
A substantial percentage of the over 13 million Americans who suffer hearing
impairment are unable to fully enjoy television as an entertainment and infor-
mation medium due to their disability. And yet television is a primary source of
entertainment in our Nation.
The Public Broadcasting System has pioneered the development of a system to
subtitle commercial television entertainment programs, so that persons who
have decoders can see printed words on their television screens. Those viewers
without decoders would have no disruption of their television pictures in any
way.
With the cooperation of the Nation's television broadcasters, the producers
of entertainment programs, the advertising community, equipment manufac-
turers, and others, I believe we can bring about the voluntary implementation of
a closed-captioning system. To that end, I have asked the Director of the Office
of Telecommunications Policy to meet at the earliest opportunity with appropri-
ate persons in the public and private sector to encourage the voluntary imple-
mentation of a closed-captioning system.
It is my strong conviction that every American should have the opportunity
to participate fully in and enjoy the entertainment and information sources
we as a nation have to offer.
930
Statement on the Interim Report of the President's Committee on
Urban Development and Neighborhood Revitalization.
October 21, 1976
I WELCOME the interim report from Secretary Hills and the President's Com-
mittee on Urban Development and Neighborhood Revitalization. This report
reflects a realistic, commonsense, practical assessment of the urban condition. It
is straight talk—not vague or empty political promises.
2598
