[746]
August 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
suffer from overuse or deficient maintenance, and areas with high recreation
potential often lack adequate access roads and visitor facilities. Many of the
nationally significant historical and archeological sites are deteriorating from
lack of proper protection and suitable resource management planning and ex-
ecution. The addition of lands to the System, coupled with effective resource
management, will increase opportunities for outdoor recreation, as well as in-
sure the protection and perpetuation of these resources for future generations.
Their inclusion would also help to alleviate overcrowding problems at areas
currently in the System, where sharply accelerated visitation during recent years
has seriously impacted park resources.
The Bicentennial Land Heritage Program will also be important to the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System. The 378 National Wildlife Refuges, which en-
compass 32 million acres, provide habitat for a wide variety of the Nation's
fish and wildlife. The Refuge System, like the National Park System, has de-
teriorated seriously. In the last two decades, the System has doubled in size,
and public visitation has quadrupled to 30 million visitors a year. Yet, staffing
has not been increased in the last ten years. Many facilities such as roads, build-
ings, and water management structures have deteriorated for lack of mainten-
ance. Of even more concern is the daily destruction of the Nation's essential
wildlife habitat which is being bought, developed, polluted, or otherwise altered.
To assist in improving community parks and recreation facilities the Program
would also authorize funds, pursuant to the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974, in the amount of $200 million to be available for communi-
ties to use in their recreation programs.
As part of the Bicentennial Land Heritage Program, I again urge the Con-
gress to act expeditiously and to enact the proposed Alaska Conservation Act
which was first proposed in December 1973 and resubmitted in March 1975. I
am disappointed that the 94th Congress has failed to take action on this initiative.
My hope is that the Congress will take positive action on this important con-
servation measure, which would add more than 64 million acres of land to the
National Park System and the National Wildlife Refuge System and thus double
the size of both of these systems.
The program I now present to the Congress will reaffirm our Nation's com-
mitment to preserve the best of our vast and beautiful country and the wildlife
inhabiting it. It will be a sound investment in America which will pay off hand-
somely by permanently insuring and enriching the natural treasures to be inheri-
ted by future generations. All Americans must stand committed to conserve
and cherish our incomparable natural heritage—our wildlife, our air, our water
2194
