[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. CARTER. Well, tonight, we've had a chance to talk a lot about the past,
but I think it is time to talk about the future. Our Nation in the last 8 years
has been divided as never before. It's a time for unity. It is time to draw our-
selves together, to have a President and a Congress that can work together with
mutual respect for a change, cooperating for a change, in the open for a change,
so the people can understand their own Government. It is time for Govern-
ment, industry and labor, manufacturing, agriculture, education, other entities
in our society to cooperate. And it's a time for Government to understand and
to cooperate with our people.
For a long time our American citizens have been excluded, sometimes mis-
led, sometimes have been lied to. This is not compatible with the purpose of
our Nation. I believe in our country. It needs to be competent, the Govern-
ment needs to be well managed, efficient, economical. We need to have a
Government that's sensitive to our people's needs, to those who are poor, who
don't have adequate health care, who have been cheated too long by our tax
programs, who've been out of jobs, whose families have been torn apart. We
need to restore the faith and the trust of the American people in their own
Government.
In addition to that, we've suffered because we haven't had leadership in this
administration. We have got a Government of stalemate. We've lost the vision
of what our country can and ought to be. This is not the America that we've
known in the past. It's not the America that we have to have in the future.
I don't claim to know all the answers, but I've got confidence in my country.
Our economic strength is still there. Our system of government, in spite of
Vietnam, Cambodia, CIA, Watergate, is still the best system of government
on Earth. And the greatest resource of all are the 215 million Americans who
still have within us the strength, the character, the intelligence, the experience,
the patriotism, the idealism, the compassion, the sense of brotherhood on which
we can rely in the future to restore the greatness to our country.
We ought not to be excluded from our Govenment anymore. We need a
President that can go in who derives his strength from the people. I owe the
special interests nothing. I owe everything to you, the people of this country.
And I believe that we can bind our wounds. I believe that we can work to-
gether. And I believe that if we can tap the tremendous untapped reservoir of
innate strength in this country, that we can once again have a Government as
good as our people and let the world know what we still know and hope for-
that we still live in the greatest and the strongest and the best country on
Earth.
2310
