[831]
September 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Well, you don't know for certain whether there are charges or whether
you are the target, or do you-
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q. And doesn't your curiosity—even if you made public the fact that you
were going to ask, I don't think that that would be undue pressure, would it?
The President. We are trying to be so circumspect, so that we are not under
any circumstances accused of any improprieties, that I have told members of
my staff that under no circumstances should they make contacts with either
the Special Prosecutor or the Department of Justice.
Q. Mr. President, don't you have the right under the current law to ask if you
are the target of the Special Prosecutor's investigation? And if that's the case,
why don't you want to know that, at least?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't tell you whether under the law I can or can't. But even
if we do have that right, I think an inquiry by me or somebody on my staff
would undoubtedly be misconstrued, and I just don't want any such allegation
being made by anybody.
Q. Mr. President, could you clear up a matter that has been pending for
some time and was referred to in this investigation—or at least it was referred
to in a newspaper article the other day-that when you were in the House you
used to go down here to the Seamans Institute, I think 22d Street or somewhere,
like a lot of other House Members did of both parties, and read a little speech
that they gave you to read at noon luncheons, and then they would give you a
nice little check, maybe they would give you an extra $1,000 or $500 because you
were majority-minority leader? I am sure this was probably done by a lot of
other Congressmen, but was that true?
THE PRESIDENT. Any time I make a speech, Sarah [Sarah McClendon, Mc-
Clendon News Service], I solicit from members of my staff-I did up in
the House-and I asked any organization that I was speaking to to give me ideas
on what they thought would be appropriate comments in speaking to that
organization.
In the case of the meetings that you speak of, it was before the joint maritime
labor organization—that's not the right term-but it's a combination of all the
labor organizations that are involved in the maritime industry.
Yes, I asked them for suggestions as to what they thought would be appro-
priate for discussion before their group. And they, along with the executive
branch of the government that had jurisdiction over shipbuilding or any aspects
of the maritime industry-I also got recommendations from them. And this
combination of ideas for a speech, people on my staff put together in a speech.
2366
