July 30
[703]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ment, from California and the Southwest, from Florida, from New York,
from Arizona, and from all over this great land.
We are united here today to preserve the principle of America and dedicated
to continuing our progress next January. And I think in the words of Cervantes,
"Todaviá no habéis visto nada," which translated as I understand it, "You
ain't seen nothing yet."
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:34 p.m. at the May-
flower Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Fernando Oaxaca, Associate Director for Manage-
ment Operations, Office of Management and Budget,
and Ben Fernandez, chairman of the Republican
National Hispanic Assembly.
703
Remarks at a Republican Party Reception in Jackson,
Mississippi. July 30, 1976
LET ME thank all of you, Clarke, and all of the others, on behalf of Betty
and myself, for the very wonderful experience we have had since we have been
in Jackson today.
I had a very good give-and-take with the delegation that is going to Kansas
City. I answered a good many questions and, I hope, satisfactorily. But I was
most impressed with the quality of the people that are representing the Repub-
lican Party at Kansas City from the State of Mississippi.
Let me talk for just a minute, if I might, about what I think we must do
between now and Kansas City and what we must do from Kansas City to
November 2. And bear in mind there is just 73 days between the end of the
convention in Kansas City and November 2. So, we have to have a plan that
will ensure the success of the philosophy that we all believe in, because that day
of November 2 will make a great deal of difference as to what will be the policy
of this country, both at home and abroad, for the next 4 years.
I am going to take a very affirmative stance and a very vigorous campaign
throughout the country. I believe that for the last 2 years, since I became
President, we have done a good job. We have done a good job in restoring
the confidence of the American people in the White House, itself.
It is almost fortuitous that it is practically 2 years to the day that I was here
in the great city of Jackson, Mississippi, helping to campaign for one of your
outstanding Republican Congressmen, Thad Cochran. Earlier that day, I had
been up at the Golden Triangle¹ and tried to be helpful for another Republi-
can candidate, who wasn't successful, but later went down to Hattiesburg on
1
¹An area in eastern Mississippi formed by the adjoining cities of West Point, Starkville, and Columbus.
2109
