[987]
October 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
PREVIOUS ACTION
During the past 30 years, the U.S. has been the unquestioned leader in world-
wide efforts to assure that the benefits of nuclear energy are made available
widely while its destructive uses are prevented. I have given special attention to
these objectives during the past 2 years, and we have made important new
progress, particularly in efforts to control the proliferation of nuclear weapons
capability among the nations of the world.
In 1974, soon after I assumed office, I became concerned that some nuclear
supplier countries, in order to achieve competitive advantage, were prepared to
offer nuclear exports under conditions less rigorous than we believe prudent.
In the fall of that year, at the United Nations General Assembly, the United
States proposed that nonproliferation measures be strengthened materially. I
also expressed my concern directly to my counterparts in key supplier and
recipient nations. I directed the Secretary of State to emphasize multilateral
action to limit this dangerous form of competition.
At U.S. initiative, the first meeting of major nuclear suppliers was convened in
London in April 1975. A series of meetings and intensive bilateral consultations
followed. As a result of these meetings, we have significantly raised international
standards through progressive new guidelines to govern nuclear exports. These
involve both improved safeguards and controls to prevent diversion of nuclear
materials and to guard against the misuse of nuclear technology and physical
protection against theft and sabotage. The United States has adopted these guide-
lines as policy for nuclear exports.
In addition, we have acted to deal with the special dangers associated with
plutonium.
-We have prohibited export of reprocessing and other nuclear technologies
that could contribute to proliferation.
-We have firmly opposed reprocessing in Korea and Taiwan. We welcome
the decisions of those nations to forego such activities. We will continue to dis-
courage national reprocessing in other locations of particular concern.
-We negotiated agreements for cooperation with Egypt and Israel which
contain the strictest reprocessing provisions and other nuclear controls ever in-
cluded in the 20-year history of our nuclear cooperation program.
—In addition, the United States recently completed negotiations to place its
civil nuclear facilities under the safeguards of the International Atomic Energy
Agency—and the IAEA has approved a proposed agreement for this purpose.
2766
