October 27
[978]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tives. Of course, Dick Schulze and Bud Shuster-they did a great job, so make
sure you send them back.
I've never been to a political meeting where I occupied this kind of podium
before. [Laughter] The last time I had spectators or participants or the public
all around me was back when I was playing football at the University of
Michigan. That was so long ago it was back when the ball was round. [Laughter]
But let me say something, or make a suggestion. I've been in Pittsburgh
yesterday, and I had the privilege and honor of being there with Dick Schweiker,¹
who was with me at the J & L [Jones and Laughlin steel] plant and who was
with me as I spoke to the Pittsburgh Economic Club. Dick has been traveling
with me, and I want to express to him-and he's with me here tonight—
my deep appreciation for your loyal and dedicated support.
But as I started to say, I'd like to experiment tonight. As I said, this is a new
format. For the next 15 minutes, I'd like to hear a pin drop. I don't want you to
cheer if I say something that might inspire you. I hope you won't moan or groan,
and please don't fall asleep. [Laughter]
But I would like to talk very seriously and very straight from the shoulder, and
let you refresh your memory, if you would for just a moment. Go back to
August of 1974. Naturally, I'll never forget that occasion because on August 9
of that month, I was sworn in as President of the United States.
America was in very deep trouble. Faith and confidence in the White House
had been lost, and I think there was an undercurrent of lack of faith, really,
among 215 million Americans, in our government and our future. We certainly
were suffering the worst inflation since the turn of the century—over 12 percent.
We were on the brink of the worst economic recession in 40 years, and we were
still involved very substantially in Vietnam.
I can recall very vividly after taking the oath of office in the East Room of
the White House, and going with Betty to the Oval Office and saying to her
that we had to stand tall and strong because we loved America, as all Americans
do. But we had to find a way to put the ship on an even keel and to set a steady
course.
And slowly but surely-because the American people felt that they had a
new trust in the White House itself and that we weren't going to panic and we
weren't going to try any quick fixes that sounded good but didn't have any
substance-and so slowly but surely there was this restoration of confidence in
America, its Government, its people, its principles, its aims, its objectives.
People could begin to see that because we were doing the right thing in the
¹ Richard S. Schweiker, U.S. Senator from Pennsylvania.
2739
