[999]
October 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
won't be satisfied until every person who wants to save and buy a home in a
decent neighborhood has that home. And we will do it in the next 4 years.
I want it so that young and old, that all of our 215 million Americans, can
walk those streets in Rochester, New York, Detroit, Grand Rapids, in safety
and security. We are going to lick the problem of crime in America. And we
want a quality education for all Americans. We are going to have the best
health care. People will be able to afford it.
But let me conclude with this pledge: For the last 2 years, when things were
going toughest, I was proud not only of the character of the American people,
the character of our form of government, but I was proud to be your President.
And now as we move into the third century of America's history, I ask you on
November 2, to not only confirm me with your prayers but to confirm me
with your ballots. And I won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:50 a.m. at the
Rochester-Monroe County Airport. In his remarks,
he referred to Richard Rosenbaum, New York State
Republican chairman, and Representatives Frank
Horton and Barber B. Conable, Jr.
1000
Remarks in Hauppauge, New York.
Thank you very, very much, Dick Rosenbaum:
October 31, 1976
May I ask a favor of you for just a few minutes, because this is a very crucial
election, not only at the local but at the State and at the national level. I would
like to reintroduce maybe a person or two. I would like to introduce some
people who have really been very helpful, and then I would like to talk to you
straight from the shoulder about the differences between electing my opponent
on the one hand and the Ford-Dole ticket on the other.
First, I want to thank Dick Rosenbaum. I want to thank Buzz Schwenk,
who has done a super job. I wish to express my appreciation to Perry Duryea.
And on a very personal note, back in 1970, I had a tough congressional race,
after having 11 relatively easy ones, and I asked a dear friend of mine, a man
who would have an impact in my congressional race, to come out and give a
Lincoln Day speech in my behalf. And I have never forgotten his loyalty, his
help, and I want to recognize it here among all of you in Suffolk County be-
cause he is a great statesman, and I say Senator Jack Javits.
But there are some other people that have been introduced, but I would like
to give them some special and very personal recognition from me—to have one
2810
