[1004]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
distinction between him and President Ford. I have consistently, firmly, said
the American people should and will have a tax reduction so we can stimulate
the economy, so we can give you a better chance to spend that hard-earned
cash that you deserve in your pocket and not in the Federal Treasury.
In January of this year, 1976, I submitted to the Congress a $28 billion tax
reduction package. I said in order to do it honestly and conscientiously, the
Congress had to go along with a $28 billion restraint in Federal spending.
Included in my tax reduction proposal is the kind of tax reduction that is
meaningful to the middle-income taxpayer. I recommended that we increase
the personal exemption from $750-which it is today—to $1,000.
Let me tell you what that means. The other day I went through a plant and
I was talking to some working men on a production line. And one of them
said, “President Ford, what does your tax reduction proposal mean to me and
my family?” I said, "How many children do you have?” He said, “I have got
three kids." It turned out that he had himself, a wife, and three children. I said,
"Get out your pencil." It means that if Congress had acted responsibly, we
would have had for that man and millions and millions and millions of other
taxpayers the opportunity next April to sit down and figure out in his case
that he would have gotten $1,250 more in personal exemption, money that
he could have spent for himself and his lovely family.
That's our tax proposal-tax reduction. And on January 3, when Congress
reconvenes, they are going to have that tax reduction proposal on their desk, and
if they don't pass it in 1977, we will send it right back up in 1978. And if that
Congress doesn't pass it in 1978, you and I will go out and beat them in the next
election in 1978.
But, there is another big difference. I am proud to stand before you and say
that I am the first President since Dwight D. Eisenhower who can go to the
American people to seek their support and say America is at peace. Under our
administration-yours and mine-we have the finest Army, Navy, Air Force,
and Marines, and we are going to keep them number one.
Mr. Carter wants to cut the defense budget by $5 to $15 billion. That is too
big a gamble for America's security. And I want to pledge to you that in the
next 4 years we are going to keep America number one so we can preserve
the peace, deter aggression, meet any challenge. That is the kind of defense
program I stand for and you stand for and America stands for.
On August 9, 1974, I stood in the East Room of the White House and took
an oath of office to be your President. I had not sought this high office. Betty
held the Bible, and I placed my hand on it and I said afterwards-because
2824
