October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the massive investment in the Vietnam war, he turned over a balanced budget
to Mr. Nixon. The unemployment rate was less than 4 percent. The inflation
rate under Kennedy and Johnson was about 2 percent-one-third what it is un-
der this administration. So, we did have at that time, with good management,
the ability to do both. I don't think anybody can say that Johnson and Kennedy
neglected the poor and the destitute people in this country or around the world.
But I can say this: The number one responsibility of any President, above all
else, is to guarantee the security of our Nation, an ability to be free of the threat
of attack or blackmail and to carry out our obligations to our allies and friends
and to carry out a legitimate foreign policy. They must go hand in hand. But
the security of this Nation has got to come first.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say very categorically, you cannot maintain the secu-
rity and the strength of the United States with the kind of defense budget cuts
that Governor Carter has indicated. In 1975 he wanted to cut the budget $15
billion. He is now down to a figure of $5 billion to $7 billion. Reductions of that
kind will not permit the United States to be strong enough to deter aggression
and maintain the peace.
Governor Carter apparently does not know the facts. As soon as I became
President, I initiated meetings with the NATO heads of state and met with
them in Brussels to discuss how we could improve the defense relationship in
Western Europe. In November of 1975, I met with the leaders of the five indus-
trial nations in France for the purpose of seeing what we could do, acting to-
gether, to meet the problems of the coming recession. In Puerto Rico this year,
I met with six of the leading industrial nations' heads of state to meet the prob-
lem of inflation so we would be able to solve it before it got out of hand.
I have met with the heads of government, bilaterally as well as multilaterally.
Our relations with Japan have never been better. I was the first United States
President to visit Japan. And we had the Emperor of Japan here this past year.
And the net result is Japan and the United States are working more closely
together now than at any time in the history of our relationship. You can go
around the world—and let me take Israel, for example. Just recently, President
[Prime Minister] Rabin said that our relations were never better.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Trewhitt, a question for President Ford.
MR. TREWHITT. Mr. President, you referred earlier to your meeting with Mr.
Brezhnev at Vladivostok in 1974. You agreed on that occasion to try to achieve
another strategic arms limitation-SALT-agreement within the year. Nothing
happened in 1975 or not very much publicly, at least, and those talks are still
2423
