October 26
[969]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
As I look around this great crowd and thank you all for coming, I am proud
to be an American and I know that you are. And although we have had our
problems in the past 2 years, we have come a long, long way. At home and
abroad, we are putting aside old differences, we are putting old problems behind
us and healing our wounds. It is a record I am proud to run on, a record the
people of Illinois and concerned citizens throughout America―Democrats, Inde-
pendents, and Republicans—will support on November 2.
Give me your mandate and we will reduce the growth of government.
Give me your mandate and we will ensure the integrity of the social security
system; we will improve medicare so that our older citizens can enjoy the health
and the happiness that they have earned—there is no reason why they should go
broke just to get well.
Give me your mandate and we will create a tax structure that is fair to all, that
will preserve the family home, the family business, the family farm; that will
give business the tax incentives to build new plants, to modernize old ones, and
to create more jobs.
Give me your mandate and I will lead this Nation on the path of peace
through strength, and we will live in peace and freedom in the United States.
I find or have no fear for the future of this great country. The future for
America is a friend, and as we go forward together, I promise you once more, as
I promised you before, to uphold the Constitution and to do what is right as
God gives me to see the right, and to do the very, very best I can for America.
God helping me, I won't let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:14 p.m. at the Ford
City Shopping Mall. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Senator Charles H. Percy; Ron Bukema,
Republican congressional candidate; Governor
Richard B. Ogilvie of Illinois 1969-73, chairman of
the Illinois President Ford Committee; Representative
Edith Green of Oregon 1955-75, cochairman of the
Citizens for Ford Committee; and Joe Garagiola,
NBC sports commentator.
969
Remarks in Northbrook, Illinois. October 26, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Chuck, President Boe, my former colleagues in
the House of Representatives, Bob McClory, Phil Crane, Sam Young, and, of
course, my dear friend and wonderful supporter, your former fine Governor,
Governor Ogilvie:
It is just nice to be out here with the Allstate family, and I thank you for the
2709
