[1004]
November 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
1004
Remarks on Departure From Akron, Ohio.
November 1, 1976
LET ME ask you to be very quiet for just a few minutes, because the issues and
decisions you make between now and tomorrow when the polls close are very,
very crucial for America.
First, I want to thank your great Governor, Jim Rhodes, who has been with
President Ford from the very beginning. Jim, I can't express deeply enough my
gratitude and appreciation for your loyalty. But let me add this one feature.
We have on the stage with me today the two greatest Governors in the history
of Ohio.
But it is great to be in Akron, Canton, Massillon, and Alliance. What an area
in the great State of Ohio.
I am honored to be on the team in Ohio with Bob Taft. Send him back to
Washington for your good and for the country's good. Bob, you have got to
win. And then you have your own Congressman in this area. He has done a
super job, a fantastic job on your behalf, but a job for America. Send Ralph
Regula back to help us.
And now let me speak straight from the shoulder. You have a chance to
improve the quality of Congress by sending one of your own, Jim Houston,
down to the House of Representatives.
But it is great to be here with Mayor Ballard, with Mayor Cmich.' And then
I want to thank somebody else who has taken time, along with others of equal
prominence. Wayne,² thank you very, very much. All over the country we have
had outstanding people like Wayne participate voluntarily. We have had Peter
Graves, Hugh O'Brien, Rod McKuen. We have had quality people who on
their own have come out and said it is important for America that President
Ford win. Wayne, I thank you very much.
Now there is one fellow that came down here along with his beautiful wife,
and I want to thank Bill Stanton. Send Bill back to Congress.
But I mentioned a moment ago when I was speaking about your great
Governor-and I said there were two great Governors on the platform this
morning. And now it is my privilege to introduce to you a man who was a
¹ Mayors John Ballard of Akron and Stan Cmich of Canton, Ohio.
Wayne Rogers, television and motion picture actor.
2822
