October 27
[977]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Well, those are the things-peace and a tax reduction.
But now let's talk about the new spirit I find in America, whether it is on the
west coast or the east coast. The spark was really lighted here in Philadelphia
on July 4. I am sure many of you attended the great ceremonies that we held in
the city right here.
The American people have been disillusioned. They lost faith and trust in
their country, maybe in themselves. But we turned things around. We restored
trust in the White House; we ended the war in Vietnam; we have been quite
successful in battling inflation, from over 12 percent to under 6 percent; we have
added 4 million jobs.
But the main thing that happened on July 4 was there was a rebirth of spirit.
The American people got that old patriotism back. Instead of fighting with one
another, they got together. There is a new belief, not only in our form of gov-
ernment but in each other, and in themselves.
And so America has made an incredible comeback. We have the momentum
going, and I happen to believe that when the people go to those polls on Novem-
ber 2, they are going to say, "Jerry Ford, you did a good job. We want you to do it
for the next 4 years."
So, I thank you all. I thank Billy Meehan, Bill Devlin, your two great Sen-
ators, your next Senator, Larry Coughlin, all of you. We have 5½ days to go. We
can do it. Pennsylvania is crucial. Let's make certain that the great Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania leads the pack so that we will have 4 good years under
Jerry Ford.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:52 p.m. at the
Philadelphia Civic Auditorium. In his remarks, he
referred to Drew Lewis, chairman of the Pennsyl-
vania President Ford Committee, Ethel Allen, Phila-
delphia councilwoman, William Meehan, Republi-
can leader of Philadelphia, and William Devlin,
Republican chairman for Philadelphia County.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
977
Remarks in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. October 27, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Larry Coughlin, Senator Dick
Schweiker, Congressman Bud Shuster, your good friend Bob Butera, and all of
the other dignitaries here on the podium:
It's wonderful to be in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. I love you,
and we're going to win.
As I travel around the country and the crowds get bigger, the enthusiasm
2735
