January 14
[1062]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
His is a record of unprecedented scope and enormous accomplishment. It is
a record in which all Americans take pride and it is a record worthy of special
recognition.
It is my particular pleasure to be able to give special recognition to this great
American this evening before this distinguished and most appropriate audience.
Mr. Secretary, it is my honor and tremendous privilege to award you on
behalf of this grateful Nation the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest
civilian award it is within the power of a President to grant.
Mr. Secretary, I make this award not only in recognition of the monumental
contributions that you have made to the security, peace, and freedom of the
United States, but in recognition as well of the fact that during the dark days in
our Nation's recent past you showed the world what we were capable of accom-
plishing and gave your countrymen a reason to be very proud of our Nation.
I make this award, Mr. Secretary, in the presence of the diplomatic corps be-
cause in the broadest sense what you did for America you did for all mankind.
Now I would like Mr. O'Donnell to read the citation, please.
[At this point, Terrence O'Donnell, Aide to the President, read the citation as follows:]
"Henry A. Kissinger, scholar, statesman and public servant. By his extraor-
dinary achievements he has earned a place in the first rank of American patri-
ots. A principal architect of America's diplomacy under two Presidents, he
guided the Nation in meeting the responsibilities of world leadership. A bril-
liant negotiator, he wielded America's great power with wisdom and compassion
in the service of peace. He is honored by a grateful President and Nation in the
expectation that the past is but prologue.”
"Signed, Gerald R. Ford, The White House, Washington, D.C.”
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:25 p.m. at the
Pan American Union, where the diplomatic corps
was holding a reception in Secretary Kissinger's
honor.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Ambassador Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa, dean of the
diplomatic corps, Vice President Nelson A. Rocke-
feller, and Alejandro Orfila, Secretary-General of the
Organization of American States.
Secretary Kissinger's response to the President's
remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 13, p. 41).
1062
Statement on the Report of the Domestic Council
Review Group on Regulatory Reform. January 14, 1977
GOVERNMENT cannot expect the trust and confidence of its people unless it
enacts and enforces laws that are effective, efficient, and fair. When I took office
2931
