[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
problem. I am strongly against abortion. I think abortion is wrong. I don't think
the Government ought to do anything to encourage abortion, but I don't favor
a constitutional amendment on the subject. But short of a constitutional amend-
ment, and within the confines of a Supreme Court ruling, I will do everything I
can to minimize the need for abortions with better sex education, family plan-
ning, with better adoptive procedures. I personally don't believe that the Federal
Government ought to finance abortions, but I draw the line and don't support
a constitutional amendment. However, I honor the right of people to seek the
constitutional amendments on school busing, on prayer in the schools, and on
abortion, but among those you named, I won't actively work for the passage of
any of them.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, your response, please.
THE PRESIDENT. I support the Republican platform which calls for a constitu-
tional amendment that would outlaw abortions. I favor the particular constitu-
tional amendment that would turn over to the States the individual right of the
voters in those States the chance to make a decision by public referendum. I
call that the peoples' amendment. I think if you really believe that the people of
a State ought to make a decision on a matter of this kind, that we ought to
have a Federal constitutional amendment that would permit each one of the 50
States to make the choice.
I think this is a reasonable and proper way to proceed. I believe also that
there is some merit to an amendment that Senator Everett Dirksen proposed very
frequently, an amendment that would change the Court decision as far as vol-
untary prayer in public schools. It seems to me that there should be an oppor-
tunity, as long as it's voluntary, as long as there is no compulsion whatsoever,
that an individual ought to have that right.
So, in those two cases I think such a constitutional amendment would be
proper. And I really don't think in either case they are trivial matters. I think
they are matters of very deep conviction as far as many, many people in this
country believe, and therefore they shouldn't be treated lightly, but they are
matters that are important. And in those two cases I would favor them.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Maynard, to President Ford.
MR. MAYNARD. Mr. President, twice you have been the intended victim of
would-be assassins using handguns, yet you remain a steadfast opponent of
substantive handgun control. There are now some 40 million handguns in this
country, going up at the rate of 2.5 million a year, and tragically those hand-
guns are frequently purchased for self-protection and wind up being used against
2638
