September 21
[796]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
investigation by the U.S. International Trade Commission under Section 201 of
the Trade Act of 1974. I fully agree with the Finance Committee that this mat-
ter requires a full and complete examination by the USITC. Further, because of
the urgency of the problem for America's sugar producers, I am asking the
USITC to expedite its review and to report its findings as soon as possible.
In addition, in view of the depressed state of the sugar industry, I have decided,
pending completion of the USITC investigation, to raise the duty on imported
sugar from .625 cents per pound to 1.875 cents per pound, effective immediately.
Increased custom duties will offer domestic producers some protection from
imports while the USITC investigation is underway. I emphasize that this is an
interim measure which I will review following receipt of the findings of the
USITC and that I am not prejudging the eventual findings and recommenda-
tions of the USITC with respect to the question of injury or possible remedial
measures.
796
Letter to the Chairman of the United States International
Trade Commission Concerning Sugar Imports.
September 21, 1976
IT IS my understanding that the Senate Finance Committee, acting pursuant
to Section 201(b)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974, has requested that the U.S.
International Trade Commission begin an investigation under Section 201 of
the Trade Act to determine whether United States sugar producers are being
harmed or threatened with harm by imports of sugar. I urge the Commission
to promptly make such an investigation in view of recent trends in the sugar
industry.
As a separate action, within the limits of my authority to establish appropriate
rates of duty for sugar provided for in TSUS items 155.20 and 155.30, I have
proclaimed a rate of duty applicable to such sugar imports of approximately 1.9
cents per pound. This action is not intended to prejudge the results of the Com-
mission's investigation.
I request that the Commission expedite its investigation and submit its report
to me as quickly as possible.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable Will E. Leonard, Jr., Chairman, U.S. International Trade Commission, Washington, D.C.
20436]
2275
