October 6
[854]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
agreement and before we made a bluffing statement, we were sure that we had
the backing not only of the President and the Secretary of State but also of the
Congress and the people. This is a responsibility of the President, and I think
it's very damaging to our country for Mr. Ford to have turned over this respon-
sibility to the Secretary of State.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford, do you have a response?
The President. Governor Carter again contradicts himself. He complains
about secrecy, and yet he is quoted as saying that in the attempt to find a solu-
tion in the Middle East, that he would hold unpublicized meetings with the
Soviet Union-I presume for the purpose of imposing a settlement on Israel
and the Arab nations.
But let me talk just a minute about what we've done to avoid secrecy in the
Ford administration. After the United States took the initiative in working with
Israel and with Egypt and achieving the Sinai II agreement—and I am proud
to say that not a single Egyptian or Israeli soldier has lost his life since the sign-
ing of the Sinai agreement—but at the time that I submitted the Sinai agree-
ment to the Congress of the United States, I submitted every single document
that was applicable to the Sinai II agreement. It was the most complete docu-
mentation by any President of any agreement signed by a President on behalf
of the United States.
Now, as far as meeting with the Congress is concerned, during the 24 months
that I've been the President of the United States, I have averaged better than one
meeting a month with responsible groups or committees of the Congress, both
House and Senate.
The Secretary of State has appeared, in the several years that he's been the
Secretary, before 80 different committee hearings in the House and in the Sen-
ate. The Secretary of State has made better than 50 speeches all over the United
States explaining American foreign policy. I have made, myself, at least 10
speeches in various parts of the country, where I have discussed with the Ameri-
can people defense and foreign policy.
THE MODERATOR. Mr. Frankel, a question for President Ford.
MR. FRANKEL. Mr. President, I'd like to explore a little more deeply our rela-
tionship with the Russians. They used to brag, back in Khrushchev's day, that
because of their greater patience and because of our greed for business deals,
that they would sooner or later get the better of us. Is it possible that, despite
some setbacks in the Middle East, they've proved their point? Our allies in
France and Italy are now flirting with communism; we've recognized a perma-
nent Communist regime in East Germany; we virtually signed, in Helsinki, an
2415
