[1028]
December 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
materials no longer exist. Materials originally
restricted under categories (v), (vi) or (vii) may
be made available at any time only when in the
judgment of an appropriate Federal official or
committee the reasons for having restricted them
no longer exist.
(d) My access and that of former appointees or
staff members. I or any designated agent of mine,
during my lifetime, shall have the full right of access
to all materials, including restricted materials, for
purposes of inspection, reading and copying. Also,
the same right of access shall be afforded, with my
written permission and on such terms as I may set
(or in the event of my disability or after my death,
by permission of the director on such terms as he may
set) to any former Presidential appointee who served
in my Administration or former member of my Con-
gressional, Vice Presidential or Presidential staffs in
respect of materials authored or prepared by such
person or by any of his assistants and not otherwise
available to such person. In addition, I or any mem-
ber of my immediate family shall be entitled to
receive temporary loans of existing duplicates in the
collection of materials that are not restricted, upon
consent of the director and on such terms and under
such safeguards as he may determine.
(e) Access for current official business of the
White House Office of the President. The director of
the library shall make available for reading or
copying otherwise restricted materials relating to
my official duties as President, while I held office,
upon written request in each instance from the Coun-
sel to the President, with a copy to me or my desig-
nated agent, describing with specificity the materials
required, stating that the information they contain is
needed for current official business of the White
Office of the President, and is not otherwise avail-
able, and undertaking to protect the restrictions set
forth herein and to deliver to the director all copies
received or made of restricted materials.
Access for reading of any such materials or re-
ceiving or reading any copies thereof as provided
under the terms of this subparagraph, shall be limited
to the President himself, the Counsel to the President,
and such other responsible and qualified staff mem-
ber of the White House Office of the President as
shall have been named and authorized in the written
request to read the materials or to receive a copy
thereof and who makes in writing the same under-
taking that the Counsel to the President has made.
(f) Access for compliance with subpoena or
other lawful process. Subject to any rights, defenses,
or privileges which the Federal Government or any
other organization or person may invoke, the ma-
terials, whether or not processed, shall be subject
to subpoena or other lawful process. The director of
the library shall develop procedures for providing
notice to the Federal Government, to me, and, within
practical limits, to any other organization or person
who may invoke such rights, defenses, or privileges
in particular instances covered by this subparagraph.
(g) Security-classified information. All access to
the materials is subject to the requirement that
information which is security-classified or protected
from divulgence pursuant to law or Executive Order
shall be made available and shall be used only in
accordance with procedures established by law or
Executive Order governing the availability and use
of such information.
6. Access to materials in the museum collection.
Materials in the museum shall be temporarily or
permanently displayed or exhibited for public view-
ing on a selective basis as the museum director may
from time to time determine. I, or any member of my
immediate family, shall have full right of access to
any of the materials in the museum for the purpose
of inspecting, photographing, or duplicating them.
Temporary loans to me or to any member of my
family of specific materials may be requested, and
they shall be granted upon consent of the director
and on such terms and under such safeguards as he
may determine.
Other uses of, and access by researchers, educators,
and students to, museum materials shall be in accord-
ance with such generally applicable rules or policies
as the museum director shall from time to time
promulgate.
7. Availability and use of materials for remainder
of my Presidential term. Notwithstanding any other
provisions hereof, such of the conveyed materials as
are now available to me or staff members of the
White House Office or Executive Office of the
President within the White House and related facili-
ties shall continue to be so available to me and to
such staff members and their permittees for use in
the conduct of Government business during the re-
mainder of my Presidential term.
8. Interim provisions. Pending a further appoint-
ment, the director of both the library and museum
and the depositories in which the conveyed materials
are temporarily placed shall be the Archivist. He
shall have the full authority granted the library and
museum director or directors under the terms of
this conveyance and the right or power to delegate all
or any portion of such authority from time to time
as he determines. Pending implementation of pro-
visions herein for appointment of a library council
or of a museum council, requirements hereunder for
seeking and receiving advice and recommendations
from the applicable council may be complied with
by consulting with me or with any other person
whom I shall have designated to serve for me in
such consultative capacity.
December 13, 1976
To the Honorable Gerald R. Ford:
Pursuant to my authority under Chapter 21 of
Title 44, United States Code, as delegated to me by
2870
