October 31
[999]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And then we have got one of your hometown boys-he has grown quite a
bit—the former judge and our State chairman, Dick Rosenbaum.
Now, let me say something about some people that I want to be with me in
Washington for the next 4 years. First, I want you to reelect for your benefit,
for the country's benefit, for our benefit, Frank Horton. And then another one
of your outstanding, super guys that has helped me so much, who can help
you, help the State, help the country, Barber Conable. And then I want you to
send down to Washington—or to keep him there, that is what I really mean—
your good friend, your Senator, Jim Buckley.
Now, for just a minute I would like to first express my deep appreciation and
gratitude for the tremendous turnout in Michigan weather. [Laughter]
Now, having said that, when I became your President 26 months ago, things
were tough. You will recall inflation was over 12 percent. We were on the brink
of a recession. People had lost faith and confidence in the White House. We were
still involved in Vietnam. And as I stood in the East Room of the White House
and took the oath of office, it wasn't an easy time—America was in turmoil. And
at that time, I said to all of my fellow Americans: You have not confirmed me
by your ballots. I ask that you confirm me by your prayers. And you did. And
the net result is America got our ship of state on a steady course, we put a
firm hand on the tiller. And America has made an incredible comeback, and
you did it, and I thank you.
We have cut inflation by more than 50 percent, and we are going to do
better. We have added 4 million jobs in the last 18 months, and we are going to
do better. We have restored trust and honesty in the White House, and I pledge
that is the way it will be for the next 4 years.
But today, we can all be proud and thankful that not a single young American
is fighting or dying on any foreign battlefield. And because we are strong
militarily and diplomatically skillful, we will keep it that way in the next
4 years.
But now that we are over the hump, now that we have laid the foundation
for the kind of progress that America is capable of, let me just make a passing
comment. How many of you were proud of America on its 200th birthday
on July 4? I was, too. I was in New York Harbor and saw those "Tall Ships"
from all over the world paying respect and tribute to the greatest country in the
history of mankind, the United States of America.
But now we have progress to make quality of life. I won't be satisfied until
every American who wants to work has a job, and that is a pledge to you. I
2809
