[898]
October 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
can to elevate the level of this campaign, and can we expect you to continue
the way you have been in the last week or so?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's very positive to talk about tax reductions, as I
have recommended to the American people that we increase the personal
exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's very positive, very affirmative, and
certainly in contrast to what Mr. Carter wants, which is to increase taxes for
people with a medium- or middle-income level, which is about $14,000. That's
a distinct difference. I'm on the affirmative side; he's on the negative side.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Sarah [Sarah McClendon, McClendon News Service].
[Laughter] You knew I'd get around to you.
THE PRESIDENT'S GOLFING EXPENSES
[18.] Q. Thank you. When you were in Congress, you filed an income tax
return for those years saying that you had very little money left over. Like a lot
of us, you had about $5 left over for spending money, I believe.
I wonder if you had included your golf fees and your dues at Congressional
and Burning Tree. I believe you belonged to both of them, didn't you? And
they're very expensive. You must have been strapped for funds. Who was helping
those large golfing expenses? You golfed three to five times a week, I
you pay
believe.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, that's an inaccurate statement, and you know it,
Sarah. [Laughter] When you are the minority leader of the House of Repre-
sentatives and on the job, you don't play golf three to five times a week. I'm
sorry that you said that, because you know it's not true.
Now, let me just say that I paid for those golfing dues or charges by check.
And the committee and everybody else—the Internal Revenue Service, the Joint
Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation, the FBI, and now the Special Prose-
cutor—have all looked into those in depth and in detail, and they have given
me a clean bill of health, and I thank them for it.
INCOME TAX LEGISLATION
[19.] Q. Mr. President, the Washington Post had an article today which
noted that Ford Motor Company paid no taxes last year, paid no taxes the year
before. Do you think that's fair, and what are you going to do about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's proper to remind the American people that
those tax laws which are on the statute books were written by the Democrats, who
2530
