[867]
October 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
Just a week ago I signed the Indian Health Care Improvement Act,² which
authorized significant improved resources for Indian health delivery care. I
know you are very proud of the fine accredited hospital here in Lawton, but
many Indian hospitals are not accredited. We must—and we will—bring them
up to standards.
In a few minutes, I will sign a Presidential proclamation declaring October 10
to 16 as Native American Awareness Week. The administration's support for
Indian programs is not just rhetoric. We back up our words with action.
Eight years ago, the Bureau of Indian Affairs—its budget was $262 million.
Today, it is $777 million. The Indian health budget was $113 million; today,
$425 million. Our manpower training budget for Indian people is four times
bigger than it was only 4 years ago. The record of support for Indian programs
and for the protection of Indian trust rights is clear and precise. America wants
those policies to continue, and I can assure you that they will.
Let me say to the Oklahoma delegation and Senator Paul Laxalt here from
Nevada, as well as the tribal leaders, and I am delighted to have the opportunity
of participating with them in the signing of this proclamation. There are about
one million American Indian citizens, and some may say this is a very small
minority. I count American Indian people, however, not in numbers but in
the honored place that they hold in our multicultured society and in the future
of our Nation. The 215 million of us are keenly concerned with the one million.
The welfare and the progress of native Americans is high on the agenda of the
American conscience.
My administration is equally determined that history is going to continue
to be changed, that the Indian shall no longer be lowest in poverty and slimmest
in opportunity, and we are making those changes now.
I sign this proclamation as a signal of that determination and as an invitation
to all of my fellow citizens to reaffirm that our first Americans are among
America's most respected and honored citizens.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:10 p.m. in the Mediterranean Room at the Montego Bay Hotel.
2 For the President's statement on signing the act, see Item 840.
2470
