October 1
[841]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare, including a review of progress under
the terms of the new act. I believe the administration can in this way bring to
the attention of the Congress any changes needed to improve the provisions of
S. 522.
On balance, this bill is a positive step, and I am pleased to sign it.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 522, approved September 30, 1976, is Public Law 94-437 (90 Stat. 1400).
841
Statement on Signing a Legislative Branch
Appropriation Bill.
October 1, 1976
I AM signing H.R. 14238, Appropriations for the Legislative Branch for Fiscal
Year 1977, with reluctance.
Last year, the Congress enacted Public Law 94-82 which, after more than
6 years, allowed annual pay adjustments for all Federal employees. Before that
time, pay raises for officials at the top levels of the Federal Government had
been frozen. As annual comparability increases came due each October, more
and more Federal employees bumped up against the fixed ceiling, preventing
them from receiving the annual comparability increase. Soon, many employees
in the upper Civil Service grades were receiving exactly the same salary as policy-
making officials.
Under these conditions, it became increasingly difficult to recruit top-flight
people into the Federal Government, and it became even more difficult to retain
those who were already there. With salaries significantly higher in the private
sector, many dedicated individuals are deterred from entering or remaining
in the public service. Chief Justice Burger has spoken often-forthrightly and
eloquently—on the identical problems which plague the Federal judiciary.
While last year's law did not solve these problems by any means, it did give
some small relief to Federal officials who had not had a pay raise since 1968,
despite large increases in the cost of living. In the bill I am signing today,
Congress has not only withdrawn the small step they took last year to help
alleviate the problems of Federal pay but they have created additional chaos.
If the Congress had frozen only the pay of its Members in this bill, I would
sign without hesitation. Instead, in this election year, the Congress chose not
only to stop its own pay raises but those of the judiciary and top-level executive
branch employees as well.
Further, the Congress has created havoc in the pay levels throughout the
2385
