October 31
[1002]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But now it is our responsibility, everybody, to write the history of the third
century, and I pledge to you, as the President for the next 4 years, that we will
write that history so historians can look back and say we did a good job in starting
off the first 4 years of our third century.
America is respected. All of you here recall on July 4 when we celebrated our
200th birthday, those "Tall Ships" that came from all over the world to pay
respect to the number one nation in the history of mankind, the United States of
America.
And now I ask you on November 2 not only to confirm me with your prayers
but to confirm me with your ballots, and I pledge to you that I will not let you
down.
Thank you, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. in the
meeting room at the Nassau County Veterans
Memorial Coliseum. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Joseph M. Margiotta, Nassau County Re-
publican Party chairman.
1002
Remarks in Hempstead, New York.
Thank you very much, Joe.
October 31, 1976
I can just look around this room and see nothing but quality in Nassau
County. [Laughter] But let me say that I know from a few years in politics
that a county organization with great leadership such as you have in Joe and
with the kind of people that are here as officeholders and those that support
the party-you give the people good government. And if we can win this
election, and I am just as confident tonight as I have ever been in the old
enthusiasm and momentum, then we hope to make the effort to try and build
the Republican Party in all 50 States so that we can have a party in every State
just like the fine party organization leadership and results that you have in
Nassau County.
We have the right principles. There is no reason why we shouldn't win the
control of the Congress, win the control of the House and Senate, because our
principles are those that the American people believe in. So, what we have to
do is win this election and then start building like you have built here in
Nassau County.
And as I leave for Canton and Akron, where we are going to stay overnight,
put on a big rally early in the morning, and then go to Columbus where they're
going to have a big, big noontime rally in front of the State Capitol—and even
2819
