[1057]
January 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
economies. The momentum already achieved must be nurtured and strength-
ened, for the prosperity of the rich and poor depends upon it.
In Latin America, our relations have taken on a new maturity and a sense of
common enterprise.
In Africa the quest for peace, racial justice, and economic progress is at a
crucial point. The United States, in close cooperation with the United Kingdom,
is actively engaged in this historic process. Will change come about by warfare
and chaos and foreign intervention? Or will it come about by negotiated and
fair solutions, ensuring majority rule, minority rights, and economic advance?
America is committed to the side of peace and justice and to the principle that
Africa should shape its own future, free of outside intervention.
American leadership has helped to stimulate new international efforts to
stem the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to shape a comprehensive treaty
governing the use of oceans.
I am gratified by these accomplishments. They constitute a record of broad
success for America and for the peace and prosperity of all mankind. This
administration leaves to its successor a world in better condition than we found.
We leave, as well, a solid foundation for progress on a range of issues that are
vital to the well-being of America.
What has been achieved in the field of foreign affairs and what can be accom-
plished by the new administration demonstrate the genius of Americans work-
ing together for the common good. It is this, our remarkable ability to work
together, that has made us a unique nation. It is Congress, the President, and
the people striving for a better world.
I know all patriotic Americans want this Nation's foreign policy to succeed.
I urge members of my party in this Congress to give the new President loyal
support in this area. I express the hope that this new Congress will reexamine its
constitutional role in international affairs.
The exclusive right to declare war, the duty to advise and consent on the part
of the Senate, the power of the purse on the part of the House are ample au-
thority for the legislative branch and should be jealously guarded. But because
we may have been too careless of these powers in the past does not justify con-
gressional intrusion into, or obstruction of, the proper exercise of Presidential
responsibilities now or in the future. There can be only one Commander in
Chief. In these times crises cannot be managed and wars cannot be waged by
committee, nor can peace be pursued solely by parliamentary debate. To the
ears of the world, the President speaks for the Nation. While he is, of course,
ultimately accountable to the Congress, the courts, and the people, he and his
2920
