September 24
[805]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have achieved the peace and that we have the military skill and the diplomatic
capability to keep the peace. They know that we have restored trust in the
White House. The American people want 4 more years of Ford.
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware are key States. We want to win
those States and all 47 other States, and we're going to do it.
Thank you all for what you have done, thank you for what you are doing,
and thank you for what you are going to do. We'll win November 2.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:53 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Bellevue Stratford Hotel. The
reception was sponsored by the Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, and Delaware President Ford Committees.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Senator Richard S. Schweiker of Pennsylvania.
805
Remarks at the National Quadrennial Convention of the
Polish-American Congress in Philadelphia.
September 24, 1976
Your Excellence Cardinal Krol, Senator Schweiker, Congressman John Heinz
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I feel great. How do you feel this morning?
I am greatly honored by your invitation to address the convention of the
Polish-American Congress, and I am mighty proud to be here, not just as
President but as a friend of American Polonia.
It has been the policy of mine—and the policy of my administration-to
listen carefully to the voice of Polish America. When it comes to sacrifice and
achievement, you have given more, far more than your share in making this
the greatest country in the history of mankind.
Fifty-eight years ago another Polish-American conference was addressed by
the great patriot, Jan Paderewski. His feats as an orator were no less stunning
than his genius as a musician and as the leader of the Polish-American people.
His address to his audience, in Polish, for over 2½ hours-I will not try to
emulate that performance-however, let me repeat a few of Paderewski's com-
ments and observations. He said, and I quote, "The Poles in America do not
need any Americanization. It is superfluous to explain to them what are the
ideals of America. They know very well, for they have been theirs for 1,000
years."
Another Polish-American leader put the same thought this way. "I feel I
am 200 percent American because I am 100 percent Pole."
2313
