September 30
[836]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the Sherman Act a felony punishable by imprisonment of up to 3 years for
individuals, and by a corporate fine of up to $1 million.
Also, in December 1975, I signed legislation repealing fair trade enabling
legislation. This action alone, according to various estimates, will save con-
sumers $2 billion annually.
On the second front of reducing regulatory actions that inhibit competition,
I have signed the Securities Act Amendments of 1975 and the Railroad Revitali-
zation and Regulatory Reform Act, which will inject strong doses of competi-
tion into industries that long rested comfortably in the shade of Federal economic
regulation.
My administration has also sponsored important legislative initiatives to
reduce the regulation of other modes of transportation and of financial institu-
tions. An important element of my regulatory reform proposals has been to nar-
row antitrust immunities which are not truly justified. Although Congress has
not yet acted on these proposals, I am hopeful that it will act soon. All industries
and groups should be subject to the interplay of competitive forces to the
maximum extent feasible.
A measure of my commitment to competition is the Agenda for Govern-
ment Reform Act which I proposed in May of this year. This proposal would
require a comprehensive, disciplined look at ways of restoring competition in
the economy. It would involve indepth consideration of the full range of Federal
regulatory activities in a reasonable—but rapid-manner that would allow for
an orderly transition to a more competitive environment.
This competition policy of regulatory reform and vigorous antitrust enforce-
ment will protect both businessmen and consumers and result in an American
economy which is stronger, more efficient, and more innovative.
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976
I believe the record of this administration stands as a measure of its commit-
ment to competition. While I continue to have serious reservations about the
"parens patriae" title of this bill, on balance, the action I am taking today should
further strengthen competition and antitrust enforcement.
This bill contains three titles. The first title will significantly expand the civil
investigatory powers of the Antitrust Division. This will enable the Depart-
ment of Justice not only to bring additional antitrust cases that would otherwise
have escaped prosecution but it will also better assure that unmeritorious suits
will not be filed. These amendments to the Antitrust Civil Process Act were
proposed by my administration 2 years ago, and I am pleased to see that the
Congress has finally passed them.
2379
