August 6
[717]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have lost no opportunity to contribute to our common goal of achieving
a Cyprus solution. I have discussed the Cyprus problem at length with the
Foreign Ministers of Greece and Turkey. At the Summit Conference in Puerto
Rico in June 1976, I spoke about Cyprus with leaders of the major industrial
nations. Secretary Kissinger has also devoted considerable effort to achieving
a favorable atmosphere for discussions, continuing personally to press our views
at the highest levels in Athens and Ankara. Our Ambassadors in Greece, Tur-
key and Cyprus have worked unstintingly to help bring the two sides together
in an atmosphere of true negotiation; and we have strongly and continuously
supported the efforts of United Nations Secretary General Waldheim to achieve
this same end. In spite of all these efforts, we have been unsuccessful thus far
in getting the parties to set aside procedural problems and to move on to discus-
sions of the key substantive issues, such as territory.
The process of finding a solution to the Cyprus problem has been carried
forward through intercommunal talks between the two Cypriot sides, under
the aegis of Secretary General Waldheim. These talks have been in recess since
February. Lower-level “humanitarian" talks, now also in recess, have produced
limited progress on subsidiary issues, but have left the central points of con-
tention unresolved. Meanwhile new frictions continue to arise on the island
as each side seeks to maintain or improve its position, either locally on the island
or on the wider international stage.
We continue to seek solutions for the ongoing humanitarian problems of
those who were displaced from their homes on Cyprus by the conflict of 1974.
The United States, through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, has
contributed some $25 million in each of the past two years to help to alleviate
these problems. On Cyprus, new programs to provide housing for those dis-
placed are underway. With these programs, we would hope that most of those
Cypriots still living in temporary dwellings—now down to about 10 percent
of the original number of refugees-could be in new homes by early next year.
In support of this effort our program of humanitarian assistance will continue
in the coming year.
Secretary General Waldheim's Special Representative on Cyprus, Ambas-
sador Perez de Cuellar, has recently engaged in discussions in Ankara, Athens
and Nicosia with a view to developing a basis for an early resumption of the
intercommunal talks. The United States has strongly supported these efforts
and will remain in close contact with the Secretary General in the days imme-
diately ahead.
On July 29 of this year I met with Bulent Ecevit, the Turkish opposition
2135
