[701]
July 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
must still be done. My Administration remains dedicated to continued and
determined efforts for the control and balanced reduction of armaments.
The White House,
July 29, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 238-page report is entitled "Arms Control Report, 15th Annual Report to the Congress
July 1976-U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency."
702
Remarks at the First Annual Banquet of the Republican
National Hispanic Assembly. July 29, 1976
Thank you very much, Fernando. My good friend, the minority leader of the
House, Congressman John Rhodes, Congressman Manny Lujan, Ben Fer-
nandez, distinguished members of the administration, guests, and ladies and
gentlemen:
It's wonderful to be here tonight, and I thank you from the bottom of my
heart for your very warm and friendly welcome. Obviously, I am honored to be
here with the Republican National Hispanic Assembly in this month of our
national Bicentennial, when we are giving special recognition to our rich na-
tional heritage—including our Hispanic heritage.
America's recognition of its Hispanic components involves much, much more
than history itself; it includes your vital and growing role, as well as contribu-
tion, at all levels of leadership of the United States of America—our country.
Your organization has provided an inspiration—and results, I might say—for
men and women of Hispanic origin. With your help we have done much, a
great deal to mobilize the great wealth of talent and dedication of Hispanic
Americans in our Federal Government. And I am especially proud of your
contributions, your dedication, your leadership.
In recognition of our mutual desire to increase the number of Hispanic
Americans in leadership positions, I am particularly proud in this administration
to have appointed many of those that I see here tonight. But as I look across
the room, I see not only those who have been appointed and recognized in the
past, but I am very pleased to introduce some of my most recent Hispanic
appointees. You are proud of them, just as I am.
First, my new Special Assistant for Hispanic Affairs at the White House, Tom
2106
