[953]
October 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
ble. It would be a gamble because it would, for example, send our young pilots
out flying aircraft that are older than themselves. That's why we need the B-1
now, and we'll need it in the future.
When people talk about reducing the military budgets, what they're doing is
stretching out the modernization of our Navy. When they talk about the re-
duction in our military forces, they're talking about a slowdown in the pro-
curement of the necessary aircraft that are essential both in strategic and in con-
ventional forces, The American people are willing to make the sacrifice to keep
America strong, and that's what the Ford-Dole ticket stands for, and we will
not let you down.
But if we are to keep our economy moving in the direction that it is-toward
increased prosperity—we have to keep a restraint on the expenditures of the
Federal Government. In the budget that I submitted to the Congress last year,
I called for a 50-percent cutback in the growth of Federal spending. I called for
a $28 billion tax reduction.
The Congress disappointed me in both cases, but let me say—and look each and
every one of you right in the eye-on January 20, when I take the oath of office
as the next President of the United States, I'm going to call for additional re-
straints in Federal spending, for additional tax cuts, particularly for the middle-
income people who have been shortchanged.
But let me say in addition, as we move forward to strengthen our econ-
omy, we're going to continue the battle, the successful battle we've made in
reducing the rate of inflation. Take yourself back to 1974-inflation of over 12
percent. Today it's under 6 percent. You're not satisfied, and I'm not satisfied,
but with the right kinds of economic program-reduce Federal expenditures,
with the kind of tax incentives that will increase our productivity—we'll win
that battle against inflation under a Ford-Dole administration.
Yes, November 2 is a crucial date. It's a crucial date because it will determine
the direction from the point of view of the White House, the Chief Executive.
But I repeat again, it would be a disaster for us to have the wrong kind of a
Congress, the kind of a Congress that you've had for the last 2 years. We need
to strengthen the House of Representatives, and we do need Dr. Hayakawa in
Washington.
But now let me just conclude with this: We can't do it alone. We can cam-
paign as hard as we are--and, as I said, I have been back to this great State twice
since Kansas City; my wife, Betty, has been out here working; three of our four
children have been out here trying to contribute and make a contribution to
this campaign; Bob Dole has been out here and done a superb job-but the way
we're going to get results is for wonderful people like you, who are dedicated,
2664
