October 24
[954]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have held the line on Government spending with 66 vetoes and saved the hard-
pressed American taxpayers more than $9 billion.
And let me look each of you, as a family, right in the eye-those 66 vetoes
have saved each family approximately $200. That is progress, and we will con-
tinue that progress in the future.
Because I have had the will and the courage and sometimes a little tough-
ness, because I have been able to say no to excessive spending, we will have a
balanced budget submitted in 1978. But more importantly, as we cut the rate
of growth of Federal spending, as we restrain the kind of spending that is un-
economical, nonproductive, as we accomplish that, I promise to you that we
will have another tax reduction at the Federal level.
But let me tell you where we are going to have that tax reduction. We are
going to give that tax reduction to the middle-income taxpayer who over the
years has been shortchanged by the Congress. The middle-income taxpayer
deserves a break and Jerry Ford will see to it that you get it. And the way to do it
was the way I proposed in January—to increase the personal exemption from
$750 to $1,000 per person.
Let me illustrate what that means to the head of the household who next
January makes out his income tax return. If he has got a family of three chil-
dren, himself and his wife, that means that that taxpayer will get an additional
$1,250 in exemption. That is meaningful. The Congress didn't do it this year,
but next year I am going to keep the pressure on that Congress. If they don't
do it next year, we will keep the pressure on them the next year, and if they
don't do it then, you take them and you lick them in the polls in 1978.
Now, after so many years of uncontrolled inflation, we have cut inflation by
half in the past 2 years, and I pledge to you that we will do even better under
the Ford-Dole administration. Now, after the worst recession in 40 years, it
wasn't pleasant; you know we were in troubled times. We have added 4 mil-
lion jobs to the American economy in the last 2 years—not by creating dead-
end jobs at the taxpayers' expense, but by stimulating jobs with a future in a
private economy where five out of those six jobs exist in our society.
Too many people are out of work, I admit. We are not satisfied with the
progress that we have made, but more Americans were working, were on the
job in 1976 than ever before in the history of the United States. That is a tre-
mendous comeback from where we were just a year and a half ago. That is
progress.
America has made incredible progress in the last 2 years, and you and you
2667
