October 16
[908]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
American people understand exactly what you do stand for, and I am delighted
to assist in that effort.
Your telegram to me this morning unfortunately leaves unclear whether
you are repudiating positions that you have taken on these important issues, or
whether you are persisting in denying that you took these positions in the first
place.
Frankly, you have changed your positions on these and other important issues
so often that it is difficult for me and the American people to understand who
you are and what you really represent.
Let me take up the specific issues that you mention, one by one.
First, you claim that I misrepresented your position in saying that you have
called for a $15 billion cut in defense spending.
The fact is that the Savannah Morning News for March 18, 1975, quotes you
as telling the Savannah Rotary Club that "$15 billion could be cut from the
defense budget and not weaken this nation's military capability.”
Again, on March 20, 1975, the Los Angeles Times reported that you told a
Beverly Hills News Conference that “The Ford defense budget for this year
could be cut by about $15 billion without sacrificing national security.”
I recognize and have stated that at other times you have promised defense
cuts of varying sizes-always in the multi-billion dollar category. The point is
that you would make huge cuts in America's defense preparedness—just how
huge you evidently are not sure. If you have changed your position on this issue
once again, I and the public would appreciate clarification. Second, you say that
I have incorrectly charged you with advocating “tax increases for low and mod-
erate income wage earner."
With regard to “moderate income wage earners,” on September 18, 1976, you
answered a question from the Associated Press on how you would change the
tax burden by saying, “I would take the mean or median level of income and
anything above that would be higher and anything below that would be lower."
The interviewer pointed out that the median is "somewhere around $12,000"
and you agreed. There is no public record that you have ever repudiated that
statement. Your specific reference to raising taxes for everybody above the mean
or median income-actually now around $14,000 still stands. Third, you deny
having proposed “elimination of the mortgage interest tax deduction.”
Actually, you made this promise at the League of Women Voters candidate
forum in Boston on the night of February 23, 1976, before a national television
audience. You have since been more general in your promises to close "tax loop-
2565
