October 8
[862]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I categorically say that that is a wrong approach, because in effect, in many
cases, you would be taxing your hospitals, your orphanages, and other such
operations that churches undertake.
As far as tax provisions to give nonpublic schools an opportunity to get more
financing from individuals who send their children to nonpublic schools, I have
long advocated, endorsed, and supported, a change in the Internal Revenue leg-
islation that would permit either a tax exemption or a tax deduction for those
who, as a matter of choice, send their children to nonpublic schools.
I am a personal product of public schools-elementary, secondary, and higher
education—except I went to Yale Law School, which is not a public institution.
But from kindergarten through college, I was a product of public education. I
believe in it. But I also believe--and believe very strongly-that the competition
of nonpublic schools to public schools is good for education, the education of our
children. And if you don't have that competition, I think the public schools
would get in a monopoly situation. And I don't like monopolies, period.
So, I think we have to give some tax relief to those individuals who, as a mat-
ter of choice, want to send their children to nonpublic schools, whether they are
Lutheran or Catholic or Christian Science or Jewish or whatever the sponsorship.
And the best way to do it is to give some tax relief to those who make that choice.
Q. Mr. President, I am a registered Democrat.
THE PRESIDENT. Nice to see you, sir. [Laughter]
Q. You're going to see more than just myself. The question I wanted to ask,
in the interim, while you are trying to get the Federal Government out of our
business here locally, what can you do to help us cut the redtape? And what is
happening regarding the redtape for revenue sharing matters and so forth?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me respond this way. When I became President on
August 9, 1974, one of the first things I found was that the previous administra-
tion had projected for that then current fiscal year, an increase of 40,000 Govern-
ment employees, Federal employees. I made an order almost the first day I took
office: We're not going to continue that authorization for an increase of some
40,000. We were able to make it stick and, actually, in the 2 years that I've been
President, we have reduced Federal civilian employment by 11,000. I think that's
some progress.
Now in addition, we have in the last 12 months, on an order by me to the Of-
fice of Management and Budget, reduced the so-called paperwork, forms, et
cetera, by 12 percent in the Federal establishment. And let me give you one spe-
cific illustration. In 1974, Congress passed what was called the Community De-
2453
