[727]
August 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
727
Remarks on Greeting The Presidentials, a President Ford
Youth Group, in Kansas City. August 16, 1976
WOW, what a meeting. What a convention. What a victory Wednesday night.
Let me be serious just a minute. On behalf of Mike and Gayle, Jack, Steve,
and Susan, and of course, Betty, and especially on my own behalf, I want to thank
all of the great Presidentials for being here on your own and doing a great job.
We have had a tough 2 years. We have done a good job. But everytime the go-
ing got rougher and rougher, everytime we had a hard, tough decision to make—
and we did—I had the feeling that the young people in this country understood
the problems and were on our side.
But let me, if I might, take just a minute. Your parents, your grandparents,
have made a great effort over their lifetime to make this a good country. But they
wanted to make it a good country for one single reason-because they wanted
their children and their grandchildren to have a better America for themselves
than they did for themselves. That is what you want for your children, and that
is why you are so idealistic, that is why you have a cause, that is why you are
here-because you believe in something, something good about America.
You want peace at home, and you want peace throughout the world. I am on
your side. In the last 2 years we have healed America at home. And in the last
2 years we have achieved peace abroad, and we are going to keep it abroad.
Our Nation is trusted, respected. We have the military capability and the dip-
lomatic skill to keep peace. And with the strength and the hopes and the aspira-
tions and the visions of the American people, including all of the wonderful
young people, America will continue to be the leader of the world, and we will
keep the peace.
The young people of this country want their environment at home expanded.
They want it better-more parks, a better life for when they go on vacation, a
better life when they live in their urban centers or on their farm. They want an
environment that will make this country the kind of a country where we can
have a quality of life, not today, not tomorrow, but during this next century. I
am on your side.
The American people, especially our youth, want to help the economy with
jobs. I am on your side. The opposition party talks about statistics as far as un-
employment is concerned. The only criteria that I use is that every American—
white and black, old and young-who wants a job has a job.
Our country has grown from 13 poor, struggling colonies with less than 3
2146
