[947]
October 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, Governor Carter. President Ford, your
response?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the American people have been turned off
in this election, Mr. Maynard, for a variety of reasons. We have seen on Capitol
Hill, in the Congress, a great many allegations of wrongdoing, of alleged
immorality. Those are very disturbing to the American people. They wonder
how an elected representative can serve them and participate in such activities,
serving in the Congress of the United States. Yes, and I'm certain many, many
Americans were turned off by the revelations of Watergate, a very, very bad
period of time in American political history. Yes, and thousands, maybe millions
of Americans were turned off because of the problems that came out of our
involvement in Vietnam.
But on the other hand, I found on July 4 of this year a new spirit born
in America. We were celebrating our Bicentennial. And I find that there is a
movement—as I traveled around the country-of greater interest in this cam-
paign. Now, like any hard-working person seeking public office, in the cam-
paign, inevitably, sometimes you will use rather graphic language. And I am
guilty of that just like, I think, most others in the political arena. But I do
make a pledge that in the next 10 days when we are asking the American
people to make one of the most important decisions in their lifetime, because
I think this election is one of the most vital in the history of America, that
we do together what we can to stimulate voter participation.
THE MODERATOR. Thank you, President Ford.
Mr. Nelson, your question to President Ford.
MR. NELSON. Mr. President, you mentioned Watergate, and you became
President because of Watergate, so don't you owe the American people a special
obligation to explain in detail your role of limiting one of the original inves-
tigations of a Watergate—that was the one by the House Banking Committee?
And I know you've answered questions on this before, but there are questions
that still remain, and I think people want to know what your role was.
Will you name the persons you talked to in connection with that investigation,
and since you say you have no recollection of talking to anyone from the White
House, would you be willing to open for examination the White House tapes
of conversations during that period?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Nelson, I testified before two committees, House and
Senate, on precisely the questions that you have asked. And the testimony, under
oath, was to the effect that I did not talk to Mr. Nixon, to Mr. Haldeman, to
Mr. Ehrlichman, or to any of the people at the White House. I said I
2626
