[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion proposal that I've put forward is one first step. In addition to that, we need
to have a realization that we've got about 35 years worth of oil left in the whole
world. We are going to run out of oil. When Mr. Nixon made his famous
speech on operation independence, we were importing about 35 percent of our
oil. Now we've increased that amount 25 percent. We now import about 44
percent of our oil.
We need a shift from oil to coal. We need to concentrate our research and
development effort on coalburning and extraction that's safe for miners, that
also is clean burning. We need to shift very strongly toward solar energy and
have strict conservation measures and then, as a last resort only, continue to
use atomic power.
I would certainly not cut out atomic power altogether. We can't afford to
give up that opportunity until later. But to the extent that we continue to use
atomic power, I would be responsible as President to make sure that the safety
precautions were initiated and maintained. For instance, some that have been
forgotten: We need to have the reactor core below ground level, the entire
powerplant that uses atomic power tightly sealed, and a heavy vacuum main-
tained. There ought to be a standardized design. There ought to be a full-
time atomic energy specialist, independent of the power company, in the con-
trol room full-time, 24 hours a day, to shut down a plant if an abnormality
develops. These kinds of procedures, along with evacuation procedures, ade-
quate insurance, ought to be initiated.
So, shift from oil to coal; emphasize research and development on coal use
and also on solar power; strict conservation measures—not yield every time
the special interest groups put pressure on the President, like this administra-
tion has done; and use atomic energy only as a last resort with the strictest
possible safety precautions. That's the best overall energy policy in the brief
time we have to discuss it.
MR. REYNOLDS. Well, Governor, on the same subject, would you require
mandatory conservation efforts to try to conserve fuel?
MR. CARTER. Yes, I would. Some of the things that can be done about this
is a change in the rate structure of electric power companies. We now encour-
age people to waste electricity by giving the lowest rates to the biggest users.
We don't do anything to cut down on peak load requirements. We don't have
an adequate requirement for the insulation of homes, for the efficiency of auto-
mobiles. And whenever the automobile manufacturers come forward and say
they can't meet the limits that the Congress has put forward, this Republican
administration has delayed the implementation dates.
2298
