October 27
[976]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of you do. It would be the highest honor of my life for you and your fellow
Americans to say to me November 2, Jerry Ford, you have done a good job.
Keep right on doing it.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:48 p.m. at the
Villanova University Fieldhouse. In his opening
remarks, he referred to James M. Nolan, president of
the Political Union, and Rev. John M. Driscoll, presi-
dent, Villanova University.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
976
Remarks at a Republican Party Fundraising Dinner in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. October 27, 1976
Bill Simon, the great Secretary of the Treasury; my good friend and your great
Senator, Senator Hugh Scott; my good friend, and again your great Senator,
Dick Schweiker; your next Senator, John Heinz; a very fine former colleague of
mine in the House of Representatives, Larry Coughlin:
I am here to first express my deep appreciation for the wonderful job that all
of you did under the leadership of Drew Lewis at the time of the convention in
Kansas City. I want to thank Drew. I want to thank Dr. Ethel Allen. I want to
thank all of you who did such a wonderful job. Thank you very, very much.
But I add very quickly, it has been wonderful to come to the State of Pennsyl-
vania, or the Commonwealth, I should say. Like yesterday, I was in Pittsburgh
early in the morning, and who was right at my side? Dick Schweiker. I appreci-
ate that kind of loyalty, that kind of cooperation. That's what we are getting
in Pennsylvania.
In Kansas City, I said that we were not going to concede a single State, we
would not concede a single vote, and we haven't. We have campaigned the
length and the breadth of this country, and the net result is we have the
momentum going. We have the momentum going because we have the right
programs, because we are appealing to the patriotic spirit, the faith that people
in this great country have in their Nation, the kind of government that we have.
And let me give you one or two things that I would like to use, or have you
use, in the remaining days of this very critical campaign. There are many reasons
why we can appeal to Independents, Democrats, Republicans. But there are two
things that I think are almost overriding. Peace-one of the greatest achieve-
ments of this administration is the fact that we have peace and not a single young
American is fighting or dying on any foreign soil tonight. And we have the mili-
2733
