[931]
October 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
I'd like Secretary Hills now, if she would, to please brief you on the report.
Secretary Hills.
SECRETARY HILLS. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Carla.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:32 a.m. to reporters
assembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
Following the President's remarks, Carla A. Hills,
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, held
a news briefing on the report for reporters.
932
Remarks at the Swearing In of Five Members of the
Federal Council on Aging. October 21, 1976
Secretary Lynch, Dr. Flemming, members of the Federal Council on Aging,
and a very special and distinguished guest:
I would particularly like to welcome Mr. Blackistone, who is 105 years old.
We hope you have many more opportunities and occasions to join us here at
the White House.
Let me welcome to the White House this morning for this swearing in the
five members of the Federal Council on the Aging. The sixth member, the
honorable Bertha Adkins, who is the Chairperson of the Council, is being sworn
in at this time in Augusta, Maine, where she is addressing Governor Jim Long-
ley's Conference on Aging. And I just learned that she had a problem with some
inclement weather, and she had to drive several hundred miles to make it.
So, Bertha hasn't changed. She is a driver and a goer.
In the 2 years since its foundation, the Council has made very substantial con-
tributions to the well-being of our older Americans, particularly in making
recommendations designed to improve tax policy and coordinate benefit
programs for our older citizens.
Earlier this year I had the opportunity to call to the attention of all Americans
one of the Council's most significant achievements, the Bicentennial Charter for
Older Americans. The charter is a bill of rights for America's senior citizens, a
testament of our Nation's heartfelt concern for our older citizens.
It has been said that history judges a society on how well it cares for its older
citizens. In America in recent years, the Federal Council on Aging has led the
way to a record of solid progress in helping many of our older citizens lead
independent, satisfying, and healthy lives.
Since the 1971 White House Conference on Aging first focused national
2602
