October 24
[952]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Congress is going to do it, because the American people know it's right.
I tried to mention in the debate last night the kind of progress that we've
made in America since I've been President. And believe me, that day of August 9,
1974, was not a very happy day. America was in trouble. We had inflation over
12 percent. We were on the brink of a serious recession. The American people
had tragically lost faith and confidence in the White House, and we were still
involved in Vietnam.
But with the strength of the American people and with the kind of govern-
ment that we have in this country, we were able to set the ship of state on an
even keel and to set a steady course. And we've gone through some tough
times for the last 26 months, but the thing that gave Betty and me the kind
of satisfaction, the kind of propping that we needed when times looked tough,
was the faith that we had in 215 million Americans.
And let me say, having gotten through the storm of those 26 months, I think
with the progress we've made, with the foundation that we've laid, we can have
the most glorious 4 years to begin the third century of American freedom and
progress.
And so I come before you all here in this great State of South Carolina and
ask for your help, ask for your assistance. I think we can carry South Carolina.
It would be a great, great honor-Jim, it would be a great honor to come back
here to this mansion after November 2 sometime and really relax and enjoy
being with you and Ann and meeting all of these wonderful people from South
Carolina.
But as I close, let me reemphasize, we have a chance to go forward together.
And I promise you once more, as I promised you before, to uphold the
Constitution, to do what is right as God gives me the right-or to see the
right, and to do the very best that I can for America. God helping me, I
won't let you down.
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:38 p.m. at the Governor's Mansion.
952
Remarks at a Golden Circle Reception in Pasadena,
California. October 24, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Paul. I can't express adequately my deep apprecia-
tion to all of you who have supported the party and supported our efforts with
2661
