[803]
September 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
This is the kind of change that would be made. And it would be of tremen-
dous benefit in long-range planning, in tight budgeting, saving the taxpayers'
money, making the Government more efficient, cutting down on bureaucratic
waste, having a clear delineation of authority and responsibility of employees,
and giving our people a better chance to understand and control their
Government.
THE MODERATOR. President Ford.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the record should show, Mr. Newman, that the
Bureau of Census-we checked it just yesterday-indicates that in the 4 years
that Governor Carter was Governor of the State of Georgia, expenditures by
the government went up over 50 percent. Employees of the government in
Georgia during his term of office went up over 25 percent. And the figures also
show that the bonded indebtedness of the State of Georgia during his Governor-
ship went up over 20 percent.
And there was some very interesting testimony given by Governor Carter's
successor, Governor Busbee, before a Senate committee a few months ago, on
how he found the Medicaid program when he came into office following Gov-
ernor Carter. He testified, and these are his words, the present Governor of
Georgia, he says he found the Medicaid program in Georgia in shambles.
Now, let me talk about what we've done in the White House as far as Fed-
eral employees are concerned. The first order that I issued after I became Presi-
dent was to cut or eliminate the prospective 40,000 increase in Federal employ-
ees that had been scheduled by my predecessor. And in the term that I have
been President—some 2 years—we have reduced Federal employment by 11,000.
In the White House staff itself, when I became President we had roughly 540
employees. We now have about 485 employees. So, we've made a rather signifi-
cant reduction in the number of employees on the White House staff working
for the President.
So, I think our record of cutting back employees, plus the failure on the part
of the Governor's program to actually save employment in Georgia, shows which
is the better plan.
THE MODERATOR. Mrs. Drew.
Ms. DREW. Mr. President, at Vail, after the Republican convention, you
announced that you would now emphasize five new areas. Among those were
jobs and housing and health, improved recreational facilities for Americans, and
you also added crime. You also mentioned education.
For 2 years you've been telling us that we couldn't do very much in these
areas because we couldn't afford it, and in fact, we do have a $50 billion deficit
2294
