Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
brynin have met several times in the last
few days. Secretary Brown and Dr. Brze-
zinski made some major statements last
week. Would you tell us now, or give us
your assessment of the current state of
play on SALT, any detail you could give
us on the remaining issues and the
prospects for a Soviet-American summit?
THE PRESIDENT. After many mistakes,
I have promised the public that I would
not predict a date for a summit or for the
conclusion of the SALT negotiations. But
I can tell you that persistently we have
made progress. There has never been an
interruption in the negotiating process,
there's never been a setback nor a delay.
Recently, there have been additional steps
toward concluding a SALT agreement.
There are still a few issues that remain to
be resolved, clarifications in the stance of
the United States negotiators and the
Soviet negotiators.
My guess is that we will not approach
the question of where or when a summit
meeting between myself and President
Brezhnev will be held until after we re-
solve these remaining SALT differences.
HANDGUN CONTROL
Q. Mr. President, during the cam-
paign you supported tighter controls on
handguns. The White House helped draw
a gun control bill last year. Now there are
reports that the White House has aban-
doned lobbying efforts for gun control
on the Hill. Can you tell us whether you
do still support stiffer gun controls and
whether an administration bill will go to
Congress this year?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we'd be glad to
cooperate with the Congress on this. Last
year, the Treasury Department issued a
routine requirement concerning the regis-
tration of the serial numbers, I think, on
certain types of handguns. The Congress
not only rejected that idea, but they re-
moved from the Treasury budget, I
think, $42 million that could have been
used to administer that program. I think
that indicates the attitude of the Congress.
So, although I do favor increased safety
of the American people because of this
step, I think to pursue it aggressively in
the Congress would be a mistake. But we
will cooperate with the Congress.
LOANS TO CARTER'S WAREHOUSE
Q. Mr. President, about the peanut
warehouse business, you have said and
your spokesmen have said that no money
was diverted into your '76 Presidential
campaign for those loans. My question is,
did you know in 1976 or anytime there-
after that the terms of the loans might
not have been complied with, that is, that
the bank might not have been repaid on
that the loans were set out in?
the schedule and according to the terms
THE PRESIDENT. I have never known,
nor do I now know, of any illegal action
taken at Carter's Warehouse. There have
been allegations widely discussed in the
press and verbally by some people about
the channeling of loan funds to Carter's
Warehouse into the campaign itself. I
don't know of any evidence that's ever
been put forward to the public from any
source that could form a basis for those
allegations. Those allegations are abso-
lutely and totally untrue.
A special investigator has been now ap-
pointed to look into allegations about
which there are no bases, so far as I know.
We will cooperate completely with the
special investigator. And I hope that his
work will be thorough, and I hope that he
will expedite a conclusion.
There is nothing at Carter's Warehouse
that I know of or have ever heard of that
would arouse any conviction in the mind
652
