Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
about the situation there, so that I, as
President, can better represent you when
plans for the future use of this source of
power is continued.
Let me say one other thing, and I'd like
to close.
Our Nation is one that's been tested
successfully. I think we have the admira-
tion of many other people in the world.
The Democratic Party, to me, is a pre-
cious possession in my own political life.
I've been inspired by its leaders. Our prin-
ciples have never changed. We've always
been in the forefront of exploring new
ways to give people a freer life, a more
independent life, a more democratic life,
enhanced civil rights, increased prospects
for peace, and to raise the standards of
equity and fairness and basic human
rights not only in our own country but
throughout the world.
We have a lot to make us thankful. And
I believe that if we harness our own ef-
forts together in the future, we can be
successful in resolving these very serious
problems that still face our Nation-not
with fear or timidity or trepidation or con-
cern, not yielding to the temptations to be
divisive, nor to try to cast blame on one
another, but with a sure sense that with
the confidence that our Nation gives us to
deserve, and with the boldness that's
always exemplified Americans' willingness
or eagerness to meet difficult challenges,
we together, as partners, can set an ex-
ample for the rest of the world and make
the greatest nation on Earth, the United
States of America, even greater.
Thank you very much. God bless all
of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:25 p.m. in the
East Hall of the Milwaukee Exposition Con-
vention Center and Arena. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Michael M. Bleicher,
chairman of the Wisconsin Democratic Party.
Middletown, Pennsylvania
Remarks to Reporters Following a Visit to the
Three Mile Island Nuclear Facility.
April 1, 1979
My primary concern in coming here
this afternoon has been to learn as much
as I possibly can, as President, about the
problems at the Three Mile Island nuclear
powerplant and to assure the people of
this region that everything possible is be-
ing done and will be done to cope with
these problems, both at the reactor and in
the contingency planning for all eventu-
alities that might occur in the future.
I want to commend Governor Thorn-
burgh and other State and local officials
for their leadership. And I would like to
express my personal admiration and ap-
preciation for the citizens of this area who,
under the most difficult circumstances,
have behaved in a calm and a responsible
manner.
I would also like to express my thanks
and admiration for the civilian and gov-
ernment personnel who continue to devote
themselves without reservation to solving
the problems at the reactor site.
The working relation among State,
local, Federal, and private personnel has
been excellent. And it's also been pro-
ductive.
The primary and overriding concern
for all of us is the health and the safety
of the people of this entire area. As I've
said before, if we make an error, all of us
want to err on the side of extra precau-
tions and extra safety.
I've learned that the radiation levels
are being very carefully monitored
throughout the area, and any trend to-
ward higher levels would immediately be
reported to me and to Governor Thorn-
burgh and others. And every effort will be
made to keep those radiation levels down
578
