May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
In 1818 the founder of our party,
Thomas Jefferson, looked back on his long
years of service to our Nation, and he
noted with pride-and I quote in clos-
ing-"During the period of my Adminis-
tration, not a drop of blood of a single
fellow citizen was shed by the sword of
war."
I'm also proud that during this admin-
istration, not a single drop of American
blood has been shed in war. And I pray to
God each day that when my years as Pres-
ident are over, that I can still share
Thomas Jefferson's achievement.
Woodrow Wilson said, "A political
party exists to serve a great and urgent
purpose." In the last 2 years, our party has
lived up to those high standards set by a
Democratic President, Woodrow Wil-
son-by restoring prosperity, by display-
ing political courage, by demonstrating
integrity in government, and by working
for world peace.
There's one thought that I would like
to leave with you tonight.
I hold, as you know, one of the most
important political offices in the world.
And I represent a nation made up of
people who are absolutely free to express
themselves to agree, to disagree, to de-
bate, to criticize the Members of Con-
gress, as you well know, and also to criti-
cize the President. This open debate, this
freedom to criticize, is what makes our
wonderful Nation so special among the 4
billion people who comprise the popula-
tion of this Earth.
We set high standards for ourselves and
for our Nation. That's why we sometimes
become discouraged when the newspapers
or the evening news broadcasts emphasize
current problems or disagreements or fail-
ures or disappointments. But we don't
hear enough, and perhaps we don't speak
enough about the solid, stable, steady
strength of a great nation.
So, as we face the future together, let
us remember our blessings. And one of
the finest blessings of all is our freedom
to speak our minds, to join in the debate,
to analyze our problems, to criticize, and
to strive to make a great country even
greater.
Free people striving for excellence
free people striving for excellence—is the
true strength of America on which all else
must rest and on which must rest our own
Democratic political contributions. Good
work in 1979 will certainly bring us good
luck and a victory in 1980. I'm convinced
of that.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 p.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
American Retail Federation
Remarks at a White House Breakfast.
May 10, 1979
Let me say, first of all, how thankful I
am that you are here. You are welcome
to come to the White House. It's your
home as well as it is mine.
As you know, every President since
John Adams has lived here, all except
Washington. And the historical nature of
this home is truly impressive for me per-
sonally and, I think, for everyone who
comes in here to conduct the business of
our country.
It's important for me to be with the
American Retail Federation. I doubt that
any person in Washington has helped me
more, outside Government employees and
full-time workers, than has Lloyd Hack-
ler. And I want to thank you personally,
Lloyd, for this superb advice and counsel.
There have been several difficult issues
that I've had to face since I've been Pres-
832
