Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 2
Now the time has come for peace. As
President, I will spare no effort and will
continue to pursue every possible avenue
to bring peace in the Middle East.
The problems of the Middle East are
a symbol of our times-difficult, deep-
rooted, and complex. Around the world
and here at home, we face new and un-
precedented challenges as we begin our
third century as a nation. We face a
challenge of controlling inflation, of re-
solving an energy crisis, of revitalizing our
Government, and restoring the public's
trust. And we face the daily, awesome
challenge of ensuring peace for future
generations in a dangerous nuclear age.
The challenges of our times cannot be
solved overnight by quick fixes or miracle
cures. They demand from each of us our
perseverance, our commitment, and our
sense of common purpose.
We have no illusions that the world
has become a safe or easy or manageable
place to live. But today, after years of
drift, we see an America standing up to
face the difficult domestic challenges.
And around the world we see an America
not at war, but using its vast influence
and strength for arms control and for
peace. And we see a nation that has re-
gained its special place of leadership in
the struggle for basic human rights.
Together we are meeting the challenges
of our time. For more than 2 years, you've
given me and our party your encourage-
ment, your counsel, and your support.
I'm grateful for the support you've shown
tonight. And I especially want to thank
my good friend Lew Wasserman and all
those who worked so hard to make this
dinner a success.
I envy you all tonight. You get to hear
two great American voices-Diana Ross
and Fritz Mondale. My warmest, best
wishes are with you all.
Good night, and enjoy your evening.
NOTE: The President's remarks were video-
taped in the Map Room at the White House
for use at the dinner on March 2.
In his remarks, the President referred to
Lew R. Wasserman, president of Music Corpo-
ration of America, Inc., and entertainer Diana
Ross.
The transcript of the remarks was released
on March 2.
Postal Rate Commission
Nomination of James H. Duffy To Be a
Commissioner. March 2, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate James H. Duffy, of Be-
thesda, Md., to be a Commissioner of
the Postal Rate Commission for a term
expiring November 22, 1984. He would
replace Carlos Villarreal, whose term has
expired.
Duffy was born April 6, 1918, in
Cranston, R.I. He received a Ph. B. from
Providence College, an Ed. B. from Rhode
Island College, and an LL.B. from Bos-
ton University Law School. He served in
the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1946.
From 1948 to 1955, Duffy practiced
law in Providence, R.I. From 1955 to
1975, he was chief counsel to the U.S.
Senate Subcommittee on Privileges and
Elections, where he participated in the
drafting of Federal election laws and con-
ducted investigations on contested elec-
tions and confirmations. From 1975 to
1977, Duffy was legislative assistant to
Senator Robert C. Byrd. Since 1977 he
has been secretary for the majority in the
Senate.
373
