Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 29
and I hope the press will understand and
the people will understand that I, like the
average American, need some recreation
at times.
I enjoyed it. I didn't catch as many fish
as my wife. It was one of the nicest days
of my life, except for that fact—[laugh-
ter] and I'm very proud that I had a
chance.
RHODESIA
However, many of those families have not
been released, and there were reports that
some of them have actually been harassed.
Is that a breach of the agreement? What
has the U.S. Government done about it?
And secondly, do you have any informa-
tion on another report that the Soviets
are about to release 12 more prisoners,
possibly including Anatoly Shcharanskiy?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any infor-
mation about the second item except what
I have read in the news. We have no direct
Q. Mr. President, the British, who've
been our partners in formulating a policy information about that. I hope the report
towards Rhodesia, have recently ruled
that the elections there were free and fair.
Can you tell me now, does your adminis-
tration intend to pursue a separate policy
there, or will we now agree with the
British conclusion?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been con-
sulting closely with the British Govern-
ment since the new administration under
Mrs. Thatcher took over. Secretary Vance
has just completed several days of discus-
sions, both with her, with her Foreign
Minister, and with other officials.
The new Rhodesian Zimbabwe Gov-
ernment will take office, I think, the 1st of
June. Within 2 weeks after that date, I
will make my decision about whether or
not to lift the existing sanctions. I've given
the Congress this assurance. And obvi-
ously, my decision would be made taking
into consideration those consultations with
Great Britain.
RELEASE OF SOVIET DISSIDENTS AND THEIR
FAMILIES
Q. About a month ago, Mr. President,
you brought about, helped bring about, a
prisoner exchange with the Soviet Union.
As part of that exchange, as I understand
it, there was an agreement that the fam-
ilies of the Russian dissidents would be
allowed immediate passage to the West.
is true.
The Soviets did agree to release the
families of the five dissidents, earlier, with-
out delay and without harassment. My
belief is that the families will be released.
There have been delays. Whether they
were brought about by an unwieldy de-
mocracy [bureaucracy],¹ or by actions of
subordinates who weren't familiar with
the government policy, or whether it was
deliberate, I have no way to know.
There have been some delays. But I
think in spite of this, the families will be
reunited, and that's one reason that I'm
very thankful about it.
Q. You do not see it as a breach of the
agreement, then?
THE PRESIDENT. There was some delay,
and there was some harassment of the
families in my opinion. Whether that was
imposed by the government officials or
whether it was part of the unwieldy-the
Soviet bureaucracy, I can't judge. But I'm
thankful that the families will be released.
DEMOCRATIC PARTY SUPPORT FOR THE
PRESIDENT
Q. Mr. President, John White, the
party chairman, Democratic Party chair-
man, said the other day that he thought
¹ Printed in the transcript.
965
