Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 6
vided or not, to one in which hospitals
are rewarded or penalized for their actual
efficiency and productivity.
Congress has debated hospital cost con-
tainment for almost two years. There is
now no reason for delay. I call upon the
Congress to demonstrate its commitment
to the fight against inflation by promptly
enacting the Hospital Cost Containment
Act of 1979.
The White House,
March 6, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Cancer Control Month, 1979
Proclamation 4643. March 6, 1979
votedly and on a massive scale by both
Federal agencies and non-Federal organi-
zations under the aegis of the National
Cancer Institute. A substantial portion of
the Institute's research is in such areas as
cell and molecular biology, virology, im-
munology and tumor biology. There is
also growing attention and progress in
continuing care activities, such as hospices
and rehabilitation programs.
Despite our aggressive attack on cancer,
current statistics reveal that about 395,-
000 Americans will die of the disease in
1979. Only through unbending support of
cancer research and control can we re-
verse this trend, and eventually reduce
this figure to a minimum.
As a means of giving continued empha-
sis to the cancer problem, the Congress,
By the President of the United States by a joint resolution of March 28, 1938
of America
A Proclamation
Cancer strikes more than three-quar-
ters of a million Americans a year.
Experts no longer believe that the dis-
ease occurs spontaneously, but suspect
that it is largely a response to environ-
mental factors. If these factors can be
eliminated, substantially reduced, or
counteracted, then some cancers may be
prevented. Therefore, the trend toward
increased emphasis in cancer prevention
has accelerated during the past year.
Cause and prevention is not the entire
story, however. Most cancers have a
lengthy latent period. Over the next 20
or more years, the disease will manifest
itself in millions of people who already
have been exposed to cancer-causing
agents. To overcome this serious threat,
we must continue to seek effective meth-
ods of early detection and treatment.
The National Cancer Program, estab-
lished in 1971, is being conducted de-
(52 Stat. 148), requested the President to
issue annually a proclamation setting
aside the month of April as Cancer Con-
trol Month.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the month of April,
1979, as Cancer Control Month. I en-
courage the determination of the Ameri-
can people to meet the challenge of this
critical health problem. And I ask the
medical and health professions, the com-
munications industries, and all other in-
terested citizens to unite in public reaffir-
mation of our Nation's abiding commit-
ment to control cancer.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of March,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
and seventy-nine, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:12 p.m., March 6, 1979]
389
