May 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
abandon NATO, but they'd just have to
start feelers to the East to see if they
could have some insurance here to avoid
a confrontation, when we ourselves have
proven unable to lay the groundwork for
nuclear arms control.
We would have a very serious problem,
too, in trying to restrain other potential
nuclear powers from coming into being.
There are at least a dozen or more nations
right now who have the technological ca-
pability of developing nuclear explosives.
We have exerted a tremendous amount of
effort, I and the Congress, in trying to re-
strain those nations and keep them from
becoming nuclear explosive powers.
India, Pakistan, Iraq, South Africa,
Argentina, Brazil, South Korea, Taiwan,
and so forth, and others that I could name
if I wanted to, have been restraining them-
selves, with a large part of their restraint
predicated upon the anticipated volun-
tary control by the Soviet Union and the
United States. If we should fail in this,
it would be almost impossible for me to
go to the President of Brazil or the Prime
Minister of India and say, "Please do not
develop a nuclear explosion." It would
make me look ridiculous to try to continue
that effort that I've been pursuing.
And the last thing that concerns me
is that I'll mention this afternoon be-
cause of the press of time-it would give
the Soviets an
enormous propaganda
weapon to use against us. They would be
identified, at least in their own mind and
maybe in the minds of many nonaligned
countries around the world as a peace-
loving nation. They would certainly ham-
mer this point-"We ourselves believe in
nuclear arms control, but look what the
United States has done."
In the peaceful competition that I de-
scribed earlier with the Soviet Union, we
would be at a decided disadvantage if we
should reject this major move toward in-
creased peace throughout the world, to-
ward increased security for the United
States, toward increased control of the
world's most destructive weapon.
SENATOR EDWARD KENNEDY
Q. Mr. President, Herbert Kamm of
the Cleveland Press, sir. Mr. President,
I'd like to turn to a political question. As
you no doubt are aware, the chairman
of the Democratic Party in Cuyahoga
County is leading an effort to encourage
Senator Kennedy to run for President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I've heard of
that. [Laughter]
Q. Would you mind commenting, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what the local
political organization does is something
that I can't control. I've not talked to him
about it. I would be glad to, if he has
some particular concerns.
I think that this is the case in several
instances around the country. It's cer-
tainly not an unprecedented political cir-
cumstance in the year prior to a Presi-
dential election year. I'm not a candidate;
I'm a President. I don't have any inten-
tion of announcing my own plans until
late this year.
to run,
But Senator Kennedy is a very popular
and attractive man. If he became a can-
didate, he would be a formidable oppo-
nent for anyone else who ran. If I decided
I wouldn't have any fear of meet-
ing that kind of competition. It was there
for me to face when I was an unknown
Governor planning my campaign when
Senator Kennedy was the prime poten-
tial opponent.
Senator Kennedy has announced re-
peatedly that he's not a candidate; he
intends to support me; thinks I'll get the
nomination. I think he's pleased with that.
I take him at his word. But it doesn't
cause me any deep concern. I would like
904
