Jan. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
countries, as you know, who are more
heavily dependent on Iranian oil. I think
an extended interruption of Iranian oil
shipments would certainly create increas-
ingly severe shortages on the international
market.
So far, other oil-producing nations have
moved to replace the lost Iranian oil sup-
plies. If this should continue, it would
just reemphasize the basic commitment
that our Nation has tried to carry out in
the last 2 years, that is, to have a predict-
able energy policy, to reduce consumption
of energy in toto, certainly, to reduce de-
pendence on foreign oil, and to eliminate
waste of oil.
I don't think there's any doubt that we
can cut back consumption of oil by 5 per-
cent without seriously damaging our own
economy. And I would hope that all
Americans who listen to my voice now
would do everything possible within their
own capabilities to cut down on the use of
oil and the waste of all energy supplies.
I think that this restoration of Iranian
oil shipments is a desire by all the religious
and political leaders in Iran who have an
influence over the future. We have seen
since the OPEC price increases, even be-
fore the Iranian supplies were interrupted,
some shortage of spot shipments of oil.
The present price of oil, even with in-
creased production from other suppliers,
is now slightly above the established
OPEC price. But our hope is that oil
prices will go down, at least to some de-
gree, as Iranian supplies are reintroduced.
NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
WOMEN
FOR
Q. Mr. President, as I think everyone
knows, you've had some problems with
your women's advisory committee re-
cently. I'm wondering how you can get a
new and effective committee in view of
the fact that you seem to feel that if they
issue public criticism of you, you don't
want them on the committee.
THE PRESIDENT. I have no aversion to
public criticism. Someone who runs for
President and who serves in this office for
2 years becomes acclimated to that envi-
ronment as a matter of course. And I
think there's hardly an interest group in
our Nation who doesn't at one time or
another severely and publicly criticize the
President and the administration. That's
not part of it at all.
There were and are about 40 women
whom I personally approved to serve on
the advisory committee. Their function is
to work with me, hopefully in harmony,
to achieve mutual goals, goals of en-
hanced opportunities for women, for the
elimination of any discrimination against
women, to assure that every decision made
by the Government, in the executive
branch or Congress, has at least as one
factor to be considered how we can best
meet the needs of women, and to over-
come the suffering that they have experi-
enced because of past legal and other dis-
criminatory actions.
This is a good function for the Com-
mittee, and it's a need that I have to con-
tinue. I have no quarrel with, no problems
with the Committee itself. I did select and
appoint Ms. Abzug to serve as the Chair-
person of the Committee last year, and it
didn't work out well.
The Committee has never been well
organized. Their functions have never
been clearly expressed to me. There has
not been good cooperation between the
Committee and the Cabinet members or
my advisers or me, and I felt it was neces-
sary to change the Chairperson, whom I
had appointed personally.
It's a prerogative of the President. And
we'll do everything we can now under a
fine, new Chairperson of the Committee
to restore its effectiveness and to make
sure that I and the women throughout the
52
