Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
country, and assisted by a number of offi- phases not later than one month before
cers.
3. A direct telephone link between the
two offices will be set up and also direct
telephone lines with the United Nations
command will be maintained by both
offices.
ARTICLE VIII
Respect for War Memorials
Each Party undertakes to preserve in
good condition the War Memorials
erected in the memory of soldiers of the
other Party, namely those erected by Is-
rael in the Sinai and those to be erected
by Egypt in Israel, and shall permit access
to such monuments.
ARTICLE IX
Interim Arrangements
The withdrawal of Israeli armed forces
and civilians behind the interim with-
drawal line, and the conduct of the forces
of the Parties and the United Nations
prior to the final withdrawal, will be
gov-
erned by the attached Appendix and Maps
2 and 3.
APPENDIX to ANNEX I
ORGANIZATION OF MOVEMENTS IN THE
SINAI
ARTICLE I
Principles of Withdrawal
1. The withdrawal of Israeli armed
forces and civilians from the Sinai will be
accomplished in two phases as described
in Article I of Annex I. The description
and timing of the withdrawal are included
in this Appendix. The Joint Commission
will develop and present to the Chief Co-
ordinator of the United Nations forces
in the Middle East the details of these
the initiation of each phase of withdrawal.
2. Both Parties agree on the following
principles for the sequence of military
movements.
a. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Article IX, paragraph 2, of this Treaty,
until Israeli armed forces complete with-
drawal from the current J and M Lines
established by the Egyptian-Israeli Agree-
ment of September 1975, hereinafter re-
ferred to as the 1975 Agreement, up to
the interim withdrawal line, all military
arrangements existing under that Agree-
ment will remain in effect, except those
military arrangements otherwise provided
for in this Appendix.
b. As Israeli armed forces withdraw,
United Nations forces will immediately
enter the evacuated areas to establish in-
terim and temporary buffer zones as
shown on Maps 2 and 3, respectively, for
the purpose of maintaining a separation
of forces. United Nations forces' deploy-
ment will precede the movement of any
other personnel into these areas.
c. Within a period of seven days after
Israeli armed forces have evacuated any
area located in Zone A, units of Egyptian
armed forces shall deploy in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of this
Appendix.
d. Within a period of seven days after
Israeli armed forces have evacuated any
area located in Zones A or B, Egyptian
border units shall deploy in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of this
Appendix, and will function in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of Annex
I.
e. Egyptian civil police will enter evac-
uated areas immediately after the United
Nations forces to perform normal police
functions.
f. Egyptian naval units shall deploy in
the Gulf of Suez in accordance with the
provisions of Article II of this Appendix.
502
