Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 8
The Justice Department and the FTC
are leading advocates for competition in
numerous proceedings before Federal reg-
ulatory agencies and throughout the Gov-
ernment. The Antitrust Division has par-
ticipated in regulatory hearings on energy,
transportation, banking, securities, inter-
national trade and communications mat-
ters. The Antitrust Division also partici-
pated in several important administrative
legislative initiatives concerning competi-
tion. The Commission has undertaken a
program of competitive advocacy within
policymaking councils of the administra-
tion, before Congress, and before other
agencies, notably the CAB and ICC.
Chairman Pertschuk also told the
President that several FTC initiatives
illustrate the benefits flowing from a vigor-
ous competition policy. Following the is-
suance of a complaint alleging that Levi
Strauss had fixed retail prices, jeans prices
dropped by $4. The FTC eyeglass rule
could save consumers $500 million a year.
Without necessarily endorsing each
FTC or Antitrust Division initiative, the
President and Chairman Kahn expressed
broad support for a vigorous national
competition policy to be spearheaded by
the two agencies.
"Both the FTC and the Antitrust Divi-
sion," the President said, "are responding
vigorously to the call I sounded in the in-
flation message to redouble our effort
to put competition back into the Ameri-
can free enterprise system."
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Jacobo
Zabludovsky of Televisa, Mexico.
February 8, 1979
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. Mr. President, do you
agree with those in Mexico who say that
relations between our two countries are
at a low point?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I believe that the
relationships between Mexico and the
United States have improved the last 2
years. The fact is that we have concluded
new trade agreements, maritime agree-
ments, agreements concerning fisheries,
exchange of prisoners. There has been
an emerging consultation between myself
and President L贸pez Portillo, almost of
an unprecedented nature.
When he was inaugurated, my wife
was there. When I was inaugurated, Mrs.
L贸pez Portillo was here. My first official
visitor was President L贸pez Portillo, and
of course, the Vice President and my wife
have been back to visit Mexico since then.
There is a new relationship because of
the emerging greatness of Mexico and the
political influence that's now being ex-
erted by Mexico throughout the world.
And I think there's a new sense in our
country of equality, of the sharing of re-
sponsibility for world events and for the
control of weapons and the maintenance
peace in this hemisphere.
of
So, I think a new sense of partnership-
and we believe that this inevitably causes
challenges, but in my opinion, since I've
been in office as President, we have met
those challenges very well.
And my visit with President L贸pez
Portillo will be an additional opportunity
for us to resolve even further the differ-
ences that still remain and to meet those
challenges together.
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. Mr. President,
about oil and gas, do you expect to come
to some practical agreement on these and
other issues?
THE PRESIDENT. The recent discov-
eries of enormous quantities of oil and
gas in Mexico is very good news indeed,
for us and for the people of Mexico. We
believe that all decisions about the pro-
235
