Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 11
ciology from the University of Illinois,
and a Ph. D. in the same area from Ohio
State University.
Felder taught at the International Co-
operative Training Center at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin and was an associate
professor of agricultural economics at
Hampton Institute. He spent 13 years in
India as a consultant to the American
International Association and for the Co-
operative League of the U.S.A. For 8
years, he was director of the Cooperative
League's office there.
National Advisory Council on
Extension and Continuing
Education
Appointment of Four Members.
June 11, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of four persons as members
of the National Advisory Council on Ex-
tension and Continuing Education. They
are:
FRANCES M. DAVIN, of Brandon, Fla., Hills-
borough County Commissioner for District
4, chairman of the social services commit-
tee of the State Association of County
Commissioners, and former personnel direc-
tor for an electronic engineering company.
LEO C. DONAHUE, of Somerville, Mass., now
retired and active in community affairs,
formerly superintendent of schools for
Somerville. He served on the Massachusetts
Board of Education and State Board of
Vocational Education and on the Massa-
chusetts State Board of Collegiate Author-
ity for 16 years.
LOWELL EKLUND, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.,
dean and professor of continuing education
at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.,
since its establishment in 1958.
RUPERT TRUJILLO, of Albuquerque, N. Mex.,
dean of the division of continuing educa-
tion and community services of the Univer-
sity of New Mexico.
Meeting With Vice President
Muhammad Husni Mubarak
of Egypt
White House Statement. June 11, 1979
President Carter and Egyptian Vice
President Husni Mubarak met in the
Oval Office for 50 minutes. Also attend-
ing the session on the American side were
Vice President Mondale, Secretary of
State Vance, Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski,
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, Assistant Secretary of
State Harold Saunders, William Quandt,
NSC staff member, and Robert Hunter,
NSC staff member. Ambassador Ashraf
Ghorbal and Under Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs Usoma al-Baz ac-
companied Vice President Mubarak.
In accepting the special message that
Vice President Mubarak conveyed on be-
half of President Sadat, President Carter
expressed his personal pleasure at being
able to welcome Vice President Mubarak
again to the White House. He reiterated
his warm personal regard and high
his warm personal
esteem for President Sadat and welcomed
the opportunity to continue close con-
sultations with Egyptian leaders.
President Carter and Vice President
Mubarak reviewed the status of Egyp-
tian-American cooperation in a number
of fields. The President expressed great in-
terest in Egypt's priority efforts to expand
its economic and social development. Bi-
lateral military relations were also dis-
cussed. Citing the administration's pro-
posal for $1.5 billion in foreign military
sales credits over the next 3 years, the
President reaffirmed his intention to assist
Egypt in meeting its legitimate defense
needs. He also said that they discussed
how the United States might help to meet
Egypt's longer term defense needs and
the desirability of regular and systematic
1023
