Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 27
friendship can stabilize further the West-
ern Pacific-Asian region, give a better
quality of life for people who live there,
enhance peace in that region and, in-
deed, throughout the world.
We'll be describing to the Chinese lead-
ers and listening to their description of
the world political scene from each in-
dividual perspective. We'll be exploring
areas of compatibility and trying to re-
solve areas of disparity in approach and
opinion. We'll be encouraging the Chi-
nese to help us with some trouble spots.
One obvious item on the agenda would
be to see maximum Chinese influence be
exerted on North Korea, and in response,
we'll exert maximum influence on South
Korea to bring those two groups of lead-
ers together to alleviate tension there.
So, I think the agenda is so broad, that's
about the best I can do in a brief period
of time. I look forward to it.
I've had a chance to study the verbatim
transcriptions of the conversations that
were conducted on some of Kissinger's
trips, on Nixon's trip, Ford's trip, Vance's
trip, and also Brzezinski's, and more re-
cently the congressional delegations
who've gone there. And from those dis-
cussions, I think we've gotten a fairly good
picture of the attitude of Mao Zedong,
Zhou Enlai, and more recently Chairman
Hua Guofeng, and Deng. So, I think I'll
be prepared to try to alleviate some of
their concerns and to recruit them to join
with us in having a more prosperous and
peaceful world.
FISCAL YEAR 1980 BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, in the light of your
efforts last year to close some of the tax
loopholes for those in the upper brackets
of wealth, I wonder if you share with
Senator Kennedy the sense that it's inap-
propriate to reduce direct subsidies to the
poor and elderly as an inflation measure
without trying further to do away with
some of the tax exemptions for people in
the upper brackets. Do you see a relation-
ship there, and any kind of inappropriate-
ness?
THE PRESIDENT. There's a relationship.
I'm hesitant to answer that question, be-
cause I don't really understand the par-
ticular opinion that you've described as
Senator Kennedy's.
Q. Well, his statement, following your
State of the Union and budget messages,
that we should not, for example, be re-
ducing school milk, school lunch, food
stamp programs, until we have closed, for
example, the loophole in the three-mar-
tini lunch, the other tax exemptions that
are granted people of great wealth in this
country.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a sore subject
you brought up with news people, and I
wish you
hadn't mentioned it. [Laughter]
I don't mean the school lunch program; I
mean the three-martini lunch. [Laughter]
Q. But is there a relationship and in-
appropriateness there?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a sore subject
you brought up with news people, and I
Senator Kennedy was critical, he's in
error. The balanced presentation in a
budget is always a challenge for a Presi-
dent. And I don't know that any President
has ever worked harder in having a fair
and equitable budget than I did on the
1980 fiscal year budget.
I think it is well balanced. And many
of the program changes that are presently
criticized, I think, will stand when scru-
tinized more thoroughly. For instance,
summer youth programs-we had an ex-
cessive allocation of money for summer
youth programs. The money was not used.
There was no way to spend that much
money on summer youth programs, be-
cause the constituency group was not great
enough to use all the funds expended. But
when you cut back to provide exactly
187
