Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 22
"will strengthen the security of the
United States and promote world peace."
Presidential Determination No. 73-10,
dated January 2, 1973, established a con-
solidated list of countries eligible to make
purchases of defense articles and services
on a Foreign Military Sales (FMS) basis
under the Arms Export Control Act. Be-
cause of changing international circum-
stances, new countries are added to this
list from time to time. It is my judgment
that circumstances now merit the addi-
tion of Barbados to the list of countries so
eligible.
The island of Barbados lies in the
southeast approach to the Caribbean, an
area of strategic importance to the U.S.
Stability in this area will promote world
peace. The small Barbados defense force
is inadequately equipped to patrol its
coast and territorial waters against smug-
glers, narcotics traffickers, and arms run-
ners. The states of the area have come to
feel increasingly vulnerable, and they
have discussed regional security coopera-
tion, including the possibility of forming
a regional coast guard. My finding, en-
abling Barbados to purchase defense arti-
cles and services under the Arms Export
Control Act, will enable the United
States to respond quickly to justified re-
quests for support for modest national
or regional defense forces. In view of the
limitations of section 4 of the Act on the
purposes for which FMS sales may be
made, no sale would be made to or for
the police or other forces engaged in on-
going civil law enforcement.
I have concluded that the provision of
modest amounts of defense articles to
Barbados would be in the interest of the
United States and will reduce the poten-
tial for instability in an area of particular
concern to this country. For the foregoing
reasons, I have found that the sale under
the Act of defense articles and defense
services to Barbados will strengthen the
security of the United States and promote
world peace.
NOTE: The texts of the memorandum and the
justification were released on June 22.
Amendments to the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978
Statement on Signing S. 869 Into Law.
June 22, 1979
I have signed into law S. 869, a bill
amending title V of the Ethics in Govern-
ment Act of 1978, which strengthened
safeguards against abuse of the "revolving
door" between high-level Federal service
and subsequent employment on behalf of
private interests. As amended, these new
safeguards will be effective July 1, 1979.
Since the enactment of the law, which
I proposed in March 1977, the Office of
Government Ethics was established in
the Office of Personnel Management and
developed regulations to implement the
postemployment restrictions. During the
course of its work, the operation of title
V was examined very closely, and it was
determined by the Office of Government
Ethics and the Department of Justice, in
conjunction with other executive agen-
cies, that a literal reading of the law al-
lowed for certain unintended results and
might have unnecessarily restrictive ef-
fects in certain cases. I therefore decided
to support adjustments in the language
of the act to address these problems.
The process is now completed, and I
am pleased to say that the amendments,
together with the regulations which have
been issued, have produced a balanced,
effective package.
The amendments preserve the central
protections of the law against misuse of
influence acquired through public serv-
ice while eliminating some ambiguities in
1131
