Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
tion last year and the declining growth of
productivity that was partly responsible
for it.
My economic and budgetary program
deals forthrightly with the economic real-
ities we face today. It is based on four
principles.
First, reducing inflation must be our top
economic priority. Inflation endangers the
gains in employment and income that we
have made during the past 2 years. We
must act forcefully and effectively to com-
bat inflation, and we must persist until the
battle is won.
Second, government must do its job bet-
ter. Reducing inflation will require bud-
getary austerity and moderation of eco-
nomic growth. With productivity growth
at a low ebb, living standards will not rise
as fast as they have in the past 2 years. In
such a climate, waste, inefficiency, or mis-
placed priorities are particularly intoler-
able. It is now more essential than ever
that our government, in both its budgetary
and regulatory programs, make the best
use of the resources at its disposal and seek
better, less costly means to achieve our
national objectives.
Third, we will not reduce inflation at
the
expense of the most vulnerable mem-
bers of our society-the poor, the elderly,
and those who have difficulty finding jobs
even in a high-employment economy.
Ours is a compassionate Nation, dedicated
to a sense of fairness. We will not lose
sight of those who most need our help.
Fourth, our policies must reflect the
fact that the United States is a very im-
portant part of a closely related world
economy. We will continue to pursue do-
mestic policies and undertake other ac-
tions as necessary and appropriate to fos-
ter a strong and stable dollar, and we will
join with other countries to promote an
open and growing world economy.
In the months ahead, I will work closely
with the Congress to ensure that the pol-
icies adopted by this government are con-
sistent with these four precepts. The
budget for 1980 must be very tight, and I
intend to make sure that a fiscal policy of
firm and measured restraint is maintained.
But the budget must continue and
strengthen our most essential programs,
and I have supported such programs
strongly. In order to further the fight
against inflation, I will seek prompt adop-
tion of my real wage insurance program
and my proposals for hospital cost con-
tainment and regulatory reform.
I will continue to seek the cooperation
and support of the American people in the
fight against inflation. Last October, I
proposed to the Nation a program of
price and pay standards designed to brake
the price-wage spiral that has beset our
economy for more than a decade. This
program has received substantial support
from the American people, and I will
make every effort to enlist the broadest
possible cooperation with it in the year to
come.
The pay and price standards ask every
American to exercise restraint. Every
American should therefore expect the
government to ensure that its own actions
will contribute to, not undermine, the vol-
untary effort to reduce inflation. Stead-
fast pursuit of fiscal and monetary dis-
cipline and limits on the inflationary
impacts of other government actions are
crucial to the success of the anti-inflation
program. Together, the actions of gov-
ernment and the private sector can lay a
new foundation for a durable prosperity.
PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS IN 1978
Among my first actions in office were
steps to strengthen economic growth and
speed the return to a high-employment
economy. Those actions paid generous
dividends. In 1977 our rate of economic
growth increased by nearly a full percent-
111
