Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 1
Federal Election Commission
Nomination of Two Members. May 1, 1979
The President today announced two
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Federal Election Com-
mission (FEC). They are:
Thomas E. Harris, of Alexandria, Va.,
for reappointment to a term expiring
April 30, 1985. Harris, 66, has been a
member of the FEC since 1975. From
1948 to 1975, he was associate general
counsel with the CIO, then the AFL-
CIO.
Harris received an LL.B. from Colum-
bia Law School in 1935. He practiced
law with several firms and also worked
for the Justice Department, the Federal
Communications Commission, and the
Office of Price Administration before
joining the CIO.
Frank P. Reiche, of Princeton, N.J., for
a term expiring April 30, 1985. He would
replace Vernon W. Thomson, whose term
is expiring.
Reiche, 49, is an attorney specializing
in taxation and estate planning, and
chairman of the New Jersey Election Law
Enforcement Commission.
He received an LL.B. from Columbia
Law School in 1959, and also holds a
master's degree in foreign affairs from
George Washington University and a
master of laws degree in taxation from
New York University Law School. He has
been with the Princeton firm of Smith,
Stratton & Wise since 1962.
Reiche was a member of New Jersey
Governor William T. Cahill's Tax Policy
Committee from 1970 to 1972. He was a
Republican county committeeman for 8
years.
Law Day, U.S.A., 1979
Remarks at a White House Reception.
May 1, 1979
My instructions were to be here at 3
o'clock, and I think I'm right on time. But
I think you all know that I've been provid-
ing employment for the Attorney General
for the last 2 years or so as a favor to the
people of Georgia-[laughter] and the
country, and I think to keep him busy for
a few minutes is not out of keeping with
our relationship in the last few months.
Mr. Chief Justice and Attorney General
Bell, President Tate, distinguished mem-
bers of the United States Supreme Court,
Senator Kennedy and other Members of
Congress, distinguished attorneys from
around our country, and other guests who
are interested in the functions of our sys-
tem of justice in this Nation:
you
I'm indeed pleased to have here.
This is not my first Law Day speech.
[Laughter] And this is always a moving ex-
perience for me to meet with professional
members of our community who are
responsible for our system of justice, as
someone who is not an attorney, but who is
intensely interested as a life's commitment
to realizing the benefits of and enhancing
the quality of the legal system.
Today all elements of the legal system
are present, from the most distinguished
and famous judges, perhaps, in the world,
the enforcers of the law, the writers of new
law, those who interpret the law through
administrative action, private attorneys
who are interested in the protection of
the rights of corporations and the protec-
tion of the rights of indigents, those who
are concerned about the elimination of
racial or other discrimination, those who
are concerned about the quality of our
environment, those of you who in a volun-
757
