May 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We'll have an additional emphasis in
the future on the prevention of mental ill-
ness. This is the most cost-effective means
to approach mental illness. Research and
common experience has shown that an
early treatment, even beginning with pre-
natal care, in some instances, and with the
early life of a child can prevent a very
serious and perhaps permanent impair-
ment of the mental capabilities of that
person.
We'll shift toward more help for de-
prived areas, rural areas and the inner city
areas, for instance. We've had a substan-
tial increase in nurses, medical doctors,
and also paraprofessionals in the last few
years, but they are inadequately dis-
tributed throughout the country now.
And the last thing is that so many dif-
ferent people are interested in mental
health from widely diverse points of view,
that the bureaucratic confusion has been
excessive. We hope to address that prob-
lem as well and to guarantee the basic hu-
man rights or civil rights of the mentally
ill through advocacy programs. Quite
often if a person is mentally ill, we assume
that they
are subhuman, and on many oc-
casions their basic legal rights are not only
taken away from them but are never ex-
plained to them. And this is the kind of
comprehensive approach that Rosalynn,
Tom Bryant, and Joe Califano have
evolved.
I believe this legislation will have a far-
reaching beneficial impact on our country
and on the millions of people in our
Nation who suffer at this time in an un-
warranted and unnecessary fashion from
the ills brought about by emotional or
mental disturbance.
My wife will make a few comments, and
then Joe Califano, following that, will ex-
plain to you the details of the legislation.
Rosalynn.
MRS. CARTER. Well, I'm very pleased
that this new Mental Health Systems Act
is going to Congress today. I've tried to be
an advocate for the mentally afflicted-
within the White House, with Congress,
and with the American people. And I've
had many, many people who've joined
with me in working to improve the lives of
those persons who suffer from mental
afflictions.
I have sometimes I might even say
often been frustrated at how long it
takes to move the bureaucracy and de-
velop programs. But I'm very pleased
today that we do have a good bill. It's
sound, it's doable, and it is a very im-
portant first step in seeing that mental
health services are accessible to all those
people in our country who need the
services.
It's going to be difficult at this time to
pass this legislation through Congress this
year. I feel an urgency to do this, and I'm
going to be working very hard to see that
we do get it passed. Tomorrow I'm going
to Chicago to speak to the American
Psychiatric Association. I'm going to ask
their help in working with Congress to
push the legislation through to take quick
action this year.
I'm going to be working with the major
organizations that are interested and con-
cerned about mental health. And also
there were literally hundreds of persons
who worked with me on the President's
Commission on Mental Health in devel-
oping that report. And this legislation is
developed from that report. It was used
as a blueprint for this legislation.
There are so many people in our coun-
try who are concerned about those with
mental afflictions. There's been so much
fragmentation in efforts. And I think that
this is one time that we can join together
in a coordinated way to do something
really positive and help those people in
our country who need help.
858
