June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
think, tends to provide peaceful relation-
ships throughout Asia and, indeed,
throughout the world.
So, the sharing of all these experiences
and all these prospects for the future be-
tween the United States and Japan is cer-
tainly a major contributing factor to
peace.
PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO JAPAN
MR. HIDAKA. Now you completed two
historical things—one in the Mideast,
now talks with the leader of Soviet Rus-
sia. And Japanese people now expecting
your coming to Japan. What do you now
have in mind to accomplish when you
come to Japan, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the highlight
of my visit will be personally to meet the
Emperor. I'm excited about this, and have
long had a great admiration for him as
a center of the Japanese nation, and as
the image of the preservation of the beau-
tiful culture of Japan and the dynamic
growth of Japan in meeting modern chal-
lenges and modern opportunities. He's an
admirable person from the viewpoint of
Americans, because he's a beautiful poet
and also, of course, because of his superb
accomplishments as a marine biologist
and because of what he represents ac-
curately in the character of the Japanese
people.
So, I would say meeting, the Emperor
is something that I look forward to with
great anticipation; also, to renew my
friendship with Prime Minister Ohira,
whom I've met on my one brief visit to
Japan in 1975, and who came here in
May to explore possibilities for alleviating
all the problems between us and for shap-
ing a more firm future between Japan
and the United States. And I think one of
the most enjoyable prospects is just to get
to know the Japanese people. I will be
bringing my wife, Rosalynn, and my
daughter, Amy, to Japan, and we hope to
take every opportunity to have personal
contact and establish personal friendship
with the people of Japan.
Obviously, the economic summit is a
great tribute to Japan and is a recogni-
tion of the economic and social and polit-
ical leadership of Japan in the councils
of world governments. And this is a great
tribute to the present and past leaders of
Japan that the economic summit is being
conducted there.
We will be exploring the problems of
energy, the monetary system, trade, com-
merce, security. I think the most impor-
tant single issue to be resolved in Japan
at the economic summit is probably that
of energy. And we look forward to ex-
ploring new ways to deal with this chal-
lenge for us all.
ENERGY
MR. HORI. At the talks in Tokyo, you
will introduce a proposal for the solution
of the energy problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I have a great
advantage in being there 2 days before
the economic summit begins. So, Prime
Minister Ohira and I will be discussing
a common program to present to the
other leaders.
Obviously, we will have to explore new
ways to conserve energy, to cut down on
waste, and to reduce our dependence in
the future on imported oil. We'll also
have to evolve a common approach to the
oil-exporting countries, so that they will
provide a stable supply of oil and mini-
mize the increase in prices in the future.
There's a wonderful opportunity for us
to explore other forms of energy-coal,
solar power, and technological advances
in which Japan and the United States
and others can cooperate in the future.
1108
