Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
occupy the Far East area of the world.
Again, we share the same goal with Japan.
We want increased trade, more attention
given to basic human rights, to freedom,
to democracy, to openness, to the ex-
change of goods and people. We share all
these goals with Japan. We want security
for our people. We share this goal also
with Japan. The American military pres-
ence in the Far East will be sustained,
and this is good for our people and good
for the people of Japan.
We want to share experiences and share
ideas and share information with the peo-
ple and the leaders of Japan.
I've been very pleased that we have im-
proved our relationships since I've been
in the White House, with India, with the
Southeast Asian nations, with the Philip-
pines, obviously with the People's Repub-
lic of China. We have tried to strengthen
the ASEAN nations, as well as an organi-
zation, recognizing their independence,
and strengthen our ties with New Zealand
and Australia. We will maintain the sta-
bility of the Korean peninsula.
My own judgment is that history will
show the great benefits of normalized re-
lationships with China. We have not let
the well-being of the people of Taiwan
suffer. My belief is that those citizens of
Taiwan will still be secure. We'll still have
trade with them, recognizing the People's
Republic of China, however, as the Gov-
ernment of China.
I think that our new relationship with
China can be a stabilizing factor, and not
only between China and Japan, China
and the other Asian nations, but also be-
tween China and the Soviet Union. We
want to see peaceful relationships between
countries who have in the past been po-
tential adversaries.
So, in every way, I think that our place
in the Far East is sound and firm and
more stabilizing, more peaceful, and will
give a better life to the people in that
region of the world.
MR. HIDAKA. In connection with that,
some people, particularly in the Congress,
encourage us to build up much more mili-
tary power to assist you. Can I ask you
on that point, do you encourage us to do
it or is it completely our business, so you
have no interest in commenting on that,
sir?
THE PRESIDENT. We enjoy the alliance
and the sharing of responsibility for se-
curity with the people of Japan. But the
level of your defense commitments is a
domestic matter, a decision to be made
by the Japanese people. We trust your
judgment, and we have full confidence
in you.
PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO KOREA
MR. HORI. After the summit in Tokyo,
you are going to visit Korea.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. HORI. Have you any schedule to
meet with Mr. Kim Dae-jung in Korea?
THE PRESIDENT. I will be meeting not
only with President Park but also the
leaders of the opposition, both within the
government, the religious leaders, and
others. This has been my custom when-
ever I visit a foreign country, and I look
forward to continuing this custom in
Korea.
MR. HIDAKA. It mean opposition party
people in Korea, you are going to meet
them?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I will.
MR. HIDAKA. It might be a very pop-
ular action in Japan and other countries
in Asia, I think.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are com-
mitted, as we have been for the last quar-
ter century, to peace and stability in the
Korean peninsula, and we have no inten-
tion of abandoning this responsibility.
What we would ultimately like to see are
1111
