May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
animals, city garbage, these kinds of
things can be used for fuel and to produce
gasohol.
I was in India last year and went to a
very small town in a poverty-stricken
region. One of the most interesting things
that the very poor people had there was
a small tank, three or four hundred gal-
lons, where they dumped their human
and animal wastes, extracted from it gas,
through a pipe, to use in several homes
for both heating and cooking, and then
after this process was over, they drained
the remaining sediment off and used it for
fertilizing the fields.
So, on a very tiny basis of that kind,
with a very small plant, all the way up
to a large production plant, I think we
have a good possibility in the future.
And we don't know what the future
might bring. At even existing levels of
price, gasohol may not be economically
advisable. But as the price of oil, for in-
stance, in the future goes up-in a very
slow process, I hope then gasohol will
become ever more competitive. I think it
has a good possibility. It's one of those
things that we cannot ignore.
GASOLINE SHORTAGES
Q. Mr. President, do you think
Governor Brown was warranted to today
authorize the counties of California and
the local subdivisions to put in this odd-
even gas allocation plan? And is there
anything the Federal Government could
do to help California out of this sort of ab-
normal shortage because of the glut of
high-sulfur oil, but the lack of the type of
oil it needs?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, he was war-
ranted. I'll be meeting with Governor
Brown this afternoon when I arrive in
California. The proposal that we have
made to the Congress for standby author-
ity to implement limited days for purchase
can only go into effect after the Governor
of a particular State goes through this
process presently being experienced in
California.
In other words, the first thing is a vol-
untary conservation measure to cut back
on, say, gasoline, 2 or 3 percent, whatever
is required. Secondly, the Governor pro-
poses either odd-even days or weekend
purchases or some other means to save
gasoline. Only after that process takes
place does the Federal Government insti-
tute a possible weekend closing. We've
not yet been able to get the Congress to
approve that. But I do think that he has
acted properly and I do think he's acted
responsibly.
I would do anything within my power
to aid Governor Brown in this particular
time, with a gasoline shortage. And I
would say that this is not the first, it's cer-
tainly not the last gasoline shortage that
our country will experience.
And we've almost forgotten now what
we did see in 1973 and 1974. And this is
an early indication of a repetition of gaso-
line shortages. As I said a couple of weeks
ago and again in my energy speech a little
bit longer ago, we anticipate gasoline
shortages this summer. The California
experience is a few months before I
thought it would be.
Next summer, we think the shortages
are going to be even greater. And one rea-
son is that we have got to have an ade-
quate supply of home heating oil, for in-
stance, in New England, and we have got
to have an adequate supply of gasoline
and distillate for farm tractors and other
equipment to use to produce food.
So, the average motorist is going to be
faced with more shortages of gasoline in
the future than we have experienced to-
day. And we ought to be ready for it. And
we're not yet ready for it.
800
