Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Obviously, President Sadat and I and
Prime Minister Begin and our representa-
tives can do a substantial amount for the
Palestinians, even in their absence. But
the full realization of their expectations
under these terms would obviously be de-
pendent on how willing they are to par-
ticipate themselves.
MR. ANDRAWES. Mr. President, the
Palestinian people feel they have been vic-
tims and evicted from their homes; the
United States, as a super power, should
take the lead in inviting them and asking
them to come and talk with the adminis-
tration on their needs and their problems
and so on. Could this be envisaged in the
very near future?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We would like to
have direct relations with the Palestinians,
and we will, as part of the negotiating
process in the future. The Palestinians
who live in Gaza and the West Bank will
be invited and encouraged to participate
in these discussions, the mayors of the
cities and other representatives to be
chosen by the Palestinians themselves.
We have a problem with the PLO. The
PLO has never yet been willing to accept
the applicability of United Nations Reso-
lution 242, the basis for the Camp David
agreements and, I think, a document
that's been adopted by all of the Arab
nations as a foundation for future prog-
ress. The PLO has never been willing to
accept this document. Also, the PLO has
never recognized Israel's right to exist.
And as soon as the PLO itself, as an orga-
nization, is willing to accept these bases,
then we'll immediately start working di-
rectly with that organization as such.
But in the meantime, the Palestinians
who reside in the West Bank, Gaza area,
the Palestinians who reside in Egypt and
Jordan, and even others who don't reside
in either of these countries, if they're mu-
tually acceptable, will participate in the
negotiations.
MR. ANDRAWES. But wouldn't it be
useful, Mr. President, if you, as a super
power, took the first step and explained
to the Palestinian people the necessity of
accepting Resolution 242 and getting into
the peace process? You have actually said
before and invited them to participate in
the process, even accepting 242 with
reservations.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, and I hope they
will do that.
We have not only sent representatives
to meet with Palestinian leaders in the
West Bank and Gaza areas-both from
the administration, the State Department,
and also, for instance, the majority
leader of the Democratic Party in the
U.S. Senate met with a representative
group-but when I've met with Presi-
dent Asad of Syria and King Hussein of
Jordan and with King Khalid and Crown
Prince Fahd in Saudi Arabia, I have en-
couraged them to do everything they
could, possibly, to involve the Palestinians
in the peace process.
As you know, there are threats made
and there are demonstrations of terrorism
which tend to prevent the Palestinians
who want to have peace and who want to
have full autonomy from participating
in these processes. And I think the threats
of terrorism and the hatred that pres-
ently exists, the threat of war, the threat
of economic boycotts and punishment
against Egypt, are certainly not conducive
to realizing the hopes of the Palestinian
people.
There is no leader in the Mideast who
has done more to open up an opportunity
for progress and the restoration of the
rights of the Palestinians than President
Sadat. If the other leaders in Jordan and
Syria and Saudi Arabia would do half as
much as President Sadat has done, then
456
