May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
spread of dangerous nuclear materials. It
marches our nuclear policy in exactly the
wrong direction.
As nuclear power plays a part in our
overall energy policy for the foreseeable
future, we must proceed cautiously. We
must minimize the risks to our society,
and above all, we must not plunge into
potentially dangerous, unproven, and un-
necessary new technologies which may
never produce benefits to offset their costs
and risks.
We can avoid that mistake by proceed-
ing with an orderly and scientifically
sound breeder research and development
program, but our immediate attention
must be focused on improving the safety
of our current nuclear technology to en-
sure that a Three Mile Island accident
never happens again.
We do not need to build a plant based
on a wholly new technology about which
far less is known than the nuclear reactors
that we currently use.
I want to repeat today my longstanding
and consistent request to the Congress to
deny the well-financed efforts of the big
utilities and the energy companies. We
must terminate the Clinch River breeder
reactor. We have a far more immediate
task at hand-putting our existing nuclear
power into order and ensuring safety.
I will continue to oppose the construc-
tion of this unnecessary, wasteful, and un-
sound project, and I urge the advocates
of the Clinch River project to reconsider
their efforts to salvage this ill-conceived
idea.
I also urge all those who share my con-
cern about controlling, and the safety of
nuclear power to let your voices be heard
in the Congress before it's too late.
And now, I would like to recognize
Mr. Bill Baker for the first question.
QUESTIONS
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, I'm from the Clin-
ton, Iowa, Herald. I'd like to ask you what
counsel and advice you can offer to those
on fixed incomes, particularly the elderly,
and all sorts of those workers employed
by firms that are conscientiously attempt-
ing to follow your 7-percent wage-price
guidelines, especially in view of the fact
that the inflation rate is now approaching
13 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the inflation
rate is going to turn and go down in the
foreseeable future, after a few months. We
have early indications of that. Also, as you
know, built into the social security system,
for instance, is an automatic escalator
clause to protect our old people from the
devastating effects of inflation. Only this
week we increased social security pay-
ments, I believe, about 9 percent, based
on history, recent history, in the inflation-
ary trend.
We are doing everything we can to en-
courage the anti-inflation fight to be a
nationwide fight-not trying to find scape-
goats, not believing that the Government
itself can do it all.
In spite of the fact that we have cut the
budget deficit more than half, we have
a very tight budget proposal. We have a
sound dollar now. We are increasing ex-
ports considerably. Our balance of trade
pared to what it was previously.
overseas has become very favorable, com-
We still have some uncontrollable fac-
tors. One of those is the price of foreign
oil. We're trying to reduce our depend-
ence upon it. Another, obviously, is the
high cost of food items which are in scarce
supply-fresh fruits and vegetables-
caused by a very severe winter in the
growing States; very short beef herds,
796
