Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
The Conference affirmed that Federal
and State tax policy should help target
private investment in distressed commu-
nities. Federal aid should, however, be
premised on clear-cut national perform-
ance criteria concerning economic, fiscal,
and employment objectives which reflect
national commitments to equal opportu-
nity, housing and jobs.
Finally, the Conference recognized the
need for a balance between the national
concern for large urban centers and coun-
ties, and for rural areas and small towns.
It acknowledged that urban and rural de-
velopment may require different tactics to
address the diverse contexts in which simi-
lar problems may occur.
III. THE ADMINISTRATION'S INITIATIVES
Many of the recommendations made by
the Conference have the same basis as the
principles which have guided my Admin-
istration in setting new directions. The
development of my domestic policy rests
upon the recognition of the need for
"shared responsibility" among all levels of
government, and with the private sector,
for the economic health and well-being of
all people and places. The Conference
came at an excellent time to help us think
through the elements of our National
Urban Policy, while it also helped launch
a badly needed review of the perform-
ance of Federal programs in rural coun-
ties and small towns, largely in response
to Conference recommendations, my Ad-
ministration has taken the following steps
toward a "fair and flexible Federalism."
INFLATION AND EMPLOYMENT
Overall, we have made dramatic gains
in the past two years in expanding em-
ployment and reducing the number of
jobless. In order to strengthen further the
Nation's commitment to full employment
while guarding against the crippling ef-
fects of high inflation I have signed into
law the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Em-
ployment and Balanced Growth Act. By
requiring the more systematic considera-
tion of both concerns in developing na-
tional economic policies, it provides a
framework for pursuing the more orderly
and integrated growth policy process
which the Conference endorsed.
The overall economic health of our Na-
tion, however, is also founded on the
economic well-being of its individual re-
gions, communities, people and industries.
This interdependence means that the dis-
tress of some people and places affects all
of our people and places. Moreover, a
non-inflationary national growth policy
requires the efficient use of unemployed
and underemployed workers and of
underutilized private and community
infrastructure. Federal action on the sub-
national economic development front,
therefore, is an important, long neglected
component of national economic policy
concerned with stemming inflation, re-
ducing unemployment and underemploy-
ment and increasing the productivity of
our nation's industries.
In a break with past practice, the Fed-
eral Government is now deliberately and
systematically pursuing "micro-economic❞
policies to help distressed places as well
as people as an essential part of overall
economic policy. This Administration has
expanded and improved Federal com-
munity and economic development pro-
grams. We recognize that national de-
velopment policies must link related de-
velopment activities such as job creation
and training, business assistance, housing
and community improvements, human
services, and transportation in unified
state and locally planned programs. Pur-
suant to the Conference emphasis on pri-
vate sector jobs, we have expanded the
Comprehensive Employment and Train-
73
