Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
Because regulation permits such high
profits and makes operating certificates
so scarce, ICC certificates are bought and
sold for enormous sums. When Associated
Transport went bankrupt in 1976, the
operating rights carried on its balance
sheet at $976,000 sold for over $20 mil-
lion. Eastern Freightway, Inc., recently
sold rights for about $3.8 million. Ulti-
mately, of course, the buyer must recover
the certificate's price from its customers in
the form of higher prices.
The bill I propose:
-repeals the special antitrust immu-
nity, making the trucking industry subject
to the same antitrust laws that govern
most other industries. Although carriers
would be prohibited from discussing and
voting on rates, rate bureaus may con-
tinue to publish rates. Carriers may also
continue to interline and set joint line
rates so that a shipper can pay one rate
even though more than one carrier hauls
the shipment to its final destination;
-encourages price competition by pre-
venting the ICC from disapproving rates
within a zone. For the first two years,
carriers may lower their rates 20%, or
raise their rates 5% per year, without
ICC interference. At the end of two years,
the ICC may not disapprove a rate reduc-
tion unless the rate would be predatory,
and carriers may raise their rates 7% per
year.
MERGERS
The bill requires the ICC to weigh
possible anticompetitive effects of the pro-
posed mergers.
The ICC may not approve or author-
ize any merger or acquisition if there is
likely to be a substantial lessening of com-
petition, creation of a monopoly, or a
restraint of trade-unless the ICC finds
that the anticompetitive effects of the
transaction are outweighed by significant
transportation needs that could not be
satisfied by a reasonably available alterna-
tive having materially less anticompetitive
effects.
After five years, the ICC's authority
over mergers is eliminated, and jurisdic-
tion is transferred to the FTC and the
Department of Justice.
PRIVATE CARRIAGE
Under existing law, non-transportation
companies (such as Montgomery Ward
and Pet Milk) may transport their own
goods free from ICC regulation. Although
these "private carriers" are not directly
regulated by the ICC, their operations
have been severely restricted. As a result,
private carriers are plagued with an un-
usually high rate of empty backhauls. The
bill I propose would allow private carriers
to apply for authority to carry non-com-
pany commodities, to provide transporta-
tion for corporate subsidiaries, and to per-
mit private carriers to "trip-lease" with
certificated carriers for single trips.
TRUCKLOAD TRANSPORTATION
"Truckload" motor carriers of property,
who concentrate on hauling specialized
commodities in full truckload lots, are al-
ready a relatively competitive sector of
the trucking industry. The ICC has been
more liberal in granting entry, and rates
are often negotiated between the shipper
and carrier. Truckload carriers compete
with railroads and with private carriers.
The Commission has recently announced
plans to deregulate several types of these
"special commodity" carriers of truckload
traffic.
The bill builds on this trend toward less
regulation of this segment of the indus-
try. After two years, entry and rate con-
trols over truckload transportation are
removed.
After two years, any trucking company
that meets safety, financial, and insurance
1123
