Mar. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
studied at Oxford University as a Rhodes
Scholar, doing research on U.S.-African
relations.
In 1963 Celeste accepted a 6-month as-
signment in Washington as staff liaison of-
ficer with the Peace Corps' Division of
Volunteer Support for Latin America.
From 1963 to 1967, he worked on a special
agricultural development assignment in
India, at the special request of U.S. Am-
bassador to India Chester Bowles. Based
in New Delhi, he traveled throughout the
country, taking a special interest in food
production and community development
efforts.
In 1967 Celeste returned to Cleveland
and joined the National Housing Corp., a
small firm specializing in the development
of housing for senior citizens of moderate
income. In 1972 he became president of
the company.
From 1971 to 1975, Celeste was an
Ohio State representative.
Celeste is a trustee of AFS Interna-
tional, formerly known as the American
Field Service, and a board member of the
Overseas Development Council. In 1977
he visited West Africa with a group spon-
sored by the Overseas Development Coun-
cil to study food production problems. He
also visited several European countries to
study regional development strategies un-
der a grant from the European Economic
Community. He is a former president of
the National Methodist Student Move-
ment.
Occupational Safety and Health
Review Commission
Nomination of Timothy F. Cleary To Be a
Member and Designation as Chairman.
March 30, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Timothy F. Cleary, of Beth-
esda, Md., for reappointment as a member
and Chairman of the Occupational Safety
and Health Review Commission.
Cleary, 54, has been a member of the
Commission since 1973 and Chairman
since 1977. He served as Chief Counsel to
former Commissioner Alan F. Burch from
the Commission's inception in 1971 until
1973. He has also served as an attorney in
the Office of the Solicitor at the Labor
Department and in the New York City
Police Department Legal Bureau.
American National Red Cross
Appointment of Jerome H. Holland as
Chairman of the Board of Governors.
March 30, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Jerome H. Holland as
Chairman of the Board of Governors of
the American National Red Cross. He re-
places Frank Stanton, who has retired
from the post.
Holland is a former Ambassador to
Sweden and former president of Hamp-
ton Institute. He has been serving as Vice
Chairman of the Red Cross Board of Gov-
ernors. He is vice chairman of the Na-
tional Conference of Christians and Jews.
Presidential Advisory Board on
Ambassadorial Appointments
Appointment of Seven Members.
March 30, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of seven persons as mem-
bers of the Presidential Advisory Board
on Ambassadorial Appointments. They
are:
DINA G. BEAUMONT, district vice president of
the Communications Workers Association in
Los Angeles;
552
