Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 30
sultation between myself and the public,
and myself and the Congress. Any action
that the Congress can take to make the
rationing plans or the allocation plans or
the conservation plans more fair, I would
obviously be glad to accommodate these
improvements.
Now, as far as the net effect of the
windfall profits tax is concerned, we de-
cided to decontrol in a phased way
the
prices of gasoline and other energy sup-
plies based on oil in accordance with the
congressional mandate, the congressional
law that was passed and approved in a
previous administration. I think this is
necessary action to be taken. We also
recognize that one of the purposes of such
action is to increase domestic production.
There cannot be a confiscatory tax to take
away all the proceeds that would go to
the oil producers as the decontrol takes
place.
We tried to balance it as best we could,
and I believe we've done an excellent job.
Whenever a dollar is realized in increased
revenue, resulting from decontrol of oil
prices, under our proposal, the windfall
profits tax proposal, the oil companies
would retain 29 cents. That 29 cents out
of each dollar is designed to be invested
back into increased production of domes-
tic oil and gas. The other part of the
dollar would go for Federal taxes, local
taxes, and the payment of royalties.
I might say this in closing: I don't claim
that this is a perfect proposal. If, during
the hearing process and during the pas-
sage of legislation, the Congress is able
to make the tax more stringent, I would
look with favor if the proposals are fair.
If the Congress has an inclination to
make the tax less stringent-in other
words, to let the oil companies keep more
of the profits-I would strongly disap-
prove.
TRADE WITH SOVIET UNION AND CHINA
Q. Mr. President, what are the pros-
pects right now for an early extension of
most-favored-nation trading status to the
Soviet Union and China?
THE PRESIDENT. I personally favor the
extension of the most-favored-nations
treatment to both the Soviet Union and
China if it can be done in compliance
with existing law.
I think it's good for us, for our country,
to be able to export more goods, to pro-
vide more jobs for our own people, and
to improve the relationships between our-
selves and foreign countries, including the
Soviet Union and China, brought about
by increased economic interchange or
trade.
So, when the time comes that I think
these requirements can be met, I would
personally favor the extension of most-
favored-nations to these two countries.
Q. Might that time come soon?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope so, yes.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, can you provide any
more enlightenment on our ability to ver-
ify SALT; and are those within the ad-
ministration who say this ability is, say,
from 1 to 4 years away, are they wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Secretary of
Defense made a statement concerning 1
year. That was applying to specifically
how rapidly we could overcome the set-
back resulting from the loss of our Ira-
nian monitoring stations. But in the same
brief statement, he replied to a news ques-
tion that as soon as the SALT treaty is
effective, when it's signed and ratified, we
would be able to verify the treaty ade-
quately.
There is no doubt in my mind that this
is the case. I would not sign nor present
749
