Jan. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
diversity and of peace. For too long, our
two peoples were cut off from one another.
Now we share the prospect of a fresh flow
of commerce, ideas, and people, which
will benefit both our countries.
Under the leadership of Premier Hua
Guofeng and of you, Mr. Vice Premier,
the People's Republic of China has begun
to move boldly toward modernization.
You have chosen to broaden your cultural,
trade, and diplomatic ties with other na-
tions. We welcome this openness. As a
people, we firmly believe in open discus-
sion with others and a free exchange of
ideas with others.
Our Nation is made up of people of
many backgrounds, brought together by a
common belief in justice, individual
liberty, and a willingness to settle differ-
ences peaceably. So, we particularly wel-
come the opportunity to exchange stu-
dents and scholars and to improve our
trade, technological, scientific, and cul-
tural contacts. We are eager for you and
your people to see and to experience our
Nation and for our people to experience
yours.
There is a Chinese saying that seeing
once is worth more than a hundred de-
scriptions. For too long, the Chinese and
the American peoples have not been able
to see each other for themselves. We are
glad that time is past.
China is one of the nations to which a
significant number of Americans, our own
citizens, trace their ancestry. The Ameri-
can people have warm feelings for the
Chinese. From an earlier time when I
visited China, 30 years ago, I recall days
of close contact and of friendship and
hospitality.
But history also teaches us that our
peoples have not always dealt with each
other wisely. For the past century and
more, our relations have often been
marred by misunderstanding, false hopes,
and even war.
Mr. Vice Premier, let us pledge to-
gether that both the United States and
China will exhibit the understanding,
patience, and persistence which will be
needed in order for our new relationship
to survive.
Our histories and our political and eco-
nomic systems are vastly different. Let us
recognize those differences and make
them sources not of fear, but of healthy
curiosity; not as a source of divisiveness,
but of mutual benefit.
As long as we harbor no illusions about
our differences, our diversity can con-
tribute to the vitality of our new relation-
ship. People who are different have much
to learn from each other.
Yesterday, Mr. Vice Premier, was the
lunar New Year, the beginning of your
Spring Festival, the traditional time of
new beginnings for the Chinese people. On
your New Year's Day, I am told, you open
all doors and windows to give access to
beneficent spirits. It's a time when family
quarrels are forgotten, a time when visits
are made, a time of reunion and recon-
ciliation.
As for our two nations, today is a time
of reunion and new beginnings. It's a day
of reconciliation, when windows too long
closed have been reopened.
Vice Premier Deng, you, your wife,
your party are welcome to our great
country. Thank you for honoring us with
your visit.
THE VICE PREMIER. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
First of all, I wish to thank the Presi-
dent and Mrs. Carter for this grand and
warm welcome, which we consider to be
a token of the American people's friend-
ship for the Chinese people. We, on our
part, have brought the American people a
message of friendship from the Chinese
people.
The history of friendly contacts be-
tween our two peoples goes back for
190
