Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
It's obvious to me that industry, all
employers, labor, the government at all
levels, and consumers are in this together.
And until each one of us does our part,
we'll never find a resolution of the prob-
lem.
Last night I was in Elk City, Okla-
homa. A farmer stood up and asked me
if I didn't think that business was respon-
sible for inflation because last quarter
profits were 26 percent higher than they
had been a year before. And then I asked
him what his profession was. He said he
was a farmer. I said, "Do you realize that
in 1978 net farm income was up 30 per-
cent? Would you say that the farmers were
responsible for inflation?" And he very
quickly said no.
The point is I'm doing all I can as head
of our Government to control inflation.
You need to do all you can within the
area of your own influence. But if your
own prices and charges go up more than
our guidelines, you will have directly con-
tributed to inflation and have hurt your
own country.
And it's a responsibility that each of us
greater impact on the evolution of our
Nation in a positive direction.
What the rest of the world thinks about
America is primarily determined by you.
And I think the honesty, the integrity, the
accuracy, the freedom of the American
broadcasting industry is absolutely crucial
to making our Nation, which is the great-
est nation on Earth, even freer and
greater in the future. In that respect, you
and I are also partners.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-sixth news con-
ference began at 3:30 p.m. at the Dallas Con-
vention Center, on the occasion of the opening
session of the 57th annual convention of the
National Association of Broadcasters. Vincent
T. Wasilewski is president of NAB, and Paul
Stevens is president of radio and television
communications of the Southern Baptist Con-
vention, Ft. Worth, Tex.
Prior to the news conference, the President
attended a luncheon for members and elected
officials of the Democratic Party at the home of
Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Repre-
sentative for Trade Negotiations, in Dallas.
ought to accept. I certainly accept my Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty
share of the responsibility as President. I
hope you will do the same. I hope all busi-
ness and labor will also take responsibility,
and the consumers as well. Only by assess-
ing it as a partnership and not trying to
find a scapegoat can we possibly succeed.
But I am absolutely determined and I am
absolutely convinced that if we work
together we can bring inflation under
control.
Let me say in closing that I have thor-
oughly enjoyed being with you. I hope
that you listened very carefully to my
opening remarks, because I recognize that
perhaps there is no other industry on
Earth that has a greater impact on the
consciousness of people and, therefore, a
Joint Statement Issued by President Carter,
President Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt, and
Prime Minister Menahem Begin of Israel.
March 25, 1979
At the convening of the Camp David
summit meeting we issued a communica-
tion which stated in part-"Conscious of
the grave issues which face us, we place
our trust in the God of our fathers from
whom we seek wisdom and guidance. We
request people of all faiths to pray with us
that peace and justice will result from
these deliberations."
Our trust in God was well-placed. On
Monday, a treaty of peace will be signed
between Egypt and Israel within the
framework of a comprehensive peace
490
