Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to another, that it would be a mistake to
judge the entire business community's ac-
tions on the basis of that one statistic. I
think the trend over the last 10 years-I
was examining this today, as a matter of
fact-show that business profits have been
well in line with the average income in-
creases of American families. This is a
wheat State; Oklahoma is very heavily de-
pendent on energy and on agriculture.
Last year, the average net income for
farm families in this country went up 30
percent, and I don't hear many of the
farmers who were sitting on their tractors
complaining about their income going up
too rapidly. So, I think those statistics that
come out, although they are very shock-
ing when one first hears them, have to be
taken in the context of the entire Nation's
economic structure.
There's no doubt in my mind that some
business firms have cheated on the wage
and price guidelines by increasing their
prices more than was warranted. But I
think you have to remember that all over
the world at this point, there are infla-
tionary pressures that neither I nor any-
one else can control.
Let me just give you a few quick exam-
ples. There's a beef shortage worldwide.
We have an import quota at this point,
and as you know, we are having a diffi-
cult time having that quota itself filled,
because there's a shortage in other coun-
tries at the present that in the past have
been eager to sell their beef; now they
have a very ready market for it.
International commodities, including
food, feed grains, soybeans, aluminum,
bauxite, copper, silver, gold-these kinds
of things are going up quite rapidly in
price. Oil prices are going up as well.
So, on an international basis, prices are
going up, and you couldn't blame them
on a President or the consumers or any
one entity or person.
You have other things that are pro-
duced in our Nation, where no company
can control them. For instance, we've
been building about 2.2 million home
units per year for the last 2 or 3 years, a
very high rate of production of homes for
American families. This has created a
shortage in some building materials-ply-
wood, lumber, insulation materials, and
so forth. And no one company, obviously,
controls the price of timber being sold by
landowners, nor the price of lumber
products coming from that timber.
So, a lot of the causes for inflation are
almost uncontrollable, and they're
be-
cause people around the world are getting
more affluent. They can buy more beef,
they can buy more wheat than they could
in the past.
So, I don't believe it would be fair, even
though it would be easy, for me to blame
business for inflation just because their
profits seemed to be high last quarter.
They were very high. I was surprised. But
it would be easy for me to say, "Well, the
working people and the farmers are great,
the consumers are great, I'm a great Presi-
dent, let's blame American business."
That's not fair, and not exactly accurate.
We're all in it together. Unless we do co-
operate and not try to find a scapegoat or
someone to blame, we won't be success-
ful. I think we ought to form a partner-
ship and all of us see what we ourselves
can do. I believe that if we work to-
gether, we can control inflation in har-
mony, not by blaming one another.
FEDERAL REGULATION
Q. Mr. President, I'm Darlene James.
Our doctors, pharmacists, and hospitals
spend so much of their time filling out
Federal forms, even here in Elk City. Do
you foresee any possibility of less Federal
474
