Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 7
night in my speech, my belief is that the
net result of this will be, in the long run,
a natural reduction in inflation.
ENERGY CONSERVATION IN RURAL AREAS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Philip Williams
from WBNZ in Frankfort, Michigan.
What effect are the conservation measures
that you've asked for going to have on
rural areas, where we depend on the auto-
mobile for driving to work, to the store,
to everywhere?
I'm sure you are aware of the problems
in the rural part of the world. We also
depend on it for harvesting our fruits and
our vegetables in our area. We also depend
upon it for our tourism. If we don't have
the tourism that we expect every year, for
the 3 months out of the year during the
summer, we're going to be in a depression.
It's simple as that. What can we do to-
THE PRESIDENT. I grew up in a rural
area where every time we went a half-
mile, we jumped in the automobile and
went there and came back; did it fre-
quently; went to Plains, 22 miles away,
shopping sometimes two or three times a
day. And most often, you see on the high-
ways or streets of our country now, auto-
mobiles with one passenger in them. In
addition to that, Americans don't get
enough exercise. [Laughter]
The average automobile now travels
10,000 miles a year. And to call on a
family to cut down their automobile
travel by 15 miles per week is not a very
great sacrifice. I pointed out last night
how this could be done by using either
a bus or some other form of rapid transit
or a carpool, once a week, or perhaps by
walking if you don't live too far from
work, or cutting out an unnecessary shop-
ping trip, and so forth. I don't think it
will work a hardship.
As far as the areas that depend on
tourism, we have carefully constructed
and will carefully construct the directions
of gasoline conservation to the States to
give the State Governors and legislatures
the option on how to reach those targets.
I was a Governor during the 1973-74
oil embargo, and we were allotted that
responsibility by the Federal Government.
At first, in order to accommodate States'
needs, we were given a 5-percent alloca-
tion base. It worked so well that we cut
that 5-percent allocation base down to
only 3 percent of total consumption. And
eventually, we came up here and advised
the President and his subordinates to cut
the amount of fuel that we had allocated
down to only 1 percent of the total State's
consumption because it worked so well.
But we depended on this reduction in
oil and gas consumption by using State
and local volunteers, some small admin-
istrative structure, and the regular dis-
tribution system. And there's no doubt in
my mind that any State in the Nation can
cut back its gasoline consumption, for
instance, 5 percent, if given the flexibility
to do so, which they will have, without
wreaking any havoc in their tourism in-
dustry if that's their dependence. I don't
think there's any doubt that we can do
that.
U.S. PALESTINIAN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, I wondered if you
could-I'm changing the subject, but if
could redefine your Palestinian policy.
Exactly what is the current position?
you
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wouldn't want
to redefine it, because it's been very con-
sistent from the beginning. [Laughter]
And I wouldn't change one part of it.
As far as direct relations or consulta-
tions or negotiations with the PLO is con-
cerned, we will not do this unless the PLO
endorses the United Nations Resolution
623
