Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
plant materials for genetic research on
crops, and cooperation in high-energy
physics and other areas. The agreement
enhances opportunities for U.S. industry
participation in China's modernization ef-
forts. Our new relationship provides a
sound beginning for increased technical
social ties between our countries.
HELPING DEVELOPING COUNTRIES USE
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
The United States has an opportunity
and responsibility to share scientific
knowledge and appropriate technological
skills with the developing world. Our pur-
pose
is to assist other countries in develop-
ing technology for their own needs. We
must accomplish this purpose both for
humanitarian reasons and because over-
coming the problems of poverty, over-
population, and scarcity of food and nat-
ural resources, will promote a stable world,
enhancing our own security and well-
being.
Recognizing these facts, I have submit-
ted legislation to create an Institute for
Scientific and Technological Cooperation,
which will be charged with helping devel-
oping countries improve their scientific
and technological capacity. Working with
the Agency for International Develop-
ment, the Institute will expand the use of
science and technology to overcome ob-
stacles to development.
The Institute will help individual devel-
oping countries choose and develop tech-
nologies that suit their own needs. At the
same time, it will enable them to contrib-
ute to the solution of problems that affect
developed as well as developing nations.
For example, the Institute will work with
developing countries on multiple crop
farming systems for areas not suited to
continuous cropping of food grain, tech-
nologies for clean water and sewage in ru-
ral areas where most of the poor live, mod-
ern information systems, prevention and
cure of tropical diseases, and appropriate
energy systems. The Institute also will es-
tablish means for developing countries to
draw on United States government agen-
cies, universities and institutes, as well as
private industry. In this way the Institute
will enhance coordination of the interna-
tional activities of our government agen-
cies.
An important dimension of the Insti-
tute is its mandate to work with the more
advanced countries of the developing
world, the "middle tier" nations. These
countries have the infrastructure and sci-
ence and technology capacity to become
true partners with us in addressing re-
gional and international problems and
needs of the poor majority.
The Institute will call on industry, la-
bor, and private voluntary organizations
for development and management skills
and improvement of the health and safety
levels of modernizing societies. Already
twenty-five percent of our current exports
go to non-OPEC third world nations. Our
trade in manufactured goods will expand
as developing countries become better
able to purchase and use our products.
Finally, we plan to take an active role
in the United Nations Conference on Sci-
ence and Technology for Development
next summer. Father Theodore Hesburgh,
President of the University of Notre
Dame, will lead our delegation to the
Conference. I view this Conference as an
opportunity for discussing technology-re-
lated issues of concern to developing coun-
tries and reaching agreement on common
objectives.
540
