Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
PRICE AND WAGE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, you have said fre-
quently in the past that you wouldn't
hesitate to point out people, organizations
that are not complying with your wage
and price voluntary guidelines and that
you think are helping to add to inflation.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right.
Q. Yet, if I'm not mistaken, I have
not heard you do so yet. Can you today
tell us any organization, any labor union,
any company that you think is letting the
American people down in this regard?
THE PRESIDENT. Every week since we
have had our voluntary wage and price
standards in place, I have had a meeting
with my top economic advisers—an early
morning breakfast meeting once a week-
at which time we discuss in some detail
the degree of compliance both of the top
businesses of our Nation and also the im-
portant unions of our Nation.
I think the last report that we had was
that there were 13 companies who may
or may not be out of compliance. We have
inquired to the executives of those com-
panies, telling them about our concern.
This is done through the Council on Wage
and Price Stability.
We then give them a chance to respond
either to justify their price, which we think
might be too high, or to change their
prices if we can demonstrate to them that
their prices are indeed too high.
Last week when we had this meeting
that I'm describing now, there were four
companies that we thought were out of
compliance. The only one that we were
sure had not at that time achieved com-
pliance was Sears. I called executives of
Sears and pointed this out to them, told
them that I had seen the data and in my
opinion they were not in compliance.
They asked for a chance to meet again
with the Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility personnel, and they modified their
prices to come into compliance. I do not
know at this point of any company where
we can prove that they are out of com-
pliance because they modify their prices,
or either convince us that they indeed are
meeting the guidelines.
Wages-this is a voluntary program,
and I do not want to get involved in wage
negotiations. Only Wayne Horvitz, who is
the Federal mediator, is authorized by
me to do so. But we make our position
very clear when a major wage negotiation
is approaching that we consider this or
that demand to be either within or not
within the guidelines, and we let this posi-
tion be known publicly.
I think that this is the proper proce-
dure, and we will continue to do so. It has
applied in the case of the Teamsters. It's
now applying in the case of the rubber
workers. It will apply in the future in the
case of the United Automobile Workers.
And when they are doubtful about
whether a particular proposal does come
within the guidelines, they make an in-
quiry. But neither I nor the Secretary of
Labor nor Alfred Kahn nor Barry Bos-
worth gets involved in the actual negotia-
tions themselves.
We're doing the best we can. It's not
perfect, but I think we've made a great
deal of progress.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
Q. Mr. President, Senator Kennedy, in
his speech this afternoon before the Amer-
ican Society of Newspaper Editors, says
that you have been intimidated by the oil
lobby into throwing in the towel on price
decontrol without a fight and that your
proposed windfall profits tax is but a token
that is no more than a transparent figleaf
over vast profits by the oil industry.
Do you think that's unfair, that criti-
cism is unfair?
752
