Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 28
tions of top leadership, where policy is
made to the black citizens of our country,
who have too long been excluded. When
those private groups met, policy was de-
cided before the public was aware of the
questions even being discussed. And in the
regulatory agencies of our Government-
some of which I have no control except to
appoint the members; the FCC, the
CAB, and others—I'm trying to open up
those to the voice of the minority groups
of our country.
I can't always meet your demands. If
I could, then I would say that your de-
mands were not quite stringent enough.
[Laughter] I know that you have never
been timid in letting me or my prede-
cessors know what you expected. [Laugh-
ter] But that's part of the American life,
and that's why so much progress has been
possible.
I'm eager to serve you well. I pray to
God, my brothers and sisters in this room,
that I will never be a disappointment to
you nor to those whom you serve so well
and who look to you not only for present
leadership and guidance but for future
leadership and for an even greater United
States of America in the years to come.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 p.m. in the
Crystal Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel.
White House Correspondents
Association
Remarks at the Association's Annual Dinner.
April 28, 1979
President Aldo, incoming
incoming President
Ralph:
Very few people can comprehend the
awesome responsibilities which must be
borne by a President of the United States.
My duties in an average day indeed vary
from the sublime to the ridiculous.
[Laughter]
I have just come, a few minutes ago,
from addressing the distinguished black
education leaders of our Nation. As you
know, the predominantly black colleges
literally transformed the United States,
our societal structure, from one of hatred
and division and segregation, into one of
progress and hope, freedom and peace. I
would say that the motivations of these
men and women and their achievement,
their purpose in life, literally approached
the sublime. And now I have come to ad-
dress the White House correspondents.
[Laughter]
Members of the Cabinet, Congress,
other distinguished American citizens, and
also the remaining survivors of last year's
White House correspondents dinner-
[laughter-I understand this is the 65th
White House correspondents banquet,
and it's obvious that many of the found-
ing fathers are here tonight. [Laughter]
I'm honored to be here to substitute for
Jody Powell. [Laughter] I notice a few
chuckles. I am sure that you may remem-
ber Jody--Jody Powell. He's the one who
filled in for me last year, and I hope you
don't mind my substituting for him this
year. [Laughter]
The quality of his performance will
never be forgotten. And I must say with
regret that it has had an obvious impact
on your treatment of my administration
during the last 12 months. [Laughter] I
want to thank you very much. Yeah,
thanks a lot! [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, Jody picked up
most of his best lines from some of the
most emotional moments in the Oval Of-
fice as we discussed the performance of
the press. It became obvious to me last
year in reading the reports of the previous
White House dinner that some people
743
