Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Intrepid, independent,
independent, plain-spoken,
fearless, she remains a model for the
young and a teacher from whom all may
learn."
The Presidential Medal of Freedom is
the Government's highest civil award. It
may be awarded only by the President
to persons who have made especially
meritorious contributions to the security
or national interest of the United States,
to world peace, or to cultural or other
significant public or private endeavors.
National Advisory Committee
for Women
Designation of Marjorie Bell Chambers as
Acting Chair. January 19, 1979
The President today announced that he
will designate Marjorie Bell Chambers
as the Acting Chair of the National Ad-
visory Committee for Women. The des-
ignation of Chambers was recommended
by the Committee on the basis of a poll of
its membership.
In this temporary assignment, Cham-
bers' initial task will be to work with
Sarah Weddington to expand the access
of the Committee to policymaking forums
within the administration. The White
House anticipates a solid working rela-
tionship with the Committee and will
continue to consult with it and seek its
advice. The Committee will work to effec-
tively fulfill its mandate of assisting the
President and the administration in pro-
moting full equality for American women.
The White House will continue to con-
sult with Chambers, the Committee, and
former members of the Committee on the
selection of a permanent chair and the
continuing role of the Committee.
Chambers, 56, of Los Alamos, N. Mex.,
is president of Bell Chambers Associates,
a consulting firm for government, educa-
tion, science, and technology, specializing
in equity management services. She is na-
tional president of the American Associa-
tion of University Women (AAUW) and
president of the AAUW Educational
Foundation. She is a former president of
Colorado Women's College and has also
been a professor of history at several col-
leges. She has served as chairman of the
County Council of Los Alamos.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
January 13
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
January 14
Deng Xiaoping, Vice Premier of the
State Council of the People's Republic of
China, in response to an invitation from
President Carter, will visit the United
States from January 28 through Febru-
ary 5. Vice Premier Deng is expected to
arrive at Washington by air in the after-
noon of January 28, and his formal state
visit will begin on January 29. He will
depart from Seattle by air for the People's
Republic of China on the morning of
February 5. His itinerary during his stay
in the United States is as follows:
-Washington, D.C., January 29, 30,
31
-Atlanta, Ga., February 1 and 2
-Houston, Tex., February 2 and 3
-Seattle, Wash., February 4 and 5
Ambassador Leonard Woodcock, Chief
88
