Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
of life, we have much in common. In ad-
dition, we share a belief in the worth of
individual human beings, in democratic
principles, in a search for peace, in the
worth of each person.
I am very grateful for a chance to come
to your great country, to bring my own
wife and my daughter. We look forward
to seeing as much of you individually as
possible, to learning about your beautiful
country, so that we can bring back to the
United States an even fuller realization
of what you have been down through
history, what you are today, and the
glorious future that I know is in store for
the people of the great country of Japan.
The economic summit conference
which will be held in Tokyo is indeed a
tribute to you, to the great accomplish-
ments of your leaders now and in the past,
and of the recognition of Japan's role of
leadership in the world. And I'm very
grateful to be part of this recognition of
your glorious achievements, now and in
the future.
So, as a friend, I tell you that we are
looking forward to being with you in the
next few days. And I believe that both
my Nation and yours might very well
benefit from the exchange of views be-
tween the leaders of our two countries.
Thank you very much.
MR. HORI. On behalf of NHK and its
viewers, I'm very thankful to you for
taking time to interview with me. And
also we extend our best wishes for the suc-
cessful visit to our country.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I've enjoyed the interview very much.
MR. HIDAKA. We are going to cover
entirely live your meeting with Japanese
people in Shimoda-
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, good, good.
MR. HIDAKA. —completely live.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we look for-
ward to that.
MR. HIDAKA. Yes, sir. And I myself am
going down there to comment on that.
Japanese press quite well received your
advance team down there.
THE PRESIDENT. You think it's a good
place for me to go and visit? [Laughter]
MR. HIDAKA. Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we're going to
have time for some quiet time to eat a
meal and to visit with some of the people
there. And this is a very exciting prospect
for us. I look forward to seeing you there.
MR. HORI. Thank you, sir.
NOTE: The interview began at 2:07 p.m. in
the Map Room at the White House. It was
taped for later broadcast on Japanese tele-
vision.
Bill Stewart
Statement on the Death of the ABC News
Correspondent. June 21, 1979
The murder of American newsman Bill
Stewart in Nicaragua was an act of bar-
barism that all civilized people condemn.
Journalists seeking to report the news
and inform the public are soldiers in no
nation's army. When they are made inno-
cent victims of violence and war, all
people who cherish the truth and believe
in free debate pay a terrible price.
I know the American people share my
sense of outrage and loss at the death of
this gifted, dedicated young man. On be-
half of all Americans, I want to express
my deepest sympathy to Bill Stewart's
wife and family for their suffering and
loss.
NOTE: The correspondent was killed by a mem-
ber of the National Guard after he approached
a government maintained street barricade in
Managua. He was in Nicaragua to cover the
fighting between the government forces and
members of the Sandinista National Liberation
Front.
1113
