Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 2
efficiency and effectiveness of our eco-
nomic assistance to developing countries.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 1, 1979.
NOTE: The proposed personnel regulations
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of May 4,
1979.
Visit of Prime Minister Masayoshi
Ohira of Japan
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
May 2, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. This morning it's a won-
derful pleasure for me, on behalf of the
people of our Nation, to welcome to our
country, to our Capital City, the distin-
guished Prime Minister of Japan, Mr.
Ohira, and his wife; and also members of
his government who've come to consult
with us on matters of great import to the
people of both countries.
This welcome is extended to you, Mr.
Prime Minister, with our deepest feelings
of a common purpose and a realization of
the importance of the friendship which
binds us together. We are especially hon-
ored because this is your first trip abroad
after assuming your new responsibilities.
The United States and its people have
a great admiration for the people of Ja-
pan. We recognize your deep commitment
to the principles of democracy. We trust
the basic motivations and ideals of your
country. We are proud of the close co-
operation which we have seen exhibited
in times of testing and trial, and I believe
that this cooperation bodes good for the
other people of the world.
Our people are naturally friends. There
is an innate appreciation of one another,
from the highest levels of government and
business to the average tourist who always
comes back from a visit to the other coun-
try with a sense of hospitality and wel-
come having been extended.
Our own Nation's security and yours
are both enhanced by this close relation-
ship. And, of course, in international
political affairs, in economics and trade,
we share common problems and we share
common opportunities.
We had a large group of Asian Amer-
icans who came to visit me a few minutes
ago before this ceremony. And I pointed
out to them that our Nation is blessed
by approximately 4 million Asian Amer-
icans, who have enriched our country.
And I also pointed out to them that our
Nation is a country of refugees. We look
upon the Pacific Ocean not as an obstacle
to be overcome, but as a broad highway
which we can use with freedom and with
ease to bind our countries even closer to-
gether in the future.
We are dependent on trade. As you
know, I, as you, have been a farmer dur-
ing most of my life. There are more acres
of food being produced for Japan in the
United States than there are acres of food
being produced in Japan for Japan.
We value the wonderful market which
you extend for agricultural products.
There are more exchanges between the
members of the American Congress and
the Diet of your country than between.
any other two legislative bodies on Earth.
We consider the relationship with Japan
to be the cornerstone of the implementa-
tion of American policy throughout Asia.
And as you may know, these interrela-
tionships extend on a personal basis. My
daughter, Amy, studies violin as a begin-
ning student under the direction of the
great Japanese teacher Suzuki.
761
