Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
are monitoring it very closely. I think the
precautionary measures that have been
taken and that will be taken in the future
are adequate so far as we can foresee.
Based on my own knowledge of the basic
design of the plants, I think everything is
being done at this point to ensure the
safety of our people.
But I believe that this accident certainly
will make all of us reassess our present
safety regulations and precautions, limita-
tions on radioactivity levels, and will prob-
ably lead inexorably toward even more
stringent safety design mechanisms and
also standards.
TRANSFER OF NUCLEAR FUELS TO OTHER
COUNTRIES
Q. Mr. Carter, last year you broke a
tie vote in the Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission by giving your approval to a ship-
ment of nuclear fuel to India. Last week,
another shipment of fuel for India was
approved by the Commission. In the light
of India's continuing refusal to abide by
safeguard provisions of the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, do you think that the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission took the
right action last week in approving the
shipment of fuel? And does the U.S. have
any future plans to bring back from India
used nuclear fuel for restorage and re-
processing in the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. I do think the NRC
took the right action. We considered the
assurances of the Indian Government at
this point to be adequate. We would like
for them and many other governments in
the future to join in more and more strin-
gent requirements for the handling of
spent nuclear fuel and disposal of waste.
We have no authority now and no plan
for the shipment of those waste products
back to our own country.
This is part of the legislation that Con-
gress will consider this year, three major
items. One is the expedition of deciding
where a proper site exists for a nuclear
powerplant and the decision on whether a
license should be issued; secondly, how
to dispose of spent fuel rods away from
the site of power production; and, third,
how to dispose ultimately of waste
products.
I might add that more than 50 nations
now are involved in an international nu-
clear fuel cycle evaluation study, where-
in-we are a member of the Non-Prolif-
eration Treaty signers, and others who are
not-those who have nuclear weapon cap-
ability, as we do, and those who do not
can approach this problem in a much
more equitable
understandable
equitable and
fashion.
We are a supplier, as you know, of nu-
clear fuel products to our allies and friends
around the world, provided they meet
very rigid standards. And quite often, we
have been embroiled in altercations with
very friendly governments, because their
concepts are different from our own.
I might say that—to abbreviate my an-
swer that there are two crucial issues
that our country must pursue in order
to encourage countries like India and I
won't name 11 or 12 others who have
nuclear weapon capability to refrain
from developing those weapons; and that
is how we act on the SALT treaty,
whether we can consummate and ratify
an agreement with the Soviet Union to re-
strain atomic weapons, and how we act on
the control of nuclear explosive tests and
our general attitude on nonproliferation
issues.
If, for instance, our own Nation should
reject a SALT treaty once it's signed, it
would be extremely difficult for me, as
President, or for some future President
to restrain nations like India or Paki-
stan or South Africa or, perhaps, other
559
