Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
able Poseidon submarines-comprising
less than 2 percent of our total nuclear
force of submarines, aircraft, and land-
based missiles-carries enough warheads
to destroy every large- and medium-sized
city in the Soviet Union. Our deterrent is
overwhelming, and I will sign no agree-
ment unless our deterrent force will re-
main overwhelming.
A SALT agreement, of course, cannot
substitute for wise diplomacy or a strong
defense, nor will it end the danger of
nuclear war. But it will certainly reduce
that danger. It will strengthen our efforts
to ban nuclear tests and to stop the spread
of atomic weapons to other nations. And
it can begin the process of negotiating
new agreements which will further limit
nuclear arms.
The path of arms control, backed by a
strong defense the path our Nation and
every President has walked for 30 years-
can lead to a world of law and of inter-
national negotiation and consultation in
which all peoples might live in peace. In
this year 1979, nothing is more important
than that the Congress and the people
of the United States resolve to continue
with me on that path of nuclear arms con-
trol and world peace. This is paramount.
I've outlined some of the changes that
have transformed the world and which
are continuing as we meet here tonight.
But we in America need not fear change.
The values on which our Nation was
founded individual liberty, self-deter-
mination, the potential for human fulfill-
ment in freedom-all of these endure. We
find these democratic principles praised,
even in books smuggled out of totalitarian
nations and on wallposters in lands which
we thought were closed to our influence.
Our country has regained its special place
of leadership in the worldwide struggle
for human rights. And that is a commit-
ment that we must keep at home, as well
as abroad.
The civil rights revolution freed all
Americans, black and white, but its full
promise still remains unrealized. I will
continue to work with all my strength for
equal opportunity for all Americans-
and for affirmative action for those who
carry the extra burden of past denial of
equal opportunity.
We remain committed to improving
our labor laws to better protect the rights
of American workers. And our Nation
must make it clear that the legal rights
of women as citizens are guaranteed un-
der the laws of our land by ratifying the
equal rights amendment.
As long as I'm President, at home and
around the world America's examples and
America's influence will be marshaled to
advance the cause of human rights.
To establish those values, two centuries
ago a bold generation of Americans risked
their property, their position, and life it-
self. We are their heirs, and they are
sending us a message across the centuries.
The words they made so vivid are now
growing faintly indistinct, because they
are not heard often enough. They are
words like "justice," "equality," "unity,"
"truth," "sacrifice," "liberty," "faith," and
"love."
These words remind us that the duty of
our generation of Americans is to renew
our Nation's faith-not focused just
against foreign threats but against the
threats of selfishness, cynicism, and
apathy.
The new foundation I've discussed to-
night can help us build a nation and a
world where every child is nurtured and
can look to the future with hope, where
the resources now wasted on war can be
turned towards meeting human needs,
where all people have enough to eat, a
108
