Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 10
hensive settlement, and such that explicit
linkage would not be required. The other
hand, pragmatists say that a separate
peace would so tip the political and mili-
tary balance in Israel's favor that there
would be very little likelihood of progress
in the future toward a comprehensive
peace.
Which of these approaches would you
press upon Israel and Egypt when they
come here?
THE PRESIDENT. The United States
does not have a position to put forward
on a peace treaty. There's not a word or a
phrase or a sentence or a paragraph that
I want to see put in a peace treaty be-
tween Israel and Egypt. What we do is to
encourage Israel and Egypt to put for-
ward their ideas.
In 95 percent of the total cases, they
have now reached agreement. In those re-
maining 5, we add our good offices to pro-
pose to them, when a deadlock exists
between Israel and Egypt, alternative
wording and substance, hoping that they'll
accept some of our proposals. If they
don't, we go back to the drafting board.
But at Camp David, there was evolved
a description of a comprehensive peace
settlement for Israel, Egypt, Jordan,
Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians who
live on the West Bank and Gaza. That
was one document. The other document
outlined the basic principles of a peace
treaty between Israel and Egypt unilat-
erally. But the Israel and Egypt treaty
terms were also mentioned very clearly
within the comprehensive settlement
outline.
I think that the commitment of both
Begin and Sadat was to a comprehensive
peace settlement. And I've heard Prime
Minister Begin say several times to Presi-
dent Sadat in my presence, when only the
three of us were there, "I am not looking
for a separate peace treaty with Egypt."
The way the negotiations have evolved,
with the Palestinians and the Jordanians
unwilling to participate, this has of neces-
sity led to the bilateral discussions between
Israel and Egypt. Egypt is very insistent
that Israel comply with the agreement at
Camp David that a comprehensive peace
settlement be sought, and Israel, on the
other hand, is very insistent that the peace
treaty that's being evolved between Israel
and Egypt not be abrogated because of
factors beyond their control-for instance,
the refusal of the Palestinians to partici-
pate in future negotiations.
So, I think that's where the basic dead-
lock exists. I, therefore, am very deeply
committed to carrying out, if I can, the
principles of the Camp David accords,
which encompass a comprehensive settle-
ment.
Q. You believe in linkage?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the word
"linkage" has become kind of a code
word, where Israel says no linkage, Egypt
says linkage. I think it's better to talk
about the need for a comprehensive settle-
ment. That's language that both sides can
accept without violating the honor of their
own nation.
We hope that in the privacy of the
upcoming discussions at the Foreign Min-
ister level that we can make additional
progress. One of the worst ways to ne-
gotiate is through the news media, because
once a negotiator makes a public state-
ment "This is our position"-it almost
becomes, to repeat myself, a violation of
one's word of honor to be flexible and
actually to negotiate. And I think the
privacy of Camp David was the key fac-
tor in the success that we had.
So, when Dayan and Khalil come back
over here, maybe around the end of this
month, to meet with Secretary Vance,
one of the things that we'll try to do is
to have the meetings conducted in pri-
251
