Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to solve those problems and to take ad-
vantage of common opportunities.
Each of us, as leaders, has a primary
responsibility to represent the interests of
our own people. Naturally, this leads to
differences in perspective and differences
of opinion as we do discuss complicated
issues. Our discussions on this visit have
been very productive. And we now have
an even better prospect of resolving those
inevitable differences which have some-
times been obstacles to further progress
for many generations. We know that ques-
tions involving energy, trade, immigration,
transportation, and fisheries are not easy
to answer. But we are determined, work-
ing together, to succeed.
Mr. President, in your memorable
speech to the Congress of the United
States 2 years ago, you said something that
bears repeating tonight. You said, and I
would like to read your words, "It is diffi-
cult to be the neighbor of a nation as pow-
erful as yours. We run two grave risks:
arrogance, which is easy but sterile, and
submission, which is easy but abject. We
have chosen instead the difficult path of
dignity, based on the liberty we want to
maintain and the responsibility which we
wish to assume."
That was a perceptive statement, Mr.
President. And I would say in reply that
it is sometimes difficult to be the neighbor
of a nation such as yours—[laughter]—a
nation of rapid change and development,
a nation whose new economic power
obliges its leaders to make difficult choices
and to accept greatly expanded responsi-
bilities.
To conclude, Mr. President, let me say
that I agree that we must not go down
the path of arrogance or the path of sub-
mission. Instead, I'm confident that we
will walk with you on the path of dignity,
toward a future of independence, sover-
eignty, cooperation, mutual respect, and
peace.
And now I would like to propose a
toast: First, to the health of President
López Portillo and Mrs. López Portillo;
second, to the friendship of two great na-
tions, the Republic of Mexico and the
United States of America; and to a better
life for all people in our two nations and
throughout the world. Salud.
Thank you very much.
PRESIDENT LÓPEZ PORTILLO. Mr. Pres-
ident of the United States, Mrs. Carter,
my friends:
Similarly to what was done by Mr. Car-
ter, I wish to begin to speak by paying
homage to genius. I wish to say that many,
many years ago, I was present at the first
performance when the musical selection
"Salón México," by Copland, was played
many years ago. Since then, I have heard
it many times. But I want to say that it
was tonight that I really discovered this
piece. It was due to the genius of this
man,2 who made me discover the message
that has been sent to us by the author, all
the tenderness, all the violence, all the
strength, all the graciousness, and all the
intent of what used to happen in the Salón
México, the Salón México to which I went
sometimes as a youth. [Laughter]
All of this was what I discovered this
evening in this extraordinary interpreta-
tion. I am not speaking about the other
musical selections, because—and what I'm
going to say now will only be understood
by the people that are sitting around this
table-I do not want to extend a-inau-
dible]. [Laughter]
Mr. President, for us, your visit has been
extremely important. You and your asso-
ciates have been very friendly and very
patient. Our friendship has made it pos-
sible for us to be frank. And it is a beau-
2 President López Portillo was referring to
Mr. Bernstein.
282
