Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
parties to show flexibility and to respond
constructively and imaginatively to the
ongoing United Nations initiative. We
will continue to make every effort to help
bring about a productive resumption of
negotiations.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Frank
Church, chairman of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee.
Joint Financial Management
Improvement Program
Memorandum From the President.
March 23, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: 30th Anniversary of the Joint
Financial Management Improvement
Program
Thirty years ago the Executive and
Legislative Branches saw the need for a
closer working relationship to improve
financial management in Government.
The advances that have been made since
the establishment of the Joint Financial
Management Improvement Program and
the passage of the Budget and Accounting
Procedures Act reflect the efforts of many
dedicated individuals. The 30th anniver-
sary of the Joint Program is a timely re-
minder that significant accomplishments
are possible through cooperative efforts
without creating new and bigger bu-
reaucracies.
One of my goals as President is to have
an efficient and effective Government
responsive to the needs of the American
people. With the passage of the Civil
Service Reform Act, Federal managers
now have new incentives to eliminate
waste and inefficiency, to develop innova-
tive solutions to complex problems, and to
build a new foundation for more effective
Government. I am confident that Federal
managers will respond to this challenge
with efforts that will have a lasting im-
pact on the public service.
We need to re-establish public confi-
dence in Government, and we are making
progress. We are placing Inspectors Gen-
eral in each Cabinet-level Department to
detect and eliminate fraud and abuses.
They have broad powers and a substan-
tial degree of independence. The signifi-
cant features of this program must be
extended throughout the Federal Govern-
ment. The Office of Management and
Budget will make sure that the auditing
and investigative functions are meshed in
a smooth and effective way.
In November 1977, we started a com-
prehensive review of cash management
policies, practices, and organizations
throughout the Executive Branch. The
Office of Management and Budget and
the Department of the Treasury have
been working with Federal agencies to
accelerate Federal collections, to time dis-
bursements properly and to develop in-
centives to make Federal employees better
cash managers. I am pleased that the
review has identified $400 million in in-
terest cost savings during its first year
alone.
A Government-wide effort led by the
Office of Management and Budget and
the General Accounting Office has now
resulted in a breakthrough in auditing
Federally assisted programs-a single
guide to replace the almost one hundred
guides now in use. We need to bring the
same kind of simplicity to other Govern-
ment programs without sacrificing
effectiveness.
462
