Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
Mr. Chairman, I thank you very much.
DR. KEMENY. Mr. President, may I tell
you something, that I'm very proud of the
fact that although you appointed this
Commission 2 weeks ago today, all 11
commissioners are present here. And we
have a nuclear staff of three senior ap-
pointees whom I will be introducing to
the press.
The one thing I wasn't able to tell
you
2 weeks ago, with the permission of my
board of trustees. I'm available for half
time for the entire lifetime of this Com-
mission. And I made it clear to my
board
of trustees that this will be my highest
priority during this period.
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine.
DR. KEMENY. We will do everything we
can to carry out the charge, Mr. President,
as you instructed us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Thank
you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
New York City, New York
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the
American Newspaper Publishers Association.
April 25, 1979
President Al Neuharth, distinguished
members of the American Newspaper
Publishers Association, other guests and
friends:
I want, first of all, to commend and to
endorse the theme of this convention: the
defense of the first amendment of our
Constitution and the freedom of the press.
Liberty of expression is our most im-
portant civil right, and freedom of the
press is its most important bulwark. We
can never afford to grow complacent
about the first amendment; on the con-
trary, you and I and others must actively
protect it always.
The American press has grown enor-
mously since the Nation's early days-not
only in its size and breadth but in its con-
cepts of its own duties and its own respon-
sibilities. The highest of these duties is to
inform the public on the important issues
of the day. And no issue is more important
than the one I want to discuss with you
today in a solemn and somber and sincere
way-the control of nuclear arms.
Each generation of Americans faces a
choice that defines our national character,
a choice that is also important for what
it says about our own Nation's outlook
toward the world.
In the coming months, we will almost
certainly be faced with such a choice-
whether to accept or to reject a new stra-
tegic arms limitation treaty. The decision
we make will profoundly affect our lives
and the lives of people all over the world
for years to come. We face this choice
from a position of strength, as the strong-
est nation on Earth economically, mili-
tarily, and politically.
Our alliances are firm and reliable. Our
military forces are strong and ready. Our
economic power is unmatched. Along with
other industrial democracies who are our
friends, we lead the way in technological
innovation. Our combined economies are
more than three times as productive as
those of the Soviet Union and all its al-
lies. Our political institutions are based on
human freedom. Our open system en-
courages individual initiative and creativ-
ity, and that, in turn, strengthens our en-
tire society. Our values and our demo-
cratic way of life have a magnetic appeal
for people all over the world which a
materialistic and a totalitarian philosophy
can never hope to challenge or to rival.
For all these reasons, we have a capac-
ity for leadership in the world that sur-
passes that of any other nation. That lead-
693
