Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 2
We don't have a good record at all so
far. But part of their need is for people to
realize that we do indeed have a problem,
that we can solve it if we work together,
and that they will encourage the Congress
to act.
MR. DANCY. Do you believe that the
debate over energy has become so politi-
cal, so highly emotional that when people
vote against, say, the standby rationing
plan, for example, they are, in effect, vot-
ing against you and against your
leadership?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't interpret it as
a personal attack on me or a rejection of
leadership. It's an inability or unwilling-
ness to deal with an unpleasant subject.
The problem is with us on a permanent
basis. We're going to have to quit wast-
ing oil; we're going to have to increase
American production; we're going to
have to decrease imports from foreign
countries; we're going to have to shift
toward more use of rapid transit; we're
going to have to shift toward more re-
search and development of other sources
of energy to replace oil. Those are facts.
You can't get away from them. And I
think we've made a tremendous amount
of progress in the last 2 years, because
there's a growing awareness that we do
indeed have a problem.
Now we're in a phase of trying to find
an easy way out or trying to find a scape-
goat to blame for the problem. But if we
all work together, as I say, our country
is strong enough and able enough to deal
with this problem and not let it become
a crisis.
MR. DANCY. You've been trying to
build up supplies of home heating oil, I
know.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. DANCY. And one way that you
have done that is the Government has
offered the oil companies a $5-a-barrel
subsidy in order to encourage them to go
into the world market and buy that oil
and import it so that we'll have enough
heating oil in the wintertime. But our
European Common Market allies now
say that this is bad, because it is shifting
the problem to them and it's raising the
world price of heating oil.
How do you answer this criticism?
THE PRESIDENT. We've had two short-
ages identified recently, in addition to the
one that you've described. One was
tractor fuel to get our crops planted. I
think we successfully weathered that po-
tential crisis period. We were planting as
much as 5 million acres of crops per day,
and we didn't have any serious spot short-
ages, because the Governors-Republi-
cans and Democrats-the Agriculture
Department, the Energy Department,
and the White House worked together
on it.
We have another potential shortage
next winter, and that is with home heat-
ing oil. I have committed myself to build
up reserve supplies of home heating oil
so that our people, in the Northeast, par-
ticularly, won't go cold this winter.
We were having a problem because
some refineries that make home heating
oil, say, in the Caribbean, because of high
prices in Europe, were shifting that oil
to Europe when we should have had ac-
cess to buy it for American homeowners.
So, we did try to impose and did im-
pose a difference in the price to make us
competitive in that market. The Euro-
peans didn't like part of what we did,
but I think it'll help us to alleviate that
potential crisis.
MR. DANCY. Gasoline prices were the
leading cause last month of the big jump
in the cost of living in the country. Isn't
there a great danger in all of that for
your anti-inflation program?
987
