Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 23
the American people are shocked enough
to finally say, "We have had enough, let's
act courageously; let's start conserving;
let's start taxing the oil companies with a
windfall profits tax; let's put that money
into an energy security fund to emphasize
conservation, to develop solar power, to
increase the production of coal, to have
more research and development, and to
deal with the energy crisis."
We can solve it, but I cannot solve it by
myself. And I'm not trying to put the
blame on other people. But until all of
you there, representing the television cable
industry, and other leaders in our country
can convince the viewers and the listeners
of our Nation that we really have an
energy problem and they're going to have
to induce Congress to act, until that hap-
we're going to continue to have these
pens,
shortages.
up
The last thing I want to say is this:
We're doing the best we can to allot a
reduced supply of oil in a fair and equi-
table way. We have got to build reserve
supplies of oil for the New England area,
because 80 percent of the homes in New
England are heated by oil. Over 80 per-
cent of the oil they use up there is im-
ported.
We've got to have enough diesel oil to
meet the planting season and the cultivat-
ing season and the harvest season to pro-
duce food for us. The same thing goes for
fishermen. They've got to produce fish for
us to eat.
We have to have emergency supplies for
defense needs-we are being very careful
about that-and also for hospital, am-
bulances and police and fire trucks. That
means that when we do have a reduced
supply of, say, 5 percent, and those manda-
tory American users get their full allot-
ment because all of us would suffer if
they didn't, it means that we have a lower
percentage of gasoline to go to the average
consumer going to and from work or going
to and from a shopping trip.
When you go out on the streets either
in Las Vegas or wherever you might have
as a home, count the number of cars going
to and from work that only have one per-
son in them. Look at the trains going by
that are almost empty, look at the rapid
transit systems going by with buses almost
empty, ask how many people eliminate
completely unnecessary trips to the local
supermarkets. And you'll see that so far,
the American people have not faced a
sheer fact that we have an energy short-
age that is going to get worse in the future
unless we act together.
In inflation and in energy, there's a
tendency on the part of us to escape re-
sponsibility for taking our own actions by
looking for someone else to blame for the
problem.
I think your questions have been superb.
I think they've emphasized three major
challenges that I face-peace, the control
of nuclear weapons, energy, and inflation.
And there's no way that I can solve these
problems as your elected President unless
the American people are aroused enough
and patriotic enough and unselfish enough
to work together to solve them. Govern-
ment can't do it. It has got to be done
with the initiative coming and the support
coming from the people of this country.
Thank you very much.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. SCHMIDT. Mr. President, is there
anything you'd like to say in closing?
THE PRESIDENT. Bob, I would like to
say how much I appreciate this opportu-
nity. And, as you pointed out, it's the first,
so far as I know, in the history of our
Nation whereby an opportunity is granted
for a President to talk to a large and im-
portant group in our American societal
structure and to have the response given
back, both with applause and questions,
937
