May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
so severely that we still have a very
beef shortage.
serious
If any proposal was made in the Con-
gress of a serious nature to pass wage and
price controls, it could not possibly actu-
ally pass the Congress under any circum-
stances that I can envision. And merchants
and others would automatically begin to
raise their prices in an uncontrollable fash-
ion to build a high price base on which to
predicate future price increases.
So, under no circumstances would I
ever approve the Congress passing that
law, and I would be very reluctant to ever
see it implemented unless our Nation is
in a problem area that endangers our
security.
Q. May I follow that up just briefly?
The President. Yes, you can follow
it up.
Q. How do you convince the public to
agree to wage constraints in the face of
news of record profits, which is how the
price control question comes up for the
public?
THE PRESIDENT. It's not easy. [Laugh-
ter] I don't claim it to be. But I can say
that in those items where prices can be
restrained voluntarily, under understood
guidelines, we've been very successful.
We have carefully monitored, for in-
stance, the Fortune 500, the 500 biggest
corporations. We have found them to be
in compliance. We are now with increas-
ing experience able-and with an in-
creasing capability in the Council on
Wage and Price Stability-able to moni-
tor the middle-sized and smaller com-
panies.
We are increasing our publicity about
it. And when we have found a few com-
panies potentially out of compliance or
actually out of compliance, when we've
brought that to their attention in a force-
ful way, and they have reversed them-
selves.
One company in California actually
refunded money. Sears, Roebuck, when I
called the head of that company and said,
"We believe you're out of compliance,"
not only reduced their prices in retail
stores but actually have reduced their
prices in the existent catalog, which
couldn't be reprinted. We've just had a
similar experience with Giant Foods, and
Giant Foods has now agreed to comply.
So, on the price side, we've pretty well
helped considerably already. If you would
compare the wage settlements this year
with what they were a year or 2 years ago,
we've had a substantial deceleration in
wage increases. Of 90 or so wage settle-
ments-some very large, some relatively
small-that I have monitored or that we
have monitored, at least 80 of them are
completely within the guidelines without
any question whatsoever.
And I think even the Teamsters' set-
tlement-you can argue whether it's
round or flat--but even in the Teamsters'
settlement, there was a substantial reduc-
tion in the size of the increase, compared
to previous wage increases without con-
straints.
We have had excellent response. The
things that have been going up so high
in price are beef, which I've already cov-
ered, which kind of leads food; fresh fruit
and vegetables, because we've had two
succeeding, extraordinarily severe winter
seasons that cut down production; and
oil, which is controlled outside our own
country. And these material prices and
supply prices obviously have caused us
great concern. But the present wage level,
the present price level, and also the ones
in the months ahead, are substantially
lower than they would have been with-
out the wage and price guidelines.
I think the response has been responsi-
ble. And I would like, obviously, for the
850
