May 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
rectly, both as a body and also individual
Members of the Congress.
When I do face a serious problem, like
with the windfall profits tax when the
prediction was we had no chance to get it
passed, I take my case to the public as
strongly and effectively as I can. I think
that's the best way to induce the Congress
Members to vote in the best interests of
their constituents and mine, not to
punish the constituents in a district.
ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM
EXPORTING COUNTRIES
Q. Mr. President, as you said before,
decontrol begins Friday, and the OPEC
Ministers meet next month. What do you
expect the OPEC Ministers to do? What
action do you expect them to take?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I think
OPEC has raised the price of oil exces-
sively this year, and I hope they won't
raise it any more.
I believe in the long run, they hurt not
only our country but every nation on
Earth, and especially the poor nations who
are destitute to begin with. I think the
OPEC nations in the long run hurt them-
selves by raising the price of oil excessively.
They have always demanded-and I
give them credit by assuming that their
demand was sincere that countries, like
our own, that use and waste so much
energy cut back on consumption. That's
one of the main thrusts of the energy pro-
posals that I have made to the American
people and to the Congress.
As you know, the major consuming na-
tions in the International Energy Agency
this spring have resolved, all of us, to cut
back by 2 million barrels per day on our
total worldwide consumption. This
amounts to about a 5-percent reduction
below our projected 1979 rate-reduction
in consumption.
I'll be meeting with six leaders of other
nations in Tokyo the last week in June
and, there again, we'll try to deal with
the question of consumption in the world
being higher than present production.
I would like to see the OPEC nations
level off their price, certainly not to ex-
ceed the rate of inflation; secondly, to
increase production in return for which
the consuming nations who waste a great
deal of energy would impose and adhere
to strict conservation measures.
Increased and sustained supply, a stable
price, and reduced consumption is the
best all-around approach, but I think
there has to be some give-and-take, some
recognition of mutual interest between us
and OPEC, before we can succeed in
stabilizing the energy supply and price
situation.
PRESIDENT'S FISHING TRIPS
Q. This past Saturday, unbeknownst to
anyone, you took off to Spruce Creek,
Pennsylvania, and went fishing.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. Now, you told Helen Thomas
[United Press International] at the be-
ginning of the news conference that this
saves energy by not having to drag along
all the press people and not having us
tail along. How many times previously
have you been able to escape the news
media and travel unbeknownst to any-
body?
THE PRESIDENT. Not enough—[laugh-
ter] and it wasn't unbeknownst to the
press.
I have a rare opportunity to go fishing
or to get out in the woods and swamps
and in the fields and on the streams by
myself. I really believe that it's not only
good for me but for the country, to be
able to do that on occasion. I wish I could
do it more. But I don't intend to ignore
any opportunity to take advantage of a
fishing trip when my own work permits it,
964
