Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Remarks at a Dinner Honoring President
Sadat. March 27, 1979
we can expect similar accomplishments Egypt-U.S. Business Council
in the future. Or, are we in danger of
running out of new ideas? The forecast
today—and as far ahead as we can imag-
ine is the same as stated thirty years ago
by Vannevar Bush: science is "the endless
frontier." The opportunities inherent in
today's scientific research are limitless in
all fields-from new understanding of the
evolution of the universe to the insights
revealed by the genetic code. Indeed, we
are in the midst of a remarkable era of
explosive growth in knowledge and its use
by society, unparalleled in any period of
history.
Prime Minister Khalil, Chairman Con-
sidine, President Lesher, distinguished
friends from the United States of Amer-
ica and the Arab Republic of Egypt:
It is not possible to predict the political
or technological directions in the century
ahead. I am certain, however, that strong
support for science and technology by the
Nation is one of the most important ways
to prepare for the future.
Building on the strengths of our Ameri-
can system, I have developed policies that
should serve as guidelines for Federal pro-
grams for science and technology for the
years ahead. In this task, I have given
attention to the balance of our Federal
effort, directing it toward many issues
that will in my judgment be the critical
issues for the remainder of this century.
I seek to ensure that technology is used
wisely for the benefit of all. With the sup-
port of our government and our people,
and the skills from the scientific and tech-
nological community, science and tech-
nology can help us chart the way to a
more meaningful and productive future
for all mankind.
The White House,
March 27, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
I never thought I would speak to an
American audience to introduce a for-
eign head of state and feel at least as
much at home with the visitors as I do
with my own people. But I've spent much
more time recently with President Sadat
and his Cabinet than I have with my
own Cabinet. And I feel like I'm coming
home when I sit next to my good friend.
[Laughter]
My role is to introduce him. But I
would like to say a few words at the
beginning.
About a year ago, my wife and I and
Amy got up early one Saturday morning
to come to the museum of art to see a
remarkable exhibit of King Tutankha-
men, a very tiny portion of the ancient
treasures of Egypt. We arrived early be-
fore the museum opened, and when we
arrived the sidewalks for several blocks
were covered with blankets and pallets
and sleeping Americans who had spent
all night waiting to get in to see the
beauty of ancient Egypt.
I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw
these treasures. I had never been to
Egypt. And now I've come to realize that
this is indeed just a tiny portion of the
tangible demonstration of the crafts-
manship, the sensitivity, the idealism, the
competence, the dedication, the intelli-
gence, the inspiration of the people of
that great and ancient land.
Recently, I had a chance to visit the
Pyramids and the Sphinx, to see a superb
546
