Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 17
we have found that we could work
together for other positive change. In
fact, our new SALT II treaty could pro-
vide the basic framework that we seek to
reduce tension and conflict around the
world.
The world is moving quickly towards
more varied forms of government. Young
nations are asserting a new independent
place for themselves. We are seeing the
decline of racism, the end of colonialism,
and there is a worldwide movement
against poverty and social injustice. At
the same time, we face dangers that cre-
ate combat in some regions of the world,
trouble [in] international relations on a
global scale, and encourage the spread of
nuclear and conventional arms in many
nations.
Very briefly, Mr. President, let me say
that we believe in restraining conflicts
that could undermine the goals that we
have established for ourselves. We are
working for cooperation among nations,
for the peaceful settlement of disputes, for
economic development with social justice
and for human rights around the world.
These are the ideas we would like to ex-
plore with you as we discuss the unique
responsibilities of the relationship between
the United States and the Soviet Union.
And, finally, Mr. President, I believe
that our successful effort to limit nuclear
weapons can be a framework for guidance
toward new areas of cooperation and for
facing peacefully those areas in which we
still compete.
Mr. President, we raise our glasses to
toast our success for SALT II. Let us
pledge to seek new areas of common un-
derstanding in the same spirit of common
sense. Let us pledge our continuing co-
operation and honesty in our discussions,
enhanced security of both nations, and,
above all, a peaceful world.
Mr. President, I would like to propose
a toast to you, Mr. President, and to the
heroic people of the Soviet Union, our
present and future friends.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 9:15 p.m. at
the residence of the U.S. Ambassador to
Austria.
Earlier in the day, President Carter, Presi-
dent Brezhnev, and their delegations held
morning and afternoon meetings at the U.S.
Embassy.
As printed above, the item follows the press
release.
Vienna Summit Meeting
Toast at a Working Dinner Hosted by the
Soviet Delegation. June 17, 1979
Today, Mr. President, we discussed a
range of issues important not only to each
of us but to the entire world. On some
of the issues, particularly in the arms
control field, we were able to further our
joint efforts to develop rules curbing the
military competition between us and to
lay the groundwork for further progress
on the control and the regulation of nu-
clear weapons.
On some other issues, particularly inter-
national problems in troubled areas of the
And we
world, we did not always agree.
were not able to develop a common
approach. We did agree, however, to con-
tinue searching for a peaceful solution of
these differences.
Both our countries face risks that stem
from the changes sweeping many parts of
the world today. As the two major nuclear
powers, we have a special responsibility
to deal with that change.
I believe that two possible roads lie
before us. There is a road of competition
and even confrontation. Any effort by
either of our nations to exploit the turbu-
1049
