Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
for Congressional approval overall energy
contingency plans.
While much remains to be done in the
energy area, past investments in improv-
ing our energy supplies and our energy
use are beginning to pay off: the rate of
growth of our industrial energy use has
dropped while industrial production has
increased. From 1975 to 1977 the growth
in domestic energy consumption has been
70% of the growth in GNP Previously,
the two growth rates had been roughly
equal. With significant improvements in
automobile efficiency, gasoline consump-
tion is an estimated 5% lower than it
otherwise would have been. Use of heat-
ing oil, electricity, and other home energy
sources has become much more efficient.
Oil consumption grew last year at a rate
of only 1.5%.
shorter term, are critical to a sound and
comprehensive energy policy.
Solar Energy
Within the next few weeks, I will send
to the Congress a message on solar energy
based on an interagency study under the
Domestic Policy Review System. The
transition to wide-spread use of solar and
renewable resources can and must begin
now. Solar, wind energy, and use of bio-
mass resources can contribute significantly
in both the short and long run to meeting
our Nation's energy needs. Some of these
technologies, such as solar heat and hot
water, use of biomass for generation of
electricity, and wind energy, are available
now and are competing with other con-
ventional energy sources. The tax credits
in the National Energy Act, along with
other commercialization incentives, will
renewable technologies in the residential
and industrial sectors of our economy.
On the supply side, the new natural help accelerate the use of solar and other
gas legislation, whose provisions have just
begun to take effect, will ensure new do-
mestic production of this premium fuel
and help expedite the delivery of natural
gas to the interstate market. Furthermore,
due to the addition of Alaska North Slope
oil, our domestic production of oil has
held steady over the last year, and foreign
imports were down in 1978.
In 1979 and the FY '80 budget we are
continuing strong investments in energy
research and development. The FY 1980
budget provides outlays of $3.7 billion for
a wide range of programs to develop en-
ergy technologies for the future. Particu-
lar emphasis will be given to long-term
solar energy research and development, to
improvements in the mining and burning
of coal, fission and fusion research, to im-
provements in existing technologies for
conservation, oil and gas recovery, and
uranium efficiency, and to energy-related
basic research. These commitments to
technologies for the future, both long and
The FY 1980 Budget increases our gov-
ernment-wide solar research and develop-
ment programs by 40% over FY 1979.
Total expenditures for solar energy will
exceed $800 million, including tax credits
and important initiatives undertaken by
the Department of Energy, the Agency
for International Development, the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority, the Department
of Agriculture and the Small Business
Administration. Application of solar tech-
nologies in federally-owned buildings will
also increase, thereby providing new mar-
kets for our existing solar industry.
In our research and development pro-
gram, strong emphasis will be given to
photovoltaics through which electricity
can be produced directly from solar en-
ergy. Conversion of organic materials to
useable energy forms will also receive in-
creased funding. Funds for the new Solar
148
