Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
United States Code. On October 7, 1978 I
signed the Executive order to implement
this increase.
I am transmitting herewith copies of
the reports of my Pay Agent and the Ad-
visory Committee on Federal Pay, the
alternative plan, and the Executive order
I promulgated to put this pay adjustment
into effect.
The White House,
January 18, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
nomic Advisers Charles Schultze, OMB
Director Jim McIntyre, Assistant to the
President for Domestic Affairs and Policy
Stu Eizenstat, and other staff aides.
The meeting in the Cabinet Room
lasted from 2 p.m. until approximately 4
p.m.
White House Conference on
Balanced National Growth and
Economic Development
Remarks at a White House Ceremony.
National Health Plan Legislation January 19, 1979
White House Statement. January 18, 1979
The President was briefed today by
Secretary Califano on proposals for na-
tional health plan legislation to be sub-
mitted to the Congress this year, includ-
ing a number of options for phasing in a
national health plan. The President made
no decision among the options.
He instructed Secretary Califano im-
mediately to undertake broad consulta-
tions with the Congress, with Governors,
and with outside groups which have
evidenced interest in a national health
plan, including the AFL-CIO and the
UAW, as well as health-related organiza-
tions.
He asked the Secretary to expedite these
consultations and to report back to him as
soon as possible, hopefully within 4 weeks.
The President will ultimately determine
what legislation to submit to the Congress
based upon these consultations and upon
further internal analysis of the options
presented to him.
Present at the meeting were the Presi-
dent, the Vice President, Secretary Cali-
fano, Chairman of the Council of Eco-
THE PRESIDENT. Both I and the Nation
are very grateful at the results of the
White House Conference on Balanced
Growth that was held last year. More
than a thousand people actually came to
Washington to participate in this Confer-
ence, representing many other thousands
of Americans who are deeply interested
in resolving the apparent present and in-
evitable future conflicts as we see the
progress of our Nation economically
progress.
Typical of the leaders who came and
representative of them are Governor Jay
Rockefeller, who was the Chairman, rep-
resenting State and local officials; Sen-
ator Jennings Randolph, representing the
Congress; and Secretary Kreps, represent-
ing the executive branch of Government.
Today, I'll be sending to the Congress
recommendations and also an analysis of
the findings of this group. I think they've
been very constructive. I and my entire
staff and Cabinet have studied with great
attention and appreciation the results of
the Conference and their recommenda-
tions to us.
65
