Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
If you're going to work hard in the fu-
ture elections to keep him in the Congress,
would you just raise your hand so I can
see how you feel? I'll join you. Thank you
very much.
I want to express my thanks to you for
the wonderful reception. At the airport,
there were three or four thousand people
who had come out and stood in the cold
to wait for me, and alongside the high-
ways there were large numbers of people
who had American flags and signs of wel-
come. And this packed auditorium really
makes me feel good. It wasn't that way
the first time I came to Wisconsin.
[Laughter]
I made the mistake of going to the uni-
versity at Madison, a southerner, peanut
farmer. I was bombarded with peanuts.
[Laughter] I was thankful I didn't grow
watermelons. [Laughter]
And then when I came back the night
of the primary, you almost treated me the
same way. Most of my people went to bed
crying. I stayed up and eventually devel-
oped an enormous, grateful smile, when
late in the evening, as you may or may
not remember, the people in this area
helped to put me over and gave me the
delegate vote from Wisconsin. I want to
thank
you for it.
I've come here this afternoon to outline
very briefly some of the thoughts that are
on my heart. As Dave has pointed out to
you, and to me on the way here, this
group, the Better Way Club, is an ex-
tremely large and growing representation
of America-farmers, working people,
teachers; just average, sound, patriotic,
dedicated, competent Americans who
feel that the structure of government can
best be served if government is removed
from the unwarranted influence of the
powerful and the selfish. That's what
you've done for the last 10 years in this
district to provide the right kind of in-
fluence.
The 10th anniversary of the special
election which put Dave Obey in the Con-
gress is an important event for
you, for
Dave, for Wisconsin, and for me, as Pres-
ident. Eight of those years that Dave has
served were under Republican Presidents.
And he pointed out the attitude and the
problems of America when Hubert Hum-
phrey came here to endorse him as a
young man, about 30 years old, who was
seeking his office for the first time in the
Congress in 1969.
The Democratic Party at that time was
at a low point. We had lost a heartbreak-
ing election in 1968, when one of the
finest men I've ever known, Hubert Hum-
phrey, was narrowly defeated.
I came into office a little more than 2
years ago. The unemployment rate was 8
percent. There was a spirit of despair and
discouragement throughout our country.
Since then, we have had a net increase,
with the help of Senator Nelson, Dave
Obey, the other Members of Congress, of
7.6 million new jobs.
I was looking at the statistics for Mil-
waukee on the way up here. The unem-
ployment rate in the last 2 years in Mil-
waukee has dropped from 9.4 percent to
4.1 percent. We have given America a
chance to go back to work, a remarkable
achievement, one of great and gratifying
change.
We were afflicted then and we are
afflicted now, for the last 8 years, by an
inflation rate that's extremely high. The
3 years before I became President, the in-
flation rate was 8 percent, and there was
talk again of restoring mandatory price
and wage controls or having a deliberate
recession to put people out of work again
to hold down the inflation rate.
We are making much better progress
than that. We still have a long way to go.
568
