Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
be allowed in the Zones and in their ter-
ritorial waters.
ARTICLE V
Early Warning Systems
Egypt and Israel may establish and
operate early warning systems only in
Zones A and D, respectively.
ARTICLE VI
United Nations Operations
1. The Parties will request the United
Nations to provide forces and observers
to supervise the implementation of this
Annex and employ their best efforts to
prevent any violation of its terms.
2. With respect to these United Nations
forces and observers, as appropriate, the
Parties agree to request the following
arrangements:
a. Operation of check points, recon-
naissance patrols, and observation posts
along the international boundary and
line B, and within Zone C.
b. Periodic verification of the imple-
mentation of the provisions of this Annex
will be carried out not less than twice a
month unless otherwise agreed by the
Parties.
c. Additional verifications within 48
hours after the receipt of a request from
either Party.
d. Ensuring the freedom of navigation
through the Strait of Tiran in accordance
with Article V of the Treaty of Peace.
3. The arrangements described in this
article for each zone will be implemented
in Zones A, B, and C by the United Na-
tions Force and in Zone D by the United
Nations Observers.
4. United Nations verification teams
shall be accompanied by liaison officers
of the respective Party.
5. The United Nations Force and Ob-
servers will report their findings to both
Parties.
6. The United Nations Force and Ob-
servers operating in the Zones will enjoy
freedom of movement and other facilities
necessary for the performance of their
tasks.
7. The United Nations Force and Ob-
servers are not empowered to authorize
the crossing of the international bound-
ary.
8. The Parties shall agree on the na-
tions from which the United Nations
Force and Observers will be drawn. They
will be drawn from nations other than
those which are Permanent Members of
the United Nations Security Council.
9. The Parties agree that the United
Nations should make those command ar-
rangements that will best assure the effec-
tive implementation of its responsibilities.
ARTICLE VII
Liaison System
1. Upon dissolution of the Joint Com-
mission, a liaison system between the Par-
ties will be established. This liaison sys-
tem is intended to provide an effective
method to assess progress in the imple-
mentation of obligations under the pres-
ent Annex and to resolve any problem
that may arise in the course of imple-
mentation, and refer other unresolved
matters to the higher military authorities
of the two countries respectively for con-
sideration. It is also intended to prevent
situations resulting from errors or misin-
terpretation on the part of either Party.
2. An Egyptian liaison office will be es-
tablished in the city of El Arish and an
Israeli liaison office will be established
in the city of Beer-Sheba. Each office will
be headed by an officer of the respective
501
