Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
that have been put forward by both the
North Korean and the South Korean
Governments.
There is hardly a more vigorous and
successful economic system in the world
than South Korea, and over a period of
time they've built up their capacity to
both finance and construct their own
military weapons systems. But I think that
there won't be any rapid withdrawal of
troops, and we don't have any plans yet
for where they will be placed when they
come back.
The major problem that we've had to
face since I've been in office has been
how to reinvigorate the NATO Alliance
and how to make sure that the forces that
we do have standing in a reserve capacity
on active duty could be deployed rapidly
to different parts of the world when they
are needed.
So, we are cautiously carrying out a
basic policy of withdrawing troops from
South Korea, letting South Korea be
more self-sufficient in defending them-
selves, analyzing recent changes in the
international situation. And I don't
know where the troops will be placed.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH CHINA
Q. Mr. President, Kent Collins, from
Quincy, Illinois. The other day on Capitol
Hill, Senator Danforth of Missouri
warned that the American people and
maybe your administration were putting
too much faith in what he described as an
elderly, twice-purged Vice Premier from
China. Is there any validity to that warn-
ing? Do you worry that the Vice Premier
could be ousted and the tide turned?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't, obviously, pre-
dict that that's going to happen; I don't
think it's going to happen. It's always in-
evitable, though, that leaderships will
change.
The policy that has been adopted
by the People's Republic of China recent-
ly, leading toward normalization, is, so far
as I know, a unanimous decision among
the leadership within China. Premier Hua,
who I think is only a little bit older than
I am-57, 58—strongly supports this po-
licy. Deng Xiaoping, the Vice Premier,
one of the Vice Premiers, is in his early
seventies. But I think it's accurate to say
that the young leadership and the more
elderly leadership are all unanimous in
thinking this is a good idea.
There's another facet to it, and that is
that their relationship with us has not been
unique. They have reached out their in-
fluence and also their partnership in trade,
peace, normalization, to many other coun-
tries around the world in the last couple
of
years, with Japan. And I noticed in the
paper this morning that it was announced
that they've now normalized relationships
with Portugal. And Portugal will continue
the administration of Macao.
But we've got an awareness that it's to
China's advantage in their major modern-
ization program which affects every one
in China to retain these newly formed
diplomatic, political, and trade relation-
ships with countries throughout the
world. Ours is perhaps the most important
in their eyes. As far as the consequences to
us, if they should change their policies in
the future, I don't see any serious con-
sequence that could evolve.
If a catastrophe should occur in China
or any other country, and the existing
government should be changed, then we'd
have to reassess our relationships with
them anew. But that's a constant responsi-
bility that a President has. We have pro-
tected our ability to deal with the people
of Taiwan in a continuing, constructive,
supportive basis—trade, cultural affairs,
and defense. There's nothing to prohibit a
future President or a future Congress, if
we feel that Taiwan is unnecessarily en-
248
