Jan. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
discussions. They have been conducted
between four of us who trust each other,
who have confidence in each other, and
who, I think it is fair to say, are friends.
And that makes a very great deal of dif-
ference to the quality of the discussion and
to the way in which it's conducted. And,
as President Giscard said, the discussions
have been direct; they have been frank;
they have been open. But I think we've
all been working towards the same com-
mon objectives. And when you are friends,
discussing matters with each other, there
can be differences of emphasis or nuance
which are slight in relation to the atti-
tudes between ourselves but which, if we
were not talking as friends, if we were
talking elsewhere, would be regarded as
very substantial. That has not been the
case here, and I want to emphasize this,
because so often, differences of emphasis
are written up as though they are very
great differences of objective. That is sim-
ply not true.
And I think this has been a most valu-
able meeting, as far as I am concerned. It
certainly added to our knowledge of each
other's point of view. I've heard from my
three colleagues their analysis of the world
scene in many different facets, and that in
itself is an invaluable help in enabling
Britain to formulate its own analysis. I
think we have, in certain circumstances,
been able to comment on each other's
analysis and to, perhaps, modify our own
positions as a result of it.
But as the President said, we were not
reaching decisions here. But the effect will
be felt in the discussions that we shall have
with all our partners and the various or-
ganizations, international organizations,
to which we belong.
I'm sorry-[turning to interpreter]—
did you want to translate that? You're
quite happy, are you? [Laughter] That's
good. It's well known that everybody
speaks very good French.
Now, just two things, if I may. First
of all, we heard from President Carter
about the SALT agreement. It is reaching
its final stages now. He gave us his analysis
of the position. Of course, during the
whole process there has been continuous
consultation. I would like to urge-speak-
ing as someone who is on the other side of
the Atlantic-I would like to urge the
speedy ratification, the conclusion of the
agreement and speedy ratification on both
sides, that is, on the United States side
and on the Soviet Union.
I think it would be a very sad day if
this agreement were not ratified, and the
administration will have our support in
their efforts when they place it before the
American people. And we look forward to
the development of a SALT III negotia-
tion, which we believe will be of benefit
to us.
I'd like to say just, I think, two other
words. First of all, we did review some of
the trouble spots of the world. And they
are deeply disturbing. Nevertheless, I
think it would not be unfair to say that
there's a general conclusion that if you
take out these highlights that are deeply
disturbing, that perhaps the general posi-
tion of our part of the world is rather
more satisfactory-I qualify it in that
sense is rather more satisfactory than it
was 2 or 3 years ago, and we met against
that atmosphere. And I say that in order
to put the matter in perspective.
Finally, I'd like to say that we spent a
considerable amount of time on our rela-
tions with China. We welcome them into
the comity of nations. We do so because
she is a great country, but we do not im-
prove our relations with China at the ex-
pense of any other country.
Our relations with the Soviet Union are
as important to us as our relations with
China, and indeed, our relations with the
Soviet Union are central to the develop-
ment of détente, which is so important to
18
