June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ings.
N. V. Ogarkov, First Deputy Minister of sary facilities for the success of the meet-
Defense of the USSR and Chief of the
General Staff of the Armed Forces of
the USSR.
Also participating in the talks were:
On the American side, George Seigni-
ous, Director of the Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency; Hamilton Jordan,
Assistant to the President; Jody Powell,
Assistant to the President; Malcolm
Toon, Ambassador of the United States
of America to the USSR; and Ralph
Earle, Chief of the US Delegation at the
Strategic Arms Limitation Talks.
On the Soviet side, A. M. Aleksandrov,
Assistant to the General Secretary of the
Central Committee of the CPSU; L. M.
Zamyatin, Section Chief of the Central
Committee of the CPSU; G. M. Korni-
yenko, First Deputy Minister of Foreign
Affairs of the USSR; A. F. Dobrynin,
Ambassador of the USSR to the United
States of America; V. G. Komplektov,
Member of the Collegium of the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs of the USSR; and
V. P. Karpov, Chief of the USSR Dele-
gation at the Strategic Arms Limitation
Talks.
President Carter and President Brezh-
nev signed the Treaty on the Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Arms. Basic issues
of US-Soviet relations and pressing inter-
national problems were also discussed.
The exchange of views was characterized
by the desire to expand mutual under-
standing and to find mutually acceptable
solutions to problems of interest to both
sides. In their discussions they devoted
special attention to reducing the risk of
war through further limits on strategic
arms and through other endeavors in
arms limitation and disarmament.
The two sides expressed their appre-
ciation to the Government of Austria for
its hospitality and for providing all neces-
I. GENERAL ASPECTS OF US-SOVIET
RELATIONS
There is agreement between the sides
that the state of relations between the
United States and the Soviet Union is of
great importance for the fundamental in-
terests of the peoples of both countries
and that it significantly affects the devel-
opment of the international situation as a
whole. Recognizing the great responsibil-
ity connected with this, the sides have ex-
pressed their firm intent to continue
working toward the establishment of a
more stable and constructive foundation
for US-Soviet relations. To this end, the
two sides acknowledged the necessity of
expanding areas of cooperation between
them.
Such cooperation should be based on
the principles of complete equality, equal
security, respect for sovereignty and non-
intervention in each other's internal af-
fairs, and should facilitate the relaxation
of international tension and the peaceful
conduct of mutually beneficial relations
between states, and thereby enhance in-
ternational stability and world peace.
The sides reaffirmed their conviction.
that full implementation of each of the
provisions of the "Basic Principles of Re-
lations between the United States of
America and the Union of Soviet Social-
ist Republics" as well as other treaties and
agreements concluded between them
would contribute to a more stable rela-
tionship between the two countries.
The two sides stressed the importance
of peaceful resolution of disputes, respect
for the sovereignty and territorial integ-
rity of states, and of efforts so that con-
flicts or situations would not arise which
could serve to increase international ten-
sions. They recognize the right of the peo-
1082
