Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
militant groups, in the future, to assert
their own authority.
I don't have any doubt that in the West
Bank, Gaza Strip area that the Israelis
are strong enough to put down dissident
groups who might arise. But the shedding
of blood in a situation like that, even if it
only involved a dozen people or a hun-
dred people or maybe a thousand people,
might very well escalate rapidly. It would
certainly make it more difficult for Sadat
to continue to negotiate with Israel under
those circumstances, even though it was
something that Israel couldn't prevent-
they certainly would like to prevent any
such thing—and something that Sadat
couldn't directly become involved in.
The other factor, too, and this is typi-
cal of the confusion in the Mideast nego-
tiations, is that Israel might-seeing Iran
shaken so deeply-might be reluctant to
withdraw from the Sinai, for instance,
thinking that their own security would be
best enhanced if they maintained the
for a while.
status quo
their government, and their ultimate
peace. And I'm dedicated to it.
As I said before, we get criticized from
both sides because we try to negotiate in
good faith. I guess that's a role of a media-
tor, but I think it is accurate to say that
both the Israelis and the Egyptians trust
us and both desire us to continue in that
role.
I don't have any idea what's going to
happen when Begin comes over here
Thursday night. We'll be negotiating all
day Friday. We'll probably stop for the
Sabbath on Saturday, and then negotiate
some more. And if those talks open up
an opportunity for improvement in the
negotiation directly with Egypt, have
no doubt that Sadat and/or his Prime
Minister would be here immediately to
resume the negotiations.
But I think that Israel is secure. Obvi-
ously, they would be better off with peace.
Egypt is the main military threat that
could possibly attack Israel successfully,
even in combination with all the other
Arabs, and even then I don't think they
could be successful. They've never in-
sinuated privately or publicly that they
want American military forces to be in-
volved. They don't want American fight-
However, if the negotiations are de-
layed, my guess is that it will become in-
creasingly difficult for Sadat to stand in
limbo, where he's not part of a cohesive
Arab world and he's apparently not making men to be involved in Israel. They
ing any progress in finding peace with
Israel. He might be inclined to withdraw
from the negotiations and go back and re-
establish himself as part of the Arab
world in a cohesive sense of brotherhood.
So, that's why we've been so insistent
on trying to bring the talks to a con-
clusion. I think Israel is strong enough
any time in the near future-4, 5, 10
years adequately to protect themselves.
And the overwhelming responsibility that
I feel as President is to help guarantee
the security of Israel, the permanence of
feel like if we give them economic and
they are fully capable of protecting them-
military aid, as we have in the past, that
selves. What the long-range trend might
be 10, 15, 20, 50 years in the future, I
don't know. But I don't have any doubt
that whatever you project for the future,
peace with Egypt is an integral requisite
for the permanence of good relationships
within Israel.
They have economic problems, as do
many other countries, including our own.
I think the inflation rate in Israel last
year was in excess of 50 percent, for in-
360
