Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 26
And it's absolutely imperative that our
country always have the ability to defend
itself. It's imperative for our people to
know that we are safe. It's imperative for
our allies to know that we stand with
them with an adequate defense. It's im-
perative that the Soviet Union know that
we are capable of defending ourselves. It's
a major contribution to peace. I have no
apology to make for it at all.
Q. Do you feel then, Mr. President, that
you are getting a bum rap from the so-
called special interest groups which criti-
cize you for deserting the disadvantaged,
abandoning the cities, et cetera?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that we've had
a very good budget evolve in the 1980 fis-
cal year. It's balanced. It provides for the
needs of our people. In the social pro-
grams, I think when it's examined in de-
tail in the congressional committee hear-
ings, it will stand the test of the most in-
tense scrutiny.
We've had substantial increases for so-
cial programs since I've been in office. In
2 years we've increased them more than
20 percent. I mentioned earlier a 12-per-
cent increase for the elderly. In programs
dealing specifically with the poor, in the
1980 fiscal year budget, which is very
stringent, we'll have a $42 billion in-
crease in allocation of funds for those
purposes.
a tight budget because we've not provided
adequately for those who need the services
of government most.
Let me add one other thing, and that is
that some people erroneously believe and
frequently state that an effort to control
inflation in some way cheats the poor or
the aged or those who live on fixed in-
comes. Inflation is bad for all Americans.
But it's much worse, as I said in my State
of the Union speech, a disaster for those
who have a very low income, or who have
a very low fixed retirement on which to
live, or who are not mobile or sometimes
who are unemployed. Those are the ones
that will be served best by controlling in-
flation.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Frank.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-third news
conference began at 3 p.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
In repairing the quality of life in our
deteriorating downtown urban areas,
we've had an unprecedented increase in
the allocation of Government programs January 21
and also funds for those purposes.
But overall, we have not had to allocate
as much increase in money, nor to provide
a large number of new Federal programs,
because our emphasis has been on making
the existing programs more efficient.
So, I don't think there's any basis on
which we could be criticized in a year of
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David, Md.
January 22
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security
Affairs;
177
