Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
within the constraints required by today's sible. These measures will provide a
inflationary economy.
THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY
Developments last year reminded us
once again of the interdependence of our
economy and those of other nations
around the world. Our trading partners
are looking at our ability to deal with our
economic problems at home as an indi-
cator of the strength and leadership they
can expect from the United States. We
will not disappoint them.
Nineteen hundred and seventy-eight
was a year of significant progress in the
world economy. Real output began to pick
up in industrial countries other than the
United States. Important initiatives in the
international arena occurred in trade pol-
icy, in balance of payments adjustment,
and in financial markets-all influenced
by the cooperation shown at the Bonn
Summit.
Late 1978 and early 1979 will mark the
culmination of the Tokyo round of Multi-
lateral Trade Negotiations. These historic
negotiations-which began in 1975 and
were intensified in 1977-should lead to
the first comprehensive overhaul of the
rules of international trade since the
1960s.
The need for a revamping of the trad-
ing system is clear. Our large foreign trade
deficit stems in part from a loss of Amer-
ican vitality in world markets. But it has
also resulted from the tariff and nontariff
barriers of our trading partners. Over the
coming years, under a final multilateral
trade agreement, barriers at home and
abroad will be reciprocally dismantled.
During 1979 I will be working closely
with the Congress to adopt the final multi-
lateral trade agreement, along with im-
plementing legislation, that will foster ro-
bust export growth and free and fair com-
petition in world trade under rules that
are both equitable and economically sen-
framework for trade that will enhance our
living standards in the decade to come.
In recent years, the United States has
had a serious balance of payments deficit.
Our imports surged as we grew rapidly
and drew heavily on imported oil. Our ex-
ports lagged because of slow economic
growth abroad. These factors contributed
to a trade deficit rising from about $10
billion in 1976 to an annual rate of al-
most $45 billion in early 1978. As a result
of the sharp increase in our external def-
icit and the acceleration of inflation in the
United States, the value of the dollar in
foreign exchange markets fell substantially
last year.
We have taken important steps to cor-
rect the deficit:
• In late 1978, Congress enacted the
National Energy Act, the first comprehen-
sive legislation for dealing with our ener-
gy problems. The effect will be to reduce
our oil imports in 1985 by 2.5 million
barrels per day.
• In 1978, I announced the first phase
of a National Export Policy. By setting up
a framework to increase support for ex-
ports and reduce disincentives to export,
we can begin to increase our share of
world commerce. Fundamental improve-
ment in our trade position is critical to a
healthy dollar.
• A strong and effective anti-inflation
program has been put into place. An in-
tegral part of that program consists of
monetary and fiscal policies that will
moderate the rate of economic expansion.
These actions will help reduce our large
foreign trade deficit.
These policies were beginning to bear
fruit by the end of 1978. Exports today
are growing more rapidly than the do-
mestic economy. The merchandise trade
deficit declined from a $38-billion annual
rate in the first half of last year to about
$32 billion in the latter half of the year.
Narrowing of the deficit should continue
118
