May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
your part and on the part of the other
thousands of people like you. Some of
them are very tiny savings, a few hundred
dollars or maybe a few thousand dollars
at most. I remember one by a NASA em-
ployee that saved our Government, I
think, $30 million, when they recom-
mended that when a space shuttle was
launched, it might be launched not with a
carefully designed, new type of engine, but
launched from the top of a modified 747.
And this kind of a saving is a very good
step in the right direction.
I know that you have some concerns
that you want to express to me this after-
noon. This program being taped for tele-
vision will let the other Federal employees
know about our interrelationship with
one another. And, of course, we have
members of the press who will be in the
room throughout the session this after-
noon.
I think it's good for me immediately to
put your mind at ease about two or three
rumors that have been floating through-
out the civil service in the past.
There are absolutely no plans, for in-
stance, to raise the minimum age at which
Federal employees can be retired or can
draw their retirement benefits. I don't
know where the rumor came from. We
have never considered it. I had never
heard of it before it was publicized in the
paper. And several of the civil servants
have come to Alan Campbell and to my
staff and said, "Why are you planning to
raise the minimum retirement age?" We
have no plans to raise the minimum retire-
ment age.
Another question has been raised about
the prospect of the combining of social
security retirement with civil service re-
tirement systems. I have taken no position
at all on this. The Congress mandated
that a commission study the feasibility or
advisability of this step, and this commis-
sion is now doing the assessment work.
They will make a recommendation, I
think, just before Christmas, December
20 or something of that kind. And when
that recommendation is made, all of you
will have access to it. The Congress will
have access to it. Alan Campbell will have
access to it; so will I. And following that,
then decisions can be made accordingly.
But in no case will the vested rights of
civil servants who have contributed to a
retirement fund be lost. I can't imagine
any circumstance under which those
vested retirement funds would be lost to
you. This is a problem, I know, for many
people who are concerned about security,
to have the investigation going on. But
I want to emphasize again that no deci-
sions have been made. I have not taken a
position on it. I do not intend to until
I can very carefully study the report that
will be concluded in December.
I might make two other points very
quickly. We have established, and the
Congress, as you know, has approved, the
52-percent pay cap. This was done under
the intense pressure of nationwide infla-
tion. Including fringe benefits, which is
included in the guidelines for private em-
ployees, it amounts to more than a 6-
percent increase for Federal employees.
This is not as much as many employees
would like, but our Nation is faced with a
very serious prospect of increasing infla-
tion.
As you well know, the members of the
Cabinet, my own senior staff in the White
House, have taken zero increase-not 5/2
or 6 percent, but zero increase. And I
firmly believe, in spite of the fact some
might not like the idea, that we in gov-
ernment ought to take the initiative in
trying to constrain inflation. And a 1-per-
cent difference between what the Federal
employees get and the maximum limit un-
918
