Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
they ought to be excused from being sus-
ceptible to the draft. But at the present
time, I see no immediate prospect of re-
institution of the draft.
PRAYER IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Q. As a born-again Christian, Mr.
President, what is your position on prayers
in public schools?
THE PRESIDENT. My preference is that
the Congress not get involved in the ques-
tion of mandating prayer in school. I am a
Christian; I happen to be a Baptist. I
believe that the subject of prayer in school
ought to be decided between a person,
individually and privately, and God.
And the Supreme Court has ruled on
this issue. And I personally don't think
that the Congress ought to pass any leg-
islation requiring or permitting prayer
being required or encouraged in school.
Sometimes a student might object even to
so-called voluntary prayer when it's pub-
lic and coordinated. It might be very em-
barrassing to a young person to say,
"I
want to be excused from the room be-
cause I don't want to pray."
So, I don't know all of the constitu-
tional aspects of this very difficult and
sensitive of questions, but I think that it
ought to be an individual matter between
a person and God.
GASOLINE RATIONING
Q. Mr. President, we are still in a crisis
that is, as you called it, a moral equiva-
lent of war. Why not move to rationing?
I mean, wouldn't that be the fair way of
doing it? And isn't the American public
now ready for that kind of a sacrifice?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the.
gasoline shortages are so severe that they
warrant rationing. But we have asked the
Congress for standby authority to impose
rationing if and when it is needed in the
future. Prior to then, though, we will pur-
sue both voluntary and some mandatory
conservative measures.
My own inclination is to let the States
make the first effort to meet reduced gaso-
line consumption standards. If they don't,
then we would turn to other measures,
like the closing of service stations on
weekends and so forth. But I would rather
let the people do it voluntarily first, let the
States do it secondly, and hold in reserve
gas rationing for some time in the future.
I hope it would be a distant future, and
I hope that we'll be so conscious of the
need to produce gasoline in our own
country, to have more efficient automo-
biles, to move toward carpooling and the
use of mass transit, that we would not
require gasoline rationing.
CONSTRAINTS ON OIL COMPANIES
Q. Mr. President, in your opening
statement today, you said that the Ameri-
can people have the right to expect that
the oil companies will use the profits they
do receive to develop more oil.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Beyond the right to expect, is there
or do you have in mind any way to com-
pel the oil companies to do that, to use
those profits for production and develop-
ment and research?
THE PRESIDENT. The oil companies
will get, after the windfall tax is levied,
about $6 billion in increased revenue or
income in the next
income in the next 3 years. That money
should be plowed back into increased pro-
duction of oil and gas. And I would favor
any constraints placed on the oil com-
panies by the Congress or administra-
tively, within my own sphere of influence,
655
