Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 4
• I have expanded funding for the eco-
nomic development grant, loan and loan
guarantee programs that are administered
by the Economic Development Adminis-
tration (EDA) in the Department of
Commerce. EDA programs were funded
at approximately $400 million in FY 1977
when I took office. If the legislation I am
transmitting today is approved, our FY
1980 budget will contain approximately
$1.3 billion in budget authority for EDA's
economic development programs.
• With Congress' approval, I have
greatly expanded the Farmer's Home Ad-
ministration's business and industry loan
program from approximately $350 mil-
lion in loan guarantees in FY 1977 to $1
billion in FY 1980. This increase comple-
ments the substantial growth that I have
proposed for FmHA's overall program.
• With Congress' approval, I expanded
the existing Investment Tax Credit
(ITC) to provide a ten percent tax credit
for the rehabilitation of factories, ware-
houses, hotels, stores and other businesses.
Previously, the ITC had applied only to
new plant and equipment. My FY 1980
budget projects that $1.8 billion of private
sector rehabilitation will be assisted by
this tax credit.
• With the help of Congress, I have
implemented a significant new tax credit
to encourage private sector businesses to
hire the economically disadvantaged. The
targeted jobs tax credit will provide a tax
credit of 50 percent of the wages, up to
$3000, for any employee hired from one
of seven target groups. My budget esti-
mates that a tax expenditure of $500 mil-
lion will be required to implement this
program in FY 1980.
• I proposed and Congress enacted
amendments to the Comprehensive Em-
ployment and Training Act (CETA)
which include provisions to make CETA
more responsive to the needs of private
sector employers. CETA's new private
sector jobs initiative will allow CETA to
reimburse private employers for part of
the wages and other expenses incurred as
part of on-the-job training or job-upgrad-
ing programs. I have requested $400 mil-
lion in a supplemental that is urgently
needed this year to fund this program.
As a result of these actions and the
legislation I am transmitting today, the
Federal government will provide more
than $3 billion of direct expenditures and
tax expenditures and almost $3 billion of
loan guarantees to stimulate private sec-
tor jobs and investment in economically
troubled communities and to encourage
private sector businesses to hire the eco-
nomically disadvantaged. This amounts
to a 700 percent increase in both the
amount of budgetary assistance and the
amount of loan guarantee aid provided
for these purposes above Fiscal Year 1977
levels.
To assist these communities further in
regaining their economic and fiscal sta-
bility, I am hereby transmitting to Con-
gress the National Public Works and Eco-
nomic Development Act of 1979. This leg-
islation is part of my overall effort to
strengthen the Federal government's eco-
nomic development programs. That effort
will include:
• the National Public Works and Eco-
nomic Development Act of 1979;
• a $275 million increase in the author-
ization for the UDAG program submitted
early in March;
• a reorganization plan to be submit-
ted later this year that will transfer
the Farmers' Home Administration's
(FmHA) business and industrial loan
program and the Small Business Adminis-
tration's (SBA) State and local develop-
ment corporation programs to EDA;
• separate legislation that will consoli-
date the programs currently managed by
601
