Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
SECTION 9. Effective date
This reorganization plan shall become
effective on July 1, 1980, or at such earlier
time or times as the President shall speci-
fy, but not sooner than the earliest time
allowable under section 906 of title 5 of
the United States Code.
Reduction in Energy Use by the
Federal Government
Memorandum From the President.
April 10, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Required 5% Reduction in
Agency Energy Use
The U.S. has taken the lead to get the
member nations of the International
Energy Agency to reduce petroleum con-
sumption. Our goal, as part of this com-
mitment, is to reduce oil imports by a level
equal and up to 5% of projected domestic
consumption. This goal must be met to
help reduce the upward pressure on world
oil prices.
The Federal Government will do its
part. I am directing that Executive de-
partments and agencies reduce energy
consumption by 5% for the twelve-month
period beginning April 1, 1979, as com-
pared with the preceding twelve months.
In achieving this reduction, the follow-
ing specific actions are to be taken:
Set thermostats in all Federally-
Each agency will have to take addi-
tional steps to achieve the full 5% reduc-
tion goal. These initiatives should be
selected so as to avoid adverse program-
matic impacts. As directed in my Febru-
ary 2, 1979 memorandum, for example,
heads of agencies may reduce lighting and
other electrical use throughout agency
activities and reduce petroleum use by
eliminating unnecessary activities and ve-
hicle trips. Credit will be given for fuel
switching from oil to gas or coal.
Within 30 days, please submit to the
Secretary of Energy a plan for achieving
the reduction in energy use. Each agency
that now reports quarterly energy con-
sumption to the Secretary of Energy
should identify in the quarterly status re-
ports the actual energy savings attribut-
able to this effort.
I have directed the Secretary of Energy,
in consultation with the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, to monitor compli-
ance with the provisions of this directive.
They will periodically report to me on ac-
complishments, problems with respect to
adverse impacts on agency missions, and
further actions which may be required.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical memo-
randums addressed to the heads of executive
departments and agencies. The memorandum
to the Secretary of Defense concludes with an
additional paragraph, which reads as follows:
"Department of Defense operational readi-
ness activities are exempt from this directive."
operated buildings, except where required Economic Assistance to Turkey
for health and safety or special purposes,
at not more than 65 degrees during work-
ing hours and 55 degrees during non-
working hours for the heating season and
at not lower than 80 degrees for the cool-
ing season.
• Reduce use of all automotive fuels by
10%.
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting Proposed
Legislation. April 10, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
I hereby transmit a bill "to authorize
supplemental economic support for the
647
