Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
each activity under Article 2 including re-
sponsibility for payment of costs shall be
agreed by authorized entities on a case-
by-case basis.
ARTICLE 4
1. For the purpose of coordinating ac-
tivities pursuant to this Accord, a Com-
mittee on High Energy Physics is hereby
established, consisting of representatives
of the Parties and such other persons from
each Party's national research community
as it may designate. Each Party shall des-
ignate one person to act as its co-chair-
person on the Committee.
2. The Committee will encourage con-
tacts between scientists, universities, and
laboratories of the two nations.
3. The Committee each year shall de-
velop and maintain a listing of joint ac-
tivities to be carried out, and, as requested
by the participating institutions and sci-
entists, shall assist with arrangements for
the listed activities. Items may be listed
by consensus at meetings of the Commit-
tee, or, between meetings, by agreement
of the co-chairpersons.
4. Each Party shall designate its mem-
bers of the Committee within two months
of the effective date of this Accord. The
first meeting of the Committee should be
held, if possible, within three months
thereafter at an agreed site. Subsequently,
the Committee shall meet in the United
States and the People's Republic of China
alternately at intervals of about 12
months or as agreed by the co-chairper-
sons.
5. The Committee shall be subject to
the direction of the US-PRC Joint Com-
mission on Scientific and Technological
Cooperation established under the afore-
said Agreement of January 31, 1979, and
shall periodically report the Status of its
program to that Commission.
6. The Committee may assume other
duties as mutually agreed by the Parties.
ARTICLE 5
The application or use of any informa-
tion exchanged or transferred between
the Parties under this Accord shall be the
responsibility of the Party receiving it,
and the transmitting Party does not
warrant the suitability of such informa-
tion for any particular use or application.
ARTICLE 6
The Parties recognize the need to agree
upon provisions concerning protection of
copyrights and treatment of inventions or
discoveries made or conceived in the
course of or under this Accord in order to
facilitate specific activities hereunder. Ac-
cordingly, the Parties shall appoint ex-
perts in these two fields who shall sep-
arately recommend to the Parties detailed
provisions which, if the Parties agree,
shall be made an Annex to this Accord.
ARTICLE 7
Both Parties agree that in the event
equipment is to be exchanged, or supplied
by one Party to the other for use in co-
operative activities, they shall enter into
specific understandings on a case-by-case
basis.
ARTICLE 8
1. Whenever an attachment of staff is
contemplated under this Accord each
Party shall ensure that staff with neces-
sary skills and competence are selected for
attachment to the other Party.
2. Each attachment of staff shall be
the subject of an exchange of letters be-
tween the participating institutions,
covering funding and other matters of
interest not otherwise specified in this
Accord.
3. Each Party shall provide all neces-
sary assistance to the attached staff (and
their families) of the other Party as re-
206
