Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
instructions governing execution of court
orders designed to protect the substan-
tive rights of both innocent persons and
those under investigation. In this connec-
tion I am pleased to note the Commis-
sion's finding that Federal officials re-
sponsible for administering wiretap ap-
plication review procedures have shown
a commendable concern for adhering to
the requirements of Title III.
We must always bear in mind that
Title III both permits law enforcement
officials to fight crime while it protects
citizens against unjustified invasions of
privacy. It is clearly a criminal statute
designed both to prohibit private citizens
from conducting illegal interceptions and
to regulate governmental conduct by pro-
hibiting law enforcement officials from
violating or disregarding specific pro-
cedures for conducting wiretaps.
The Commission has made a number
of findings and recommendations which
it believes will both improve the effec-
tiveness of the use of court-authorized
electronic surveillance in criminal investi-
gations and will also strengthen enforce-
ment of Title III strictures against illegal
electronic surveillance. In general, I sup-
port the objectives of most of these pro-
posals. I am, however, strongly opposed
to a few and believe others to be un-
necessary.
I support the Commission's recommen-
dation that misdemeanor and civil penal-
ties should be included in Title III for
the prosecution and punishment of non-
professional electronic eavesdroppers. At
present the only sanction applicable to
the nonprofessional who engages in elec-
tronic surveillance is the felony provision
of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2511. In many in-
stances it is simply too severe a sanction
for the offense committed and has re-
sulted in considerable judicial distaste for
prosecutions brought under Section 2511
against nonprofessionals. Such persons
frequently indicate a desire not to contest
such charges, yet still proceed with a con-
tested trial in the absence of the alterna-
tive of pleading guilty to a misdemeanor.
The Commission's recommendation
that Title III should be amended to ex-
plicitly allow the disclosure of illegal in-
terceptions when relevant in a prosecu-
tion for illegal interceptions is sound. I
also agree with the Commission that
judges should retain the discretion to
deny admission of the evidence where
relevance is outweighed by undue loss of
privacy to the victim. While it is often pos-
sible to pursue such a prosecution with-
out playing any of the illegal tapes, situa-
tions occasionally arise where a portion
of such a tape is critical to the Govern-
ment's case. A violator should not escape
punishment by hiding behind the exclu-
sionary rule embodied in 18 U.S.C. Sec.
2515, which appears on its face to allow
him to move to have such evidence ex-
cluded from his trial.
In addition, I support those Commis-
sion proposals recommending that a court
order for electronic surveillance expressly
authorize entry upon a private place or
premises to install an eavesdropping de-
vice if such entry is necessary to execute
the warrant and that the Congress under-
take studies of encroachments on indi-
vidual privacy by new forms of the art,
such as computer technology. Similarly,
periodic comprehensive studies and re-
views of the operations of Title III would
help to determine their continuing effec-
tiveness in law enforcement and in stem-
ming illegal surveillance. Congressional
studies also are needed to determine
whether some form of notice should be
required to assure that customers whose
conversations and actions are monitored
in the ordinary course of a business, have
given their implied consent based upon
588
