May 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
And I think that any such meeting as
that, on any kind of an official basis, would
be counterproductive. And we're not do-
ing it surreptitiously. We're not cheating
on our commitment. Obviously, as is well
known by Israel, there are members* of
the PLO, individual members* who are
mayors of major cities, for instance, on
the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip,
and both we and the Israelis deal with
them as Palestinians, not, however, in
their capacity as members* of the PLO.
So, there has been and will be no change
in this policy.
I've got time, I think, if you would let
me, to have either one more question or
get an individual photograph with every-
body here. And my preference would be to
get a photograph. [Laughter]
We only have 3 or 4 minutes, so if you'd
just come by, I'd like to just shake hands,
and we'll have a photographer standing
here. And then we'll send the photographs
to you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:15 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Pa-
tricia Y. Bario is an Associate Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on May 19.
Cheyney State College
Address at the Commencement Exercises.
May 20, 1979
Dr. Wilson, Congressman Gray, Congress-
man Edgar, Senior Class President Shel-
ton, Ms. Blango, members of the graduat-
ing class of 1979:
I'm glad to be here.
one was to Notre Dame. Last year, I spoke
to my own alma mater, the U.S. Naval
Academy at Annapolis, and I'm continu-
ing my very rare appearances at famous
and great institutions of learning by com-
ing here to Cheyney State.
I tried to think of a story that would
illustrate some of the points I want to
make. My staff this morning suggested
that I tell the one about the surgeon and
the architect and the politician who were
arguing about which represented the
oldest profession-since you are now get-
ting ready to embark on new professions.
The surgeon said, "Surely it's mine,
medicine, because the first woman was
created with an operation when Adam's
rib was removed." The architect said,
"No, that's obviously not true, because the
first act recorded was when order was cre-
ated out of chaos, and that was certainly
an architectural achievement.” The poli-
tician said, "Well, who do you think cre-
ated the chaos?" [Laughter]
I did not think that was a very good
suggestion. [Laughter]
When I spoke at Notre Dame, I told a
more appropriate story about the old
gentleman who was arrested and taken be-
fore the judge for being drunk and setting
a bed on fire. And the old gentleman,
when asked by the judge if the charges
were true, said, "Well, Your Honor, I
plead guilty to being drunk, but the bed
was on fire when I got in it." [Laughter]
I believe the latter is more appropriate
to the occasion, because you and I have a
lot in common. As President, I have a spe-
cial opportunity to take part in the stream
of history and also to study the course of
This is my third commencement ad- history. Tonight, for instance, I will sleep
dress since I've been President. The first
*The President intended to say "supporters"
of the PLO. [Printed in the transcript.]
in the same room where Abraham Lincoln
slept when he was President, only a few
steps from the place where he signed the
Emancipation Proclamation.
908
