Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 1
MARIANO J. MIER, of Guaynabo, P.R., chairman
of the board of Bache P.R. Government
Securities;
JACK S. PARKER, of Greenwich, Conn., vice
chairman of the board, director, and execu-
tive officer of General Electric Co.;
MICHAEL V. ROGERS, of Manhattan, Kans.,
senior accountant with Varney, Mills and
Hixson CPAs;
JAMES ROOSEVELT, of Newport Beach, Calif.,
president of James Roosevelt & Co. business
and financial consultants, a former Congress-
man from California, and the son of Presi-
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt;
James Franklin SasSER, of Longwood, Fla.,
who was special assistant to the Administra-
tor of AID until his retirement last year;
WILLIAM B. SCHWARTZ III, of Atlanta, an offi-
cer in the corporate division of the First Na-
tional Bank of Atlanta;
HOBART TAYLOR, JR., of Washington, D.C., an
attorney and former Director of the Export-
Import Bank of the United States;
Marietta Tree, of New York City, a partner
in the city planning firm of Llewelyn-Davies
Associates.
The Government representatives ap-
pointed today are Tyrone Brown, a mem-
ber of the Federal Communications Com-
mission; Robert Carswell, Deputy Secre-
tary of the Treasury; Charles William
Duncan, Jr., Deputy Secretary of Defense;
Jule M. Sugarman, Deputy Director of
the Office of Personnel Management;
John M. Sullivan, Administrator of the
Federal Railroad Administration; and
James H. Williams, Deputy Secretary of
Agriculture.
Economic Policymaking
Memorandum From the President.
May 30, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies, the White
House Staff
Subject: The Economic Policy Group
and the Coordination of Economic Policy-
making
To assure efficient coordination of eco-
nomic policymaking, the following pro-
cedures shall be implemented immedi-
ately:
1. Under the direction of the President
the Economic Policy Group (EPG) shall
be the exclusive vehicle for coordinating
the formulation, execution, and presenta-
tion of the Administration's domestic and
international economic policies.
2. The EPG should normally operate
through meetings of its Steering Group,
consisting of the Secretary of the Treasury
as the Chairman, the Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and
Budget, and the Advisor to the President
on Inflation. The Vice President, the As-
sistant to the President for Domestic Af-
fairs and Policy and a representative of
the National Security Advisor shall parti-
cipate ex officio in all meetings of the
Steering Group. The Chairman of the
EPG, consulting with the Steering Group,
shall invite the participation of other
Cabinet-level members of the Administra-
tion as appropriate to consider the issues
under review. At the Chairman's call, the
Steering Group should meet several times
a week in the White House.
3. The Secretary of the Treasury, as
Chairman of the EPG, is the Administra-
tion's chief economic spokesman, and ma-
jor statements on economic policy by Ad-
ministration officials should, whenever
possible, be reviewed and coordinated by
the EPG Steering Group.
4. The EPG Steering Group is respon-
sible for advising the President so that all
Presidential-decision memoranda reflect
sound economic analysis and accurately
relate the options presented to the Ad-
ministration's overall economic program
and priorities. For this purpose:
-The EPG Shall have an office in the
White House.
-The EPG Steering Group shall have
977
