Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
held by institutions, such as banks and
government agencies, and the Supreme
Court has held that the individual has no
constitutional rights over such records.
Important judgments about people
such as the decision to extend credit or
write an insurance policy-are often
made by strangers, on the basis of
recorded data.
Whenever we take out a loan, apply
for insurance, receive treatment at a hos-
pital, obtain government assistance, or
pay our taxes, we add to the store of re-
corded information about our lives. That
store is growing exponentially: in 1940,
for example, 1.2 billion checks were
written in 1970 it was 7.2 billion. Per-
sonal information on millions of Ameri-
cans is being flashed across the nation
from computer to computer.
These changes are not the product of
any plan to invade our privacy. They have
developed naturally with the growth of
our economy, the expansion of public and
private institutions, the mobility of our
citizens and the invention of computers
and telecommunications systems.
Modern information systems are essen-
tial to our economy. They contribute to
the comfort and convenience of our lives.
But they can be misused to create a
dangerously intrusive society.
Our challenge is to provide privacy
safeguards that respond to these social
changes without disrupting the essential
flow of information.
Much has already been done. Laws are
in place to restrict wiretapping. Last year
Congress strengthened those protections
by legislating restrictions on national se-
curity wiretaps. The Privacy Act of 1974
set rules for Federal agencies' record keep-
ing. The Fair Credit Reporting Act and
related Acts gave consumers the right to
know information about themselves con-
tained in the records of credit-reporting
bureaus. The Family Educational Rights
and Privacy Act gave students the right to
see personal records held by educational
institutions. Last year, the Congress
passed the Financial Privacy Act, placing
controls on Federal agencies' access to
bank records.
These protections are a good beginning,
but they were adopted piecemeal and
have limited scope. It is time to estab-
lish a broad, national privacy policy to
protect individual rights in the informa-
tion age, as recommended by the Privacy
Protection Study Commission.
I propose a privacy policy based on
two principles:
• Fair Information Practices. Stand-
ards must be provided for handling sen-
sitive, personal records. Individuals
should be told what kind of information
is being collected about them, how it will
be used, and to whom it will be disclosed.
They should be able to see and obtain
a copy of the records and correct any
errors. They should be told the basis for
an adverse decision that may be based on
personal data. And they should be able
to prevent improper access to the records.
• Limits on the Government. Govern-
ment access to and use of personal infor-
mation must be limited and supervised
so that power over information cannot be
used to threaten our liberties.
The policy I am proposing will not dis-
rupt the flow of information needed for
legitimate business operations. Businesses
gain by establishing good record-keeping
systems and by keeping the trust of their
customers and employees.
Nor will this policy prevent govern-
ment agencies from collecting the infor-
mation they need to enforce the laws. It
will strengthen, not impede, the ability
of reporters to cover the news. It will not
impose heavy costs, and it will not create
any new regulatory structures. Instead, it
582
