Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
are needed. Our white collar, blue collar,
and military systems must be reformed in
order to make certain that we neither
overpay nor underpay Federal employees.
Therefore, I will propose Federal pay re-
form legislation covering each of these
systems to the Congress that is equitable
to Federal employees and the public.
These pay reforms are an important fol-
low-on to our civil service reform.
Public Financing
The time is long overdue for reforming
the way Congressional elections are
financed. The current flood of money
threatens to pervert our electoral process.
We can no longer permit our elections to
be open to the highest bidder. The recent
elections have clearly demonstrated the
kinds of problems caused by uncontrolled
campaign spending. It is time to adopt
public financing for Congressional elec-
tions-before it is too late. Public financ-
ing operated successfully in the last Presi-
dential election, and it can do the same in
Congressional races. My Administration
will work with Congress for passage of a
sound Congressional public financing law.
Sunset
My Administration will again work
with the Congress to enact a sound sunset
bill. Under such a bill, each Federal pro-
gram would have to be carefully re-exam-
ined on a periodic basis to determine
whether its continued existence is justi-
fied. Through such a procedure, the
American people can be assured that un-
necessary government programs and agen-
cies will be ended, rather than continued
through the force of inertia; and other
programs and agencies will be improved.
There are few more important build-
ing-stones to the new foundation of gov-
ernment efficiency we seek than passage
of sunset legislation. It goes to the heart
of making government work.
Lobby Reform
The American people have a right to
know what significant influences affect
their national legislature. The prolifera-
tion of well financed, organizational
lobbying activities during recent years has
demonstrated the clear need for reform
of the outdated and ineffective lobby dis-
closure law now in effect. This year my
Administration will continue to work with
Congress to pass a sound lobby law reform
bill-one that respects the First Amend-
ment right of all Americans and minimizes
paperwork burdens, yet allows meaning-
ful disclosures.
Waste, Fraud, and Inefficiency
Although the vast majority of Federal
employees are able, honest and hardwork-
ing, we need to continue to be vigilant to
ensure that the taxpayers' dollars are not
wasted through fraud or abuse. The im-
plementation of civil service reform will
lead to improvements in agency manage-
ment practices and program efficiency. In
addition, I am committed to continuing
to cut excess paperwork, simplify grants
requirements, and evaluate our programs
better and more frequently. We have al-
ready significantly reduced the paperwork
burden and implemented many of the rec-
ommendations of the Federal Paperwork
Commission. We will continue to do more
in 1979.
Early this year I will nominate highly
qualified Inspectors General armed with
tough new powers to prevent waste and
corruption. The Justice Department will
increase its already intensive effort to
prosecute those few employees and con-
tractors who abuse the public trust. In ad-
dition, a new Office of Ethics in the Office
of Personnel Management and a Special
129
