Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 11
President's Commission on the
Accident at Three Mile Island
Executive Order 12130. April 11, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution of the United
States of America, and in order to pro-
vide, in accordance with the provisions of
the Federal Advisory Committee Act
(5 U.S.C. App. 1), an independent forum
to investigate and explain the recent ac-
cident at the nuclear power facility at
Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania, it is
hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment.
1-101. There is established the Presi-
dent's Commission on the Accident at
Three Mile Island.
1-102. The membership of the Com-
mission shall be composed of not more
than twelve persons appointed by the
President from among citizens who are
not full time officers or employees within
the Executive Branch. The President shall
designate a Chairman from among the
members of the Commission.
1-2. Functions.
1-201. The Commission shall conduct
a comprehensive study and investigation
of the recent accident involving the nu-
clear
power facility on Three Mile Island
in Pennsylvania. The study and investi-
gation shall include:
(a) a technical assessment of the
events and their causes;
(b) an analysis of the role of the man-
aging utility;
(c) an assessment of the emergency
preparedness and response of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission and other Fed-
eral, state and local authorities;
(d) an evaluation of the Nuclear Reg-
ulatory Commission's licensing, inspec-
tion, operation and enforcement pro-
cedures as applied to this facility;
(e) an assessment of how the public's
right to information concerning the
events at Three Mile Island was served
and of the steps which should be taken
during similar emergencies to provide the
public with accurate, comprehensible and
timely information; and
(f)
appropriate recommendations
based upon the Commission's findings.
1-202. The Commission shall prepare
and transmit to the President and to the
Secretaries of Energy and Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare a final report of its
findings and recommendations.
1-3. Administration.
1-301. The Chairman of the Commis-
sion is authorized to appoint and fix the
compensation of a staff of such persons
as may be necessary to discharge the
Commission's responsibilities, subject to
the applicable provisions of the Federal
Advisory Committee Act and Title 5 of
the United States Code.
1-302. To the extent authorized by
law and requested by the Chairman of the
Commission, the General Services Ad-
ministration shall provide the Commis-
sion with necessary administrative
services, facilities, and support on a re-
imbursable basis.
1-303. The Department of Energy and
the Department of Health, Education and
Welfare shall, to the extent permitted by
law and subject to the availability of
funds, provide the Commission with such
facilities, support, funds and services, in-
cluding staff, as may be necessary for the
effective performance of the Commission's
functions.
1-304. The Commission may request
any Executive agency to furnish such in-
formation, advice or assistance as it deems
659
