Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 14
torically black colleges were a haven of
opportunity for all those who were denied
their equal chance to learn. Here in At-
lanta, the Atlanta University complex
was a beacon of light and a beacon of
hope when there were not many such
beacons in our country. Now, in their
time of need-those black colleges-we
must and we will use our resources to
strengthen and to preserve them and the
predominantly black universities through-
out our country.
There can be no better investment of
limited tax funds than a broader and
more productive life for the young people
of our Nation who have been deprived so
long of the chance for equal opportunity
and to use their lives productively.
Martin Luther King, Jr., spoke out also
against what he saw as a tragic moral
flaw of our country in the Vietnam war.
And in a moving address, exactly 1 year
before he died, he went beyond advocat-
ing an end to the war to demand what
he called, and I quote, "a true revolution
of values"-a world revolution, peaceful
in nature, that he felt America was
uniquely qualified to lead. He insisted that
we look at both our political and our
economic relations with other countries
around the world and hold to a standard
of justice, both domestic and internation-
ally. And I'm determined, as President,
to hold our Nation to a high standard of
justice in dealing with other nations, to
restore America's leadership in a peaceful
world, a revolution that demands free-
dom and justice and self-determination
not just for ourselves but for all people.
To help me in that effort, I've got at
the United Nations a man, sometimes
quiet and timid, a man as good as any
who has ever represented any nation, in
any government, my good friend, Andy
Young.
For many people around the world,
those who are poor, hungry, black, brown,
yellow, from little nations, the United
States Government is Andy Young. They
trust him. And in their trust for him, I
gain their trust. And when Andy Young
and I gain their trust, the people of this
Nation gain their trust. And as I have
said many times, it's a delight now to face
a session of the United Nations General
Assembly, because we're no longer the
target of every attack. We are no longer
the butt of every joke. We are a people
now who reach out a hand of equality and
friendship and mutual respect where
formerly there was antagonism and a
chasm that could not be crossed. And I
thank Andy Young for it. And I thank
those on the stage with me, and Martin
Luther King, Jr., for helping to train
Andy Young so well.
This administration is working to re-
store America's moral authority in the
world. As I've said before, human rights
is the soul of our country's foreign policy.
And as long as I'm President, America
will continue to lead the struggle for hu-
man rights.
Martin Luther King, Jr., said, "We
must lay hands on the world order and say
of war, 'This way of settling differences is
not just.'
He said that the crucial political and
moral question of our time was the need
to overcome oppression and violence
without resorting to oppression and vio-
lence. It's still a difficult but a crucial
question.
I'm trying to perpetuate and to spread
the peace which our Nation, thank God,
now enjoys, to use our moral force and
our good offices to get ancient enemies to
lay aside their differences so that the en-
ergies and the talents of their people can
be used to produce better lives instead of
suffering and death.
In southern Africa, we are working
with the leaders and the people there, a
people long deprived of basic rights, to
31
