Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
COOPERATING WITH OTHER NATIONS TO
MANAGE TECHNOLOGIES WITH GLOBAL
IMPACT
Much of modern technology requires
global cooperation and management. The
telecommunications network and activi-
ties of international organizations like the
World Meteorological Organization, the
International Civilian Aviation Organiza-
tion, and the World Health Organization
are noteworthy examples. The monitoring
activities organized through the United
Nations Environmental Program is a more
recent example. Among other activities,
we are working with other nations to up-
date electromagnetic spectrum allocation,
strengthen international controls on nu-
clear materials, and develop a regime for
rapidly expanding transnational data
flows. International cooperation in the
management of technology for the mutual
benefit of all nations will become even
more important in the coming decades.
I call the attention of Congress to two
international discussions of great impor-
tance, one dealing with nuclear fuel cycle
evaluation and the other with allocation
of radio frequencies. The Congress knows
of my concern over a spreading nuclear
weapons capability as more countries
meet their energy needs with nuclear
power. Our own research and develop-
ment programs have been reoriented
toward developing technologies more re-
sistant to misuse. At our suggestion, over
forty countries have convened in the In-
ternational Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evalua-
tion to consider how we can minimize
risks. I am hopeful that new institutional
controls and technological approaches
will emerge from these deliberations.
The electromagnetic spectrum-in-
cluding the radio frequencies-is one of
the reusable natural resources available to
mankind. We are at a point in history
where increasing worldwide demands for
these frequencies are being made; de-
mands that exceed the availability of the
resource. All nations, large or small, have
rights of equitable access as signatories to
the International Telecommunications
Convention. It is only through interna-
tional cooperation and planning that
these rights can be guaranteed. The 1979
Worldwide Administrative Radio Con-
ference will review the allocation of radio
frequencies for communications and other
purposes. Results of this conference will
guide the use of communications and elec-
tronic equipment and the pattern of do-
mestic and international communications
systems for the next several decades.
NATIONAL SECURITY
Our national security depends in large
measure on our technological capability.
Our future security will depend in part
on our ability to deploy new weapons sys-
tems that embody more advanced tech-
nology. Our potential adversaries are
investing heavily in military personnel,
equipment, and technology. Accordingly,
we must look to our research and develop-
ment programs to enable us to maintain
a modern and responsive defense capa-
bility.
In the context of this message on science
and technology, I wish to emphasize sev-
eral facets of their relationship to national
security. We must ensure that we are:
-maintaining technological leadership
in weapons systems;
-utilizing technology to reduce costs in
an era of expensive defense systems;
-building our defense research base to
provide for our national security in
the future;
541
