Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 24
ask the same question they did. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President, I have a two-pronged
question. First of all, I left a wife and
three kids at home that didn't get to see
your motorcade, and I promised them that
if I was lucky enough to get to ask you a
question, I'd ask you to tell them hello. So,
it's Stef and Jeff and Kevin and-
THE PRESIDENT. If your father thinks
of your name, I'll-[laughter]-Stef and
Jeff-I tell them hello.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr.
President, my main question—you alluded
to it a little bit in your opening remarks
concerning inflation, which definitely, to
the middle-income and lower income peo-
ple, it is the number one problem.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it is.
Q. And our increased labor costs seem
to snowball this thing. And other than vol-
untary restraint, what can be done to, in
your opinion, to keep these labor demands
from being quite so inflationary?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say that
so far, since we promulgated the volun-
tary guidelines or restraints, labor has
complied almost completely with the hun-
dreds of labor settlements throughout the
country that take place every week. Some
of them are very small groups of working
people; some of them are larger. And the
ones that have tried to violate the guide-
lines so far have been very highly publi-
cized.
It's always important for a labor union
or a worker who's not a member of a union
to take a lower wage increase than the rate
of inflation. And I have realized from the
very beginning that in order to make the
wage and price guidelines work on a vol-
untary basis that I would have to do my
share, as President, in the budget and so
forth, and also encourage price restraint
in order to have a permanent compliance
by labor. But I think it's accurate to say,
looking at all the statistics, that so far,
labor has complied.
We now face two or three very large
wage negotiation problems. The first will
be the Teamsters. The next will be the
rubber workers; later on in the fall, the
UAW, the United Auto Workers. I hope
that we can demonstrate to these three
groups that we are sincere enough and de-
termined enough and successful enough in
holding down the general inflationary
trends to make it advisable for them to
hold down wage demands.
Most wage earners, judging by a Gal-
lup poll recently, said they would rather
take a lower wage increase if inflation was
being controlled than to take a higher
wage increase with uncertain inflation.
And I think everyone who thinks about it
knows that you cannot start inflation be-
ing controlled in just 1 or 2 months. It's
got to take 3 or 4 months, at least, before
you can see the first indications of these
restraints being felt.
I believe that we can be successful, and
I believe that we can continue the good
cooperation that we've already received
from labor if we do our part together.
Thank you.
TWO-INCOME FAMILIES
Q. Mr. President, with inflation increas-
ing every month, can you foresee a time
when the average American family will
be able to live on one salary again? Or
are we doomed to be working housewives?
THE PRESIDENT. I would guess that the
trend for more than one person working
in a family would continue. Now the two
people working make a much higher in-
477
