Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
would be the achievement of consistency
and balance among the policies, major
programs, and budgets of the component
agencies.
To help ensure that U.S. bilateral ef-
forts and the programs of major multi-
lateral development institutions better
complement each other, the IDCA Direc-
tor would participate in the selection of
U.S. Executive Directors of multilateral
development banks (World Bank Group,
Inter-American Development Bank,
Asian Development Bank and African
Development Fund), and would advise
these Executive Directors on development
policy and proposed projects and pro-
grams. Additionally, IDCA would assume
lead responsibility for budget support and
policy concerning United States partici-
pation in those organizations and pro-
grams of the United Nations and the
Organization of American States whose
purpose is primarily developmental. These
are the UN Development Program,
UNICEF, the Organization of American
States Technical Assistance Funds, the
UN Capital Development Fund, the UN
Educational and Training Program for
Southern Africa, the UN/Food and Agri-
culture Organization (FAO) World Food
Program, the FAO Post-Harvest Losses
Fund, and the UN Disaster Relief Orga-
nization.
The IDCA Director would be respon-
sible for ensuring that development goals
are taken fully into account in all execu-
tive branch decision-making on trade,
technology, and other economic policy
issues affecting the less developed nations,
and would submit an annual development
policy statement to the Congress. The
Director would also prepare a comprehen-
sive foreign assistance budget, which he
would submit to the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget after consulting with the
Secretary of State, and would lead the
Administration's presentation of that
budget to the Congress.
When IDCA is established, I intend to
delegate to it the principal authority for
the bilateral development assistance pro-
gram administered by AID (now vested
in me by law, delegated to the Secretary
of State, and redelegated to the Admin-
istrator of AID). Certain functions vested
in me under the Foreign Assistance Act
will continue to be delegated to the Sec-
retary of State, Secretary of the Treasury,
Secretary of Defense, or elsewhere; but
most functions relating to the assistance
program will be delegated directly to the
IDCA Director, who will in turn redele-
gate these functions, as appropriate, to the
Administrator of AID. I also intend to
delegate to the Director of IDCA author-
ity proposed to be vested in me to estab-
lish an Institute For Technological Co-
operation; the IDCA Director would re-
delegate these functions, as appropriate,
to IFTC.
The reorganization would increase pro-
gram effectiveness through improved co-
ordination, as requested in the 1978
authorization act. I estimate that it would
achieve that goal with no increase in ex-
penditures or personnel. After investiga-
tion, I have found that this reorganization
is necessary to carry out the policy set
forth in section 901 (a) of title 5 of the
United States Code. This plan abolishes
one of the statutory officers that the Pres-
ident may appoint under section 624 (a)
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2384 (a)). No statutory functions
are abolished by the plan. The provisions
in this plan for the appointment and pay
of the Director, Deputy Director, and
Associate Directors of IDCA have been
found by me to be necessary by reason of
the reorganization and are at rates appli-
644
