Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 19
as required or appropriate to implement
the Geneva agreements, and fulfill our
international commitment.
of peace by enriching the lives of people
everywhere.
By responding to the needs of today's
These agreements offer new opportuni- rapidly changing world economy, these
ties for all Americans.
-For American farmers the agree-
ments expand world markets for Ameri-
can farm products.
-For American workers, the agree-
ments offer more jobs, higher incomes,
and more effective responses to unfair
foreign competition.
-For American businesses, the agree-
ments will open major new markets over-
seas for American products.
-For American consumers, the agree-
ments will make available a wider choice
of goods at better prices.
In short, the agreements mean
stronger, more prosperous, more competi-
tive American economy. They mean
lower inflation rates and a more favorable
balance of trade.
These agreements bring to a successful
conclusion the most ambitious and com-
prehensive effort undertaken by the inter-
national community since World War II
to revise the rules of international trade
and to achieve a fairer, more open, world
trading system. They come at a time when
intense pressures around the world threat-
en to disrupt the international trading
system.
Representatives of ninety-nine nations
worked for five years to reduce or remove
thousands of specific barriers to trade-
including both tariff and nontariff bar-
riers and to develop new rules which
will govern the international trading sys-
tem in the coming decades.
Since World War II, a period of re-
markable trade expansion, our experi-
ence teaches us that international trade
brings strength and growth to economies
throughout the world. It serves the cause
agreements ensure that growing prosper-
ity and growing interdependence through
increased trade will continue to benefit
all nations.
World trade has expanded more than
six-fold since completion of the Kennedy
Round of trade negotiations in 1967, and
now exceeds $1.3 trillion annually.
Our nation is much more heavily de-
pendent on trade than in the past. Today,
one of every three acres in America pro-
duces food or fiber for export. One of
every seven manufacturing jobs in our
country depends on exports.
Economic interdependence will con-
tinue to increase in the future-and so
will our opportunities.
Approval and implementation by the
Congress of the Tokyo Round Agree-
ments will be the first important step to-
ward realizing those opportunities by
building a solid foundation for continued
strong growth of trade. The package as-
sembled under the direction of Robert
Strauss, my Special Trade Representa-
tive, is an achievement which represents
vast potential for the American economy.
The most important achievement of
the Tokyo Round is a series of codes of
conduct regulating nontariff barriers to
trade. The code agreements are described
more fully in the attachments to this Mes-
sage.
Also attached is a statement of ad-
ministrative action detailing executive
branch implementation of these laws.
These agreements will accomplish the fol-
lowing:
-Codes on subsidies and countervail-
ing duties and on anti-dumping will limit
trade distortions arising from such prac-
tices, and will give signatories to the
agreements the right to challenge and
1093
