Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
can public, and therefore to the Congress,
the need for the windfall profits tax just
because I have spoken out strongly and
fervently and with deep feeling on the
subject.
So, we're making good progress. And
I'm eager to work with the Congress on
how to make my proposals even better.
ENERGY, FOOD, AND HOUSING PRICES
Q. Mr. President, among the inflation
figures, the most stubborn seems to be
those of food, fuel, and housing, and
those also seem to be the least susceptible
to controls of any kind. Is there no hope
for progress in this area until those prices
become so high that people can't afford
the things they really need?
THE PRESIDENT. There is some hope in
the area.
Fuel, to a major degree, is affected
by oil prices established by an interna-
tional cartel over which we have very
little control. However, we can reduce our
dependence on foreign imported oil by
the implementation of a sound national
energy policy. I've worked on that for
2 years.
In food, I would say one of the major
leading items in food price increases has
been beef. And every agricultural econo-
mist, every farmer knows that the main
cause for high beef prices is sustained high
demand and very low sizes of American
beef herds. It takes 5 or 6 years to slowly
build up your breed cows, and then to
have an increased herd to produce more
beef.
One of the causes of the present short-
age was the price controls imposed upon
beef under the Nixon administration, and
at the time, the farmers sold their brood
cows and heifers instead of keeping them
for future beef production.
Pork, because of the short gestation pe-
riod of swine, and poultry, with an even
shorter period of increase in production,
can be increased fairly rapidly, and I've
been very pleased at how fast those two
items particularly are being increased.
The production of fish for American con-
sumption is a slower process, because it
depends upon the habits and the number
of fishing boats and fishermen available in
that industry.
So, I think we've got a good prospect in
the future for food prices to drop some-
what, or at least the price levels not to
rise so rapidly.
This past winter and the previous
winter, coincidentally, were two very se-
vere periods of adverse weather, and this
additionally affected food in the case of
perishable vegetables and fruits.
Housing-we have had in the last 2
years a rate of housing construction of
over 2 million per year in spite of high
interest rates and high prices. And this has
provided an increased demand for lum-
ber, for plywood, for insulation materials,
and for all other building materials that
go into home construction. Recent statis-
tics, unfortunately, show that the rate of
construction of housing is dropping off.
This will decrease demand if the trend
continues to be less than, say, 2 million per
year. And we are trying within the Fed-
eral Government to increase the rate of
production of timber.
So, although we don't control these
three items that you mentioned, there are
elements that we can now detect that in-
dicate some hope for the future after sev-
eral months go by.
ISRAELI SETTLEMENT POLICY
Q. Mr. President, the Israeli Cabinet
has recently approved two new settle-
754
