May 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
need is
your vote on election day. But we
also need for every Member of the Con-
gress to know that you are interested.
We have an energy crisis in our country.
Yet too few of our people, and even fewer
of our politicians, are willing to face that
reality.
I proposed a windfall profits tax to
develop very good programs for the poor,
who bear the extra burdens of rising en-
ergy costs, to provide mass transit, to give
us other forms of energy, and to keep the
oil companies from pocketing billions of
dollars in unearned, excess profits. When
the time comes for a vote in Congress,
you can be sure that the oil company
lobbyists will still be there. And you can
provide and no one but you and other
American citizens can provide the coun-
terveiling force that will curb the power
of the lobbyists. If your voice is not heard,
the oil companies will prevail again.
The most basic human right is the right
of a person to live in peace. Today, as you
march down this aisle to receive your dip-
lomas, I'm thankful that none of you will
have to march off to die in battle. I'm
thankful that instead of fighting a war,
we're debating a new step toward limiting
the nuclear arms race. Peace and freedom
are both precious gifts, and that's why the
fight over ratification of the strategic arms
limitation talks treaty is so important. As
did Martin Luther King, Jr., you must
make your voices heard in this battle for
sanity and for peace.
Here at home, inflation threatens all
the progress we have made. Again, I want
to tell it to you straight, because inflation
robs the poor, it robs minorities, and it
robs those just starting out in life, like you,
as surely as it robs old people who have to
live on fixed incomes.
Inflation forces the Government to
tighten the budget and to cut back on
many programs that might help some of
you. And inflation destroys some of the
resources of business and industry needed
to provide jobs for you and other Ameri-
cans.
When Congress makes the tough
choices on what has to be cut, who will
stand with me to put people first unless
you use your influence and your power?
I did not come here today to ask you
to make my job easier. I came to urge you
to help me make the job of every single
elected officer in the United States
tougher, more difficult, by insisting that
government be more responsive, more
compassionate, and more open to hear the
voices of America.
That's why I'm proud to have people
like Andrew Young working alongside me
every day in my job of shaping foreign
policy. And I have encouraged Andy not
to be timid about speaking out.
And that's why I'm proud to have peo-
ple like John Lewis and Eleanor Holmes
Norton with me pressing the fight against
fear and for justice here at home.
These are powerful people, and they
are in powerful positions. But they cannot
do it unless you back them up. Their
effectiveness comes from the fact that they
speak for you, just as my power as Presi-
dent comes from the fact that I speak for
you and for other Americans.
I'm not here only to let you hear my
voice, but so that we in government can
be sure to hear your voice, and that to-
gether our voices will be too strong to
be ignored; so that together we'll have
the courage to win more victories which
we can place alongside the great ones that
we've won.
912
