May 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tem of Sumter County. It had never been
done. And we went to five or six schools
which were attended by black students.
There were 26 of them in the back room
of old houses, in the basements of dilapi-
dated churches; few school books, no
blackboards.
I remember one where 14- or 15-year-
old boys were sitting two to a chair, and
the chair was designed for 4-year-olds.
And we gave up our visits in embarrass-
ment. I have to admit that I had served on
the school board 3 months before it ever
dawned on me clearly that white children
were riding to school in buses and black
children were walking to school.
We rationalized in those days that divi-
sion of the races, because we attributed to
blacks because of their poverty and
ancient
discriminations—characteristics
which we thought were inferior to those
of white children. And we blanketly con-
demned or relegated to an inferior place
many because of the faults of a few.
I'm not proud of this, but I think it
illustrates the point I want to make to-
night, because our Nation has been one of
strength and dynamism and progress, in-
spired by the Government, by chamber of
commerce attitudes, by a pioneer spirit,
by a determination to excel, to explore new
realms of achievement, to reach for and
to grasp material progress, and we've been
highly successful.
Our goals have been reached and then
raised again. Our progress has been his-
torically steady. Our per capita income in
this Nation, all Americans, has doubled
almost every generation. Our mean fam-
ily income is now more than $16,000 a
year. And the average income of an
American in 3 days is equal to the annual
income of many people who live in the
less developed countries of our world.
We are now approaching a time when
some sociologists name it a crisis of suc-
cess or plenty, or perhaps even excess.
Perhaps it's time now to reexamine our
material achievements, because we might
be faced with an era of scarcity or addi-
tional life simplicity.
Our social progress the last 200 years,
however, has not been quite so steady. It
has not been inspired always by govern-
ment or by chambers of commerce or by
organizational structures or by institutions.
The social progress has been faltering,
spasmodic, inspired by individual coura-
geous human beings who rallied others
with a cry of equality or justice or mercy.
Martin Luther King, Jr., forced this
Nation, North and South, almost against
its will, to recognize legal injustice and to
do what was right. He was scorned,
ignored, sometimes hated, imprisoned. But
because he knew he was right and because
Americans also knew he was right, he pre-
vailed, and the laws were changed and
black citizens were finally given a guar-
anteed right to vote. And our Nation took
a major step forward and upward.
We now bask in the glory of his
achievement, as a nation, assuming that
perhaps our social progress has been ade-
quate. But we cannot afford to be satisfied.
In the last 22 years, we have created 8
million net new jobs, but the unemploy-
ment rate among young people who speak
foreign languages like Spanish, or who are
black, is still 35 percent. And there is no
more devastating blight on a human spirit
than to have one life on this Earth, given
by God, and not have a chance to use it;
to feel worthless because one doesn't have
a chance to prove worth.
Last year our budget for education was
the highest in history, the biggest increase
in history-$13 billion in aid for children
to become better educated. But still many
American Indians or other minority
groups or the poor are alienated within
the classrooms. There are still segregated
970
