May 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Vietnam veterans. And the most signif-
icant action that I could take was to
choose someone to head the Veterans Ad-
ministration in whom I had the utmost
confidence, who was strong, able, heroic,
dedicated, and would be an effective
spokesman to the Nation for those who
served in the Vietnam war.
Three key aides in my administration
are here on the stage with me-Max Cle-
land, our director; Dennis Wyant, Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Labor, responsible
for job programs; and Bill Lawson, who
serves on my own White House staff.
There are slowly moving items of legis-
lation before the Congress, and I hope
that they can be expedited. We need to
extend the time limit for GI rights for job
training. We need substantially to expand
the readjustment counseling service-
obviously too long neglected.
Max Cleland reminds me that he testi-
fied for this legislation 10 years ago—is
that right, Max?—and the special pro-
grams for vocational rehabilitation for
those who are disabled. There are other
actions, of course, which the Congress can
take, and I urge the expeditious conclu-
sion of these efforts. But perhaps more
importantly for the future, even than these
specific important pieces of legislation, is
what might well be initiated this week.
I think the Nation is ready to change
its heart and its mind and its attitude
toward those whom you, assembled here,
represent, and to recognize finally and
with enthusiasm and concern, apprecia-
tion, and with love, the wisdom and the
experience and the insight into the con-
sciousness of America which you represent
and the honor and valor and devotion and
sacrifice and commitment that you have
demonstrated during a time of crisis and
of personal danger.
AUDIENCE MEMBER. What about Agent
Orange victims, President Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. What about what?
Q. Twice as many men are dying here
in the States as died in the war. Agent
Orange contains dioxin, the most toxic
substance known to mankind. Dow Chem-
ical Company lied to this country, lied to
the Government when it said it wasn't
toxic.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q. Now thousands of our men are dy-
ing, President Carter. Max Cleland is
implementing programs, but they're not
sufficient enough.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll help Max with
that, with the herbicide, you mean?
Q. Epidemiological studies done on the
Vietnam veterans.
THE PRESIDENT. Max and I both agree.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say two things
in conclusion. One is that your voice in my
administration and in my consciousness
and heart is Max Cleland. You could not
possibly have a better representative than
he. And secondly, that your contribution
still is tremendously important in the con-
sciousness of our Nation, because all of us
agree that the best way to commemorate
what you have accomplished in Vietnam
is to build a world permanently at peace.
Is Philip Caputo here? Where? Do you
mind if I read a quotation from your
book?
MR. CAPUTO. No, sir.
The PRESIDENT. Fine. [Laughter]
I don't think I could close with a more
appropriate remark than an excerpt from
Philip Caputo's book, "A Rumor of War."
Writing on the death of a friend and a
classmate named Walter Levy, and I
quote, "You were a part of us and a part
of us died with you, the small part that
was still young, that had not yet grown
cynical, grown bitter and old with death.
Your courage was an example to us, and
whatever the rights or wrongs of the war,
974
