May 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
TAX REDUCTIONS
Q. Mr. President, election year tax cuts
are rather commonplace in this country,
and I wonder if we can look forward to a
Carter-proposed tax cut in 1980.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I doubt very seri-
ously that we'll have any tax cut in 1980.
My own major responsibility is to deal
with the inflation question. Part of that,
of course, is to be fiscally responsible in
reducing the Federal deficit. If we have
the option between substantial reductions
in the deficit and controlling inflation on
the one hand, and having tax reductions
for the American people in an election
year on the other, I would forgo the tax
reduction and insist upon controlling in-
flation and cutting the deficit.
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, United Airlines and
the machinists union last week reached a
contract settlement that was well over 30
percent, yet another assault on your 7-per-
cent wage guidelines. How long can you
expect the American people to sit tight
and support a 7-percent guideline, when
inflation is running at over 13 percent
over the last 3 months and when the big
unions are getting fat contracts?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the problem is
finding a suitable alternative. I don't
maintain that every settlement in the last
6 or 8 months has been under the 7-per-
cent guideline. There is absolutely no
doubt in my mind, however, that the price
constraints and the wage constraints that
we have imposed on a voluntary basis have
had very beneficial results. Eighty-five
percent, at least, of all the wage settle-
ments since we imposed the voluntary
standards have been within the 7-percent
guidelines. Even those that have exceeded
the guidelines, in my opinion, have been
much lower than they would have been
without the restraints.
We're trying to do three things, and
we're going to stick with it: first of all, to
have a fiscally responsible government, to
cut down waste, and to reduce the Fed-
eral deficit; secondly, to eliminate the un-
warranted regulations and redtape that's
imposed by government on the private
sector, which is highly inflationary; and,
of course, the third thing is to stick with
and to try to induce the American people
to support the voluntary wage and price
standards.
All of these factors working together
will have a long-range, beneficial effect
in controlling inflation. In my opinion, a
deliberate recession, which is one alterna-
tive which would cause very high unem-
ployment, is unacceptable. And manda-
tory wage and price controls, which have
been tried in the past and have never
worked, except during wartime, are also
unacceptable.
So, we have a good, sound, anti-infla-
tion program. It's going to require some
time for it to be effective, but I intend to
stick with it.
PRESIDENT'S LEADERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY
Q. Mr. President, many of your legis-
lative initiatives have run into trouble on
Capitol Hill this year-hospital cost con-
trol, the Panama Canal implementation
legislation, oil price decontrol-legisla-
tion to extend that-and so forth. To what
extent do you believe it is the President's
responsibility to exert leadership over the
Congress, and to what extent do you
believe you've fulfilled that responsibility
this year?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the President
has a major responsibility not only to pro-
pose to the Congress legislation that's of
benefit to the Nation, but also to fight for
1
962
