Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
United States of America, in accordance
with the terms of the agreement with the
Republic of Panama.
1-103. The Governor of the Canal
Zone shall, to the extent funds are avail-
able, disinter from Mount Hope Ceme-
tery, before entry into force of the Neu-
trality Treaty, and reinter in Corozal
Cemetery the remains of United States
citizens, and the remains of members of
their immediate family that are buried
with them. The Governor shall not re-
move from Mount Hope Cemetery the
remains of any such person whose next
of kin timely requests in writing that such
remains not be disinterred. The Gover-
nor shall transport to the United States
for reinterment the remains of any such
person whose next of kin timely requests
in writing that such remains be trans-
ported to the United States for reinter-
ment.
1-104. The Secretary of Defense shall,
to the extent funds are available, disinter
from Corozal Cemetery and transport to
the United States for reinterment the re-
mains of United States citizens, and the
remains of members of their immediate
family buried with them, whose next of
kin requests in writing by April 1, 1982,
that such remains be transported to the
United States for reinterment.
1-105. Subject to the availability of
funds, all the costs incurred in the dis-
interment, reinterment in Corozal Ceme-
tery, and transportation of remains re-
quired by this Order, including the costs
of preparation, cremation if requested,
and a casket or urn, shall be borne by the
United States of America. The costs of
reinterment in the United States, includ-
ing any costs for funeral home services,
vaults, plots, or crypts, will be the respon-
sibility of the next of kin making the re-
quest, except to the extent otherwise
provided by law, including any unused
specific entitlements available pursuant to
statute.
1-106. (a) The Governor of the Canal
Zone shall identify, to the extent feasible,
the closest surviving next of kin of each
deceased United States citizen buried in
the Mount Hope and Corozal Cemeteries,
and of such next of kin of each member
of the immediate family that is buried
with such United States citizen.
(b) The Governor shall provide notice
to the next of kin of such deceased buried
in Mount Hope Cemetery that the Gov-
ernment plans to remove the deceased to
Corozal Cemetery unless the next of kin
requests in writing, not later than three
months after the first issuance of such
notification, either that the remains not
be removed from Mount Hope Cemetery,
or that the remains be moved to, and
reinterred in, the United States in a ceme-
tery or other burial site designated by the
next of kin.
(c) The Governor shall also provide
notice to the next of kin of such deceased
who are buried in Corozal Cemetery that
the Government will disinter and trans-
port such deceased to the United States
for reinterment in a cemetery or other
burial site designated by the next of kin, if
the next of kin so requests in writing not
later than April 1, 1982.
(d) The Governor shall publish the
notices provided for in subsections (b)
and (c) of this Section in appropriate
newspapers, magazines and other periodi-
cals, and utilize such other means of com-
municating with the next of kin that he
finds to be practical and effective.
1-107. The Governor of the Canal
Zone shall, before the entry into force of
the Neutrality Treaty, fully advise the
82
