Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 10
ident, and I've never hesitated to call
Lloyd on how to deal with an important
economic question, an important question
involving foreign affairs. And he's been
willing to come into the White House,
sometimes late at night, quietly, to coun-
sel with me, in a group of two or three or
four, about how we ought to address these
major problems for the benefit of our
country.
You represent an industry which in-
volves about, I think, 35 or 36 percent of
our gross national product, encompassing
13 million American jobs. And not only
that, but everyone in this room and those
whom you represent occupy positions of
leadership in your own local communi-
ties, through your own civic clubs, your
church groups, your involvement in
school affairs, public affairs, in the busi-
ness and professional world. Your voice
can have a profound impact on the con-
sciousness of America—what our people
believe, what they strive to achieve, how
they overcome difficult challenges and
problems, how much confidence they
have in government, how much confi-
dence they have in our free enterprise
system, which is so important a basis on
which we all predicate our lives and our
future.
I think it's important for me to men-
tion just two or three things. I'll be brief.
We are faced with 10 years of excessive
inflation which impacts very heavily on
you and on your customers. We've not
been successful yet in solving this prob-
lem. We are taking strong action to do it.
I want to thank you for your coopera-
tive spirit, sometimes under difficult cir-
cumstances, in complying with the volun-
tary wage and price standards that we
have established. And even in very diffi-
cult cases involving some highly publi-
cized differences of opinion, I might say
that your members have been superb in
cooperating with us.
Recently both Sears and Giant Foods,
for instance, took action on their own
initiative in order to comply with the vol-
untary wage and price standards, and I
want to express my thanks to you.
As onerous as they might be on occa-
sion, we have tried to minimize paper-
work; we've minimized the intrusion of
government into your own affairs. And I
believe that almost all of you would agree
they are much superior to mandatory
wage and price controls, which I never
intend to impose in this country short of
a threat to our own national security. I
hope you support me in that position.
We are working for a balanced budget.
We've made a lot of progress. And I would
say that compared to the time when I ran
for President, we had about a $66 billion
Federal deficit. We have cut down sub-
stantially on that deficit. By the time we
implement the fiscal year 1980 budget,
we will have cut down the deficit perhaps
60 percent or more.
The Congress has joined in that spirit,
and I believe you would agree it's a step
in the right direction. I'm determined to
achieve a balanced budget. That's my
goal, and I believe the American people
have now joined in this goal. And, of
course, the Congress are willing partners
in that effort.
You can help a great deal. I might say
we have done it in the spirit of my own
political party. I know many of you are
Republicans; many of you are Democrats.
But we've never neglected the effort to put
people back to work, to provide jobs, to
encourage better education, better trans-
portation, better health care, better atten-
tion given to the very poor, to the elderly.
We've not neglected those things. Most of
the achievements in reducing the deficit
have been because of greater efficiency,
833
