Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 27
est windfall profits tax. Our country needs
an effective energy security trust fund.
And I intend to see that we get both.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Mr. President, if they pass
a bill with some significant plowback in
it, would you veto that?
THE PRESIDENT. I will do everything I
can to oppose any additional plowback,
which is an allocation of money to the
oil companies above what they will get,
as I said just then. Under this proposal
which I have submitted to Congress, the
oil companies will already get, in effect, a
$6 billion plowback after they pay all
their Federal and State income taxes.
So, any further plowback would be a
travesty, and I would oppose it to the ut-
most of my ability.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Oval Office at the
White House.
injured. This Administration is com-
mitted ultimately to the cessation of such
violence and immediately to the relief of
those who suffer its consequences.
To address this growing crisis I am ask-
ing the Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare to chair an Interdepartmen-
tal Committee on Domestic Violence to
coordinate a review of federal programs
which currently provide or could provide
assistance to victims of domestic violence,
and to formulate a work plan by June 15
to guide our future actions. Please desig-
nate a policy-level member of your de-
partment or agency to serve as a member
of this committee with Secretary Cali-
fano.
This directive manifests my personal
concern that, the tragedy of domestic vio-
lence be eliminated and its victims be
comforted and assisted wherever possible.
JIMMY CARTER
Interdepartmental Committee on
Domestic Violence
Memorandum From the President.
April 27, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of De-
fense, the Attorney General, the Secretary
of the Interior, the Secretary of Agricul-
ture, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, the Director of the ACTION
Agency, the Chairman of the Commission
on Civil Rights, the Director of the Com-
munity Services Administration
Each year three to six million acts of
severe violence occur in American homes.
Victims, who represent every race and
socio-economic status, are often seriously
United States Advisory
Commission on International
Communication, Cultural and
Educational Affairs
Nomination of Six Members and Designation
of Chairman. April 27, 1979
The President today announced six
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the United States Advisory
Commission on International Communi-
cation, Cultural and Educational Affairs.
They are:
JOHN HOPE FRANKLIN, the John Matthews
Manly Distinguished Service professor of
history at the University of Chicago, author
of numerous books, and an expert on the his-
tory of black Americans;
LEWIS MANILOW, a Chicago attorney and
president of the Museum of Contemporary
Art of Chicago;
729
