Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 8
1979. The U.S. will consider sympathet-
ically new Thai requests. The President
also stated Congressional authorization
would be sought for the cost-free transfer
to Thailand of $11.3 million of US-
owned ammunition currently stored there.
The two leaders noted the success of
Thailand's economic policies, its plan to
continue rapid and equitable growth poli-
cies, and the dynamic aspects of the
ASEAN region. The President was par-
ticularly impressed by the priority given
to rural development during Thailand's
1979 "Year of the Farmer" and con-
firmed the continuing U.S. supplementary
role in supporting the new Thai emphasis.
The Prime Minister welcomed the con-
tinuing economic interests of the United
States and other nations in Thailand and
ASEAN, particularly American invest-
ment and other business activities. He
noted the favorable business climate of
fered by Thailand to foreign commerce
and investment and discussed plans to
improve the situation further. The Presi-
dent welcomed U.S. firms contributing to
economic growth and trade with Thailand
and hoped our business relations would
expand as more American firms become
aware of the opportunities in Thailand
and the ASEAN region.
The Prime Minister of Thailand
stressed the serious burdens in providing
temporary shelter and care to Indochinese
refugees. He urged the international com-
munity to take additional steps to ease the
problem. The President appreciated the
humanitarian policies of Thailand, out-
lined his commitment to a long-range sys-
creation of innovative crop substitution
programs. They agreed on the need for
expanded cooperative efforts in this area
of such importance to the United States
and Thailand as well as other affected
countries.
Prime Minister Kriangsak invited Presi-
dent Carter to visit Thailand. The Presi-
dent expressed pleasure and said he would
seek a mutually convenient time.
National Council on the
Humanities
Nomination of A. D. Frazier, Jr., To Be a
Member. February 8, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate A. D. Frazier, Jr., of At-
lanta, Ga., to be a member of the National
Council on the Humanities for the re-
mainder of the term expiring January 26,
1982. He would replace John Hope
Franklin, resigned.
Frazier, 34, is director of corporate
planning for the Citizens and Southern
National Bank. He is active in civic af-
fairs in Atlanta and is a member of the
National Municipal League Council and
Development Committee.
National Poison Prevention
Week, 1979
Proclamation 4638. February 8, 1979
tematic U.S. program of resettlement, and By the President of the United States
reviewed the continuing U.S. efforts with
other nations to do more.
The President congratulated the Prime
Minister on current progress to combat
narcotics production and trafficking in
and through Thailand, particularly the
of America
A Proclamation
Since the first Poison Prevention Week
was observed in 1962, we have seen a 75
percent drop in childhood accidental
231
