May 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Twenty-five years later, today, the
basis in reality for racial segregation still
exists in our schools, and so does discrim-
ination in housing and in other aspects of
human life. But let us not be discouraged.
Let us just be even more determined.
Three hundred and sixty years ago, the
first enslaved people were unloaded from
a ship on the shores of Virginia, and 1
year later, the pilgrims landed on Plym-
outh Rock to join with others later on
in founding a free society. This, in a real
sense, has been the story of America-a
struggle to resolve this horrible contradic-
tion between hopes and dreams of free-
dom and equality on one hand and the
facts of life on the other.
A sad truce in this struggle was dic-
tated, I believe, in 1896, when the Su-
preme Court-by a vote of 8 to 1-made
the fraudulent Jim Crow concept of
separate-but-equal the law of the land.
We know that there can be no lasting
peace here or throughout the world with-
out justice. And this fact was also known
by thousands of organizers, teachers, law-
yers, preachers, laborers, ordinary parents,
students, who kept on clearing the way
for May 17, 1954, when something
changed at last.
Even as Chief Justice Warren began to
read the decision, the wire service bells
rang out, and every single newsroom in
the United States became deathly silent.
First of all, it was black people them-
selves who were appearing before the
courts in defense of their own rights. That
was different. There had been change.
Second, the court was unanimous. All
nine members spoke as one for the con-
science of our country. That was differ-
ent. There had been a change.
Third, there were thousands who now
felt free to work side by side, in State by
State, changing law after law. Many of
you in this room helped to make those
changes and to bring about those differ-
ences in the life of America.
I don't have to tell you that change is
not easy. And you certainly don't have
to tell me that change is difficult. The evi-
dence is everywhere. Too many doors are
still locked.
In one area significant legal action is
still necessary. We have to realize that the
promise of equal opportunity in housing,
if we are to make the educational bene-
fits of the Brown decision as available to
the northern poor as they are becoming in
the South. We need to amend the Fair
Housing Act to remove the burden and
the expense of enforcement of the law
from the shoulders of the poor victims of
housing discrimination. I've urged Con-
gress to give HUD, Housing and Urban
Development Department, the power to
resolve complaints directly, and to provide
Secretary Pat Harris with cease and desist
authority.
This is not going to easy. But it's a very
significant challenge to us, and your
help-this group in this room-if inspired
and motivated and organized, could get
enough votes to pass it out of committee
and to pass it easily in the Congress. But
without your help, I'm afraid we still
may not be successful. I propose that we
do it now without delay, and that all of
us join in together in this effort.
The first great campaign of the war for
equality, I know you realize, was com-
pleted in this room-in this house, just
above this room-with the Emancipation
Proclamation to eliminate slavery. Second
was the elimination of legalized social op-
pression, in which Brown was a decisive
decision and a victory.
The third campaign for equal opportu-
nity in the economic structure of our
884
