Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 17
threat. And there is no doubt that we
will be able to meet any such threat now
or in the future.
SOVIET REACTION TO U.S.-CHINESE
RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, following up again
on China, shortly after your announce-
ment last month, you said in a television
interview that President Brezhnev's
response in a private message to you had
been positive.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. TASS then took issue with you, and
this week in an interview published in
Time, Mr. Brezhnev said that it was like
playing with fire to encourage China's
militancy. In view of these statements, do
you still feel that the Kremlin is positive
about your China policy?
THE PRESIDENT. I have reread the
original dispatch that I got from Presi-
dent Brezhnev, and I've also read the
TASS statements, and happen to have
read last night the interview with Presi-
dent Brezhnev in Time. I think my inter-
pretation of Brezhnev's original statement
was accurate. He did point out the fact
that they had relationships with China
that could be contributory to peace. He
expressed in his original statement a desire
or an intention to monitor future relation-
ships between ourselves and China and
expressed some concern about a possi-
bility of our using this new relationship
against the Soviet Union.
This is not our intention. We never in-
tend to use our improved relationships
with China against the Soviet Union or
the relationships with the Soviet Union,
which I hope to improve, as a factor to
endanger or to threaten China. So, that
was a proviso put in his first dispatch.
But I think, still, in balance, it was con-
structive. It was certainly constructive and
positive, compared to the anticipation that
I had from the Soviet Union.
PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
Q. Mr. President, Governor Brown of
California has called for a constitutional
amendment requiring the Federal Gov-
ernment to balance the budget. If Con-
gress rejects the amendment, he says the
States should initiate a constitutional con-
vention to get it started. How do you feel,
sir, about the wisdom or feasibility of this
proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of my polit-
ical philosophies and economic philoso-
phies and one of the commitments of my
own administration all have been to re-
duce the Federal deficit and to work
toward a balanced budget.
I think it would be extremely danger-
ous for a constitutional convention to be
assembled for this purpose. Many legal
scholars and others believe that such a
convention would be completely uncon-
trollable, that the Constitution could be
amended en masse, with multitudes of
amendments originating therefrom. It
would be a radical departure from the
policy of amendment of our Constitution
that we've experienced for the last 200
years. And I think an amendment to our
Constitution ought to be a very cautious,
careful thing.
I personally prefer that amendments
be carried out to the Constitution-orig-
inating in the Congress, and then ratified
by the States—as we have used so well as
a policy for the last 200 years.
It would be also a serious matter, a
difficult matter, to devise a constitutional
amendment prohibiting any deficit spend-
ing without adding provisos that would
let us deal with unanticipated military or
security needs and unanticipated needs
when we have a deep depression for keep-
57
