Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 3
and villages of my constituency to make
speeches on
on contemporary American
affairs by making good use of my Ameri-
can experiences. It was my first campaign
for a seat in the Diet. In a sense, there-
fore, the political career that has brought
me to the White House this evening be-
gan three decades ago, in my first ex-
posure to your great country.
Both of us, Mr. President, have been
given by our fellow citizens the highest
trust they can bestow-to lead them, as
best we can, and with faith, through the
difficult choices, domestic and foreign,
which our two democracies now face in
the world.
difficult decisions which cross our desks
each day.
I look forward to our collaboration.
Ladies and gentlemen, will you join me
in toasting the health of the President of
the United States, and the well-being and
success of the American people.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
That's beautiful English-beautiful.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 p.m. on the
West Terrace of the White House.
The responsibilities of the President of League of Women Voters of the
the United States are indeed awesome,
because of America's unique power and
mission in the maintenance of global
peace, and because of your wide commit-
ments in leadership of the free world.
Japan's responsibilities are also great
and growing, and I am determined that
we shall play an increasingly creative and
effective role in world economic and po-
litical affairs, in closest partnership with
our trusted friend and ally, the United
States.
One of the great satisfactions of my
present post as the Prime Minister of
Japan is the opportunity to work with
you, Mr. President, and your Government
and people. I am eager to work to make
the Japanese-American partnership a
more powerful and productive force for
the progress of the world community to-
ward a more stable peace and a more
widely shared prosperity.
I welcome this opportunity, because I
know you share the deep conviction that
there is spiritual meaning to man's be-
ing. I also believe that the eternal now
is the only time we have to act on our
convictions, and that you and I will,
therefore, always be ready to make the
United States
Remarks to Members of the National Council.
May 3, 1979
The first school I went to when I as-
sumed my initial political office was the
League of Women Voters. [Laughter] I
was interested in being on the education
committee and involved in higher educa-
tion when the South was going through
the integration phase of its development
back in 1962. And when I arrived in At-
lanta as a new legislator, the most knowl-
edgeable and dedicated and courageous
people there in this very sensitive area of
changing southern life were the members
of the League of Women Voters.
I worked closely with them then and
have found throughout my own political
career that this is a stabilizing influence
when stability is important and a dynamic
and courageous and innovative influence
when change is necessary.
I'm very proud that you've come to
Washington to become more thoroughly
briefed on some of the issues that face me
and face the Congress, face our Nation
771
