May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
And I'd like to add one other comment.
Within, I believe, every single agency in
the Government now, there is a highly
qualified, top executive who is a woman,
and many women in most agencies. And
I hope that you will contact them directly.
Some of them, of course, are here, so they
can kind of be a monitoring point for
you. And I will tell all of my Cabinet
the next meeting I have, Monday, to ex-
pect this and to look on it with favor,
with favor,
because you might find it easier to ap-
proach them or you may not. But I think
that we need kind of a secret, inside anal-
ysis going on in addition to your monitor-
ing, sometimes from the outside.
Thank you very much. I'm very proud
of this.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:48 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White
House. Patricia M. Harvey is Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary of the Treasury for Adminis-
tration, and Patricia M. Cloherty is Deputy
Administrator of the Small Business Adminis-
tration.
Women's Business Enterprise
Executive Order 12138. May 18, 1979
CREATING A NATIONAL WOMEN'S BUSI-
NESS ENTERPRISE POLICY AND PRE-
SCRIBING ARRANGEMENTS FOR DE-
VELOPING, COORDINATING AND IMPLE-
MENTING A NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR
WOMEN'S BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
In response to the findings of the Inter-
agency Task Force on Women Business
Owners and congressional findings that
recognize:
1. the significant role which small busi-
ness and women entrepreneurs can play
in promoting full employment and bal-
anced growth in our economy;
2. the many obstacles facing women en-
trepreneurs; and
3. the need to aid and stimulate wo-
men's business enterprise;
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
order to create a National Women's Busi-
ness Enterprise Policy and to prescribe ar-
rangements for developing, coordinating
and implementing a national program for
women's business enterprise, it is ordered
as follows:
1-1. Responsibilities of the Federal De-
partments and Agencies.
1-101. Within the constraints of statu-
tory authority and as otherwise permit-
ted by law:
(a) Each department and agency of
the Executive Branch shall take appropri-
ate action to facilitate, preserve and
strengthen women's business enterprise
and to ensure full participation by women
in the free enterprise system.
(b) Each department and agency shall
take affirmative action in support of wom-
en's business enterprise in appropriate
programs and activities including, but not
limited to:
(1) management, technical, financial
and procurement assistance,
(2) business-related education, train-
ing, counseling and information dissemi-
nation, and
(3) procurement.
(c) Each department or agency em-
powered to extend Federal financial as-
sistance to any program or activity shall
issue regulations requiring the recipient of
such assistance to take appropriate affirm-
ative action in support of women's busi-
ness enterprise and to prohibit actions or
policies which discriminate against wom-
en's business enterprise on the ground of
sex. For purposes of this subsection, Fed-
eral financial assistance means assistance
890
