Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 15
Rosalynn and I welcome this annual
opportunity to greet our fellow citizens of
Irish ancestry and to share in the senti-
ments of countless others who become
Irish on this special day.
JIMMY CARTER
invested in these activities is relatively
small compared to the losses America sus-
tains every year through farm accidents.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the week of July 25
through July 31, 1979, as National Farm
Safety Week. I urge all who live and work
on the Nation's farms and ranches to em-
National Farm Safety Week, 1979 ploy every needed safety precaution and
Proclamation 4645. March 15, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
America is blessed with an efficient and
productive agriculture. As a result, we
enjoy an abundance of high-quality food
products at a lower cost relative to per-
sonal income than in most other coun-
tries. This abundance permits a strong
flow of food exports, contributing many
billions of dollars to our trade balance
practice, at work and in recreation, at
home and on the highway. I also ask
those who serve agricultural producers to
support their accident-reducing efforts by
providing encouragement and educational
aids. We must succeed in this important
task, as no Nation with concern for the
well-being of its people can afford to lose
such vital human and productive re-
sources. A safer agriculture will be eco-
nomically stronger and more productive,
thereby benefitting us all.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fifteenth day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
and enabling us to help relieve hunger hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
in many parts of the world.
One of the most persistent barriers to
agricultural well-being has been farm ac-
cidents. Last year, there were more than
a half-million farm and ranch residents
who suffered disabling injuries, many of
which were handicapping or fatal. The
cost of those accidents approached $5
billion. The pain and personal loss to the
injured and to their families and friends
cannot be measured.
It has been proven that most accidents
on farms and ranches can be prevented
by controlling hazards, ending unsafe
practices and by the use of protective
equipment. The effects of many injuries
can be lessened if prompt and correct ac-
tions are taken subsequent to the acci-
dents and disasters. The time and effort
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:23 p.m., March 15, 1979]
Budget Rescission
Message to the Congress. March 15, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report a
revision to a previously transmitted rescis-
sion proposal for the Small Business Ad-
ministration. This revision decreases the
amount previously proposed by $6.0 mil-
lion. The details of this revised rescission
433
