Mar. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
they begin to make peace a living reality
for their own people.
I'm thankful that the friendships be-
tween their countries, both countries, and
the United States will now grow even
stronger when our own two friends are
friends with one another.
Through private messages and public
statements, many messages sent from Air
Force One on the trip back here from
along the path of reconciliation and to-
ward future cooperation. We stand ready
to help in the implementation of the
peace treaty, in the negotiations that lie
ahead on other issues of concern, and in
working with these two friends to build a
stable and peaceful Middle East.
Egypt, I am urging all other world lead- Secretary of Energy
ers to support what Egypt and Israel have
done, for it offers hope to all who love
peace everywhere in the world.
My friends, let me thank you again for
coming out to greet us. I believe that God
has answered our prayers.
NOTE: The exchange began at 12:32 a.m.
Egyptian-Israeli Peace
Negotiations
Statement on Action by the Israeli Cabinet
Approving Proposals. March 14, 1979
I am extremely pleased that the Israeli
Cabinet has approved the two remaining
proposals that I discussed with Prime
Minister Begin on Monday in Jerusalem.
Prime Minister Begin has just called me
with this good news. This means that all
of the outstanding issues in the negotia-
tions between Egypt and Israel have now
been successfully resolved.
At this historic moment, I want to con-
gratulate the great leaders of both coun-
tries, President Sadat and Prime Minister
Begin, for their leadership and the cour-
age that they have consistently demon-
strated. The peace which their peoples so
clearly need and want is close to reality.
I am proud that our country has been able
to assist these two long-time adversaries
Letter to Senator Dennis DeConcini of
Arizona. March 14, 1979
To Senator Dennis DeConcini
This is a response to your letter of
March 12. While I welcome your views
and recognize that the administration of
the Department of Energy can always be
improved, I continue to have full trust
and confidence in Secretary James
Schlesinger.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Dennis DeConcini, United
States Senate, Washington, D.C. 20510]
He has a very difficult job, and needs
all the help and support he can get—
He's got mine-
JC
NOTE: The text of the letter was released on
March 15.
St. Patrick's Day, 1979
Message of the President. March 15, 1979
St. Patrick's Day brings out all of the
innate warmth, goodness and joy of living
that Irish people have brought to this
land. It joins us all in celebration of a
legacy that is a vital part of our national
character and way of life.
432
