Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 10
have the same conviction that it's not
well-advised.
Q. Would you intervene at all in
gambling policy?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Obviously, the
Federal Government has responsibility
through the Internal Revenue Service
and through the Justice Department and
other agencies to assure that legalities are
followed. This is a prerogative of the
States, in accordance with constitutional
delineations of responsibility. And only
when we deal with foreign governments
does the Federal Government have a di-
rect influence on gambling.
No, I wouldn't want to sponsor a con-
stitutional amendment giving the Federal
Government the authority to prohibit it,
but my own personal opinion is that
gambling is not good.
INFLATION AND TAXATION
Q. Mr. President, Dave Willmott,
Suffolk Life Newspapers, Westhampton,
[New York]. Indexing has been brought
up as a method of controlling inflation,
tying indexing inflation to taxes. Your ad-
ministration, I understand, has opposed
it. Could you tell us why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, most of the in-
dexing means that you have to do it both
ways. If the inflation rate goes up, then
all the other prices, payments to retirees,
pension payments, and everything go up
with it.
I think to have an automatic connec-
tion between the inflation rate and the
rate of taxation, or the rate of payment
of Federal funds for different programs, is
ill-advised. Quite often you need some
flexibility to decide on an annual basis
the best way to expend both tax privileges
and also to distribute tax funds once they
are collected.
Q. Doesn't indexing give the Federal
Government, though, an automatic tax
increase on a regular basis every time we
have inflation because of the progressive
income tax system that we're on?
THE PRESIDENT. The trends are cer-
tainly in the right direction. When you
have a higher inflation rate at a given—
for, if everything else stays the same,
people move into a higher income level
to get the same real wage, and therefore,
they pay a higher rate of taxation. That's
what you are talking about, a higher per-
centage of our income?
Q. Right.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. And the Con-
gress and the incumbent President, who-
ever it might be, take that into considera-
tion by modifying the tax laws generally
through reductions. But I think it's better
since it's done on an annual basis-some-
times it's considered several times during
the year—to do it in that respect rather
than to have an automatic formula.
U.S. FORCES IN SOUTH KOREA
Q. Mr. President, Virginia Reuss,
Gouverneur, New York. Do you have any
plans to bring back the troops from Korea
in the near future, and if you do, have you
an idea where they will be stationed, just
what will be considered?
THE PRESIDENT. Over a period of
time, I think the troops ought to be
brought back from Korea. We've had our
troops there for 30 years, and I've made a
basic decision that the troops should be
brought back.
The rate of returning them to the
United States is constantly being assessed.
We've already brought back a few. Right
now we are holding in abeyance any
further reduction in American troop
levels until we can assess the new intelli-
gence data on the buildup of North
Korean force levels, the impact of the
normalization with China, and the new
peace proposal or discussions for peace
247
