Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
been chosen one of the 10 best dressed
men in the world. [Laughter]
From January 1975, when I began my
campaign, until the convention took place,
in the summer of 1976, I had three blue
suits, they cost $42 each. [Laughter] And
that's all the clothes I had. [Laughter] So,
perhaps three blue suits in a political cam-
paign can get you to be one of the 10 best
dressed men in the world.
It's good to be here with Governor
Hugh Gallen. And I'm very proud that
Senator Tom McIntyre came down with
me on the plane today-came up. And
Senator John Durkin, thank you for com-
ing with me, too. And Congressman Norm
D'Amours, thank you. And I would like
to say also how thankful I am for the large
welcoming crowd who were out at the air-
port to meet me and the members of the
Governor's Council, Dudley Dudley, and
thank you for coming out. And also, Chris
Spirou, a great leader in the legislature,
and other members of the legislature, the
mayors of this region and, particularly,
you.
The people of New Hampshire, public
officials or otherwise, are very important
to me and very special in my life. Ports-
mouth, Berlin, Nashua, Keene, Clare-
mont, Charlestown, Meredith, many other
towns are not just names on a map, but
they are reminders of the faces and the
voices of friends like you who told me
about your concerns and about your hopes
for the country when I was in the early
stages of learning about the job of Presi-
dent. One of the advantages of being an
unknown candidate, when I came to New
Hampshire for the first time to campaign
in 1975, was that my family and I could
talk to you individually or in groups of five
or six, in living rooms and in kitchens,
across the counter at the drug store, or on
the street, in the beano halls. [Laughter]
I don't get a chance to do that very
much any more. And I miss it. But the best
way to regain that personal contact, I
found, is to come and answer questions in
a town meeting like this.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Recently, I talked to you and the other
people of our country on television about
our serious energy problems. Energy is still
very much on my mind. And I know it's
on your minds, too. We are using too much
foreign oil. And this threatens our future
as Americans.
We've learned one simple, painful fact:
We must use less oil, and we must pay
more for what we use. A phased-in decon-
trol of domestic oil prices will commence
June 1, and I have proposed to Congress
that we use income from a windfall profits
tax on the oil companies to finance an
energy security fund. Some of this money
will go to help those who are least able
to pay the increasing energy costs. The
rest will go to tap one of America's great-
est strengths, our scientific and technologi-
cal ability to develop new resources to fuel
our economy in the future.
I'm not going to try to sugar-coat it for
you. The energy future will not be pleas-
ant for you or for me or for other Ameri-
cans. You will pay more for oil. But the
gap between what you pay here in New
England and New Hampshire and what
other Americans pay, which is much lower
now this gap will narrow, and that
smaller difference in price will lessen the
incentive for industry and jobs to move
out of New England.
I know how important it is to have oil
to heat your homes. As a result of a cold
winter and the crude oil shortages brought
about by the prices in Iran, light fuel
stocks used for home heating are now at
historical lows. I have therefore directed
the Secretary of Energy to see to it that
inventories of fuel which supply home
700
