Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
countries that I won't name at this point
from turning to the nuclear option.
So, this is a very complicated subject.
I think our Nation has taken a leadership
role in constraint of nuclear proliferation.
But our own actions have not yet been
adequate to encourage other countries like
India to meet those very high standards
that we hope to make more stringent in
the future.
It's a little bit difficult for me to talk
to Prime Minister Desai, who has publicly
sworn that their government will never
again turn to a nuclear explosive and
never turn to nuclear weapons, when we
ourselves have not yet restrained the
spread of nuclear weapons.
So, it's difficult, sensitive, complicated,
and there's an additional factor of na-
tionalism and pride and self-autonomy.
All these factors make it very difficult for
us. But I think we've got to set a good
example and deal in good faith with other
countries and let them understand from
a common perspective the dangers of un-
restrained spread of nuclear production,
of power, and how to handle the waste
and prevent explosives from being
developed.
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, a question on the
wage and price guidelines. How satisfied
are you on how well they're working, par-
ticularly with regard to the fact that the
Teamsters settlement appears to be shap-
ing up somewhat in excess of what Mr.
Kahn and the Council has sought?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, in general, the
American working people, organized la-
bor, organizations, and others have com-
plied very well. I hope that their coopera-
tion will continue. The Teamsters nego-
tiation is a very important test case. So
far, I think the truckers and the Team-
sters are negotiating in good faith, at-
tempting to find a resolution that will
meet our standards.
Secondly, the major corporations,
which are the first ones that we have
monitored because of a very limited
staff-you might say the Fortune 500-
so far as I know, have complied with our
price guidelines. They have some flexibil-
ity built in. And I think it's accurate to
say that predictably, the companies have
interpreted those guidelines technically
correctly, but to their advantage, when
there was some flexibility.
We've asked them to be more stringent
in setting prices. Some of the middle and
smaller sized companies have not felt that
the guidelines applied to them. Most of
them have. We are now extending our
monitoring capability to companies of the
middle and smaller size. We have identi-
fied maybe 15 to 20 companies in the
whole Nation that we think are not in
compliance. We are now giving them a
chance to justify price increases that they
have already initiated. If they can't jus-
tify them adequately, then we will expose
those companies' names, we will take what
action is necessary to stop or to curtail
procurement from them, and let the
American consumer know if there are vio-
lations of the guidelines so that they can
take voluntary action themselves.
In addition to that, in particular areas
of supply where a particular product has
gone up higher in price than we think is
advisable, we are requiring companies to
file with the Council on Wage and Price
Stability now a record of their price in-
creases to make it easier for us to monitor
their compliance.
We have taken all these actions simul-
taneously in trying to set a good example
in the Government itself, with control of
hospital costs, with the substantial reduc-
tion in budget deficits, and other elimina-
560
