June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
rived more indirectly from the Sun. This
is a bold proposal, and it's an ambitious
goal. But it is attainable if we have the
will to achieve it.
Government action alone cannot make
this goal come true. It will require a con-
certed effort of all of us-government
at all levels, industry, labor, business,
inventors, entrepreneurs, architects,
builders, homeowners, concerned citizens,
all working together.
If we do not learn to eliminate waste
and to be more productive and more effi-
cient in the ways we use energy, then we
will fall short of this goal. But if we use
our technological imagination, if we can
work together to harness the light of the
Sun, the power of the wind, and the
strength of rushing streams, then we will
succeed.
In this as in all major national pro-
grams, of course, the Federal Government
can be a catalyst for change. I'm pro-
posing a coordinated governmentwide ef-
fort, using all the tools at our disposal,
to spend more than $1 billion in fiscal
year 1980 to stimulate solar and other
renewable forms of energy. I'm directing
the Tennessee Valley Authority, our Na-
tion's largest utility, to become a solar
showcase. I'm proposing major tax credits
to speed the development and the com-
mercialization of solar energy.
This strong Federal commitment to
solar energy will be sustained year after
year after
year after year. It will not be a
temporary program.
An important new program in the solar
strategy is the creation of a solar bank,
which will be funded out of the energy
security fund, the money to be derived
from the windfall profits tax now making
its way through Congress. This will allow
us to encourage the use of solar energy in
residential and commercial buildings and
in many
other uses.
In the year 2000, the solar water heater
behind me, which is being dedicated
today, will still be here supplying cheap,
efficient energy. A generation from now,
this solar heater can either be a curiosity,
a museum piece, an example of a road
not taken, or it can be just a small part
of one of the greatest and most exciting
adventures ever undertaken by the Ameri-
can people: harnessing the power of the
Sun to enrich our lives as we move away
from our crippling dependence on foreign
oil.
As President, I am determined that
America will move toward the solar age
with effectiveness and determination,
with excitement, high spirits, and with
confidence. Therefore, I dedicate, this
afternoon, this solar heater, harnessing the
rays of the Sun to the benefit of those who
serve our country at the White House,
with the faith that American technology
will meet challenges that lie ahead and
that we will build a more self-reliant and
a more secure nation for the generations
to come.
On behalf of the people of our coun-
try, I want to thank the Members of Con-
gress who are assembled here this after-
noon, the members of my own adminis-
tration, dozens of private citizens groups
who have long worked with dedication
and sometimes disappointment in in-
creasing the interest in and the dedication
to solar power. I think all of us working
together can assure the success of what is
being initiated this afternoon-a national
program supported and enjoyed by all
Americans to make solar energy a clean,
sure, economical, exciting part of Ameri-
cans' lives.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:31 p.m. at the
dedication ceremony, which was held on the
West Terrace at the White House.
1096
