May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and got the Saudis to pay for it. [Laugh-
ter] He told them that Arafat was the
main speaker, unfortunately. [Laughter]
And this afternoon they tried to stop
payment on the check but were unsuccess-
ful. I know from experience how fast they
can move down at the National Bank of
Georgia in Atlanta. [Laughter]
The problem in the Middle East, as it
is in our own country, is the difficulty of
people just to get to know each other. I
guess it's a problem everywhere. I've been
President now for 2½ years, almost, and
some of the columnists, my dear friends
and yours-[laughter]-say that even
some people in the country still don't
know me.
Well, I don't put much faith in that
kind of talk, but I was in Iowa last Friday
morning. I was talking to a small group
of men and women about my plans for
the Nation, what I thought we could do
as a combined partnership of all kinds of
people. And one fellow came up after the
little meeting, and he said, “Mr. Carter,
you make a lot of sense to me." He said,
"Have you ever considered running for
public office?" [Laughter] And I said,
"Well, as a matter of fact, I've even
thought about the Presidency." And he
said, "Well, would you mind if I organize
kind of a 'Draft Carter' movement?" He
said, "We have to get that dope out of
the Oval Office that's there now."
[Laughter]
I didn't mind that much, but he said,
"I understand he's just a wishy-washy
hairdresser." [Laughter]
This is a serious thing tonight. I have
tried to keep my speech on that plane.
[Laughter] The main thing I want to do
is to recognize the great work of Con-
gress. And I have to admit, as a new-
comer to Washington, I think about the
achievements of Congress every time Ros-
alynn and I drive by the National Visitors
Center. [Laughter] And it's not just brick
and mortar that has made you great. It's
not just accurate assessment of budget
costs for prospective projects. I think
you've helped to deal inflation a death
blow by providing free parking for con-
gressional employees. That's helped a
great deal. [Laughter]
And the Senate, as you know, has
shown superb personal courage. I remem-
ber last year I read about the sacrifice
that the Senators have been willing to im-
plement by putting a real limit on their
own personal income. And I want to con-
gratulate them on that great move.
[Laughter]
And then, of course, as I said earlier,
there's the National Visitors Center. I
can't give you all the credit for it. I know
almost all of you are Democrats, or either
Republican contributors who think the
Democrats are going to be here for a long
time-which I think we will. [Laughter]
So, it's more or less a bipartisan achieve-
ment, those I've outlined for you.
Today, the Senate even gave me, in a
very gracious manner, I thought, the full
responsibility for implementing in the fu-
ture gas rationing when it's needed.
[Laughter]
I've wondered ever since the vote why
the Republicans voted unanimously for
the proposal. But I think the analysis of
past achievements and past glory has been
adequately covered, and I'd like to take
the time to look to the future.
We're here tonight to lay the ground-
work, the financial groundwork, for next
year's congressional elections, 1980, a year
of victory for Democrats.
For 24 years, Democrats have con-
trolled the House and the Senate of the
United States Congress. Each Democratic
President John Kennedy, Lyndon John-
son and myself-have depended upon
and have never been disappointed with
828
