Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 9
keep the United States of America strong.
Peace will never be fully secure as long as
the shadow of nuclear war hangs over the
world. A SALT treaty will lessen the dan-
ger of nuclear destruction, while safe-
guarding our military security in a more
stable, predictable, and a more peaceful
world.
After more than 6 years of negotiations
under three different administrations,
we've essentially completed our work on
a new SALT agreement. President Brezh-
nev and I will schedule a summit meet-
ing as soon as it can be arranged, after
which the treaty will be submitted to the
Senate for ratification this year. We will
announce a time and a place for the sum-
mit meeting this week.
During these long and tedious months,
no President could possibly have a better
Secretary of State or a better Secretary
of Defense than Cyrus Vance and Harold
Brown. And we can all be thankful for
them.
SALT II continues and strengthens
the process of controlling the nuclear
arms race. It establishes for the first time
the principle of equal numbers of strate-
gic missile systems, both overall limits and
limits on individual types of missiles,
which will result in the first negotiated
decrease in operational Soviet nuclear
systems. It will also impose the first im-
portant restraints on the race to build
new systems or to improve existing ones—
the so-called qualitative nuclear arms
race. This is the first time it's ever been
done.
The SALT II treaty is not a substitute
for a strong defense. We'll continue to
maintain an effective and flexible strate-
gic capability. The SALT II treaty and
the protocol preserve our right to pursue
all of the defense programs we've planned
or which we may need, in my judgment
or in the judgment of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff. But SALT II also helps to limit
and define the threats that we must face.
Thus, it will make our defense efforts
more certain and less costly with this
treaty.
This issue must be fully aired in open
debate before the American people. I
know that
you will contribute to that dis-
cussion. And I look forward to working
closely with you individually on this vital
issue and to your support on this impor-
tant step toward greater American secu-
rity and world peace.
I've only got one life to live and one op-
portunity to serve in the highest elected
office in our land. I will never have a
chance so momentous to contribute to
world peace as to negotiate and to see
ratified this SALT treaty. And I don't
believe that any Member of the Senate
will ever cast a more important vote than
when a final judgment is made to confirm
and ratify this negotiated treaty.
A peaceful world is perhaps the most
precious gift that we can pass on to our
children. We won a victory for that kind
of world when the peace treaty was signed
between Egypt and Israel, as the Vice
President mentioned. The United States
was able to play a crucial role in that cru-
cial time to make it possible.
But although I was proud to be a part,
that treaty was not a personal accomplish-
ment for us. The treaty was a tribute to
two courageous leaders, President Sadat
and Prime Minister Begin. But it was also
a tribute to the moral strength and to the
leadership of this Nation. It was possible
only because the people of Israel and the
people of Egypt recognized that the Amer-
ican people will always support those who
seek freedom and justice and peace.
That was the foundation on which the
mutual trust was based that led to this
achievement.
831
