Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 16, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session With Editors and News
Directors. February 9, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I apologize for
interrupting your meeting. [Laughter]
It's a pleasure to have you here. Coin-
cidentally, you comprise a group within
which the 1,000th editor or news execu-
tive sits, who've come here since we began
this series shortly after I took this office.
Twice a week* I have a chance to meet
with the national press over here in the
White House area, and twice a week* I
meet with a group like yourselves from
around the country. I'm very grateful that
you could come.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
What I'd like to do is to outline, as
quickly as I can, just a few issues that are
affecting me and our people within this
country in domestic and foreign affairs
and spend what time we have available
answering your questions.
I'm preparing this weekend, and have
been for the last couple of weeks, for
a very important foreign trip to Mexico.
We've got a very large number of closely
interrelated subjects to discuss between
*Twice a month. [Printed in the transcript.]
myself and President López Portillo and
others. I think you know the closeness with
which we have consulted with Mexico
since I've been President. The first thing
that happened when López Portillo was
elected was my wife went to his inaugura-
tion. His wife came to mine. My first
visitor who came here representing a for-
eign country after I became President was
President López Portillo, and I've been
looking forward to this visit as well.
We are continuing our negotiations on
SALT. Every Friday morning when
Vance and I are in town, we have an
early breakfast, and we are pursuing that.
We've invited the Foreign Ministers
of Egypt and Israel to come over here to
this country to meet with Secretary Vance,
and I'll undoubtedly be meeting with
them as well while they are here. We hope
that this will resolve the differences that
still exist on a Mideast peace treaty.
We have ongoing negotiations now with
ourselves and four other of our Western
allies, through the United Nations, to
bring about majority rule and independ-
ence for the nation of Namibia.
We've concluded, as you know, in the
last 2 weeks, preparations and the consum-
mation of Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping's
visit. A couple more of our key Cabinet
officers will be going to China very
shortly-Secretary of Commerce, Secre-
243
