Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
into its technical installations items re-
quired for the proper functioning of the
installations and personnel.
f. As determined by the Joint Commis-
sion, Israel will be permitted to:
(1) Maintain in its installations fire-
fighting and general maintenance equip-
ment as well as wheeled administrative ve-
hicles and mobile engineering equipment
necessary for the maintenance of the sites.
All vehicles shall be unarmed.
(2) Within the sites and in the buffer
zone, maintain roads, water lines and
communications cables which serve the
sites. At each of the three installation
locations (T1, T2, and T3, and T4),
this maintenance may be performed with
up to two unarmed wheeled vehicles
and by up to twelve unarmed personnel
with only necessary equipment, including
heavy engineering equipment if needed.
Force at landing sites outside the perim-
eter of the installations.
h. Israel will inform the United Nations
Force at least one hour in advance of each
intended movement to and from the in-
stallations.
i. Israel shall be entitled to evacuate
sick and wounded and summon medical
experts and medical teams at any time
after giving immediate notice to the
United Nations Force.
4. The details of the above principles
and all other matters in this Article re-
quiring coordination by the Parties will be
handled by the Joint Commission.
5. These technical installations will be
withdrawn when Israeli forces withdraw
from the interim withdrawal line, or at a
time agreed by the parties.
ARTICLE VI
This maintenance may be performed Disposition of Installations and Military
three times a week, except for special
problems, and only after giving the
United Nations four hours notice. The
teams will be escorted by the United
Nations.
g. Movement to and from the technical
installations will take place only during
daylight hours. Access to, and exit from,
the technical intallations shall be as
follows:
(1) T1: through a United Nations
check point, and via the road between
Abu Aweigila and the intersection of the
Abu Aweigila road and the Gebel Libni
road (at Km. 161), as shown on Map 2.
(2) T2 and T3: through a United Na-
tions checkpoint and via the road con-
structed across the buffer zone to Gebel
Katrina, as shown on Map 2.
(3) T2, T3, and T4: via helicopters
flying within a corridor at the times, and
according to a flight profile, agreed to by
the Joint Commission. The helicopters
will be checked by the United Nations
Barriers
Disposition of installations and military
barriers will be determined by the Parties
in accordance with the following guide-
lines:
1. Up to three weeks before Israeli
withdrawal from any area, the Joint Com-
mission will arrange for Israeli and Egyp-
tian liaison and technical teams to con-
duct a joint inspection of all appropriate
installations to agree upon condition of
structures and articles which will be trans-
ferred to Egyptian control and to arrange
for such transfer. Israel will declare, at
that time, its plans for disposition of in-
stallations and articles within the installa-
tions.
2. Israel undertakes to transfer to Egypt
all agreed infrastructure, utilities, and in-
stallations intact, inter alia, airfields,
roads, pumping stations, and ports. Israel
will present to Egypt the information
necessary for the maintenance and opera-
506
