Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
II. FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES
I am also announcing measures to
strengthen safeguards on Federal investi-
gations and record-keeping.
The bills on medical and financial rec-
ords will ensure that the government ob-
tains access to such records only for legiti-
mate purposes. In most cases, the indi-
vidual will be notified and given an op-
portunity to contest such access. I have
these additional proposals:
GOVERNMENT ACCESS TO NEWS MEDIA
FILES
The Supreme Court's decision last year
in Zurcher v. Stanford Daily poses
dangers to the effective functioning of our
free press. I announced in December that
we would develop legislation to protect
First Amendment activities from unneces-
sarily intrusive searches while preserving
legitimate law enforcement interests. Al-
though regulations already restrict Fed-
eral officers' investigation of the news
media, the problems raised by the Stan-
ford Daily case require new, stringent
safeguards against Federal, state and local
governmental intrusion into First
Amendment activities.
I am submitting this legislation today.
It will restrict police searches for docu-
mentary materials held by the press and
by others involved in the dissemination of
information to the public. With limited
exceptions, the bill will prohibit a search
for or seizure of "work product"—such as
notes, interview files and film. For docu-
ments which do not constitute work prod-
uct, the bill requires that the police first
obtain a subpoena rather than a search
warrant. This ensures that police will not
rummage through files of people prepar-
ing materials for publication and that
those subject to the subpoena have the op-
portunity to contest the government's
need for the information.
WIRETAPPING
The privacy of personal communica-
tion is an important civil liberty. Ameri-
cans are entitled to rely on that privacy,
except where a legitimate and urgent law
enforcement or national security purpose
creates an overriding need. The fact that
the person who is the target of surveil-
lance is usually unaware of it argues for
the tightest controls and for public ac-
countability for the officials who author-
ize surveillance.
Title III of the Omnibus Crime Con-
trol and Safe Streets Act of 1968 governs
the use of electronic surveillance of wire
and oral communications except in mat-
ters involving foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence. The National Com-
mission for the Review of Federal and
State Laws Relating to Wiretapping and
Electronic Surveillance has studied the
experience under Title III and has is-
sued findings and recommendations.
I am transmitting to Congress today a
letter which sets forth my detailed views
concerning those recommendations. In
general I endorse the recommended ad-
justments which would strengthen Title
III's protections for individual privacy. I
do not, however, support the recommen-
dation to amend the law to allow Fed-
eral officials below the rank of Assistant
Attorney General to apply to the courts
for wiretaps. Such a change would dimin-
ish accountability and increase the danger
of misuse. Also, I am not convinced that
the list of criminal statutes for which elec-
tronic surveillance orders may be obtained
should be expanded. I have asked the At-
torney General to consult with the Secre-
tary of the Treasury and with the Con-
585
