Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 16
California Legislature dealing with
dealing with
energy.
More than 2 years ago, I submitted to
the Congress a comprehensive package to
deal with the impending energy problem
in our Nation. The Congress took some
action, but they ignored completely the
need to take action on oil. This is a polit-
ically difficult issue to address, but it's
crucial that it be handled properly.
lationship that exists among all those who
are involved in seeking a solution.
Thank you very
much.
REPORTER. Did you say that June
would be better-did you tell the Gover-
nor that June would be better than May
as far as gasoline supplies?
THE PRESIDENT. We think that these
changes that were made the 1st of May in
allocation formulas and the improve-
ments now in supplies that are available
to refiners and for distribution brought
about by the restoration of Iranian pro-
duction will have a beneficial effect in the
We will now begin to decontrol oil over
the next 28 months in a very carefully
phased manner. This will encourage do-
mestic production. It will decrease our de-
pendence upon imported foreign oil, future, yes.
and it will also help to encourage
conservation.
I have also asked the Congress to pass
a windfall profits tax to be sure that the
people of our Nation are protected from
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:34 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
unwarranted and unearned profits by the Gasoline Shortages in California
oil companies resulting from the decon-
trol of oil prices.
The last thing I'd like to say this after-
noon is that it's very important that the
consumers of our Nation, the producers
and refiners of oil, the developers of other
sources of energy, the President and my
whole administration, the Congress, State
and local officials, all work together to
deal with the energy shortage in an effec-
tive and cooperative basis.
It's nonproductive to seek a scapegoat.
It's a serious problem that's going to be
with us for years in the future. We can
resolve it if we take actions similar to
those that we have taken in the last few
days, which I am sure will improve the
situation in California, Nevada, and other
States that have been heavily and ad-
versely impacted over the last few days be-
cause of gasoline shortages.
This is an important issue to our coun-
try, and I've been very encouraged the
last few days at the close cooperative re-
Statement by the President. May 16, 1979
Over the last month, California has
been plagued by gasoline shortages and
long lines at service stations. With the
actions which I am taking today and the
cooperation of the elected officials and
the citizens of California, from this point
we should begin to overcome the severe
difficulties we have encountered.
California and certain other Western
States have been particularly hard hit by
the nationwide tightness in gasoline
supplies. When I was in California, I
learned firsthand of the frustration and
anger which the gasoline shortage has
caused. For Californians trying to get
to work, to meet emergencies, and to
carry out the essential business of their
daily lives, the shortage has caused acute
and unacceptable problems, particularly
where public transit is unavailable. I
share the concerns of and sympathize with
Californians who are stymied by long lines
873
