June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the leaders of North and South Korea
negotiating directly with one another,
either with or without our own presence,
to reach an accommodation with one an-
other. But until that happy event can
come to be, we will continue to maintain
an American presence there to keep the
balance of power intact within the Ko-
rean peninsula to ensure peace.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
MR. HIDAKA. Do you have at this time
any desire to visit China soon?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would like to
visit China within the next 12 months
or so. I will not go this year. Our Vice
President will go to China this year. But
I have received an invitation to visit
China from Chairman Hua and Vice
Premier Deng Xiaoping, and I have told
them that when the occasion permits,
hopefully within the next 12 months, I
I would like to visit China.
U.S.-JAPANESE RELATIONS
MR. HIDAKA. On general terms, you are
optimistic on the relationship between
Japan and the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Very much so, yes.
MR. HORI. No future danger or any
trouble, anything you do not foresee or
anticipate?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We are independ-
ent countries, each making its own deci-
sions. But we have so many things in
common, and we have such an easy ability
to communicate with each other and to
address any disputes or differences imme-
diately, before they become a crisis, that
I can see no possibility in the future of
serious differences arising between our
two countries.
MR. HIDAKA. Personally, I got sur-
prised so much you know about Japan
and the Emperor. How did you learn
that? Did you know before? Did you
make a quick study, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I have been inter-
ested in Japan and have studied about
Japan for many years. I was in Japan
briefly in 1975. And because of my own
responsibilities as President of the United
States, I've long recognized the impor-
tance to us of Japan. We have many
visitors here from Japan, and we have
many Americans who go to Japan. So,
because of our common interests, this has
aroused my own study of Japan.
I have been interested in the Emperor's
poems-not only himself, but his grand-
father and others and how simple and
beautiful they are as expressions of the
basic philosophy of the Japanese people-
a quiet dignity, a reverence for the his-
torical characteristics of the nation, a
willingness to accommodate change with
assurance and confidence and hard work
and dedication, a peaceful inclination to-
ward one another, a calmness and grace,
an awareness and an appreciation for the
natural beauty of the Earth. These kinds
of expressions in the Emperor's poems
have been very interesting to me.
In addition, his accomplishments as a
scientist have been of great interest. I
have a scientific background myself, and
so that's one reason that I'm very excited
about having a chance to meet him per-
sonally.
MR. HORI. Mr. President, could you
convey directly to the viewers your mes-
sage on this occasion?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'd be glad to. I
think I'll look at the people directly.
On behalf of the 220 million people
who live in the United States of America,
I want to express to the people of Japan.
first of all, our great and unswerving
friendship, a recognition that we share
common commitments, common goals,
common problems, common ideals, and
a common future. In the area of common
security, trade, commerce, education, cul-
ture, tourism, science-in all these areas
1112
