Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 1
objectives of section 402 of the Trade Act
of 1974. Emigration from Romania to the
United States has continued to increase
during the period in which the waiver has
been in effect, and 1978 saw a dramatic
increase in overall emigration from Ro-
mania. The Administration has continued
to advise Romanian officials periodically
of our high interest in emigration both to
the United States and to Israel. Most re-
cently, we expressed our interest in im-
proved emigration to the Government of
Romania during high-level bilateral con-
sultations held in Bucharest within the
framework of the Final Act of the Confer-
ence on Security and Cooperation in Eu-
rope. Emigration to Israel and binational
marriages were also discussed in detail
during these consultations. This close dia-
logue with Romanian officials has led to
the favorable resolution of many emigra-
tion and other humanitarian problems. In
view of continuing progress in this respect,
I recommend continuation of the waiver
for Romania.
On April 7, 1978, when I issued a deter-
mination waiving the application of sub-
sections (a) and (b) of section 402 of the
Act with respect to Hungary, I noted that
the Hungarian Government had stressed
to the U.S. Government that it intended
to continue dealing with emigration mat-
ters in a responsive and humanitarian way.
Since that time the actions of the Hun-
garian authorities have remained consist-
ent with this policy. The majority of Hun-
garians seeking to emigrate may do so
without undue difficulty. Very few prob-
lem cases arise, and U.S. officials can dis-
cuss these constructively with the Hun-
garian Government. Most problem cases
ultimately are favorably resolved. In view
of the Hungarian record, I have deter-
mined that a continuation of the waiver
for Hungary will substantially promote
the objectives of section 402 of the Act.
Trade With Romania
and Hungary
Memorandum From the President.
June 1, 1979
Presidential Determination No. 79-10
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Subject: Determination under Subsections
402(d) (5) and (d) (5) (C) of the Trade
Act of 1974-Continuation of Waiver
Authority
Pursuant to the authority vested in me
under the Trade Act of 1974, (Public Law
93-618, January 3, 1975; 88 Stat. 1978)
(hereinafter "the Act"), I determine, pur-
suant to Subsections 402 (d) (5) and (d)
(5) (C) of the Act, that the further exten-
sion of the waiver authority granted by
Subsection 402 (c) of the Act will substan-
tially promote the objectives of Section
402 of the Act. I further determine that
continuation of the waivers applicable to
the Socialist Republic of Romania and to
the Hungarian People's Republic will sub-
stantially promote the objectives of Sec-
tion 402 of the Act.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:51 p.m., June 12, 1979]
United States Ambassador
to Niger
Nomination of James Keough Bishop.
June 1, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate James Keough Bishop, of
New Rochelle, N.Y., to be Ambassador
979
