Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 1
pendence. The two sides consider that the
difference in their social systems should
not constitute an obstacle to their
strengthening friendly relations and co-
operation. They are resolved to work to-
ward this end, and they firmly believe
that such cooperation is in the interest
of their two peoples and also that of peace
and stability in the world and the Asia-
Pacific region in particular.
Vice-Premier Deng Xiaoping on behalf
of the Government of the People's Repub-
lic of China and President Carter on be-
half of the United States Government
signed an Agreement on Cooperation in
Science and Technology and a Cultural
Agreement. Vice-Premier Fang Yi and the
President's Science Adviser Frank Press
signed and exchanged letters of under-
letters of under-
standing on cooperation between the two
countries in education, agriculture and
space. Vice-Premier Fang Yi and Secre-
tary of Energy James Schlesinger signed
an Accord between the two countries on
Cooperation in the Field of High Energy
Physics. Foreign Minister Huang Hua and
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance signed an
Agreement on the Mutual Establishment
of Consular Relations and the Opening of
Consulates General in each other's coun-
try.
Each side agreed to facilitate the ac-
creditation of resident journalists by the
other side.
The two sides agreed to conclude trade,
aviation, and shipping agreements. These
will be discussed during the visits to the
People's Republic of China by Secretary
of the Treasury Michael Blumenthal and
Secretary of Commerce Juanita Kreps.
On behalf of the Chinese Government
and Premier Hua Guofeng, Vice-Premier
Deng Xiaoping extended an invitation to
President Carter to visit China at a time
convenient to him. President Carter ac-
cepted this invitation. President Carter
extended an invitation to Premier Hua
Guofeng to visit the United States. Vice-
Premier Deng Xiaoping accepted this in-
vitation on behalf of Premier Hua
Guofeng. The specific time for these visits
by the top leaders of the two countries
will be discussed and decided upon at a
later time.
Presidential Commission
on World Hunger
Appointment of Orville L. Freeman as a
Member. February 1, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Orville L. Freeman, of Ard-
ley-on-Hudson, N.Y., as a member of the
Presidential Commission on World Hun-
ger.
Freeman, 60, was Secretary of Agricul-
ture from 1961 to 1969. He is currently
chief executive officer of Business Inter-
national Corp. He is the author of "World
Without Hunger" and numerous articles.
Red Cross Month, 1979
Proclamation 4636. February 1, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Since its founding in 1881, the Ameri-
can Red Cross has had one basic purpose:
The concern for others in distress. Indica-
tive of this concern is the fact that over
five million people successfully completed
Red Cross safety courses last year. Many
of them received instructions in cardio-
pulmonary resuscitation and first aid
techniques for choking. Exemplifying
213
