Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 23
temporarily or historically to our advan-
tage.
And we cannot say to the Soviet Union,
"Unless all Cuban troops are removed
from Angola we will never sign a SALT
agreement with you."
Our negotiating of the SALT treaty
has been in the best interest of the United
States. It's in our best security interests.
It lays a basis for enhanced prospects for
peace. It gives us greater flexibility to use.
our conventional forces to carry out the
purposes of our Nation that I recently,
last few minutes ago, described to you.
I think every potential altercation or
difference or competition with the Soviet
Union in a troubled region of the world—
and, as I say, these are inevitable-would
be greatly exacerbated if we fail to con-
clude a SALT agreement or if we, on our
own, refuse to negotiate with the Soviet
Union to bring about a lessening of de-
pendence upon nuclear weapons.
I consider the SALT treaty to be well
negotiated in its present form, approach-
ing a conclusion, I hope, in the best in-
terests of our country standing on its own.
And we could not permit the Soviet
Union to say to us,
us, "Unless you withdraw
all your troops from South Korea, unless
you reduce your military strength in
NATO, unless you sever your relation-
ships with Egypt, unless you permit us to
come into the Mideast situation as a full
negotiating partner, we will not sign a
SALT agreement." We would consider
that to be an absolutely unwarranted in-
trusion on the freedom of our country to
make our own decisions based on what's
best for our people.
And I think for us to claim that we
can demand the same sort of restraint on
the part of the Soviets as a prerequisite
to the conclusion of a SALT agreement,
that we consider it to be in our own best
interest, is unwarranted and ill-advised
and, obviously, unacceptable to them or
in our own best interests.
So, obviously, we will have to cooper-
ate with the Soviets whenever we can, to
lessen tensions, to cooperate on trade, to
try to detect common purpose where we
can cooperate, to conclude agreements
that might lessen tension and improve the
possibility for peace. At the same time,
we will compete with the Soviet Union
when we have differences with the fullest
confidence that we will continue to be
successful.
And I think those two ideas are not
incompatible for a strong, secure, able,
confident, enlightened nation like the
United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2: 10 p.m. in the
Loy Henderson Conference Room at the De-
partment of State.
National Caucus on the
Black Aged
Remarks at a White House Luncheon
Honoring Recipients of the Organization's
Living Legacy Awards. February 23, 1979
Well, I've had the privilege, which has
not been the good fortune of many
Americans, to be introduced twice in the
same day by Aaron Henry, and I appre-
ciate that.
Mr. Chairman and members of the Na-
tional Caucus on Black Aged, it's really an
honor for me as President of our Nation
to participate in a ceremony, a social
event, a gathering which indeed is un-
precedented in the history of the White
House.
I've looked with great care at the name
of this organization-Aaron Henry has
not let me forget it since I've been Presi-
dent. And we're delighted to have a
317
