May 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of brotherhood and sisterhood to work
for peace.
If our bellies are full and we are safe
and secure, these fears, among others,
contribute to our own sense of selfishness
and the avoidance of responsibility. Peo-
ple are so concerned with getting ahead,
with preserving what we have, with beat-
ing the system, that we refuse to become
involved with anything outside our own
personal lives. By taking refuge in either
complacency or hopelessness, we mistak-
enly believe that we can grab and hold
the best deal for ourselves in a difficult
world.
Our problems are serious and they are
real. They will not disappear if we ignore
them. There are powerful special inter-
ests in our country which feed on the
apathy of ordinary citizens. They enjoy
the special privilege of power and influ-
ence, and they are determined to block
positive change.
Those among you who believe in
change-in improvement-those who are
committed to making our country a
greater country, must let your voices be
heard if we are to defeat these special
interests.
We know we need better programs in
welfare, health care, education, and jobs.
We know we need to control inflation,
eliminate racial discrimination, have uni-
versal voter registration, control nuclear
weapons, and help bring about majority
rule in southern Africa.
The Congress of the United States can
either make these decisions or block these
decisions-decisions which affect every
person in America.
I usually do not like polls. But I would
like to take a little poll right here in the
quadrangle. All of you who care about
jobs, peace, eliminating racism, and en-
suring justice for men and women, black
and white, would you please raise your
hand? Now, put your hands down. That's
the easy part.
Tell the truth. Now all of you who
voted in the last congressional election,
1978, in November, would you raise your
hand? That's much better than the na-
tional average. [Laughter]
The question I would like to ask you
is, why did the others not vote? Martin
Luther King, Jr., was willing to risk and
even give up his life so that you might
have the right to vote-the right to shape
the actions of your own Government. And
he was not the only one. A lot of brave
people have suffered and some have died
to win that basic right. But that right is
hollow, that right is empty, unless you
use it.
When the Brown decision was handed
down 25 years ago last Thursday, the
school doors did not open up the follow-
ing Monday. Do you know when they
really began to let little black children
into the schools that had been all white?
I'll tell you when it began when the vot-
ing rights bill was passed, that's when it
began.
Both political candidates and incum-
bents have got to know that you will both
vote and act. How are we going to have
leadership to fight for equal opportunity
and affirmative action in jobs, schools,
and housing if even the act of voting is
too great an effort?
Last November, two-thirds of the reg-
istered American adults did not vote. I
ask you to join me in overcoming fear
about the future, in battling apathy, and
in fighting for change. One place to begin,
for instance, is to keep the pressure on for
equal opportunity in education and jobs.
Our economy has added 250,000 jobs
for black and other minority teenagers
since I became President. This year, we've
committed $3.4 billion for youth employ-
ment and training-twice what we were
910
