Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 23
prosperous, democratic nation at peace
and a divided nation confronting the
serious and complicated problems of en-
ergy, inflation, and even the possible
threat of nuclear war.
Your commitment and your help in
making the discussion of these issues both
wider and better focused is extremely im-
portant. As the technology relating to
problems-all the way from oil produc-
tion to the monitoring of nuclear mis-
siles becomes so difficult, yours is the
kind of communicating technology that
our Nation's founders would have wel-
comed to help us conduct important na-
tionwide debates.
Cable television can help Americans
understand that individual proposals such
as the windfall profits tax, the wage and
price standards, and even the SALT II
treaty, are not final solutions to all our
national problems, nor are they political
spectator sports, nor are they points to be
scored in some kind of game of playing
the public opinion polls. But they are
steps in the continuing search for common
ground in our democracy's attempt to
deal with the horrors that could come
with war or depression or a lack of fuel
before these crippling events can occur.
For example, we have an energy crisis
in our country, a real energy crisis. Yet
too few of our people and even fewer
of our politicians are willing to face that
reality. I proposed a windfall profits tax
now on domestic oil production. It's de-
signed not only to keep oil companies
from pocketing billions of dollars in un-
earned, excess profits but also to begin to
work on new scientific and technological
solutions that can do for energy what sat-
ellites and cable are already doing for
communications.
Inflation is even more difficult, be-
cause, unlike oil, we can't see it, we can't
store it, we can only feel it as it robs all
of us-business, people who work in fac-
tories, the elderly, the public. Who then is
to blame if we are all victims? Discussion,
as we're having this morning, can help
us to realize that as each panicked sector
tries to shove past another, tries to grab
an advantage that's selfish; it's all of us
who are robbing ourselves. This has to
stop. We have to agree to stop it together.
Above all, I want the American people
to discuss the strategic arms limitation
treaty that I intend to sign in Vienna, Aus-
tria, next month, because it's essential to
our responsibility as a force for peace in a
nuclear age; because it will make our
world safer and our country more secure;
because I deeply believe it's the most vital
step that we can take to preserve that
most fundamental human right, the right
that comes first in the Declaration of In-
dependence, the right to live.
I'm not here this morning just to sell
SALT or to sell wage and price standards
or to sell a windfall profits tax. I'm here
to open the discussion with you and
among you to get you involved in the
free exchange of ideas. That's the only
way we can shape real solutions instead
of just empty slogans for our complex
problems.
And now I'll be glad to take your
questions.
QUESTIONS
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
MR. SCHMIDT. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. We have some cable operators here
who would like to ask you a few ques-
tions. The first questioner is Bill Daniels
of Denver, Colorado.
Q. Mr. President, I believe most
Americans share with you a desire to end
the threat of strategic weapons. My ques-
tion is, however, how can we know with
sufficient certainty that the Soviet Union
is living up to its end of the bargain, es-
933
