Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
Court of Claims and the Court of Customs
and Patent Appeals into a single appellate
tribunal with expanded, nationwide juris-
diction for appeals in patent and trade-
mark cases as well as other matters.
This new forum would induce econ-
omies from the combination of the two
existing courts. Most import, however,
it would expand the Federal judicial sys-
tem's capacity for definitive adjudication
of national law and thereby contribute to
the uniformity and predictability of legal
doctrine in these areas, which have long
been marked by inconsistent appellate
decisions, encourage industrial innova-
tion, and in the long run reduce patent
and trademark litigation. I further note
that a similar need exists for uniformity
and predictability of the law in the tax
area, where conflicting appellate decisions
encourage litigation and uncertainty. The
Justice and Treasury Departments will
work with Congress to develop an appro-
priate solution.
-Permit more effective means of rule-
making and administration within the
Federal judiciary through the imple-
mentation of two proposals. One proposal
requires each court of appeals to appoint
an advisory committee composed of per-
sons outside the court to make recom-
mendations on the rules of practice and
operating procedure within that court.
These committees should do much to as-
sist the courts in formulating sounder
rules. The other proposal would restruc-
ture the membership of the circuit judi-
cial councils, the governing administrative
bodies in the eleven judicial circuits. The
councils will be made smaller and more
efficient and will include district judges
in their membersip for the first time. If en-
acted, these proposals will help assure that
the Federal courts conduct their business
so as to serve the public more effectively.
-Allowing equitable interest on claims
and judgments. There is a serious backlog
in civil litigation. Sometimes years pass
between the time of an injury and the
granting of a judgment. More years may
pass while that judgment is appealed.
Current Federal law is ambiguous about
whether and under what circumstances
interest may be paid for the period prior
to judgment, and permits unrealistically
low as well as conflicting rates of interest
while the decision is under appeal. Yet
such interest may be essential in order to
truly compensate the plaintiff or to avoid
the unjust enrichment of the defendant.
For instance, a plaintiff who is unlawfully
deprived of the use of $20,000 in 1976 and
who does not receive a judgment until
1979, could have obtained $4,500 in those
three years by investing the money at 7%
compounded interest. If a judgment on
appeal is entered at a rate well below the
prime interest rate, the losing party may
well profit from the appeal. The bill pro-
poses that where a defendant knew of his
potential liability, interest be awarded for
the pre-judgment period where necessary
to compensate the plaintiff for his losses
or to avoid the unjust enrichment of the
defendant. Post-judgment interest rates
would no longer be left to inconsistent
State laws, but along with the new pre-
judgment interest standard, would be
based on a nationally uniform rate. Liti-
gants would be encouraged to settle cases,
and not drag them out needlessly causing
additional expense.
-Other measures relating to the sound
administration of the Federal judiciary
are proposals providing more reasonable
terms for chief judges, enhanced integrity
for appellate panels, and easier transfer
for any case inadvertently started in the
wrong Federal court to the proper court
without loss of litigants' rights and with
savings of time and money.
345
