Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
bring about majority rule, an end to ra-
cism and hatred, and to terminate the
legal sanctioning of apartheid throughout
that great continent. In Nicaragua, we
are working with other countries to me-
diate a dispute and to bring about free-
dom and democratic principles in one of
our neighboring countries.
In the Middle East, we are trying to act
as a mediator under the most difficult
possible political circumstances to bring
about peace between two ancient ene-
mies. We've made a great deal of prog-
ress because of a desire of those people
for peace. This week, we'll dispatch an-
other delegation of negotiators and medi-
ators to the Mideast to resolve the last
elements of differences on language of the
peace treaty itself. And then we will ad-
dress a very major political question of
how to carry out the fullest terms of the
Camp David accords.
that had made it possible for them to be
deprived of opportunity. This must never
happen again.
War is a little dying child crying in a
burning village, an old man burying his
only son with a heart that can never be
comforted. It's a destruction of the hu-
man spirit and of all that we have that's
beautiful or valuable. War holds a real
threat of massive nuclear annihilation.
Only mad men today can believe that war
is the solution of anything.
We're trying to reach out a hand of
friendship to past enemies, to heal differ-
ences, and to provide for world peace.
We're in the last stages of negotiating a
SALT II agreement that will limit the
further spread of nuclear weapons be-
tween us and the Soviet Union and will
set for the world a clear example that our
Nation stands for peace.
This treaty, which I have personally
At that moment, it being a political supervised in its negotiation, will protect
question, I'm sure that this will be ele-
vated at least to the Secretary of State
level. And, if necessary, I will not hesitate
to invite President Sadat and Prime Min-
ister Begin to meet with me again to get
a peace treaty between Israel and Egypt.
A united, America, with your support,
gives us a strong and a vital voice that
can be heard abroad.
In closing, let me say that I was trained
in the art of war, but I share this dream
of Martin Luther King, Jr., that man-
kind can find a better way. Our genera-
tion knows too much of war. We've seen
it as it is. It's thousands of tons of bombs
falling in the middle of night. It's misery
and death in a wet and lonely foxhole, on
a frozen mountainside, or in a steaming
jungle-without fanfare and without
glory.
The poor who were not able to pay for
a college education were the first to go to
war and to give their lives to a country
our Nation's security interests. It will pro-
vide the prospect for future progress in
the future, in years to come, to cut down
further on nuclear weapons. And it will
be presented to the Senate for ratification
as a treaty as soon as it's concluded.
A rejection of this treaty would deal a
severe blow to the prospects for peace
around the world. It would deal a severe
blow to the control and the containment
of nuclear weapons. It would deal a se-
vere blow to the peaceful interrelation-
ships between the world's two greatest
military powers. It would deal a severe
blow to the opinion held of us by peace-
loving people in the small and developing
nations around the world. And it would
deal a severe blow to the opinion and
support of the United States enjoyed now
by us among our Western allies and those
who join with us in mutual defense trea-
ties. It would deal a severe blow to the
reputation of our country as a nation de-
sirous of peace.
32
