Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of that policy, and pending enactment of Color Television Receiver Imports
legislation on the subject, I have directed
all departments and agencies to continue
unofficially to conduct programs, trans-
actions and other relations with Taiwan.
To authorize legally the permanent im-
plementation of that policy, I am today
transmitting to the Congress a bill "to
promote the foreign policy of the United
States through the maintenance of com-
mercial, cultural and other relations with
Proclamation 4634. January 26, 1979
IMPLEMENTATION OF ORDERLY MARKET-
ING AGREEMENTS-AND THE TEMPO-
RARY QUANTITATIVE LIMITATION ON
THE IMPORTATION INTO THE UNITED
STATES OF COLOR TELEVISION RE-
CEIVERS AND CERTAIN SUBASSEMBLIES
THEREOF
the people on Taiwan on an unofficial By the President of the United States
basis, and for other purposes."
This bill will confirm the continued
eligibility of the people on Taiwan for
participation in programs and activities
that under United States law are to be
carried out with foreign governments;
provide for the carrying out of such pro-
grams and activities on an unofficial basis
through the American Institute in Tai-
wan, a non-profit corporation, and the
corresponding instrumentality being es-
tablished by the people on Taiwan; and
establish funding, staffing and adminis-
trative relationships of the Institute. It
also contains other authorizations and pro-
visions relating to the foregoing matters.
I am confident the Congress shares my
view that it is in the national interest
that these unofficial relations between
the American people and the people on
Taiwan be maintained. It is highly de-
sirable that this legislation be enacted as
promptly as possible. I look forward to
working with the Congress on this impor-
tant project.
The White House,
January 26, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the proposed legislation and
of America
A Proclamation
1. On March 22, 1977, the United
States International Trade Commission
(USITC) reported to the President (US-
ITC Publication 808) the results of its
investigation under section 201(b) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251 (b))
(the Trade Act). The USITC deter-
mined that color television receivers as-
sembled or not assembled, finished or not
finished, provided for in item 685.20 of
the Tariff Schedules of the United States
(TSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202) are being im-
ported into the United States in such in-
creased quantities as to be a substantial
cause of serious injury to the domestic
industry producing articles like or directly
competitive with the imported articles. By
an evenly divided vote, three USITC
Commissioners determined serious injury
to exist in the monochrome television re-
ceiver industry and three Commissioners
made no determination of injury with re-
spect to the monochrome receiver indus-
try. The Commissioners also had an evenly
divided determination on the question of
a section-by-section analysis of the legislation injury to that portion of the industry pro-
are included in the press release.
ducing subassemblies of color television
166
