May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Women's Business Enterprise
Memorandum From the President.
May 18, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
The Task Force on Women Business
Owners which began its work on Au-
gust 4, 1977, presented me with its report,
The Bottom Line: Unequal Enterprise
in America, on June 28, 1978. I then di-
rected the heads of all departments and
agencies to analyze its recommendations
and indicate what assistance they might
provide women business owners.
The Task Force found many obstacles
facing women entrepreneurs, including a
lack of adequate capital, lack of market-
ing opportunities, and lack of manage-
ment and technical skills. The Task Force
concluded that these deficiencies result,
at least in part, from discriminatory
practices. The Task Force also recognized
the significant contribution which small
businesses and women entrepreneurs can
make towards innovation, full employ-
ment and balanced growth in our econ-
omy.
To ensure that women can fully par-
ticipate in our economic system I have to-
day issued an Executive Order which es-
tablishes a national policy for expanding
the opportunities for women's business en-
terprise. The Order creates an Interagen-
cy Committee on Women's Business En-
terprise which will be the permanent
structure for promoting, coordinating and
monitoring greater efforts on behalf of
women-owned businesses by the Federal
Government.
The Order also directs Federal depart-
ments and agencies to cooperate with the
Committee and to develop affirmative ac-
tion plans for a greater role for women
business owners in their business assist-
ance and procurement activities.
There are many actions that agencies
and departments could take to implement
this policy. For instance, the Task Force
noted that since women face special bar-
riers in acquiring the capital necessary for
creating or expanding their own busi-
nesses, they need greater access to Federal
loan programs. As part of this new policy,
the Small Business Administration (SBA)
has agreed to take the following actions:
• Establish a goal of $50 million in FY
1980 for direct loans to women under Sec-
tion 7(a) of the Small Business Act;
• Initiate a pilot 7 (a) "mini-loan" pro-
gram in FY 1980 for women whose needs
for starting or expanding a business are
for amounts under $20,000 and evaluate
the usefulness of this pilot program in
creating successful enterprises over a rea-
sonable length of time.
•
Encourage full participation of wom-
en in procurement activities by instructing
SBA's Procurement Center Representa-
tives to locate and assist women-owned
businesses;
Try to add 15,000 women-owned
firms to SBA's new Procurement Auto-
mated Source System (PASS) by the end
of FY 1980.
Recent data indicates that women-
owned firms will receive only about $63
million in Federal procurement dollars in
FY 1979. The Task Force found that ef-
forts to encourage full participation of
women in Federal procurement activity
have been less than adequate. Therefore,
the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
has agreed to:
• Set the following overall goals for
Federal prime contracts:
1) An approximate doubling of the
dollar amount of Federal prime contracts
to women-owned firms in FY 1980 to at
least $150 million.
894
