Apr. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
From the products of our forests and
croplands, we can produce more gasohol,
already being used to replace gasoline in
several Midwestern States. We can pro-
mote the use of small-scale hydroelectric
plants, powered by the flow of ordinary
streams, without the need for big dams.
And we can turn increasingly toward
the ultimate source of all our energy-
the Sun.
There are, of course, already solar tech-
niques that are economical right now.
With existing tax credits and with our
new energy security fund, we can en-
courage even more rapid development
and more use of solar power.
In the future, we will use solar energy
in many other ways, including the direct
conversion of sunlight into electricity. We
already use this method for limited pur-
poses, such as in our space program, but
scientific discoveries will be needed to
make it more useful directly in our homes
and factories.
The energy security fund, derived
from the windfall profits tax, will pay for
these exciting new energy programs.
All of these steps can be part of a wider
international effort. Other nations are
eager to cooperate.
The actions and plans that I have an-
nounced tonight will move us away from
imported oil and toward a future of real
energy security.
These actions will give us a better life.
These are necessary steps, because our
country faces a serious petroleum problem
and a broader energy challenge.
The future of the country we love is at
stake. We Americans have met equal chal-
lenges in the past. Our Nation has endured
and prospered. Ours is a great country,
and we have bountiful resources and tech-
nological genius.
We must recognize the urgency of this
challenge—and we must work together
to meet it. Then we, too, will endure. We,
too, will prosper. We, too, will triumph.
Thank you, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. from the
Oval Office at the White House. His remarks
were broadcast live on radio and television.
Critical Energy Facility Program
Executive Order 12129. April 5, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in or-
der to provide for timely coordinated
Federal decisions on critical energy facil-
ity permit applications, it is hereby or-
dered as follows:
1-101. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall establish
a Critical Energy Facility Program.
1-102. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, after consult-
ing with the Executive agencies listed in
Section 1-103, shall make recommenda-
tions to the President as to which non-
nuclear facilities should be included in the
Program. The President shall identify
non-nuclear energy facilities which he
deems to be of critical national impor-
tance and which need Federal permits for
siting, construction, or operation. Those
facilities shall be included in the Program.
The Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget shall establish a sys-
tem through which deadlines will
be established for final administrative de-
cision-making by Executive agencies, con-
sistent with statutory requirements.
1-103. The following Executive agen-
cies shall participate in the Program and
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget may invite others to partici-
pate where appropriate:
614
