Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 3
maritime boundary in the Gulf of Maine
Area by a Chamber of the International
Court of Justice or, if such a Chamber
cannot be constituted in accordance with
the wishes of the Parties, by an ad hoc
Court of Arbitration. Resolution of the
maritime boundary by impartial dispute
settlement has proved necessary because
the two countries have not been able to
agree upon the location of the maritime
boundary in the Gulf of Maine Area.
The fisheries treaty contains provisions
for the conservation, management and
utilization of fish stocks of mutual interest
off the east coast of both countries. De-
tailed entitlement shares for various fish
stocks are set forth in the agreement, with
the shares subject to review every ten
years. A joint fisheries commission will be
established to implement the agreement,
and dispute settlement mechanisms will
be included as part of the institutional
framework to resolve differences that
might arise in the interpretation or imple-
mentation of the agreement.
I believe that these treaties are in the
best interests of the United States. The
fisheries treaty protects United States in-
terests in the important fisheries on
Georges Bank; and settlement of the
boundary will facilitate development of
the non-living resources of the contin-
ental shelf. Further delay in resolution of
these issues would be detrimental to con-
servation of the fishery resources and
could lead to serious irritants in United
States relations with Canada.
I recommend that the Senate give
early and favorable consideration to these
treaties and give its advice and consent
to their ratification.
The White House,
May 3, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
Convention
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. May 3, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit the Conven-
tion on Future Multilateral Cooperation
in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries for
advice and consent to accession. The Con-
vention was signed in Ottawa on Octo-
ber 24, 1978, by nine parties, not includ-
ing the United States, and subsequently
entered into force on January 1, 1979.
The Convention creates a successor or-
ganization to the International Commis-
sion for the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
(ICNAF) established by the Interna-
tional Convention for the Northwest At-
lantic Fisheries, done at Washington,
February 8, 1949 (the ICNAF Conven-
tion). The United States withdrew from
the ICNAF Convention effective Decem-
ber 31, 1976, because it was inconsistent
in several ways with the establishment of
the extended fishery management author-
ity of the United States under the Fishery
Conservation and Management Act of
1976. The United States subsequently
participated in the negotiation of the
successor Convention. Its provisions are
completely consistent with the provisions
of the Act.
Under this Convention, the United
States will receive and provide scientific
data, participate in the planning and co-
ordination of research activities, and have
available a multilateral scientific council
to review scientific studies and hypotheses
pertaining to fish stocks in the Conven-
tion Area. United States adherence to the
Convention will facilitate continuity of
the data base established and accumu-
lated over a period of 27 years under the
ICNAF Convention. In addition, the
777
