Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 9
power of the principles on which our
Nation was founded.
If we can help the nations of the Mid-
dle East eventually to work out a perma-
nent peace, it will be because they trust
the American people and our principles,
and not because they trust any one par-
ticular American President.
This is true not just in this administra-
tion, but from the moment of our birth
as a nation, through all times, as long as
we call ourselves a free people. We must
set an example for the rest of the world,
who look to us with such eager, question-
ing, often admiring eyes.
source of our Nation's true power on
which all else must rest. This is the foun-
dation for good leadership at all levels of
government. We Democrats offer this kind
of leadership, and this is why the future
of this party, the future of this State, and
the future of this Nation is so bright.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. in the
Virginia Room. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Richard J. Davis, chairman of the
Virginia Democratic Party.
Our next major goal, I would like to Energy Emergency in Florida
say in closing, is a SALT treaty, to curb
the horrible threat of nuclear destruction.
Our Nation was shaken within the last
few days by a potential serious accident
in Pennsylvania. I hope that one result
of that fright will be to remind every
American how vastly more destructive to
a hundred million American people, al-
most half our population, if there should
be a nuclear exchange of powerful and
destructive weapons between us and the
Soviet Union. It's the most serious threat
we face.
Any treaty that I sign will be negotiated
very carefully. I have already spent 2
years in these detailed negotiations.
They've been going on now for more than
6 years, including my own predecessors in
the White House. Any treaty that I sign
will enhance the safety and security of
our country. And any treaty I sign will
be adequately verifiable so that we can
know with our own means whether or
not the Soviets are complying with its
terms.
I will need your strong support in the
ratification of this necessary step to-
ward peace through strength. Peace and
prosperity through strength-peace and
prosperity through strength-this is the
Presidential Determination. April 6, 1979
Based on a Petition submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Florida, pur-
suant to Section 110(f) of the Clean Air
Act, I hereby determine that a regional
energy emergency exists in the State of
Florida of such severity that a temporary
suspension of certain particulate and
opacity control regulations which apply
to fossil-fuel fired electric generating
plants under the Florida Air Quality Im-
plementation Plan may be necessary, and
that other means of responding to the
energy emergency may be inadequate.
This determination shall be effective for
not more than thirty (30) days. If, during
the period of suspension, I find that a re-
gional energy emergency no longer exists
in Florida, I will direct that this determi-
nation of regional energy emergency be
rescinded and that all suspension orders
issued by the Governor be terminated ef-
fective on the day of that rescission. The
Administrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency retains full authority to
disapprove temporary suspensions of reg-
ulations in Florida and to exercise his
emergency powers authority under Sec-
637
