Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 28
panies, in order to get compliance agree-
ments from them, have the option, over a
period of time, to initiate the price in-
creases at the beginning, first of all, of a
year; then we cut it down to the begin-
ning of a 6-month period; and lately,
we've modified that, that they agreed to
have the price increases only in 3-month
increments, which holds down the impact.
So, I've been pleased so far. Inflation
is my biggest domestic problem. I don't
know an answer to it that's easy. And I
think that we will have a growing realiza-
tion that our wage and price standards are
working. I think they're working.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, 15 or 20 years
from
now, when we're looking back on the
Three Mile Island accident, what do you
think the significance of that episode will
have proved to have been in terms of the
role of nuclear power in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you realize
that the number of new nuclear plants
purchased in our country in the last few
years has been almost nonexistent. I
think in 1 year, the year I became Presi-
dent, there were no orders placed domes-
tically for new powerplants. We now
have, I think, 70, 72, that are operable,
and others being constructed.
When I ran for President in '76, on the
same ballot with me there were 22 States
that had referenda where the people
themselves were trying to consider,
"Should we authorize any nuclear plants
in our State, or should we prohibit them,
or under what circumstances should they
be authorized?" I think the Three Mile
Island accident will help to clear the air.
I think this report-which will not have
to wait 20 years, but will be coming to
me within 6 months-will accurately de-
termine the cause of the accident; the
defects in administration immediately
following the accident by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, the Federal,
State and local government agencies, the
power company; the way that facts were
revealed by those officials to the press, and
the way the press related them to the
public; whether there was an excessive
amount of concealment of the facts,
whether that concealment was deliberate
or not; I think, the design criteria, the
operation criteria; whether or not the
NRC has adequate authority, whether
they exercised that authority properly. I
think all these questions that had been
festering for literally years, maybe even
more than a decade, will now be resolved
to a substantial degree.
The American people still believe, by
a substantial majority, even immediately
following the Three Mile Island incident,
that there is a place for nuclear power in
the production of energy in our country.
And I think that following this incident,
many of those questions-I'll use the
word "festering" again—will be answered.
The Congress is about to make a serious
mistake, in my opinion, in launching us
into a plutonium society. The Clinch
River breeder reactor is a proposal which
was well under way before I became Presi-
dent. I have tried to stop it because of the
reason I've just described to you. It's a
brand new technology that advances far
beyond the light water uranium reactor
into a very complicated new technology—
liquid metal, a coolant with plutonium,
which in my opinion wastes over $12 bil-
lion of American taxpayers' money. And
I hope that the new sense of concern will
help to stop that wasteful project. In the
meantime, we will continue to promote
safety of the light water plants, and we'll
continue our research and development
program for the breeder reactor, which is
a plutonium reactor, so that it can be built
741
