May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
possibly swapping American grain for
Mexican oil.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. I was wondering at this time, would
you be willing to take that one step
further and speak to the OPEC countries
about that kind of a swap?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you
know that corn, for instance, or soybeans
or wheat is sold to the OPEC countries on
a worldwide marketing system. There's a
plentiful supply at this time. We have
desperately been trying to avoid the kind
of confusion that existed when I first came
to Iowa. We have increased exports every
year to set record levels-last year $27
billion worth of American farm products
were sold overseas. This year we hope to
reach $30 billion worth. So, I don't think
it would be feasible to try to work out any
sort of swap deal with the OPEC nations.
But with Foreign Minister Roel, to-
morrow at the Cinco de Mayo celebra-
tions in Los Angeles, I will discuss this
proposal made by Congressman Neal
Smith. That may be a sound basis on
which to reach an agreement, because the
proximity to Mexico means that we can
have special delivery both of oil from
them to us, including natural gas in the
future, and also grain. But to have a
similar swap deal, I think, would probably
be infeasible for the OPEC countries as a
whole.
OIL COMPANY PROFITS
Q. Mr. President, in the first 3 months
of this year, the American oil companies
had profits that were twice the average
profits for all American corporations.
Your Secretary of Energy, Mr. Schles-
inger, in a television appearance last
month, said that the profits of oil com-
panies are not too high, they're perfectly
in line with everyone else. Now, implicit
you
in your windfall tax proposal is the as-
sumption that if it isn't passed, and you
have decontrol, that the oil companies
will reap very, very high profits. My ques-
tion to you is, leaving aside the windfall
profits tax and the question of decontrol,
do think oil profits are too high now?
THE PRESIDENT. Compared to other
profits
corporations, the oil companies'
are at a high level, not higher than any
other corporations. On a comparison be-
tween capital investment and return on
investment, I think they're running 12
or 13 percent, which is a bountiful return
on investment.
If those returns are invested back into
increasing American production of na-
tural gas, oil, and other related materials,
I think it's a very sound thing for our
country. But the decontrol process will
give them additional income above and
beyond what I've described.
Under the windfall profits tax, of every
dollar in increased income from that
source, they would only be permitted to
keep 29 cents. My hope, again, is that they
would take that 29 cents and reinvest it
back into the further production of oil
and gas.
So, this is what I'm concerned about,
and the reason that I think in some in-
stances the profits have been excessive in
the past, above what they needed for pro-
duction, is that some of the oil companies
have gone far outside their field, even
completely beyond the realm of energy,
and bought fast food market chains, or
motels and hotels and things of that kind,
that have no relation to energy. I want to
see them invest their profits back into en-
ergy production.
FUEL SUPPLIES FOR AGRICULTURE
Q. Mr. President, in your speech this
morning you indicated, or tried to re-
802
