Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
come, much more than twice as much in-
come, as a single person working in a
family did 10, 15, 20 years ago. We have a
much higher standard of living.
I remember when I was a boy, for a
family to have an automobile made them
one of the richest families in the commu-
nity. And I grew up without electricity or
running water in my home. And many
things now that are taken for granted,
even by supposedly poor families, would
have been considered extremely wealthy,
you know, back just when I was a child.
So, I would guess that because people
do want to live a better life, to have more
leisure time, to learn more about the
world, to do more study, to have more
recreation, that they will continue to want
to have a higher wage income even than
one person can provide.
I know many people-I know you do as
well-where a husband might make a
fairly high income, $50,000 or $100,000
or more, where the wife decides to work
because she wants to express herself or
because she has some special talent or
wants to expand her life beyond the fam-
ily itself, certainly after the children are
grown or able to take care of themselves.
So, I would guess the trend would con-
tinue. It's not all because the families
would starve without the wives' help. But
I know that in this time of inflation that
two incomes can give a family that stand-
ard of living which they want and de-
serve.
I don't think I've answered your ques-
tion very well, but to say that I think
it's a permanent fixture on the American
scene to have many double wage earners
or even more, with children counted, in
a family, I think that's a time that's come.
I think it's going to stay with us. I don't
see anything wrong with it.
ABORTION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Sonja
Merz, and my question is dealing with the
subject abortion. And I'm very against
the subject, and I was just wondering
what your feelings are on it.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. As President, I
have a feeling that I should do everything
possible to hold down abortion in this
country. I am not in favor of Govern-
ment funds, for instance, being spent for
abortions. I would like to see a time in
our Nation come when every child is a
wanted child.
This is a very sensitive issue. It's one
that's very divisive. And as I watched the
1978 election returns coming in in Novem-
ber, I saw many of the Members of the
Congress, particularly who had favored
encouragement of abortions, lose their
seats because of the strong feelings against
it.
I want to be fair with you: I'm not in
favor of a constitutional amendment to
prohibit abortions, but I think that within
the realm of legislation and the action.
that can be taken by Government and by
private organizations and by individual
Americans, we should do everything we
can to minimize any need for abortions.
Q. Thank you.
REQUEST FOR A KISS
Q. My name is Joanne Savage Mefford,
and this is my daughter, Kelly. And
through Community Action, I work with
children at Head Start that have special
needs.
Mine is not a question, really, but a
welcome to you to my hometown and a
request for you to fulfill. I am a farmer's
wife, and I have mixed feelings towards
you. But I respect you and like to believe
that more can be attained through love
than through violence.
478
