Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
growth, even in the formative stages of
legislative proposals, mayors, county offi-
cials, Governors are intimately involved.
I think there's a remarkable degree of
harmony, which I value very highly. They
recognize that there is a difficulty between
environmental quality and sustained
growth. They recognize that there is a
potential conflict between rapidly improv-
ing employment opportunities and the
control of inflation. And my ability to
counsel with these wise and experienced
leaders, who are close to the people who
receive government services, is certainly
very valuable.
Under Jack Watson's leadership here
in the White House, the Interagency Co-
ordinating Council will help to bring in-
creasing order out of the chaos that did
exist in harmonizing the efforts and the
regulations and policies of different Fed-
eral agencies who deal with a single sub-
ject. And now there's a renewed commit-
ment that these confusing statements,
policies, regulations, administrative atti-
tudes will be resolved. And this is an ave-
nue, too, for Governors and others at the
local level to feed back into the system,
to say, “This program is working well, but
it can work better if we make a certain
change."
So, I want to express my deep thanks
to all those who are assembled here from
the Congress, from State and local gov-
ernments, and from my own administra-
tion, for the fine work that they have done.
They've brought in a wide range of in-
terested groups of a nongovernmental na-
ture-business, labor, education, and
others and I think this is a wonderful
product of a very fine and dedicated effort
among these responsible and competent
and unselfish individuals who have con-
tributed so much.
And now I'd like to sign my messages to
the Congress outlining the recommenda-
tions of the White House Conference on
Balanced Growth and also recommenda-
tions to the Congress on what we can do
in the future, together, to carry out these
beneficial commendations for congres-
sional action that will help the American
people have a better life.
Thank you all very much, and I'm
deeply grateful to you.
I might ask Jay Rockefeller if he would
respond briefly.
GOVERNOR ROCKEFELLER. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to thank you for the fact that
you did not, as you said you would not, in
any way take this White House Confer-
ence on Balanced Growth and shelve its
recommendations. You have very specifi-
cally, in the case of the Title V Commis-
sions, not only taken some of the sugges-
tions from the White House Conference,
but also through Jack Watson, the Inter-
agency Coordinating Council, have
worked, I think, extraordinarily closely
and effectively with the National Gover-
nors' Association. Governor du Pont, Gov-
ernor Judge were on a special task force
which dealt with Title V. You worked
very closely with them. The resolution of
that is partly here before us today.
I think the process of the White House
Conference was kind of a declaration of
interdependence on the different sections
of the country; people realizing that there
could not be North, South, East, West;
that there are common problems; we will
have our differences, but we work to solve
them together.
I think the presence of Governors, Sen-
ators Senator Randolph, of course,
fundamental to this whole process-so
many of your own people-Juanita Kreps'
outstanding leadership helped make this
possible. It was a successful conference
and one that I might say was the most
open process, the most participatory proc-
ess that either I or most of the others who
participated have ever had the chance to
be in.
67
