June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
solving that potential problem. Despite
weather problems, planting is now com-
plete in most areas. The danger of severe
crop loss is now past.
But the special allocation to farmers
has forced other diesel users to cut back
sharply.. Truckers, rail and barge com-
panies, and other users have experienced
severe reductions.
Because Rule #9 has succeeded in its
initial purpose, and may now be creating
significant supply dislocations, Secretary
Schlesinger, after consultation with Sec-
retary Bergland and the President, has
suspended Rule #9 effective immediate-
ly. This action will allow the normal dis-
tribution system for diesel distribution to
operate. This does not mean that farm-
ers will lack supplies necessary for their
operations. Farmers' needs continue to be
critical, and the President intends to en-
sure that they will be adequately supplied.
To ensure that farmers' needs are pro-
vided for, the President has asked Secre-
tary Bergland, in coordination with Sec-
retary Schlesinger, to monitor the farm
situation on a daily basis and to report to
him immediately if the situation changes.
The President also urges the Gover-
nors to use their State set-aside alloca-
tions to protect farmers against fuel short-
ages. We will continue to monitor the
situation closely so that we can make ad-
justments later if necessary.
In suspending Rule #9 only one allo-
cation has been retained. This involves
the priority for mass transit operations.
During a period of shortages of both gaso-
line and diesel fuel it would be self-defeat-
ing to allow diesel shortages to divert
commuters from energy-efficient buses
to automobiles. Because transit utilizes
only 2 percent of the Nation's diesel, this
allocation should not significantly impact
on other diesel users.
Increased supplies and more efficient
distribution should do much to help ease
supply shortages and to slow the recent
price spiral.
To help ease the price squeeze caused
by rising fuel prices, the ICC last week
implemented a new system to allow an
automatic, 100-percent pass-through of
fuel cost increases. This system will
provide independent truckers leasing to
regulated carriers with significant imme-
diate revenue increases. This index will
be adjusted weekly to cover any further
price increases, and the surcharge must
be passed through to independent opera-
tors. The President fully supports this
change in ICC procedures which will
benefit the majority of independent
truckers.
For exempt haulers who are not regu-
lated by the ICC, this fuel price sur-
charge published by the ICC should form
one basis for negotiations concerning a
fair price for hauling exempt commodi-
ties. In addition to this standard the
President has asked the Departments of
Agriculture and Transportation, work-
ing with the ICC, to develop plans for
publishing an index of prices charged for
hauling various exempt commodities. Up-
dated in a timely fashion, this index could
provide another basis for negotiations
between brokers and exempt haulers,
helping to ensure fair prices.
In addition to the critical issues of price
and availability of diesel fuel, the inde-
pendent truckers have raised a number of
other concerns.
For many independents one of the
most aggravating problems is the wide
variety of taxes, permits, and standards
under which they must operate in
the different States. The President will
immediately call together a number of
the Nation's Governors to discuss with
them ways in which we can bring about
1136
