June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
launchers of that type shall be considered
to have been developed and tested for
launching ICBMs.
First Common Understanding. If a
launcher contains or launches an ICBM,
that launcher shall be considered to have
submarine-launched ballistic missiles first
flight-tested since 1965 and installed in
any submarine, regardless of its type.
To Paragraph 3 of Article II of the
Treaty
been developed and tested for launching First Agreed Statement. The term “bomb-
ICBMs.
Second Common Understanding. If a
launcher has been developed and tested
for launching an ICBM, all launchers of
that type, except for ICBM test and train-
ing launchers, shall be included in the
aggregate numbers of strategic offensive
arms provided for in Article III of the
Treaty, pursuant to the provisions of
Article VI of the Treaty.
ers," as used in paragraph 3 of Article II
and other provisions of the Treaty, means
airplanes of types initially constructed to
be equipped for bombs or missiles.
Second Agreed Statement. The Parties
shall notify each other on a case-by-case
basis in the Standing Consultative Com-
mission of inclusion of types of bombers
as heavy bombers pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph 3 of Article II of the
Treaty; in this connection the Parties
shall hold consultations, as appropriate,
consistent with the provisions of para-
graph 2 of Article XVII of the Treaty.
Third Agreed Statement. The criteria the
Parties shall use to make case-by-case de-
Third Common Understanding. The one
hundred and seventy-seven former Atlas
and Titan I ICBM launchers of the
United States of America, which are no
longer operational and are partially dis-
mantled, shall not be considered as sub-
ject to the limitations provided for in the terminations of which types of bombers in
Treaty.
Second Agreed Statement. After the date
on which the Protocol ceases to be in force,
mobile ICBM launchers shall be subject
to the relevant limitations provided for
in the Treaty which are applicable to
ICBM launchers, unless the Parties agree
that mobile ICBM launchers shall not be
deployed after that date.
To Paragraph 2 of Article II of the
Treaty
Agreed Statement. Modern submarine-
launched ballistic missiles are: for the
United States of America, missiles in-
stalled in all nuclear-powered submarines;
for the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-
lics, missiles of the type installed in nu-
clear-powered submarines made opera-
tional since 1965; and for both Parties,
the future can carry out the mission of a
heavy bomber in a manner similar or su-
perior to that of current heavy bombers,
as referred to in subparagraph 3(b) of
Article II of the Treaty, shall be agreed
upon in the Standing Consultative Com-
mission.
Fourth Agreed Statement. Having agreed
that every bomber of a type included in
paragraph 3 of Article II of the Treaty is
to be considered a heavy bomber, the
Parties further agree that:
(a) airplanes which otherwise would
be bombers of a heavy bomber type
shall not be considered to be bomb-
ers of a heavy bomber type if they
have functionally related observ-
able differences which indicate
that they cannot perform the mis-
sion of a heavy bomber;
1060
