Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
to permit them to harness their own,
indigenous resources rather than become
dependent on fuels imported from other
nations.
It is a mistake to think of solar energy
as exotic or unconventional. Much of the
technology for applying the sun's power
to everyday tasks has been in use for hun-
dreds of years. There were windmills on
our great plains long before there were
high tension wires. There were factories
in New England using waterpower long
before the internal combustion engine
was invented. In Florida, before World
War II, there were more than 60,000
homes and buildings using solar hot water
heaters. The Native Americans who built
the great cliff dwellings of the West
understood and applied solar heating
principles that we have neglected in
recent years, but which are available for
us to use today.
These traditional and benign sources
of energy fell into disuse because of a
brief glut of cheap crude oil. These years
are over. That inescapable fact is not a
cause for despondency or a threat to our
standard of living. On the contrary, it
presents us with an opportunity to im-
prove the quality of our lives, add dyna-
mism to our economy and clean up our
environment. We can meet this challenge
by applying the time-tested technologies
of solar power, and by developing and
deploying new devices to harness the
rays of the sun.
The government-wide survey I com-
missioned concluded that many solar
technologies are available and economical
today. These are here and now technol-
ogies ready for use in our homes, schools,
factories, and farms. Solar hot water
heating is competitive economically today
against electric power in virtually every
region of the country. Application of pas-
sive design principles that take into ac-
count energy efficiency and make maxi-
mum use of the direct power of the sun
in the intrinsic design of the structure is
both good economics and good common
sense. Burning of wood, some uses of bio-
mass for electricity generation, and low
head hydropower have repeatedly been
shown to be cost competitive.
Numerous other solar and renewable
resources applications are close to eco-
nomic competitiveness, among them solar
space heating, solar industrial process
heat, wind-generated electricity, many
biomass conversion systems, and some
photovoltaic applications.
We have a great potential and a great
opportunity to expand dramatically the
contribution of solar energy between now
and the end of this century. I am today
establishing for our country an ambitious
and very important goal for solar and re-
newable sources of energy. It is a chal-
lenge to our country and to our ingenuity.
We should commit ourselves to a na-
tional goal of meeting one fifth-20%-
of our energy needs with solar and renew-
able resources by the end of this century.
This goal sets a high standard against
which we can collectively measure our
progress in reducing our dependence on
oil imports and securing our country's
energy future. It will require that all of
us examine carefully the potential solar
and renewable technologies hold for our
country and invest in these systems wher-
ever we can.
In setting this goal, we must all recog-
nize that the Federal government cannot
achieve it alone. Nor is the Federal budget
the only tool that should be considered in
determining the courses we set to reach
this goal. The extent to which solar and
renewable technologies become more
competitive will depend upon the cost of
existing sources of energy, especially oil
and natural gas. The degree to which ex-
1099
