Feb. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
versity of Rochester and a Ph. D. from
the University of California at Berkeley
in 1949.
York was with Berkeley from 1943 to
1958, as a physicist in the radiation labo-
ratory, a professor of physics and, from
1952 to 1958, director of the Lawrence
Radiation Laboratory, Livermore.
From 1958 to 1961, York was Director
of Defense Research and Engineering in
the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Since 1961 he has been with the Univer-
sity of California at San Diego. He has
been a professor of physics there since
1964, and has also served as chancellor,
as dean of graduate studies, and as direc-
tor of the program on science, technology
and public affairs.
Energy Use by the Federal
Government
Memorandum From the President.
February 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Subject: Reduction of Energy Use by the
Federal Government
Because of the world shortfall in oil
production resulting from the Iranian
situation, I am directing that executive
departments and establishments take im-
mediate steps to reduce the use of petro-
leum fuels. For this purpose, all agency
heads should establish goals, prepare
plans and issue necessary instructions to
implement them. The specific actions
that agency heads can take include, but
are not limited to, the following:
Lowering thermostat settings in Fed-
erally owned and operated buildings to
not more than 65 degrees during the day
and 55 degrees during the night.
Reducing electrical use generally
throughout agency activities, particularly
lighting.
Reducing petroleum use by eliminat-
ing unnecessary activities and vehicle trips
and combining and consolidating the es-
sential ones.
Reducing agency activities that use
large amounts of energy and could be
deferred, such as research and experi-
mental activities that involve the use of
highly energy intensive equipment.
In addition, I urge all agency heads ag-
gressively to pursue employee awareness
programs on energy conservation, and to
promote employee use of carpools and
mass transit.
Agency heads should submit their goals
and instructions for implementation to
the Secretary of Energy by February 15,
1979. Agencies which currently submit
quarterly reports on energy consumption
to the Department of Energy should in-
clude in their FY 1979 second quarter
report a statement showing energy sav-
ings accomplished from this special
effort.
Department of Defense operational
readiness activities are exempt from this
directive.
JIMMY CARTER
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's public schedule and other
items of general interest announced by the
White House Press Office and not in-
cluded elsewhere in this issue.
January 28
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David, Md.
216
