May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
meeting so that we can compare the pol-
icies of our two nations at that time. In
the meantime, our Cabinet members will
be consulting even more closely and per-
haps more personally.
But I'm obviously convinced that the
outcome of the election will not in any
way interfere in the superb relationships
that have always existed between our
countries since I've been in office and for
many years before that.
Des Moines, Iowa
Remarks at a State Democratic Party
Reception. May 4, 1979
My son Chip loves you-[laughter]—
my mother loves you and I love you.
I
think my mother considers Des Moines a
second home and particularly the Dixie-
land band who went to Ireland with her.
Thank you very much.
I'm really proud to be back. None of
you could ever know the feelings, even, of
emotion that sweep over me when I walk
into the room and I see Iowa people who,
when no one else in our Nation knew or
cared who I was, took me into your homes
and considered me to be a friend-I'm
sure, privately figured that I had no
chance ever to become President, but
didn't let that doubt stand in your way—
and who've now become almost like a
member of our own family.
I can tell you that there's not much
difference between Iowa people and those
where I live. In fact, throughout the
country, folks are interested in the control
of inflation, better life for our people,
control of nuclear weapons, peace, the
way the President parts his hair. [Laugh-
ter] So, I feel like I'm part of you, and I
am glad to be back.
It is a superb development, I think, in
Iowa to see how you've continued one of
the most dynamic and dedicated and com-
petent Democratic Party organizations in
our country. This has been an opportunity
to show the leadership of Ed Campbell,'
and I want to express my personal thanks
to him as President of our country and
as the titular head of the Democratic
Party for the great job he's doing here
in Iowa.
I want to say also that above every
other political consideration, no matter
what it might be, the number one priority
for me in 1980 in Iowa is the reelection
of a superb Senator, John Culver.
And I want to thank you for the great
support you gave Dick Clark when he ran
both times. This was a tragic loss for the
United States Senate, when Iowa aban-
doned its usual sound judgment and did
not send him back to Washington. But I
brought him back, and I am grateful and
I would like to say to you that he's one of
the finest men I've ever met. And he has
not only the competence and the dedica-
tion, the knowledge of human affairs, but
also the sensitivity and idealism to finally
make a success out of our own policy to-
ward refugees. And I'm glad that he was
able to ride with me from Washington
back to Iowa. And I want to personally
thank Dick Clark for what he means now,
what he will mean in the future, and
what he's always meant to you. Dick
Clark, thank you.
I knew that if I mentioned Dick Clark
the applause would take up all my time.
[Laughter] But I certainly have time to
express my thanks also for two superb
Congress Members who came to Iowa
with me today and who gave me a new
and up-to-date briefing on the concerns
1 Chairman of the Iowa State Democratic
Party.
804
