June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
our land-based silo missiles. The MX
missile, which has been so highly publi-
cized, is permitted under SALT II. Yet
its verifiable mobile development system
will enhance stability as it deprives an
attacker of the confidence that a success-
ful first strike could be launched against
the United States ICBM's, or interconti-
nental ballistic missiles.
Without the SALT II limits, the So-
viet Union could build so many war-
heads that any land-based system, fixed or
mobile, could be jeopardized.
With SALT II, we can concentrate
more effort on preserving the balance in
our own conventional and NATO forces.
Without the SALT II treaty, we would
be forced to spend extra billions and bil-
lions of dollars each year in a dangerous,
destabilizing, unnecessary nuclear arms
race.
As I have said many times, SALT II is
not based on trust. Compliance will be
assured by our own Nation's means of
verification, including extremely sophisti-
cated satellites, powerful electronic sys-
tems, and a vast intelligence network.
Were the Soviet Union to take enormous
risk of trying to violate this treaty in any
way that might affect the strategic bal-
ance, there is no doubt that we would dis-
cover it in time to respond fully and
effectively.
It's the SALT II agreement itself
which forbids concealment measures-
many of them for the first time-forbids
interference with our monitoring, and
forbids the encryption or the encoding of
crucial missile-test information. A viola-
tion of this part of the agreement-which
we would quickly detect-would be just
as serious as a violation of the limits on
strategic weapons themselves.
Consider these prospects for a moment.
Suppose the Soviet leaders build a thou-
sand additional missiles, above and be-
yond the ones they have now, many new,
advanced, and of a formidable design.
This can happen only if the SALT II
treaty is defeated.
Suppose the Soviet leaders wanted to
double the number of warheads on all
their existing missiles; suppose they
wanted to triple the annual production
rate of the Backfire bomber and greatly
improve its characteristics in range and
payload. These kinds of things can hap-
pen only if the SALT II treaty is
defeated.
Suppose the Soviet Union leaders en-
crypt all data on their missile tests; sup-
pose they conceal their nuclear launcher
deployment rate and hide all their exist-
ing missile systems. Those things can
happen only if the SALT II treaty is
defeated.
SALT II is very important. But it's
more than a single arms control agree-
ment; it's part of a long, historical proc-
ess of gradually reducing the danger of
nuclear war a process that we in this
room must not undermine.
The SALT II treaty must be judged on
its own merits. And on its own merits, it
is a substantial gain for national security
for us and the people whom we represent,
and it's a gain for international stability.
But it would be the height of irresponsi-
bility to ignore other possible conse-
quences of a failure to ratify this treaty.
These consequences would include:
greatly increased spending for strategic
nuclear arms which we do not need;
greater uncertainty about the strategic
balance between ourselves and the Soviet
Union; vastly increased danger of nu-
clear proliferation among other nations
of the world who do not presently have
nuclear explosives; increased political ten-
sion between the East and the West, with
greater likelihood that other inevitable
1090
