Feb. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
as much. And we would like to make sure
that this still limited amount of money
is
expended in the most efficacious way for
our country.
When I made my own trade missions
as a Governor, I almost invariably took a
representative of the Eximbank along
with me, because that is an avenue by
which very good, sound investments of
taxpayers' money in our own country can
be greatly magnified in benefits. And I
think your own private study or concerted
study of trade opportunities using govern-
mental entities like the Eximbank or
OPIC or the Small Business Administra-
tion can be very helpful to you and to the
people who look to you for leadership in
your own States.
I'd like to just say two other things:
There has been a study made by Juanita
Kreps, under her, Secretary of Commerce,
and your role in this expansion of trade
will be significant, and she is working
closely with you, as you well know.
There will be an analysis given to me
in April of the regulatory obstacles to
international trade so that we can see
clearly what well-meaning regulations in
the past established for international trade
now have served their purposes or are
ill-advised and ought to be removed be-
cause they are an obstruction to increased
trade. And in these studies, working
closely with Secretary Kreps and in con-
cluding the recommendations on regula-
tory obstacles and other areas of the Fed-
eral Government's functions, I would like
for the Governors to be a full partner
with me.
Obviously, we can't have 50 new Sec-
retaries of State. We've got at least enough
Secretaries of State already. [Laughter]
But I think that as you want to expand
your own contacts with foreign countries,
you need to have an intimate knowledge
of the political circumstances or military
circumstances or economic circumstances
in the nations with which you are trying
to enhance business. And we have now
appointed, as you know, a very highly
qualified Ambassador to work directly
with you. And Secretary of State Vance,
whom I left just 5 minutes before I ar-
rived here, is very eager to participate in
giving you detailed briefings and includ-
ing, of course, you, in the knowledge that
we share of other countries who look to
us as a stabilizing factor in the world and
admire our strength and who know that
our own strength can be enhanced, our
thrust for peace can be enhanced if your
own efforts are successful.
Governor Busbee, I want to congratu-
late you for your new leadership role here
and pledge, again, as I have in the past,
my full support as an equal partner with
you in this important element of Ameri-
can life.
Thank you very much.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. We're going to con-
tinue with the questions and answers of
the other panel members in just a few
minutes, but the President says that he
has time for two or three questions be-
fore he has to leave again for a meeting.
So, I'll entertain the first question.
THE PRESIDENT. Or comment. If you
all have-
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Or comment. This
is Governor Thompson.
QUESTIONS
GOVERNOR THOMPSON. Mr. President,
has your administration yet concluded,
following Vice Premier Deng's visit to the
United States, to what extent substan-
tially increased trade with the People's
Republic of China will depend upon ex-
pansion of credit available, and if it will
depend substantially on that, what plans
the administration, perhaps Congress as
well, has to expand credit relationships
with China?
332
