Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 17
elsewhere in the world? And are you in
touch with Khomeini in case he winds up
at the top of the heap?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's impossible
for anyone to anticipate all future politi-
cal events. And I think that the rapid
change of affairs in Iran has not been
dicted by anyone, so far as I know.
pre-
Our intelligence is the best we can de-
vise. We share intelligence data and dip-
lomatic information on a routine basis
with other nations. And this is a constant
process whenever a problem arises in a
country throughout the world.
I have confidence in the Iranian peo-
ple to restore a stable government and to
restore their economic circumstances for
the future.
No, we have not communicated di-
rectly with Mr. Khomeini. Our views
have been expressed publicly that he sup-
port stability and an end to bloodshed in
Iran and, no matter what his deep reli-
gious convictions might be and I don't
doubt their sincerity-that he permit the
government that has now been estab-
lished by the legal authorities in Iran,
and under the Constitution, to have a
chance to succeed. We do know that the
Iranian military and many of the religious
and political opponents to the Shah have
given their pledge of support to the Bahk-
tiar government. And that's our hope.
And I would like to add one other
thing. We have no intention, neither abil-
ity nor desire, to interfere in the internal
affairs of Iran, and we certainly have no
intention of permitting other nations to
interfere in the internal affairs of Iran.
Q. If we had had better intelligence in
Iran, is there anything that we could have
done to save the Shah? And there's a sec-
ond part to that question. You just re-
ferred to Iran as allies. Would you auth-
orize new weapons shipments to the
Bahktiar regime?
THE PRESIDENT. Even if we had been
able to anticipate events that were going
to take place in Iran or other countries,
obviously, our ability to determine those
events is very limited. The Shah, his ad-
visers, great military capabilities, police,
and others couldn't completely prevent
rioting and disturbances in Iran. Cer-
tainly, we have no desire nor ability to in-
trude massive forces into Iran or any
other country to determine the outcome
of domestic political issues. This is some-
thing that we have no intention of ever
doing in another country. We've tried this
once in Vietnam. It didn't work well, as
you well know.
We have some existing contracts for
delivery of weapons to Iran, since some-
times the deliveries take as long as 5 years
after the orders are placed. Our foreign
military sales policy is now being contin-
ued. We have no way to know what the
attitude of the Bahktiar government is.
We've not discussed this with them.
After the Iranian Government is stable,
after it assuages the present disturbances
in Iran, then I'm sure they'll let us know
how they want to carry out future military
needs of their own country. It is important
to Iran, for their own security and for the
independence of the people of Iran, that a
strong and stable military be maintained.
And I believe that all the leaders of Iran
whom I have heard discuss this matter
agree with the statement that I've just
made.
Q. Still on Iran, Mr. Carter, there is a
suggestion that if Iranian oil supplies do
not begin flowing again, perhaps within 2
months, there may be a shortage and per-
haps a price increase for us. Does our in-
telligence indicate that might happen, or
is there such a prospect as you see it?
THE PRESIDENT. We derive about 5
percent of our oil supplies from Iran in re-
cent months—much less than many other
51
