Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 19
to have the full and enthusiastic support
of the Democratic leaders in the Cleve-
land area, Cuyahoga County, and also
throughout Ohio, indeed, the entire Na-
tion.
But I have to make difficult decisions.
I'm responsible for them. I have no aver-
sion to them. But people naturally get
concerned about particular issues or ideas.
And I don't know what the motivations
of the county chairmen are, but I have
confidence that eventually the Democrats
will make the right decision-and the
American people. [Laughter]
COAL
Q. Mr. President, Richard Grimes from
West Virginia. There's a feeling in the
State that your strong commitment in
1977 for coal has eased up somewhat, I
think a lot of it having to do with the
EPA regulations that are slowing our
sale of coal. Is that true?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I doubt that any
other administration has ever done as
much to encourage the present and future
production of coal as we have. It's been a
top priority for us. We want to increase
the production and use of coal tremen-
dously in this country.
We've passed, by law, restraints on
major stationary powerplants against the
future, continued use of oil and natural
and substitutes for coal. We've tried to
gas
encourage the use of coal in this respect.
I think the new settlement between the
United Mine Workers and the operators
has provided a degree of stability and an
absence of wildcat strikes and so forth
that's encouraging.
I think that in the long run, the sure
supply of coal, without unexpected inter-
ruption, is going to be helpful. Under the
chairmanship of Governor Jay Rocke-
feller, a commission made up of all ele-
ments of the coal industry is now prepar-
ing a report for me that would give advice
to me and the Nation on how we can in-
crease the use and production of coal.
I've asked all the agencies who are in-
terested in the Federal Government,
who have a responsibility in the Federal
Government-to prepare advice for me on
how we can increase the consumption of
coal in our Nation. We are running out
of oil and gas. Our basic energy proposal
to the Congress in April of 1977 contem-
plated an enormous increase in the pro-
duction and the use of coal.
We have tried to deal with the trans-
portation problems that affect the coal
industry, not only in West Virginia but
throughout the Nation. And my guess is
that when the environmental protection
standards are promulgated, as is now re-
quired by Federal court order, that the
need of our Nation for the use of coal will
be a major factor in their decision.
I have met around this table within the
last 2 weeks with the United States Sena-
tors, I think from 12 different coal-pro-
ducing States, to get all of their ideas on
the consequences of this decision. It's
made by EPA, an independent agency,
and the EPA Administrator was here.
He's a sound person, and he's working
with people who have a balanced view of
the quality of our environment and the
need to meet our energy requirements.
So, I don't think the people of West
Virginia need to fear any deviation of my
administration in enhancing the produc-
tion and the use of coal.
The last thing is that we, if we get-
if and when we get the windfall profits
tax and the energy security fund, we'll
have substantial, increased moneys for
pilot plants for the liquefaction and gasi-
fication of coal and research and develop-
ment on new ways to use coal that would
905
