Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in his own language in the Book of the
Books. It is just Psalm 126.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:12 p.m. on
the North Lawn of the White House. Prior to
their remarks, President Sadat and Prime Min-
ister Begin signed, and President Carter wit-
nessed, the treaty and related documents.
The ceremony was attended by officials of
the three Governments and invited guests. It
was broadcast live on radio and television.
Earlier in the day the President held separate
meetings with President Sadat and Prime Min-
ister Begin and, prior to the ceremony, the
President and Mrs. Carter hosted a private
luncheon for President and Mrs. Sadat and
Prime Minister and Mrs. Begin at the White
House.
Following the ceremony, the President met
at the White House with Members of Congress
to discuss U.S. assistance to Egypt and Israel.
Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty
Toasts at a State Dinner Honoring President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin.
March 26, 1979
PRESIDENT CARTER. President Sadat,
Prime Minister Begin, Egyptian friends,
Israeli friends, American friends:
This is one of those evenings that it's
been hard for me to stay seated also, I've
been so excited.
Most of the times in history when a
peace treaty was signed, one nation has
been a victor and the other nation has
been vanquished. One nation has won;
the other nation has lost. Today we've
signed a peace treaty when both nations
have won.
This is indeed a joyous occasion. We've
prayed for peace, and we have worked for
peace. And now we humbly give thanks
to God that we can celebrate the begin-
nings of peace in the Middle East.
I've gotten to know these two men on
my right in the last 18 months-some-
times too well. [Laughter] We have spent
days and days together, hours and hours
together, planning, arguing, debating, ne-
gotiating. And I have come to know them
and to respect them, to form a friendship,
a sense of brotherhood and even love with
both of them. They are men of great
courage, great sensitivity, great patriotism
and statemanship; men who never feared
to face difficult questions and seek per-
sistently for the answers. They've been
men who have inspired me and who have
been inspired by the people in their own
great nations whom they represent.
The peace that was born today has a
meaning that comes down to us through
many years or generations, even centuries.
In ancient days, God promised Abraham
that from his seed would come many na-
tions. And as you know, that promise has
been fulfilled. Yet for much too long, the
people of Israel and the people of Egypt-
two of the nations of the children of Abra-
ham, trusting in the same God, hoping for
the same peace-knew only enmity be-
tween them. That time, thank God, is now
at an end.
Now, after 30 years, four wars, count-
less deaths, terrible anguish, we can see a
new era ahead, an era, we hope, in which
violence no longer dominates the Middle
East. And the just concerns of all of us
can find a peaceful solution to the prob-
lems that we share and a peaceful expres-
sion of the hopes and dreams of people
who look to us for leadership.
The path for peace has brought us a
long way in a short time. It was only 16
months ago
that President Sadat made his
extraordinary and historic journey to
Jerusalem. He was received there by Prime
522
