Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 12
But what the security needs of our coun-
try might be in the future or what other
social programs might be, implemented
by myself or my successor as President and
by the Congress, are hard to predict.
But when we do build toward a bal-
anced budget and then a surplus, those
surplus funds would inevitably go into
reducing the Federal debt.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, do you anticipate
that at some point in time you're going to
have to call a three-way meeting between
yourself, President Sadat, and Prime Min-
ister Begin to get this Middle East peace
process locked up and that that might be a
natural outcome of the Foreign Ministers'
meeting that's coming up?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say that the
reality of having a Mideast peace settle-
ment is one of my fondest hopes and
dreams and my greatest commitment. I
have probably spent more of my personal
time on trying to have peace in the Middle
East than any other single issue.
We made tremendous strides forward
at Camp David, as you know, and we ex-
pected at that time to rapidly conclude
the remaining 5 percent of the issues that
had not then been resolved. That has not
proven to be as easy as we thought. I
think an inevitable next step is to have the
Foreign Ministers of Israel and Egypt
come here to meet with
with Secretary
Vance I might visit with them briefly—
in an attitude of mutual commitment and
flexibility and in a maximum state of iso-
lation from public statements or commit-
ments, which quite often form a very se-
rious obstacle to progress.
If that hope is realized, there would be
no need for any further summit confer-
ence. But I would guess that in this case
that Mr. Khalil and Dayan would go
back to Egypt and to Israel to report
progress and to seek confirmation of their
negotiated positions from their own gov-
ernment leaders, including President Sa-
dat and Prime Minister Begin.
If that effort is not completely success-
ful and the final peace treaty terms are
not concluded, then if there's adequate
evidence of flexibility and desire on the
part of President Sadat and Prime Min-
ister Begin, then I would certainly con-
sider favorably having them here for a
summit meeting.
But our hope is that the Foreign Minis-
ters can be successful, provided they take
routinely go back to Israel and to Egypt
advantage of our recommendation and
to seek further guidance during the nego-
tiations themselves.
OIL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, remembering the
revelations that followed the 1973 oil
crisis about how the major oil companies
ganged up on the American people to
reap huge profits, I'd like to know what
assurances can you give us in light of
what's happening with the cutoff of oil
from Iran and the recent announcements
of curtailed deliveries by domestic com-
panies that such is not being practiced on
the American people again?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, we
have very strict laws concerning the pric-
ing and delivery of oil, both that that's
imported and that that's produced and
sold within our own country. The laws
will change the circumstance in May, and
the control of oil prices will be termi-
nated, I think, in September of 1980
[1981]¹. What will happen then, I don't
know, but I don't have any evidence now
that there is a violation of either the law
¹ Printed in the transcript.
263
