Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
imposed by the government on the private prices to rise unexpectedly. In order to
sector.
Government must set a clear example
in the fight against inflation. For that rea-
son, I ordered last year that the rate of
pay increase for Federal workers be held
to 5.5 percent and that sharp limitations
be imposed on new Federal hiring.
Although these actions by government
will not, by themselves, bring inflation to
an end, they are indispensable. They can
create an environment that encourages
voluntary cooperation with the pay and
price standards. Without restraint by gov-
ernment, the pressures of an overheated
economy easily could render meaningless
the best efforts of businesses and workers
to reduce price and wage increases. How-
ever, it will take broad cooperation from
the private sector if the voluntary effort
is to succeed in reducing inflation.
VOLUNTARY WAGE AND PRICE STANDARDS
The voluntary wage and price stand-
ards call for an average rate of pay in-
crease of 7 percent or less this year. I also
have asked businesses to hold their aver-
age rate of price increase to at least one-
half percentage point below the average
rate of increase in 1976-77. Where such
price deceleration is not possible, the
standards provide for limitations on
profit margins.
To meet these standards both workers
and businesses must exercise restraint. But
they are fair and flexible standards. If
they are widely observed, as I believe they
will be, we can reverse the momentum of
the price-wage cycle and gradually bring
down the rate of inflation.
I recognize that cooperation with this
program entails uncertainties for workers
who comply with the wage standards.
They may lose if others do not comply, or
if forces beyond anyone's control cause
provide them some assurance that those
who cooperate will not suffer as a result,
and thus to motivate wider observance of
the standards, I have proposed to the
Congress a program of real wage insur-
ance. Under this program, if inflation in-
creases by more than 7 percent this year,
groups of workers that meet the 7 percent
pay standard will receive a tax credit at a
rate equal to the difference between the
actual inflation rate and 7 percent. This
credit will insure workers' real wages over
a range of inflation as high as 10 percent
this year, far higher than is expected to
occur.
The elements of my anti-inflation pro-
gram are mutually supportive and de-
signed to mount a sustainable attack on
our long-run inflation problem. Voluntary
cooperation with the pay and price stand-
ards is essential to reversing the momen-
tum of inflation. Government needs to
take strong action to avoid contributing
to inflationary pressures in order to ensure
that the benefits of voluntary restraint are
fully realized. Together, these policies of-
fer our best opportunity to win the fight
against inflation.
OUTLOOK FOR 1979
My anti-inflation program will support
the health of our economy in 1979 in two
respects. First, the rate of inflation should
slow this year to about 72 percent over
the
year as a whole, and to somewhat be-
low 7 percent by the end of the year. Sec-
ond, moderation of inflation will help us
avoid a recession and improve the pros-
pects for sustained economic growth in
1980 and beyond.
Over the 4 quarters of 1979, the Na-
tion's output should rise by about 24 per-
cent, somewhat less than the economy's
potential growth. This should create an
115
