Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, January 26, 1979
Budget Message
Remarks at the Signing Ceremony.
January 22, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. In about 2 hours, the
1980 fiscal year budget will be presented
to the Congress. And my role in this cere-
mony is to sign the official copies of the
budget which will go to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives and to the
Vice President, who, as you know, is the
President of the Senate.
My first inclination, however, is to
thank the superb staff in the Office of
Management and Budget, under the di-
rection of Jim McIntyre, for the great
work they have done on this budget. It
has been a very difficult, stringent, severe,
and tough budget in its preparation. And
I think only with the most careful and
constant consultation with those who are
not satisfied with having had their own
desires met and a realization on their
part, after scrutiny, that the budget is in-
deed fair to everyone in our Nation, has
there been an alleviation of the intense
criticisms that were evident earlier late
last year and would have been so present
now. A tough budget that is fair, I believe,
is acceptable.
Our most important role, economically
speaking, this year, is to control inflation.
And this budget meets that requirement.
This budget eliminates unnecessary spend-
ing. It cuts back drastically on the Fed-
eral deficit. It lowers the percentage of
our national income that is collected and
spent by the Government down to 21 per-
cent, a goal that we never thought we
would meet so early.
Obviously, there's no way to please
everyone in the preparation of any budget,
particularly one designed, as is this one,
to be stringent and to control Government
spending and to control inflation. We
realize, however, that we must live within
our means, that we must put restraints on
the always-rising demands on Govern-
ment, and that we must make strong
moves to eliminate inefficiency, waste,
fraud, and corruption.
This budget, when implemented, will
make major strides towards solving the
problems of our country forthrightly,
fairly, and with compassion and concern
for those who depend most heavily on the
services of Government.
Controlling inflation is the best policy
that we can espouse, and particularly for
those who are the poor, the elderly, those
95
