Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 16
text, President Carter reiterated the sup-
port of his Administration for self-re-
straint in the transfer of conventional
weapons-efforts initiated by the nations
of Latin America and the Caribbean dur-
ing a meeting held in Mexico, in August
of 1978. He also reiterated his Adminis-
tration's policy to respect the decisions
undertaken by the countries interested in
this matter. The Presidents also recog-
nized the importance of the U.N. Confer-
ence on Conventional Weapons to be held
later this year.
The Presidents expressed their particu-
lar interest in strengthening international
organizations engaged in the protection
of guarantees of individual rights. They
especially commended the work of the
Inter-American Commission on Human
Rights and urged other nations in the
hemisphere to give it their full support.
Both leaders expressed their deep con-
cern over the crisis that continues to af-
fect the people of Nicaragua, violating
their most fundamental human rights, re-
affirming their decision to continue work-
ing through the United Nations and the
Organization of American States, in the
search for a democratic and fair solution
to the conflict.
Upon reviewing trade relations between
their countries, both Presidents expressed
their satisfaction with the continuous
growth of this exchange. President López
Portillo noted the historic trade deficit
of Mexico with the United States, par-
ticularly if recent sales of Mexican oil are
excluded, making known the convenience
of taking all measures necessary to reduce
it, permitting an increase in the export
of Mexican merchandise, particularly
those of higher value-added which would
benefit both countries. President Carter
emphasized the need to reduce trade bar-
riers on a broad basis. In this connection,
he called attention to the trade conces-
sions offered by the United States which
would be of significant benefit to Mexico.
President López Portillo noted that the
eventual membership of Mexico in GATT
would depend, as it was stated in Sep-
tember, 1973, in Tokyo, on the considera-
tion of special treatment to developing
countries which should be measured in
terms of equal treatment for equal coun-
tries and unequal treatment for unequal
countries; on the final results of the multi-
lateral trade negotiations; and on the
terms of its negotiation on adherence to
GATT, which it initiated on January 16
of this year. Mexico will make a decision
which will depend on the compatibility
of the liberalization of trade and with the
stage and condition of Mexico's economic
development.
President Carter expressed his strong
support for expanding world trade and re-
ducing trade barriers, and expressed his
hope that Mexico would play a greater
role in the shaping and the management
of an improved world trading system.
The two Presidents agreed that the
rapid and satisfactory conclusion of the
Multilateral Trade Negotiations will rep-
resent an important step toward the im-
provement of the world's economy. They
felt, however, that these negotiations
could only end successfully if developing
countries, such as Mexico, have an equi-
table participation in its results. In order
to achieve this, it is necessary to fully im-
plement the Tokyo Declaration, particu-
larly with regard to differential treatment
for developing countries.
They also agreed to try to conclude suc-
cessfully and within the shortest period of
time, their bilateral trade negotiations
with the framework of the Multilateral
Trade Negotiations. The Presidents
reaffirmed the Tokyo Declaration to the
effect that Mexico would make a contri-
bution to the Multilateral Trade Negotia-
289
