Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 27
that they are the type of deposits which
would necessitate a fairly long-range pro-
gram for exploration and development.
And I think the long-range supplies are
what we have as a greater need.
At this point, because of various fac-
tors, the impact of new energy legislation
and enhanced discoveries in our own Na-
tion, we have a surplus at this particular
moment of natural gas-a very valuable
result, by the way, of the new energy legis-
lation. So, for the immediate next few
months or maybe couple of years, there is
no high need for us to escalate the acquisi-
tion of natural gas.
So, those three basic factors are fairly
well correlated, sometimes a little bit
anomalous, but I think that they are ones
that I'll be discussing in detail with López
Portillo.
AIR POLLUTION STANDARDS
Q. Mr. President, outside of inflation,
which I am sure is the number one prob-
lem with most everybody around the
country, in my city of Denver, it's air
pollution. It's viewed as a crisis in this
city. I'm wondering if you view air pol-
lution as a problem of crisis proportion
in some of the major cities of the Na-
tion, and if so, if you have any new pro-
gram to espouse in the next several
months to control it or help out the situ-
ation?
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in Den-
ver last year, it became obvious to me
that perhaps more than for any other
city in the Nation, air pollution has be-
come the key problem in the quality of
life of your people. I think also, there's
a dramatic difference in air quality now
in Denver than what it was in years gone
by. The deterioration there has been
much more rapid and far-reaching than
any place in the country that I know.
We have allocated special funds of an
awfully small nature, a few million dol-
lars at the time, to help Denver and
State officials with your air pollution ef-
forts. But I think it's primarily a local
responsibility.
The standards that we have now es-
tablished by EPA, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, according to the law, are
very stringent. They are so stringent that
very few of the major communities can
meet them. And today, the EPA will an-
nounce very stringent standards still, but
that can be enforced, particularly ozone
levels, which is one of the measurements
of air quality.
Our administration, since I've been in
office, has taken several steps to enhance
the quality of air pollution by increas-
ing the severity of the standards and also
by controlling automobile emissions. But
I would say the effectiveness with which
automobile emissions are controlled is an
area that needs further exploration in
Denver and other parts of the country.
And when you have a special problem,
as does your city, then I think a high
concentration of local and State effort on
ensuring that all automobiles do comply
would be one of the major elements in-
volved. We are eager to cooperate, par-
ticularly with a city like Denver that has
a special problem. I'd say your problem
is perhaps the worst with which I'm fa-
miliar in our country.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS
Q. I am Rowland Nethaway from the
American-Statesman in Austin. Texas,
somehow or other, just elected its first
Republican Governor in more than a
hundred years, and-
THE PRESIDENT. I heard about that.
[Laughter]
Q. -one of his first responses was to
fly down to Mexico, ahead of your trip,
183
