Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 12
have participated in meeting the needs of
private schools, partial needs in the field of
health, food, some books and training sup-
plies, and so forth, at the elementary and
secondary level. I think there's a strong
role to be played by private schools.
My own inclination is to keep the Fed-
eral Government out of the administration
and the decisionmaking involving public
education, and this is one of the guaran-
tees that I would like to carry out when a
new department is set up.
I started my public career as a member
of the local county school board in Sumter
County back in the early sixties, late fifties.
In my judgment, the absence of an iden-
tifiable department of education in Wash-
ington is one of the reasons that we have
had so many lawsuits and altercations
which increasingly have involved the Fed-
eral Government into the affairs of a local
school system.
I think, had I been able, as a member
of the school board, or had I been able, as
a chairman of a committee in the Georgia
Senate or as a Governor of Georgia, to
come to Washington and sit down with
a person whose unique responsibility was
to education as a Cabinet Secretary, we
could have avoided some of the alterca-
tions that arose that couldn't be resolved
and had to go into the Federal courts.
So, I believe that this is a very good
move in the right direction.
Also, we have computed that the estab-
lishment of a department of education
would result in the saving of about $100
million in administrative costs. And the
elevation, I think, of education to a higher
visibility by a Cabinet-level officer being
around this table with me every 2 weeks
would be a very healthy commitment of
our Nation to better education.
We've got some problems in education.
But all of these reasons-and I could name
others—speak well, I think, for a separate
department. It would let the Secretary of
Health and Welfare then concentrate
much more on those two closely related
issues. And I believe that that separation
is logical and would work better.
I've served as Governor where they were
separated. I've served as President where
they were all together. And I'm basing my
opinion partially on my own experience.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, Paul Gruchow from
Minnesota. On the matter of inflation, I
wonder if you could say what convinces
you that price controls will not work or
are not a practical answer at the moment.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they've never
worked. We've tried them on many occa-
sions. The only time they ever have
worked is during an actual time of war,
where you
had to allocate not only prices
and wages but also materials themselves,
where the war effort got first priority and
where many nonvolunteers were con-
scripted and sent overseas to endanger
their own lives. And I think in that kind
of an environment, you would not want to
have anything other than minimum profit
being derived from either employment or
trade.
I'd like to point out something that's
often overlooked. I do not have the au-
thority to implement mandatory wage and
price controls. When President Nixon did
it shortly before, I think, the '68 election
year, he did have the authority and this
was-I think it was 1970, shortly before
the '72 election. After that happened, the
experiences with wage and price controls
were so bad that the Congress did not see
fit to renew the Presidential authority.
And we still are suffering from the imple-
mentation, for instance, of price controls
on beef. The farmers depleted their herds
849
