Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 23
black Americans who have performed in
their own lives so well.
He's a native of South Carolina, but
we claim him from Georgia. And, Dr.
Mays, I thank you on behalf of the 220
million Americans who've benefited from
your life's service. And I urge you, as
President, not to ever let that service ter-
minate nor be lessened in any degree, and
I'm sure you will answer my request. Con-
gratulations to you.
I don't believe that Mrs. Rosa Parks
has arrived yet. She was trying to get here.
I presume that she's traveling this time
by airplane. [Laughter]
Recently at the Black Caucus banquet
I had the honor and pleasure of calling
her up to the stage to put my arms around
her and to let her know in front of several
thousand people the debt that our Nation
owes to her.
Most of the people that I've mentioned
this afternoon have been highly trained.
They were college graduates with masters
or doctors degrees, highly specializing in
education or the arts or religion. Rosa
Parks was apparently an average citizen.
I doubt if she could have expressed in
as eloquent terms the aspirations of black
Americans nearly so well as Dr. Benjamin
Mays, nor Dr. Martin Luther King, Sr.,
or many of you, but in a quiet way, she
let her own influence be felt in a far
greater degree than many who had op-
portunities far exceeding her own.
She had a certain degree of intelligence
and integrity, yes. But she had a superb
degree of courage. And knowing the Deep
South as I do-Americus, Georgia; Al-
bany, Georgia; Montgomery, Alabama;
Birmingham, Alabama; parts of South
Carolina, Mississippi-and looking back
20, 25 years, the courage that she showed
is truly overwhelming. And I know that
all of you realize that it was her insistence
that she would show the rights of black
Americans in an understandable way, a
simple way, that aroused a nation even-
tually to accept those rights as a part of
American life, and to correct ancient dis-
criminatory actions even under the guise
of American law. And I wish she was
here, but in 1955, she took one small step
that led to a revolution in our country.
She's a native of Alabama, the former
State secretary of the Alabama NAACP,
and a woman who's an inspiration to us
all. And I would like again to express
my thanks to her, my congratulations to
her, and a recognition, as President, of
what she's achieved for our country. She's
indeed in her own way a great states-
woman of the United States. Thank you
very much.
Another honoree who couldn't be here
today is A. Phillip Randolph, represent-
ing the labor movement. But Bayard
Rustin is here to represent Mr. Randolph.
I think that throughout the earliest
days, even before the time when Rosa
Parks or Martin Luther King, Jr., were
famous, there was a sense throughout our
Nation that A. Phillip Randolph stood
for higher aspirations and equality of
black Americans. He organized the
Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters in
1925. He was the vice president of the
AFL-CIO, organized the first March on
Washington For Civil Rights in 1941.
He's a native of Florida. This year he's
90
years old. And I think that those who
came later obviously saw him as having
set a courageous example to be emulated.
And Bayard, I hope that you will extend
to Mr. Randolph my appreciation, recog-
nition, and my friendship for the superb
leadership that he gave many of those
others who are being honored here in the
White House this afternoon.
In Government, it's been indeed rare
when a black American could become a
member of the Cabinet of a President of
321
