Jan. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
who live on small and fixed incomes, those
who quite often are inarticulate and
lacking in political influence, and who are
not mobile enough or well-trained enough
to travel around to different places to
seek out better jobs and better opportuni-
ties.
This is a budget that is good enough so
that I am sure that the American people
will support it. It's a budget that's good
enough that I will fight for it. And it's a
budget that's good enough so that I have
no doubt the Congress will adopt it.
In closing, let me express my thanks
again to the superb professionals in the
Office of Management and Budget, to
Secretary of Treasury Mike Blumenthal,
Secretary Kreps, my own economic ad-
visers under Charles Schultze, and many
others who have worked so well with us
on the budget. Even though it will be pre-
sented officially at noon today, large num-
bers of key Members of Congress have
already been briefed as thoroughly as pos-
sible on the elements of this budget docu-
ment, and I believe at this point it's fair
to say that the response has been very
encouraging.
So, thank you all for being so effective
in your difficult job. And at this point,
I'd like to sign the copy of the budget that
will go to the Speaker of the House.
And now to sign the copy that will go
to the President of the Senate.
And I have already signed, first, a copy
of the budget that will go to Jim McIn-
tyre, the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. Jim, thank you.
MR. MCINTYRE. Mr. President, thank
you very much for the kind words you've
had to say about the staff at OMB. I'd
like to second the professionalism at
OMB, but, most importantly, tell you how
dedicated these people are to seeing that
your policies are translated into the
proper budget documents and into the
proper statements and legislation so that
they can be carried out by the Congress.
We feel we're very proud to be associ-
ated with this budget. It's a good budget;
it's a tough budget, but one that does meet
the needs of the American people. Thank
you for your support in this effort.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that after
these long months of hard work, in some
of which I participated, I think it's im-
portant that the OMB staff have some
well-deserved rest. And I would suggest
that in August, when the Congress adopts
this budget, that you give some of your
people [laughter]-
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Budget Message
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Fiscal Year 1980 Budget. January 22, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
This budget for fiscal year 1980 is lean
and austere. It recommends a spending
level well below that suggested by the
recent momentum of Federal spending.
It will disappoint those who seek ex-
panded Federal efforts across the board.
It meets my commitment to a deficit of
$30 billion or less.
This policy of restraint is not a casual
one. It is an imperative if we are to over-
come the threat of accelerating inflation.
If that threat is realized, it would
severely disrupt our economy and the
well-being of our society. Americans with
low and fixed incomes would suffer the
most. Restraint would eventually become
an inescapable necessity. But the longer
we wait, the more severe and costly the
inevitable restraint will be. By contrast,
this budget supports a balanced fiscal pol-
icy. It is sufficiently restrained to ease in-
flationary pressures, but it will permit
continued economic growth.
96
