May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Now, rural areas have special needs,
but they also have special opportunities,
being the best places to apply the virtues
of practical thought and local initiative,
sometimes on a small-scale, experimental
basis. You understand the values of indi-
vidual effort and small-scale cooperative
projects. I've seen this in the so-called
hollers of West Virginia, the hamlets of
south Georgia, the villages of New Eng-
land, the pueblos of New Mexico, and the
coastal towns of the Pacific Northwest.
And I've seen these rural values all over
Iowa, perhaps, as Lynn pointed out, in
more cities and towns than you yourselves
have visited in your own State. I've seen
it in your communities, in your schools, in
your churches-an attitude.
Some American communities can re-
gain their self-sufficiency by doing things
that we have almost forgotten, like burn-
ing wood and using small dams that were
abandoned in the era of cheap oil. That
doesn't apply to Iowa. But there are also
new technologies like solar energy, that
are a long way from being practical
everywhere, but can help your communi-
ties toward energy security right now. And
there are products like gasohol, methanol,
and others that we've known about for
years without ever tapping their full po-
tential.
Let me tell you briefly what we are do-
ing to encourage use of these kinds of
energy supplies.
Gasohol is a classic example of Ameri-
can ingenuity. Fifty years ago, many
Americans were manufacturing gasohol on
their own farms or in their own homes
and filling up their Model-T Fords with
it. Gasohol was simple and practical,
since it put our agricultural abundance to
work in a new and exciting and different
way for those times. But in the era of
cheap oil, at a time when we never
thought the wells would ever run dry, we
stopped trying to harness or test its po-
tential.
The Government forgot about gasohol,
and so did the experts. But here and there,
an individual American remembered the
stories or rediscovered old books in the
library, and with a little knowledge and
encouragement from Washington or with-
out, the idea has recently been spreading.
I'm today announcing that between
now and 1981, we will assist farmers and
farm co-ops to build as many as 100 plants
to produce gasohol in varying sizes of
plants. And I believe this will set an ex-
ample for the rest of our country.
In the last year, we've already guaran-
teed loans of about $30 million to con-
struct large gasohol plants in Florida and
Texas. And this year, the Agriculture De-
partment will be spending an additional
$4 million on gasohol research at some of
our leading land-grant universities, ob-
viously including Iowa.
We're also creating economic initiatives
for the private development of gasohol.
Producers are now eligible for a special 10-
percent investment tax credit that has
been extended through 1983. And I've
recommended that gasohol be perma-
nently exempted from the Federal excise
tax on gasoline, once Congress approves
the energy security fund.
Everything from wood products to
sugar beets to corn, wheat, food process-
ing wastes, animal wastes can be used to
make gasohol. The potential is great. Our
best calculations are that our Nation can
produce 300 million gallons of gasohol an-
nually by 1982—and double that again by
1985.
Equally promising is our rediscovery of
the potential of small-scale hydroelectric
power. New England used to harness its
streams to produce electricity, and it can
do so again. We did the same thing in
Georgia-so can the Pacific Northwest.
792
