Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
use of solar energy technologies, in provid-
ing back-up information and training for
users of solar, and, generally, in directing
our government-funded research and de-
velopment program to ensure that future
solar and renewable technologies are given
the resources and institutional support
that they need.
As a government-wide study, the Do-
mestic Policy Review of Solar Energy has
provided a unique opportunity to draw
together the disparate functions of gov-
ernment and determine how best to mar-
shal all of the government's tools to accel-
erate the use of solar and renewable
resources. As a result of that study, the
set of programs and funding recommen-
dations that I have already made and am
adding to today will provide more than
$1 billion for solar energy in FY 1980,
with a sustained Federal commitment to
solar energy in the years beyond. The FY
1980 budget will be the highest ever rec-
ommended by any President for solar
energy. It is a significant milestone for our
country.
This $1 billion of Federal expendi-
tures-divided between incentives for cur-
rent use of solar and renewable resources
such as tax credits, loans and grants, sup-
port activities to develop standards, model
building codes, and information pro-
grams, and longer term research and de-
velopment-launches our Nation well on
the way
toward our solar goal. It is a com-
mitment we will sustain in the years
ahead.
I am today proposing the establishment
of a national Solar Bank as a government
corporation to be located within the De-
partment of Hcu sing and Urban Develop-
ment (HUD). it will provide a major
impetus toward use of today's solar tech-
nologies by increasing the availability of
financing at reasonable terms for solar in-
vestments in residential and commercial
buildings.
The Solar Bank will be funded at $100
million annually out of the Energy Secu-
rity Trust Fund from revenues generated
by the windfall profits tax. The Bank will
be authorized to provide interest subsidies
for home improvement loans and mort-
gages for residential and commercial
buildings. It will pay up front subsidies to
banks and other lending institutions
which, in turn, will offer loans and mort-
gages for solar investments at interest rates
below the prevailing market rate. Ceilings
on the amount of the loan or portion of a
loan which can be subsidized will be set.
The Solar Bank will be governed by a
Board of Directors including the Secretary
of HUD, the Secretary of Energy, and the
Secretary of the Treasury. The Board of
Directors will be empowered to set the
specific level of interest subsidy at rates
which will best serve the purposes of ac-
celerating the use of solar systems in resi-
dential and commercial buildings. Stand-
ards of eligibility for systems receiving
Solar Bank assistance will be set by the
Secretary of HUD in consultation with
the Secretary of Energy.
The Solar Bank I have proposed is simi-
lar in many respects to that introduced by
Congressman Stephen Neal of North
Carolina. A companion bill has been in-
troduced in the Senate by Senator Robert
Morgan of North Carolina. To them, and
to the co-sponsors of this legislation, we
owe our gratitude for the hard work and
sound conceptual thinking that has been
done on how a Solar Bank should be
designed.
The Solar Bank will complement the
residential and commercial tax credits
that I originally proposed in April 1977
and that were signed into law with the
National Energy Act last November. To
provide full and effective coverage for all
1101
