Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 24
when I come before this group, but I
don't today.
I suspect that of all the tasks I've under-
taken since I became an adult, this is far
the most complex and certainly the most
difficult and the one that offers the great-
est rewards. I told Helen last evening that
from time to time I wonder why I had
done this or that or the other in business
or in law or in banking or in politics and
in government, but I'm reasonably well
convinced that it was all just in training
for this assignment, an assignment that's
been carried so far by President Carter,
Secretary Vance, two courageous leaders
in the Middle East, President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin.
And I want to assure each of you, assure
the President and the Secretary of State,
and assure those of the American public
who hear and see this broadcast, that
whatever energies, whatever talent, and
whatever background and experience I
have, I shall apply with all the vigor and
all the dedication that you would want.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Could you take a question?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Jody, any ques-
tions? I'll take a few questions, yes.
Q. Could I ask you whether you had to
consider your own religious origin as a
possible obstacle?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. I never consid-
ered my own religious origin as an obstacle
to anything, not in this or anything else
I've ever done.
Next question?
Q. Mr. Ambassador, knowing your de-
sire to get out of government and back to
Dallas, are we to take this appointment as
an indication that you are going to expe-
ditiously finish this new job?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Now we can be-
gin to be smart with each other again.
[Laughter]
Of course I'm not going to expedi-
tiously finish this new job. And it's with
considerable hesitation and reluctance
that I undertook the job. I must say that
as much concern as I had about under-
taking the job, Helen had even more con-
cern about my having more leisure time to
spend at home.
Q. When do you expect to go out to the
Middle East and to get started on this?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. I just returned
from the Middle East on Saturday night.
We spent several days out there on an eco-
nomic mission.
I would hope that we will complete
the trade legislation before the summer
recess, and I think we will, with the coop-
eration of Congress. We've had great bi-
partisan support there, Republicans and
Democrats alike. If that continues, we'll
complete that legislation, that legislative
process, and shortly thereafter, I'll be
thinking about going to the Middle East.
In the meantime, I've got a great deal
to learn and a good deal of intensive brief-
ing to go through.
Q. Does that mean, sir, that you will not
get directly involved in the negotiations
when they begin within the next few
weeks, because you'll be busy with the
trade, still?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. It's my under-
standing that the parties themselves feel
that the negotiations will commence at a
deputies level, if you will, and proceed at
that level for a period of months, or “a
period of time" might be better.
So, it fits in rather well with my sched-
ule. And I would expect to be following
them carefully, to be, as I say, informing
myself. I have a lot of learning to do.
But the time schedule works out rather
well if I can complete my trade negotia-
tions. I've got a lot to do, yes.
689
