Apr. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Windfall Profits Tax and Energy
Security Trust Fund
Remarks on Signing the Message to the
Congress. April 26, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I have just signed a
message to Congress asking for the passage
of a windfall profits tax and the estab-
lishment of an energy security trust
fund. This is one of the most important
legislative proposals of my administration.
A windfall profits tax is the only thing
that stands between the oil companies and
a huge bonanza of unearned, unnecessary,
and unjustified profits. The energy se-
curity trust fund is a bridge between the
America of today, dependent on foreign
oil and shot through with wasteful pat-
terns of consumption, and the America of
tomorrow, in which our technology can
make us far less dependent on foreign oil.
Under this proposal, the oil industry
will get $6 billion, which should be used
for additional exploration for domestic oil
and gas. This is a net increase, after all
Federal and State taxes are paid. Oil com-
pany profits are already high, and, as you
well know, they're growing rapidly.
The windfall tax revenue must go to
create the energy security trust fund for
the American people. This fund will help
low-income Americans pay the higher en-
ergy costs that will come from decontrol.
While decontrol will lessen our reliance
on the foreign oil cartel, we cannot, in
good conscience, place a new and a harsh
burden on those who are fighting to
escape poverty.
This fund will also help us to improve
our mass transportation and will stimu-
late development of new and unconven-
tional energy sources. We can make it
economical to harness the energy of the
Sun, the wind, the tides, and the geo-
thermal power of the Earth.
Increased energy can also come, and
will come, from better uses of oil shale,
coal, our forests, and our streams. Ameri-
can innovation has given us the greatest
industrial capacity on Earth. We must
use our technology and our technological
daring to solve our present energy
problems.
The windfall profits tax will be levied
not on American families, but on the oil
companies, who are already awash with
their greatest profits since the OPEC oil
embargo.
The congressional battle over the wind-
fall profits tax and the energy security
trust fund will be a classic confrontation
pitting the common and public good
against the enormous power of a well-
organized special interest.
If the oil companies cannot defeat these
proposals outright, they will try to gut
them so they will have no meaning. This
will be an excellent opportunity for the
Congress to prove to a sometimes doubt-
ful public that in such a test of political
strength, the people's interests can prevail.
Abraham Lincoln once asked his Cab-
inet, "If you call a dog's tail a leg, how
many legs will a dog have?" The Cabi-
net all responded, "Five." Abraham Lin-
coln said, "This is wrong. Calling a dog's
tail a leg doesn't make it a leg.” Calling
something a windfall profits tax doesn't
make it one if it has the kind of loopholes
that you can sail an oil tanker through.
Calling something an energy security
trust fund doesn't make it one if it's
just an accounting device to pump addi-
tional billions of dollars to the oil com-
panies. The American people will not
stand for that, and neither will I. That's
why I intend to give the Congress my
support as it considers the details of the
windfall profits tax and the energy se-
curity trust fund.
full
Equality and fairness demand an hon-
728
