Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 21
the boss, I'd like to renew that invitation
to you.
My concern, and for my people, is con-
cerning contracts. We hear continuously
everything is going on contract-complete
DIO, Director of Industrial Opera-
tions, and one fort, I think someplace
in Georgia, is supposed to go on a trial
basis, everything on a contract.
My concern is the people who work for
me and look to me for leadership. They
are all old; they're in the minority. When
I
say old-don't tell them I said this-but
they're past 21. They are dedicated
people, and most of them have over 20
years civil service behind them. Many of
them are grandmothers who are working
and striving to keep kids in college and
keep homes together.
If things go on contract, my employees
are the lowest paid in the wage rate sys-
tem. They have no bumping rights to
nobody. There's only one place to go, is
home, and down to HEW for a handout.
And I use this word "handout" deliber-
ately, because that's what it amounts to
when someone who has worked all of
their life, their productive life, in civil
service, and they go out.
Contract communications, I'm quite
sure, is beneficial to the Government, and
it should be. But if we are operating an
installation where we are on a break-even
basis, or close to break-even-in many
cases in laundry, we aren't showing a
profit. In my particular case, we are oper-
ating on a profit, paper profit, of course.
So, what's going to happen to these
people? Now, short-term contracts, or
contracts that can be bid on my opera-
tion-for example, he can lose money in
the first year; the second year, he goes
crazy, he becomes a millionaire. The seven
laundries or the nine laundries in Europe
are on contract at the present time, and
the contracting cost has almost doubled in
the third year. It started out at a little over
$6 million, and now it's almost $12 million
for operating seven laundries. The loss in
1976, I believe it was, was just a little
over $12 million. It is currently project-
ed to be over $6 million loss by going on
contract.
But really, my concern, primarily, is the
people in laundries throughout the United
States and overseas. What's going to hap-
pen to these people when they don't have
a job, no bumping rights, and most of
them are too old to go out and train
again? There's nothing there for them.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm very con-
cerned about the protection of the rights
of employees of that kind, as you un-
doubtedly have known. When I was be-
ginning our programs to reorganize the
Government, to make it more efficient,
more effective, I went into every agency,
every major agency in the Washington
area, personally, to answer questions.
Sometimes five or six thousand people
would come, and I would answer ques-
tions in the courtyards of the Pentagon
and other places. And that was a frequent
one asked: "Will you protect the jobs of
people who might be affected when the
Government is reorganized?" We have
had six or seven or eight reorganization
plans already approved. And I think that
I can say that within the best of our
ability, I think, successfully, we have pro-
tected the careers of those who might ad-
versely have been affected.
The contracting part of decisions are
made when the head of an agency is con-
vinced, along with the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, that contracting itself
can save indeed the taxpayers and the
Federal Government substantial amounts
of money. They make that recommenda-
tion then to me. And I have been ex-
tremely cautious in not putting forward
my own approval of contracting outside,
921
