Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
coming decades. The increases that I have
requested for basic research support this
objective.
PURSUING NEW INTERNATIONAL
INITIATIVES
United States scientific and technologi-
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INTERNA- cal objectives are advanced by cooperat-
TIONAL RELATIONS
Science and technology is increasingly
international in its scope and significance.
This international dimension affects the
planning and conduct of our research and
development activities. Such activities,
whether carried out by us or by others,
serve to increase the fundamental stock of
human knowledge. They can also foster
commercial relationships, impact on the
quality of life in all countries, and affect
the global environment. Both our domestic
planning and our foreign policy must re-
flect an understanding of this wide-
ranging impact of science and technology.
Much of the existing international co-
operation in science and technology takes
place in academic or commercial chan-
nels. There is, however, a growing role for
governmental cooperation as other nations
make new commitments to scientific and
technological growth. If used wisely these
future opportunities for scientific and
technological cooperation can support our
foreign policy objectives.
Several themes have shaped my Admin-
istration's policy in this area. We are:
-pursuing new international initiatives
that advance our own research and
development objectives;
-developing and strengthening scien-
tific exchanges that bridge political,
ideological, and cultural divisions
between countries;
-formulating programs and institu-
tions that help developing countries
use science and technology; and
-cooperating with other nations to
manage technologies with global
impact.
ing with other nations. For example, we
work together with many nations on large
scale scientific programs; joint funding 'of
expensive research, development, and
demonstration projects; and efforts to al-
leviate common problems.
Two decades ago, the International
Geophysical Year set a pattern for inter-
national cooperation on large-scale scien-
tific problems. This model has been ex-
tended to most fields of science. Today the
world's weather is studied jointly by na-
tions through the Global Atmospheric Re-
search Project. With the European Space
Organization we are planning a space mis-
sion to examine polar regions of the sun.
These programs are yielding new knowl-
edge about our solar system and our
earth's natural processes. They are provid-
ing important practical dividends.
As the cost of large-scale research pro-
grams and research facilities rises, all
countries find the financial support in-
creasingly burdensome. We must join to-
gether to support the most expensive and
significant projects. We are discussing
with other nations a program to drill
deeply into the offshore continental mar-
gins between the continental shelves and
ocean basins. This program would provide
new knowledge of the sea floor and help us
assess the margins' potential for resources.
Other large-scale scientific programs that
could be pursued jointly include the next
generation of high energy physics acceler-
ators, telescopes, and fusion energy re-
search facilities.
Through the International Energy
Agency we are cooperating on energy-
related research and development. At the
538
