Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 2
niew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President Renegotiation Board
for National Security Affairs; Jody Powell,
Press Secretary to the President; Alfred
L. Atherton, Jr., Ambassador at Large;
Samuel Lewis, U.S Ambassador to Is-
rael; Harold H. Saunders, Assistant Sec-
retary of State, Bureau of Near Eastern
and South Asian Affairs; Edward San-
ders, Advisor to the Secretary of State;
Herbert J. Hansell, Legal Advisor, De-
partment of State; and William B.
Quandt, Jr., National Security Council
staff member, were present on the Ameri-
can side.
Ephraim Evron, Israeli Ambassador to
the United States; Yehuda Blum, Am-
bassador to the United Nations; Meir
Rosenne, Legal Advisor, Ministry of For-
eign Affairs; Yehuda Avner, Special As-
sistant to the Prime Minister; Yehiel Ka-
dishai, Director of the Prime Minister's
Bureau; Dan Patir, Official Spokesman;
and Dr. Marum Gottesman, Prime Min-
ister Begin's personal physician, were
present on the Israeli side.
The meeting today was a serious, wide-
ranging, and useful discussion of the situa-
tion in the region and the problems of
building peace there. The talks included a
detailed and comprehensive discussion of
the unresolved issues in the implementa-
tion of the Camp David accords. The
talks were conducted in an atmosphere
of friendship and candor.
The two delegations will confer among
themselves this afternoon following the
working lunch which the Secretary of
State is hosting at the State Department
for the Prime Minister. At 7 p.m. today,
the Prime Minister and Mrs. Begin have
invited the President and Mrs. Carter
for traditional Friday evening Sabbath
dinner at the Blair House. The two leaders
will be meeting again at the White House
tomorrow evening.
Nomination of William M. Burkhalter To Be
a Member. March 2, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate William M. Burkhalter, of
Bethesda, Md., to be a member of the
Renegotiation Board. He would replace
Rex Mattingly, who has resigned.
Burkhalter was born November 21,
1914, in McKenzie, Tenn. He received a
B.S. (1939) and a J.D. (1939) from the
University of Tennessee. He served in the
U.S. Navy from 1942 to 1946.
Burkhalter was assistant chief title of-
ficer for TVA's Land Acquisition Depart-
ment from 1939 to 1942. He practiced
law with the firm of Brown, Lund & Fitz-
gerald from 1946 to 1961, specializing in
government contract law and securities
law.
From 1961 to 1962, Burkhalter was
temporarily assigned to the Office of
Emergency Planning, Executive Office of
the President, working on defense and
economic mobilization problems. In 1962
he was appointed a member of the Re-
negotiation Board. He served as a mem-
ber until 1969. Since then he has been
Deputy General Counsel of the Renego-
tiation Board.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items
of general interest announced by the
White House Press Office and not in-
cluded elsewhere in this issue.
February 24
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
375
