Mar. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Ladies and gentlemen of the press, I
subscribe to the statement made by the
President. We had a long meeting with
a break for luncheon. I can assure you,
and my colleagues in the Cabinet say, it
is one of the best they have ever eaten.
And we are grateful to the President and
his advisers that they honored not only
our meeting but also our luncheon down-
stairs. And then after the luncheon we
continued our talks, which were very seri-
ous; I suppose also very friendly, as the
President said.
Now, we decided to call a Cabinet of
the full-excuse me, we decided to call
a session of the full Cabinet for tonight
at 10 o'clock. And tomorrow the Presi-
dent will meet with our full Cabinet at
8 o'clock in the morning. So, certain is-
sues concerning the peace treaty between
us and Egypt will be clarified and decided
upon by the Cabinet during the nocturnal
session, so that we will be able tomorrow
to give replies on those certain issues to
the President.
These are the latest developments. Now
we have to go to change and be prepared
for the dinner in honor of our dear guest,
the President of the United States.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr.
Prime Minister. That was a good state-
ment.
[At this point, the Prime Minister addressed
the press in Hebrew and then answered the
following questions.]
THE PRIME MINISTER. I have to shave
and change and prepare my speeches.
You know, I make my speeches from
memory. I don't write my speeches, and
I have to decide not only what to say but
what not to say. And if I ignore the sec-
ond problem, then I have no time for the
first.
REPORTER. Are we any closer to a peace
treaty after these meetings?
THE PRIME MINISTER. I cannot answer
that question. I would like to say in truth-
fulness and give this information to your
audiences respectively in the States and
in Europe: We are dealing with very seri-
ous issues concerning the peace treaty,
and of course we look for a solution. But
the issues are very serious, and therefore
we decided to convene a nocturnal session
of the Cabinet, to start at 10 o'clock.
If you consider the possibility that the
session of the Cabinet lasts between 3 and
4 hours and maybe it will even be
longer-then you can understand that we
shall sit until the small hours of the morn-
ing. And then at 8 o'clock, the Cabinet,
the whole Cabinet, will meet with the
President, and then we shall be able-I
will be in a position on behalf of the Cabi-
net to tell the President about our deci-
sions.
I do assume that after that, Secretary
Vance will go to Cairo. I am not sure and
it is not for us to decide, but it is my as-
sumption, only an assumption.
Q. Did President Sadat request any
changes to the American proposals?
THE PRIME MINISTER. I cannot speak
on behalf of President Sadat. Now you
will understand the delicacy of the situa-
tion. I cannot divulge anything as far as
the contents of our talks are concerned.
What I can say to you is the President and
the Secretary of State and all their ad-
visers, the American delegation, brought
to us certain proposals from Cairo. And
there are other issues on which, for the
time being, there are no proposals but
only ideas, and we shall deal tonight with
all of them. And tomorrow we shall in-
form the Knesset about our decisions.
Q. Is there any likelihood that Presi-
dent Carter will prolong his stay here?
418
