Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 7
cial justice and for improvements in the
American way of life, your voice, the
voice of the United Food and Commer-
cial Workers, will be heard throughout
the Nation. And I guarantee that your
voice will always be heard in the office of
the President of the United States.
I need the advice and the counsel of
Bill Wynn, because I know that Bill Wynn
believes in this country and he has shown
over and over that he is never afraid to
speak his own mind. And I'm sure that
that's one of the major reasons that you
chose him as your first leader.
Your new union was born out of a
spirit of high principle and compromise.
Each union could have jealously fought
for every inch of territory, every office,
every perk, every privilege, but instead
you have pooled your strength and your
resources in a common cause. And in the
process, you have greatly magnified your
strength and your resources.
Bill Wynn has outlined some of the
achievements which you and I have real-
ized together. There's no need for me to
repeat them. This is not a time to rest
on our laurels. We still have tough prob-
lems to face and tough problems to solve
together. Today, all Americans face the
same basic choice that you have just faced
with such courage. Each of us can choose
to be part of a stronger, more confident,
and more prosperous nation, united
through a sense of common purpose, or
we can worry only about our own in-
terests. We can be weakened and divided
as a nation and be afraid of the future
until all of us suffer in the end.
More than two centuries ago, the
founders of our country expressed grave
doubts whether a free people in a democ-
racy like ours could ever rise above spe-
cial personal or regional interests to deal
with a crisis or a serious challenge with
courage and in a sense of unity.
I see this concern every day in Wash-
ington. You see it on the evening news,
the greatest democratic system of gov-
ernment which has ever existed on Earth,
twisted and pulled in every direction by
hundreds of well-financed, powerful,
sometimes quite selfish special interest
groups.
We see every extreme, one-sided polit-
ical positions defended to the last vote
by one unyielding, powerful group or
another. We see every compromise, every
evenhanded, fair solution that asks for
just a little sacrifice from everyone aban-
doned like an orphan, without support
and without friends.
We see our country facing serious prob-
lems in energy, inflation, and we see the
threat of stagnation or paralysis and drift
brought about by fear of the future and
a lack of common purpose, courage, and
unity.
I'm tired of seeing America pulled
apart by selfishness, and I believe that you
are tired of this prospect also.
But if we are united, I am not afraid
of the future. I look forward to the chal-
lenges, and I look forward with you to
the great victories ahead, if we work
together.
Our country was not built, it has not
prospered, by people who said, “Me first,
me last, me always." We've not prevailed
as a nation of free people for 200 years,
continually enlarging freedom and dignity
and opportunity, prosperity, hope for all
Americans, by practicing the politics of
selfishness. You know that. Neither the
Retail Clerks nor the Amalgamated
Meatcutters ever drew a line through the
Nation and said, "We will look out for
just our own dues-paying members, and
the rest of America can take care of it-
self." You never said that, and as Presi-
dent, I thank you for it.
1009
