Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
and drying crops—provide numerous op-
portunities for the use of solar and other
renewable resources.
Biomass, gasohol, wind energy, low
head hydro, and various direct solar tech-
nologies hold significant promise in the
agricultural and industrial sectors. I will
soon be forwarding legislation to the Con-
gress which will:
• Provide a 25% investment tax credit
for agricultural and industrial process
heat uses of solar energy. This is a 15%
addition to the existing investment tax
credit and it will remain available
through 1989. This responds directly to
the concern expressed in the Domestic
Policy Review that the tax credit cur-
rently provided in the National Energy
Act is set at too low a level and expires
too early to provide needed incentives.
These uses now account for about 25%
of our energy demand. Substitution of
solar and other renewable resources for
a portion of this energy would signifi-
cantly reduce our dependence on foreign
oil.
• Permanently exempt gasohol from
the Federal gasoline excise tax. More and
more Americans are learning that a gas-
ohol blend of 90% gasoline and 10%
alcohol-which is made from various
agricultural products or wastes-is an ef-
ficient octane-boosting fuel for automo-
biles and other gasoline engines.
The existing tax incentives of the Na-
tional Energy Act will continue to stim-
ulate the uses of these technologies in the
industrial and agricultural sectors.
The Department of Agriculture will
have a significant responsibility for in-
forming farmers and other agricultural
users of energy about how solar and other
renewable sources can begin to help meet
their needs. The Farmers Home Admin-
istration and other agencies within the
Agriculture Department will continue to
provide financial and technical assistance
to farmers in using solar and other re-
newable technologies.
The TVA is demonstrating what can
be done by utilities in helping private in-
dustries, farmers, and residential cus-
tomers apply existing solar technologies.
The goal of the TVA's "Solar Memphis"
program is to install 1,000 solar water
heaters this year by offering long-term,
low-interest loans, by inspecting solar in-
stallations, and by backing manufac-
turers' warranties. In addition, the TVA's
1.75 million square foot passive solar of-
fice complex in Chattanooga, Tennessee
will be designed to be completely energy
self-sufficient and will be a model for the
nation in the use of renewable technolo-
gies in office buildings.
The Small Business Administration is
now operating a solar loan program for
small manufacturers and purchasers of
solar technologies. Next year, the SBA
aims to triple the amount of funds avail-
able to small businesses under this pro-
gram over the amount originally appro-
priated. We will also marshal the efforts
of agencies such as the Economic Devel-
opment Administration to include solar
and other renewable resources within
their assistance programs.
These activities, along with the basic
information dissemination programs of
the Department of Energy, will help in-
crease the use of solar and other renew-
able resource technologies in residential,
commercial, agricultural, and industrial
buildings.
Finally, we will strive to increase use
of solar energy by the Federal government
itself. An estimated 350 solar systems will
be placed in government facilities and
buildings over the next fifteen months.
Energy audits of all large federal buildings
will be completed in 1979. DOE will con-
tinue to develop guidelines which take
1103
