Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 16
very thing that unites us. We are two dis-
tinct versions of Western civilization."
Yet it is undeniable that our cultures
and our civilizations are more and more
related. After all, I am speaking to you
in the language not only of Mexico but
of 20 million of my fellow citizens in the
United States of America.
This mutual interest we feel in our
respective music, art, drama, and sports,
and in the looks and sounds of our own
landscape and our cities as well.
But it goes deeper than that. If the cul-
tural reality of the present is a product of
the past, it is also a map of the future.
And on that map, the paths to progress for
both our peoples increasingly converge. I
strongly believe that the intermingling of
our two cultures should be welcomed, for
it will be a source of strength and vitality
for both peoples.
For all the cherished differences be-
tween the customs and histories of our
two countries, we are alike in another
very important way: We are both plura-
listic societies.
Mexico is the product of many cultural
influences—influences which have shaped
a distinctive whole society, while retain-
ing, at the same time, much of its original
character. The same can be said of the
United States. It is natural for us to learn,
and adopt from one another, ideas.
From our perspective, the 2,000-year
history of Mexican civilization is impres-
sive, even awesome. When the first Eng-
lish settlers came to the United States, the
University of Mexico and Spanish settle-
ments near my present home State were
already 100 years old.
Mexico has produced a great and
unique culture-one that today finds
beautiful expression in art, literature,
music, dance, and in architecture of ex-
traordinary vitality.
We respect your culture, which enriches
our own. But we also respect Mexico as a
great and growing modern nation in con-
stant growth.
President López Portillo has adopted
many important steps to strengthen polit-
ical participation, and he has set forth
goals of wider economic participation and
social justice as well. We admire and ap-
plaud these actions.
I have tried to develop a better ap-
proach to Latin America and the Carib-
bean also one that emphasizes the
uniqueness of each country. The United
States views Latin American countries not
just as regional actors but as important
leaders in a wider system of global cooper-
ation. This commitment is more than just
words.
During my first year in office, the
Panama on the Panama Canal, which
United States signed a new treaty with
recognizes the national pride and legiti-
mate rights between people of Panama,
and at the same time, it is consistent with
the ideals and best interests of the people
of the United States.
We particularly value the role that
Mexico plays in international affairs in a
world that is more and more varied and
less and less dominated by super powers
or by ideological blocs.
The influence and leadership of Mexico
have been increased. You are a recog-
nized force for international economic
justice, for the principle of national
sovereignty and nonintervention, for arms
control and peace.
It has been said that war is too im-
portant to be left to the generals. It is
equally true that peace is too important to
be left solely to the super powers. Mexico's
policy affirms that every country has a
stake in control of nuclear arms. Through
the Treaty of Tlatelolco, you have taken
a unique and important initiative in in-
spiring Latin America to be permanently
free of nuclear weapons.
285
