Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
for small business; expanded small busi-
ness loan opportunities; worked to in-
crease small business exports; expanded
opportunities for minority-owned small
businesses; and initiated programs to in-
crease small business opportunities for
women. In addition, we have begun prep-
arations for a White House Conference
on Small Business in January of 1980
which will include local and regional con-
ferences throughout the country.
This year, while continuing efforts to
prepare for the White House Conference,
the Administration will work closely with
the Congress to develop legislation to im-
prove the operation and effectiveness of
the Small Business Administration.
Cultural Affairs
Over the last decade, the National
Endowments for the Arts and the Human-
ities have made enormous progress in
developing projects and materials to en-
hance our Nation's cultural life. This
year, the Endowments will continue their
distinguished record of achievement. I am
hopeful Congress will provide adequate
funds for White House Conferences on
the Arts and Humanities. This year we
will also strengthen the programs of the
International Communications Agency,
which present the diversity of American
culture to the world and deepen our ap-
preciation of other cultures.
PROTECTING BASIC RIGHTS
AND LIBERTIES
Since taking office, I have worked to
protect and enhance the basic rights and
liberties provided to Americans under the
Constitution and our other laws. With the
cooperation of the Congress, we have
made important progress in this area.
Over the next year, though, a great deal
remains to be done if our goal of ensuring
equality and basic freedoms for all Ameri-
cans is to be realized. The dream of equal
opportunity remains unfulfilled. I will do
everything in my power to bring that
dream closer to realization.
Civil Rights
Civil Rights and Equal Opportunity
I take no obligation of my office more
seriously than that of striving to secure
full civil rights and equal opportunity
for all Americans. In the quarter century
since the Supreme Court's historic deseg-
regation decision, our Nation's progress
in these vital areas of human rights had
been significant, but we have more to do.
I am determined to use all of my author-
ity to resist any efforts to weaken enforce-
ment of any of our civil rights and equal
opportunity laws. Recent actions by some
in Congress to impair my Administration's
efforts to enforce the law of the land will
be forcefully opposed. These laws have
made our society more open to equality of
opportunity than virtually any on earth,
and attempts to weaken them cannot be
tolerated or allowed to succeed.
My Administration has taken impor-
tant steps to make civil rights enforce-
ment more effective. The Justice Depart-
ment has been diligent in its prosecution
of civil rights violations. The Office of
Federal Contract Compliance Programs
(OFCCP) and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) has
been reorganized and granted increased
authority. The OFCCP will vigorously
enforce the guidelines of Executive Order
11246, which prohibits employment dis-
crimination by Federal contractors and
requires affirmative action by these con-
tractors. In addition the EEOC will con-
tinue this year to provide an effective cen-
142
