Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 26
ourselves and China will not only help the
people of our two countries but will pro-
vide for stability and peace in the West-
ern Pacific or the Asian region and, also,
the entire world. And my hope and ex-
pectation is that the Soviets will agree
that that assessment is accurate, that this
will not be a destabilizing factor in the
future, but a stabilizing factor, and that
world peace will be enhanced.
We will be cautious in not trying to
have an unbalanced relationship between
China and the Soviet Union. And if there
has been some concern expressed by some
sources and I'm not familiar with
them-I don't think they are well
advised.
MINORITY EDUCATION PROGRAMS
allocation of new funds for student loans.
These will, obviously, apply to all stu-
dents, both black and white, some em-
phasis on disadvantaged children.
My recent directive to the different
agencies of the Federal Government were
designed to extract from them advice on
how all the multiple group of agencies
could best support the historically black
colleges. And when I get their reports in,
we will assess them, primarily with the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, and proceed to make sure that
those black colleges, predominantly black
colleges, are strengthened in the future
and not weakened in any way.
So, I can't answer your question about
specifically what we will do in the future,
except when I get those recommendations
from different agencies, we'll decide at
Q. Mr. President, in the last few days that point what ought to be done.
you have taken on various steps in the
area of education, focusing on increasing
Federal assistance to black colleges, spe-
cifically. I think you have even issued a
memorandum to Federal agency heads,
and you have also endorsed the new de-
partment of education.
My question is two-fold: One, what
kind of increases can black colleges ex-
pect from the Federal Government in this
time of overall restraint in the budget?
And secondly, how will you seek to en-
force and implement the civil rights laws
that exist in the education area?
THE PRESIDENT. I think last year we
increased total Federal allocations for
education about $12 billion.* This was for
the preschool programs, for Title 1 edu-
cation for disadvantaged students who
were in the public schools, and, also, a
very large and, I think, well-contrived
NOTE: The President meant to say "to about
$12 billion." The education budget was in-
creased last year from $10.15 billion to $12.7
billion, an increase of 23 percent. [Printed in
the transcript.]
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS
Q. Mr. President, you really got the
Democratic establishment in a tizzy over
the social security cutbacks, Speaker
O'Neill and Senate Majority Leader
Byrd. My question is, did you know, when
you were proposing these cutbacks, that
they primarily affect widows who need
the death benefit to pay for funeral ex-
penses and allotments to widows raising
teenaged children? Was there discussion
among your aides or was this a recom-
mendation of Mr. Califano?
THE PRESIDENT. We had quite a
lengthy discussion about this. I might
point out that the total of all the changes
that we advocated in social security re-
form only comprise about one-half of 1
percent of the total benefits. In general,
I think in its entirety, the recommenda-
tions are designed to eliminate duplicat-
ing services, where either within the social
security system or in other government
programs, a given benefit is provided in
173
