Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 20
[laughter]—and a number of years ago I
decided that my being elected President
was the only way that I would ever have
a chance to get a degree from Georgia
Tech. [Laughter] This has made it worth-
while. [Laughter]
I remember when I first came to Tech,
the entire world was at war. Our Nation
was under attack on two fronts and was
desperately gearing up for a total war
effort that we had not known since we
fought each other in the 1860's.
In 1942, 1943, it was not yet a time for
victories for the United States nor for our
allies, and many people feared that West-
ern democracies might be overwhelmed.
We now face a very different world from
the world in which I came of age. The old
empires are gone, and the maps are
covered with new and developing nations
with names that we had then never heard.
But one thing has not changed as much
as I had hoped. It's still a world of danger,
a world in which democracy and freedom
are still challenged, a world in which
peace must be rewon day by day. Too
many people still lack the simplest neces-
sities of life, and too many are deprived of
the most basic human rights. As the events
of recent days have shown, peace remains
a fragile thing, vulnerable to assaults from
all sides.
Disturbances in Iran, the Western
Indian Ocean, and Southeast Asia, are a
challenge to our determination and our
leadership. They underscore the impor-
tance of strength in our national defenses,
wisdom in our diplomacy, and steadfast-
ness in the pursuit of arms control and
peace.
I want to speak to you today about
America's role and America's purpose in
this world of change and turbulence.
Ever since the end of the Second World
War, the United States has been the
leader in moving our world closer to a
stable peace and genuine security. We
have the world's strongest economy; we
have the world's strongest military forces;
and we share burdens of mutual defense
with friends abroad whose security and
prosperity are as vital to us as to them-
selves.
With our strong allies, we have suc-
ceeded in preventing a global war for
more than one-third of a century-the
longest period of general peace in modern
times. And as President of the United
States, I am determined to keep our Na-
tion at peace.
We help to sustain a world trading and
monetary system that has brought greater
prosperity to more of the world's people
than ever before in history. We are work-
ing to resolve conflicts among other na-
tions so that each can develop its own fu-
ture in independence and peace. And
we've helped to maintain the conditions
in which more than 100 new nations have
come into being, and in which human
hope-and its fulfillment-has taken a
revolutionary leap forward.
In short, we in the United States pro-
vide the bedrock of global security and
economic advance in a world of unprec-
edented change and conflict.
In such a world America has four
fundamental security responsibilities: to
provide for our own Nation's strength and
safety; to stand by our allies and our
friends; to support national independence
and integrity of other nations; and to
work diligently for peace.
We do not oppose change. Many of the
political currents sweeping the world ex-
press a desire that we share-the desire
for a world in which the legitimate aspi-
rations of nations and individuals have a
greater chance for fulfillment.
The United States cannot control
events within other nations. A few years
ago, we tried this and we failed. But we
301
