Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
agency must select the least costly way to
achieve the rule's objective, or-if an-
other is needed-explain the reasons.
• Review of Old Rules: Each agency
will establish a schedule to review its
major rules and smaller rules which may
be outmoded or ineffective. The reviews,
to be conducted over a 10-year period,
will be used to ensure that rules are kept
up-to-date or eliminated.
Planning and Management: The
bill requires agencies to publish semi-
annual agendas of upcoming rules; ensures
that senior officials are fully involved in
developing rules; and strengthens selec-
tion and oversight for the Administrative
Law Judges who make many key regula-
tory decisions.
Delay: To eliminate needless legal
formality and delay, the bill revamps the
procedures for agency hearings. It also
requires that agencies set deadlines on
most proceedings.
• Public Participation: The bill helps
those affected by regulation participate in
the regulatory process, through more no-
tice to the public, a longer comment pe-
riod, and consultation with affected state
and local governments. It also authorizes
limited funding for groups that would
present important information and could
not otherwise afford to participate.
The Office of Management and Budget
will oversee the key management reforms.
The Administrative Conference of the
U.S. will oversee administrative law
judges and use of the participation funds.
I will soon submit a reorganization plan
to enable the Conference to carry out
these missions.
II. PAPERWORK REDUCTION
The Federal Government must collect
information from the public to enforce
the laws, analyze the economy and estab-
lish sound public policy. But too many
paperwork requirements are duplicative,
unnecessary, or place an unreasonable
burden upon small organizations. Over
the past two years, we have cut the time
the public spends filling out Federal forms
by about 15%. But we must do more.
The job of reviewing Federal paper-
work requirements should be performed
in one place-not divided as it is now,
among OMB, GAO and other agencies.
I shall submit legislation to the Congress
to centralize this mission in the Office of
Management and Budget.
In addition, I will soon issue an Execu-
tive Order to further reduce the paper-
work burden. The Order will require
agencies to consider the special problems
that small businesses and organizations
face in filling out Federal forms and will
authorize simpler forms and requirements
for such groups. It will establish a "paper-
work budget" for Executive agencies and
create an information locator system to
help agencies determine whether the in-
formation they need is already available
elsewhere. No report should be approved
if the information can be obtained, with-
in privacy and confidentiality protections,
elsewhere in the government.
III. REFORM OF INDIVIDUAL STATUTES
All regulatory programs were created
by legislation and many of their problems
can be solved only by amending individ-
ual statutes. Much of the trouble with
regulation built up because laws have
gone unchanged in spite of changing
needs.
This problem applies to many Federal
programs in addition to regulation. One
answer is to pass a sunset bill. This legis-
lation would set a schedule for Congres-
sional review of each program, once every
10 years. The reviews would be timed so
494
