Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 28
noyed, though, with this kind of political
discussion or political problem. Even
Amy, my little daughter, has been asking
me why everyone talks about John Con-
nally or Ronald Reagan or Jerry Brown
instead of about me. And I've explained
to her very carefully, "I'm only the Presi-
dent, they're candidates." But then she
just looks at me, and she says, “Yes, but,
Daddy, Teddy Kennedy is not a candi-
date." [Laughter]
I wish you wouldn't laugh at her. She's
only a little child. [Laughter] She's really
not old enough to understand the awe-
some responsibilities that fall on the shoul-
ders of a President of the United States.
For instance, I get a lot of calls from
world leaders. Just last night, Jim Cal-
laghan wanted me to get Tip O'Neill to
endorse Mrs. Thatcher. [Laughter] And
this morning, as soon as I got up, Prime
Minister Ohira was on the phone calling
to be sure that when I go to Japan in
June, that Linda Ronstadt will be with
me. [Laughter] I've not yet gotten the an-
swer from Rosalynn.
But I have found a way through ex-
perience and through long discussions to
explain to these foreign leaders why we
have such colorful opposition within my
own party. This is California's way of
celebrating the Year of the Child.
[Laughter]
A lot of people keep asking me if I'm
running. And I keep asking them, "Run-
ning what?" [Laughter]
You understand better than most the
awesome responsibility that falls on the
shoulders of a President of the United
States. And that's why your understand-
ing and our closeness is the reason that
I'm becoming increasingly interested, per-
sonally, in our Nation's news media the
television, radio, newspapers. As a matter
of fact, to illustrate my own interest, I've
recently asked Fred Kahn to take a care-
ful look at your advertising rates and at
your first quarter's profits. And I can as-
sure you that you will be hearing from us
very shortly. [Laughter]
Inflation is really tough. It's just one
of my many problems. A lot of people
just don't understand this awesome re-
sponsibility of being a President. But at
least I'm living proof that the President,
even in this modern, turbulent, confused
America, still has tremendous powers of
influence and persuasion. Just take, for
instance, the most recent wage guideline
dispute. I can tell you in complete can-
dor, and I hope some degree of confi-
dence, that I had no trouble at all in per-
suading the Teamsters to consider my po-
sition before they put their guidelines
into effect. [Laughter]
I'm not the only one, by the way, who's
interested in the news media. A lot of
people were puzzled that the Supreme
Court would suddenly permit prosecutors
to peer into the contents of reporters'
minds, and frankly, so was I. I didn't even
know the Court had a sense of humor.
[Laughter]
My most conservative friends were
really shocked at the ultimate conse-
quences of this action. And I agreed with
them, that, of course, you couldn't just
let anyone know what was found. They
are already demanding a law, for instance,
to protect children under 18. For my part,
I promise never to ask what you have in
your mind when you write about one of
my programs if you won't ask what was
in my mind when I thought it up.
[Laughter]
Well, you're certainly not the only one
in trouble with the law. They're looking
into my peanut business, just like they're
looking into editors' minds. But you and
I know we have nothing to fear. We both
know they won't find anything. [Laugh-
ter]
745
