June 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
hero he was a symbol of many of the
most basic qualities that made America
great. The ruggedness, the tough inde-
pendence, the sense of personal convic-
tion and courage on and off the
screen-reflected the best of our na-
tional character.
It was because of what John Wayne
said about what we are and what we can
be that his great and deep love of Amer-
ica was returned in full measure.
terminated on the day of that rescission.
Please continue to work with State offi-
cials to monitor carefully the residual oil
supply in Florida, and to inform me if
the emergency should cease to exist. You
will continue to retain full authority to
disapprove temporary suspension of regu-
lations in Florida and to exercise your
emergency powers authority under Sec-
tion 303 of the Clean Air Act, when and
if necessary. It is important to keep sus-
Rosalynn and I extend our deepest pensions to an absolute minimum since
sympathies to his family.
Energy Emergency in Florida
Memorandum From the President.
June 12, 1979
Memorandum for the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency
Based on a request submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Florida to
extend my May 5, 1979 determination
that a regional energy emergency con-
tinues to exist in the State of Florida of
such severity that a temporary suspen-
sion of certain particulate and opacity
control regulations which apply to fossil-
Section 110(f) of the Clean Air Act
limits each suspension to a maximum du-
ration of 120 days.
I commend Governor Graham for his
continued efforts in energy conservation
and his commitment that no extension of
any suspension will be granted if the re-
sult would be a violation of any national
ambient primary or secondary air quality
standard.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:56 p.m., June 12, 1979]
fuel fired electric generating plants under Steel Imports
the Florida Air Quality Implementation
Plan may be necessary, and that other
means of responding to the energy emer-
gency may be inadequate, I hereby ex-
tend that determination for thirty days
from June 5 to and including July 4,
1979. This extension is limited by the
same conditions as my original determi-
nation.
If, during the extension, I find that a
regional energy emergency no longer
exists in Florida, I will direct that this
extension be rescinded, and that all sus-
pension orders issued by the Governor be
Proclamation 4665.
June 12, 1979
EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY QUANTITA-
TIVE LIMITATION ON THE IMPORTATION
INTO THE UNITED STATES OF CERTAIN
ARTICLES OF STAINLESS STEEL OR
ALLOY TOOL STEEL
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
1. On June 11, 1976, by Proclamation
4445, the President proclaimed, pursuant
1032
