Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
mits, certificates, grants or other author-
izations, and, consistent with law, Federal
government requests for data or informa-
tion related to any application for a per-
mit, certificate, grant or other authoriza-
tion. Upon agreement between the Fed-
eral Inspector and the head of any agency,
that agency may delegate to the Federal
Inspector any statutory function vested in
such agency related to the functions of
the Federal Inspector:
(c) The Federal Inspector and Agency
Authorized Officers in implementing the
enforcement authorities herein trans-
ferred shall carry out the enforcement
policies and procedures established by the
Federal agencies which nominally admin-
ister these authorities, except where the
Federal Inspector determines that such
policies and procedures would require ac-
tion inconsistent with Section 9 of the Act
(15 U.S.C. 719g).
(d) Under the authority of Section 15
of the Act (15 U.S.C. 719m), the Fed-
eral Inspector will undertake to obtain
appropriations for all aspects of the Fed-
eral Inspector's operations. Such under-
taking shall include appropriations for all
of the functions specified in the Act and
in the general terms and conditions of the
Decision as well as for the enforcement
activities of the Federal Inspector. The
Federal Inspector will consult with the
various Federal agencies as to resource
requirements for enforcing their respec-
tive permits and other authorizations in
preparing a unified budget for the Office.
The budget shall be reviewed by the Ex-
ecutive Policy Board.
SEC. 203. Subsequent Transfer Provi-
sion
(a) Effective upon the first anniversary
of the date of initial operation of the
Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Sys-
tem, the functions transferred by Section
102 of this Plan shall be transferred to
the agency which performed the functions
on the date prior to date the provisions
of Section 102 of this Plan were made
effective pursuant to Section 205 of this
Plan.
(b) Upon the issuance of the final de-
termination order by the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget for the
transfers provided for by subsection (a)
of this section, the Office and the position
of Federal Inspector shall, effective on
the date of that order, stand abolished.
SEC. 204. Incidental Transfers
So much of the personnel, property,
records and unexpended balances of ap-
propriations, allocations and other funds
employed, used, held, available, or to be
made available in connection with the
functions transferred under this Plan, as
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall determine, shall be
transferred to the appropriate agency or
component at such time or times as the
Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall provide, except that no
such unexpended balances transferred
shall be used for purposes other than those
for which the appropriation was originally
made. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall provide
for the terminating of the affairs of the
Office and the Federal Inspector upon
their abolition pursuant to this Plan and
for such further measures and dispositions
as such Director deems necessary to ef-
fectuate the purposes of this Plan.
SEC. 205. Effective Date
This Plan shall become effective at
such time or times as the President shall
specify, but not sooner than the earliest
time allowable under Section 906 of Title
597
