Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
In a world that can be traversed in an
hour by satellite, and in an instant by
radio, every country is, in a certain sense,
the neighbor of every other country. Yet
the closeness of Mexico and the United
States is no abstraction. We share an
open border more than 3,000 kilometers
long. We are neighbors in every sense of
the word—and, as President López Portil-
lo said in his speech to our Congress 2
years ago, "We shall go on being neighbors
as long as the Earth circles the Sun."
Our friendship has at times been marred
by mistakes, and even by abuses of power.
Our perceptions of each other have some-
times been distorted. But we have made
progress, and I believe that in the coming
years, we will make greater progress
toward fuller cooperation, understanding,
and mutual respect.
This will be so if the relations between
us are the product of an honest dialog such
as President López Portillo and I have
had during the last few days.
In the 2 years since President López
Portillo became the first head of state to
visit me at the White House, we have re-
corded many accomplishments together.
We have signed a civil aviation agreement
that will bring the largest expansion of
air service between two countries in a
full generation. We have signed and rati-
fied treaties on prisoner exchange, on
maritime boundaries, and on fisheries,
and on extradition.
We have worked together effectively to
combat the heroin trade-and we know
that the task is far from complete. We
have cooperated and sought each other's
counsel on international issues. We have
strengthened the continuing consultative
links between our two governments.
Yesterday we signed agreements to ex-
pand scientific cooperation in the areas of
housing and in arid crop development.
These accomplishments are important,
not only for themselves but because they
demonstrate our willingness and our abil-
ity to work together.
Difficult problems remain-especially
in the areas of trade, energy, and migra-
tion. Each of these issues defies easy solu-
tion. Now and for years to come, each will
require our best efforts to narrow our dif-
ferences and find common ground.
As a result of the productive consulta-
tions of this visit, working groups will con-
tinue to study the problem. But they will
make frequent reports to President López
Portillo and to me. We have agreed to
meet soon, preferably this summer, to as-
sess progress and to resolve remaining
problems.
This is important, and I want to repeat
it in my language: [In English] Because of
the great progress that has been made in
this visit, we have assigned to working
groups matters of negotiation and con-
sultation. These groups will make fre-
quent reports to President López Portillo
and to me, and your President and mine
[I] have agreed to meet very early again
to assess the progress that has been made,
and to add our personal influence in re-
solving remaining problems. Our hope
and our expectation is that President
López Portillo and I will meet again as
early as this summer.
[In Spanish] Trade between our two
countries, which already reaches an an-
nual level of about $10 billion, is certain
to grow even more rapidly in the future.
We must work together as neighbors and
as associates within the system of interna-
tional trade in order to reduce the barriers
to trade between our countries and to
manage presently our commercial rela-
tions effectively.
For many reasons-some of them his-
torical-the issue of energy has aroused
strong emotion. You are justifiably proud
of the great natural resources of Mexico.
That is why I want to repeat today what
I have emphasized in talking to the peo-
286
