June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The two leaders discussed the situation
in southern Africa. They reiterated the
commitment of their two Governments to
work together with Canada, France, and
the United Kingdom for the implementa-
tion of Security Council Resolution 435 on
Namibia. They exchanged views on devel-
opments in Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and their
international implications, taking fully
into account the special position of the
United Kingdom in this regard.
During their talks, the two leaders also
repeated their concern about the economic
situation in Turkey, to which both of their
countries are making significant contribu-
tions.
The two leaders will next meet at the
Tokyo summit on June 28-29.
Air Quality Standards in Ohio
Statement on Actions by the Environmental
Protection Agency To Preserve Coal-Related
Jobs. June 6, 1979
Since the beginning of my administra-
tion, I have been concerned about the
severe economic distress occurring in
southeastern Ohio as a result of the steady
loss of mining jobs in that area. At my
direction, efforts have been undertaken
within the administration to develop solu-
tions to this problem. I am very pleased
that today the Environmental Protection
Agency has announced a series of actions
which will not only preserve more than
7,000 jobs in southeastern Ohio, but will
serve as the foundation for further action
to solve this area's economic difficulties.
Senators Glenn and Metzenbaum and
Congressman Applegate, as well as a num-
ber of State and local leaders in Ohio, are
to be applauded by the citizens of Ohio
for helping the administration focus its re-
sources toward developing a solution to
this serious problem.
The actions taken today by EPA will
address the economic disruption problem
in the following ways:
-EPA proposes to revise, after a 60-day
comment period, the permissible emission
levels at two Cleveland area coal-powered
utilities. The revisions, which are based on
new emissions data, would permit the
plants to continue to burn Ohio high-
sulfur coal if, as EPA now believes, this
revision is proven to be consistent with all
of the requirements of the Clean Air Act.
This action would preserve 2,150 mining
jobs and 3,225 jobs dependent on the min-
ing jobs.
EPA has reached an agreement-in
principle-with another Ohio utility
which would permit it to comply with
clean air standards by using washed Ohio
high-sulfur coal. This would preserve 670
mining jobs and 1,005 mine-dependent
jobs.
-The CEI proposal and EPA's action
in response is an example of the receptivity
of the Agency to this problem. Other re-
visions will be proposed by EPA if war-
ranted on their merits. EPA is currently
reviewing proposed revisions.
As a result of these EPA actions, the
administration will not proceed at this
time with action under Section 125 of the
Clean Air Act. The need for any action
under that section will be evaluated at a
later time, when the impact of the action
taken today can be more fully assessed.
I am particularly gratified that the
EPA has taken actions which, while pre-
serving Ohio jobs, will neither sacrifice
public health nor cause higher utility bills
for Ohio's consumers. In my view, clean
air must be preserved, and Ohio's con-
sumers should not be forced at this time to
bear unnecessary additional utility costs.
Finally, I recognize that the steps EPA
is taking will not save every mining job
which has been lost in recent times in
southeastern Ohio. Under existing laws,
1006
