Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 25
settlement in the area. We are grateful to
the people around the world who joined
us in prayer. We now ask people of all
faiths to join again in a day of prayer and
thanksgiving for what has been accom-
plished, and then ask God to guide our
nations in the days ahead as we continue
to work for a comprehensive, just and
lasting peace. With God's help, we and
generations to come will know peace be-
tween our peoples. To this end, we ask
that Monday, March 26, be a day of
prayer around the world.
Regulatory Reform
Message to the Congress on a Program of
Legislative and Executive Actions.
March 26, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today announcing a program of
major reforms in the regulatory process,
including both legislative and executive
action. This program will make new regu-
lations more efficient and effective; ensure
reviews of existing regulatory laws and in-
dividual rules to eliminate or revise those
that are outmoded; and reduce the bur-
den of regulation and paperwork without
jeopardizing our progress toward vital
regulatory goals.
Since the first Federal regulatory agency
was established nearly a century ago, regu-
latory programs have grown steadily in
number, scope, and impact. During that
time, however, little attention has been
paid to the management of the regulatory
process. There was little effort to re-
examine rules which no longer served the
public or to ensure that needed programs
are run on a common sense basis, so that
missions are accomplished with maximum
results and minimum burdens.
The time has come to stop this neglect.
Just as we have injected a new sense of
discipline into the management of Federal
budgetary and personnel resources, we
must reform the government's regulation
of others' resources.
Much of Federal regulation is vitally
important to modern society. Goals such
as equal opportunity, a healthy environ-
ment, a safe workplace, and a competitive
and truthful marketplace cannot be
achieved through market forces alone. In
the last decade, the regulatory programs
created to achieve these goals have pro-
duced a wide range of benefits, such as:
Workplace health standards have
been established which are protecting
more than two and one-half million work-
ers exposed to cancer causing substances,
such as asbestos, arsenic, and vinyl
chloride.
• Automobile safety devices such as seat
belts, collapsible steering wheels, interior
padding, and side door strength are saving
an estimated 9,000 lives per year.
• Fuel economy standards are reducing
automobile gasoline consumption by about
1.5 billion gallons this year.
Populated areas have more protection
against fires, explosion and the spilling of
hazardous materials transported by rail
because of new rules on tank cars.
• We are making real progress on water
pollution. Salmon are swimming in the
Connecticut River for the first time in
almost two centuries.
Regulations requiring child-proof
containers for such products as household
cleaners and drugs have prevented as
many as 200,000 accidental poisonings of
young children.
• Emission controls for automobiles
helped reduce carbon monoxide air pollu-
tion by 20% between 1972 and 1977.
The regulatory programs that produced
these benefits are essential to the Nation's
491
