Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
Clean Water Acts; we have created a sub-
stantial number of new National Parks
and other protected areas. During 1979,
protection of Alaska lands, implementa-
tion of water policy, resolution of wilder-
ness and nonwilderness designations in the
National Forest System and reformed
management of Federal energy resources
will be major environmental initiatives of
my Administration. Efforts to enforce and
implement environmental statutes firmly
and fairly, to streamline environmental
review requirements, to protect public
health and to preserve wildlife resources
will continue to be pursued vigorously and
as cost-effectively as possible.
Alaska
As in the last Congress, passage of leg-
islation designating National Parks, Wild-
life Refuges, Wilderness Areas, National
Forests and Wild and Scenic Rivers in
Alaska is the highest environmental pri-
ority of my Administration. To protect
these magnificent. Alaskan wild lands, I
took several actions after the adjournment
of the 95th Congress, including the crea-
tion of 17 National Monuments covering
56 million acres. These areas, as well as
other outstanding parts of Alaska covered
in Administration proposals, should be
protected promptly by legislation in order
to assure that the great national treasures
of wildlife, scenery, history and untouched
ecosystems can be saved for our children
and grandchildren, while permitting ap-
propriate commercial use of certain of the
areas.
Roadless Area Designations (Rare II)
The Agriculture Department has re-
leased tentative recommendations and
nearly completed work on a study which
will lead to proposals to resolve the status
of most of the remaining roadless areas in
the National Forest System. The Admin-
istration proposal will involve additional
wilderness designations in many States
and the release of remaining lands for non-
wilderness activities. This initiative will
also eliminate uncertainty over land uses
in most parts of the National Forest Sys-
tem and will ensure that development uses
will be adequately supported, while pre-
serving critical parts of our natural her-
itage in an unspoiled condition.
Environmental Protection
In recent years, the quality of our envi-
ronment has improved, but much remains
to be done to clean up our air and water,
and to control contamination by toxic ma-
terials. The Environmental Protection
Agency is focussing its efforts on the pro-
tection of public health by assessing the
effects of substances before they are intro-
duced into the environment, and by en-
suring that hazardous wastes are disposed
of safely.
At the same time, EPA, and the other
health and safety agencies are exercising
new care when implementing environ-
mental regulations to avoid imposing un-
necessary costs or red tape. A healthy,
safe environment need not be incompati-
ble with a healthy economy. We are com-
mitted to both.
The Nation's investment in environ-
ment cleanup must have the incentives
and the flexibility to allow our most im-
portant environmental goals to be
achieved at the lowest cost. Unnecessary
requirements which cause delays and in-
crease costs will be removed. EPA will
simplify and consolidate its permit pro-
grams to reduce paperwork, red tape and
delays.
The Agency is beginning to introduce
innovations which allow firms the flex-
ibility to find the lowest cost methods of
controlling pollution. I will submit legis-
151
