May 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
establishment of proper priorities, zero-
based budgeting, and the cooperative
spirit both in the special interest groups,
mostly highly benevolent, and the Con-
gress working with us.
You've been a part of this.
We've tried to eliminate onerous regu-
lation. We've not yet fully succeeded, of
course. But I think we have made tremen-
dous improvements, for instance, in
OSHA. I remember one of the happiest
days of my Presidency was when we elimi-
nated 1,000 OSHA regulations in 1 day.
I would like to ask you, through Lloyd,
if there are specific Government regula-
tions or reports that you consider to be
unnecesary and ill-advised, to document
them specifically, do a little work on your
own, or let Lloyd do it—[laughter] he'll
cooperate in this [laughter]-see if the
regulation or report is required by law or
if it's an administrative decision and then
let Lloyd bring that information to me.
If it's encompassed in law, I'll work
with the Congress to get it changed. If it
is an administrative decision, I'll immedi-
ately call the Cabinet officer involved and
see if we can't remove the onerous part of
it.
If it's a report required weekly and you
think it could be done better monthly, or
monthly and you think it could be done
better semiannually, or eliminated alto-
gether or made briefer or combined with
another report that went to a separate
agency-if you'll do the work to give me
a specific example, not just generalities,
then I'll do the work as President to try
to accommodate your desires, because this
is a major cause of inflation-excessive
Government regulation.
We have been successful in working
with the Congress, for instance, on airline
deregulation. Everyone who flies and I
guess that's most of you who've
here would agree that rates
come
have
dropped tremendously, not only in do-
mestic circles but also in foreign air travel.
We've already saved, we believe, about
$2.5 billion in reduced fares for American
tourists and American business leaders,
and we really appreciate your help in get-
ting this legislation passed.
We are now faced with some other very
difficult decisions-hospital cost contain-
ment, we would like for you to help us.
The Multilateral Trade Negotiations
have been worked out substantially with
the cooperation and advice of your own
people. And this is now facing approval
in the Senate. It will greatly enhance the
well-being of all of you and also greatly
enhance the well-being of the consumers
of our country. And I hope that you will
exert every effort to work with Bob
Strauss and with me to eliminate the ob-
stacles to the ratification or approval of
the Multilateral Trade Negotiation.
I'd like to close by saying this: I've
only got one life to live on this Earth, as
you have I think the most important
single achievement that could possibly
take place for our Nation during my life-
time is the ratification of the SALT treaty
that we have just negotiated with the So-
viet Union. It's a fair treaty. I have to say
in complete candor that the Soviets have
been tough negotiators; so have we. They
have been fair negotiators; so have we.
It's a kind of treaty where both parties
reap tremendous benefits.
It maintains strategic equivalency,
which means that our atomic arsenals
are roughly balanced. There is no advan-
tage to either country that might precipi-
tate an initial strike without the sure
knowledge that a retaliatory strike would
kill a hundred million people or more.
I won't go into the details. That's not
necessary. The details are available to
you, and I know that Lloyd will be for-
warding to the key members of this orga-
834
