Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 11
THE PRIME MINISTER. This question
you must put to the President.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
5:40 p.m. to reporters assembled outside the
Prime Minister's office, where the meetings
were held. As printed above, the Prime Min-
ister's exchange with the reporters follows the
White House press release.
Earlier in the day, the President met with
President Navon at the Israeli President's resi-
dence. Following the meeting, President Carter
was met by Prime Minister Begin, and they
went to Yad Vashem, the memorial to Jews
killed during World War II. At Yad Vashem,
the President visited the Hall of Names, which
contains books listing the names of known vic-
tims of the Holocaust, and then went to the
Hall of Remembrance for a wreath laying cere-
mony.
The President and the Prime Minister then
visited Mount Herzl, site of the cemetery where
many Israeli war heroes and national leaders
are buried.
Jerusalem, Israel
Toasts at a Dinner Honoring President Carter.
March 11, 1979
PRESIDENT NAVON. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, Prime Minister and Mrs.
Begin, very distinguished guests from near
and far:
It is my privilege to greet you in Jeru-
salem, the Eternal City of David.
We have met here this evening to honor
an illustrious statesman, his distinguished
and devoted wife, and his great country.
The United States of America is great,
not only because of its scientific, techno-
logical, and military strength but also be-
cause of the profound human values that
are deeply implanted in the hearts of its
people. It is a beacon of hope for all those
who walk in darkness.
Greatness in a man or a nation is no
easy thing. It takes supreme wisdom to
refrain from exerting all the power at the
disposal of the strong. To be leader of a
nation which is responsible in large meas-
ure for the destiny of the entire world, a
man needs profound faith and constant
prayer. It is our profound conviction,
Mr. President, that you have within you
that fountain of living waters from which
you can draw a never-failing source of
inner faith.
By your side is your devoted helpmate,
a loyal partner in your joys and sorrow.
In voting for her forever, if you will per-
mit me a personal note, you have realized
one of
favorite watchwords, "Why
Not the Best?". [Laughter]
your
In your life, my dear Rosalynn, you
have also known the dark side of the
Moon; hence your particular sensitivity
towards those to whom fate has not been
kind. Your heartfelt involvement in the
welfare of the individual does not distract
your attention from the problems of the
great world, which is, in fact, composed of
individuals. The Talmud has forbidden us
to pronounce all the praises of any person
in his presence. I will be content, there-
fore, to say no more than this: that all
those who have met you have surrendered
unconditionally to your sincerity, nobility,
and warm personality.
Mr. President, one thread runs through
the entire history of our people. It is a
long and epic story of the few against the
many, a prolonged struggle to preserve
our spiritual character and identity
against powerful forces that threaten to
destroy us.
If it is not easy to be great, it is even
harder to be small. We strive for two aims
which, on the face of it, appear to be con-
tradictory-to be equal, but different. We
continue to cherish our national aims, to
gather in our scattered people from the
419
