Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN. President
Carter, Mrs. Carter, President Sadat,
Mrs. Sadat, ladies and gentlemen:
Amongst the many guests assembled
here, there is a lady from Norway. Her
name is Mrs. Lionaes. She was, until re-
cently, the chairman of the committee of
the Norwegian Parliament for the Nobel
Peace Prize. I invited her to come today
and to be with us, because when the
award was granted by that committee to
two men, she was under certain criticism
from some circles. And I asked her, after
the ceremony of signing, whether now
she can say that she and her colleagues
did not make a mistake. And she said,
with very characteristic bravery, “I never
had any doubts." [Laughter]
Now, my dear friend, Mrs. Lionaes,
when you come back home, I have a re-
quest to you, respectfully, to get in touch
with your former colleagues, the members
of the Nobel Prize committee of the
democratic parliament of your country.
I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that all
of us-President Sadat and myself, mem-
bers of the three Cabinets of the United
States, of Egypt, and Israel, Members of
Congress of both Houses, Members of
the Knesset, writers, singers, all of us as-
sembled here-do decide to nominate
President Jimmy Carter as a candidate-
[applause]-I didn't yet say a candidate
for what-[laughter]—as a candidate to
receive the Nobel Peace Prize of 1979.
And please, no sharing of the award.
[Laughter] All the prize is due to the
President of the United States. And, Mr.
President, if on the 10th of December,
this year, you go to Oslo, and you invite
President Sadat and me to be witnesses
for that ceremony, I am positive that
both of us will be in Oslo. It is due to you,
my dear friend, Mr. President. You de-
serve it amply. And I am sure on the 10th
of December you will be crowned with
the great, international, famous award,
the Nobel Peace Prize.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would
like to pay tribute to a man who is the
main adviser of the President of this great
country, and his friend and my friend.
And as I know all the goings and comings
and all the legal formulations about every
word or letter, or even comma, I can say
to you tonight that a great service was
rendered to the United States, to Egypt,
to Israel, and to the cause of peace by a
gentleman who did so much day and
night with his inventive mind, with his
great learning and knowledge, and who
bears another title. He is also the husband
of the perfect lady whom my wife and I
love dearly and respect highly. I refer to
the Secretary of State, Cyrus Vance.
And the last remark, ladies and gentle-
men, will be absolutely personal. And I
will apologize for making it, but I have
to. In the afternoon, I spoke about sur-
vival and perseverence. Tonight, in your
presence, I would like to thank for that
ability to persevere one human being who
is here, whom I met when she was 17
years old, my own wife.
And again, I will quote a prophet,
Yirmeyahu. This time I will translate.
[At this point, the Prime Minister spoke in
Hebrew.]
"And I will remember the grace of your
youth, the love of your nuptials following
me into the desert, into a land sown with
mines."
Now we arrived to be here on this day.
Let us thank God Almighty that he gave
us, together, and our children and our
grandchildren the strength to withstand
all the tests, which sometimes were quite
difficult, until I could, on behalf of our
people, to do the greatest human act, sign
a peace treaty. In the circle of friendship
of President Carter, President Sadat, and
525
