Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the relationship between our Government
and the Khomeini government?
THE PRESIDENT. The Khomeini gov-
ernment has made it clear ever since it
came into power, through our direct ne-
gotiations with Prime Minister Bazargan
and our Ambassador and through their
emissaries, who have even today talked to
Secretary Vance, that they desire a close-
working and friendly relationships with
the United States.
They have also announced that oil
pro-
duction in Iran will be increased and
that, very shortly, exports will be recom-
menced. And my own assessment is that
they have strong intentions to carry out
both these goals and that they are capable
of doing so.
Q. Mr. President, there is, or there ap-
pears to be starting a public debate on
the question, "Who lost Iran?" I noticed
that former Secretary Kissinger was sug-
gesting that your administration should
bear some responsibility; former Under
Secretary of State George Ball suggested
that the Nixon-Kissinger administration
did much to destabilize Iran with their
billions in sophisticated military hard-
ware. My question was, I suppose, do you
agree with Ball? Who lost Iran, or was
Iran ours to lose in the first place?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's obvious that
Iran was not ours to lose in the first place.
We don't own Iran, and we have never
had any intention nor ability to control
the internal affairs of Iran. For more than
2,000 years, the people in the Iran area,
the Persians and others, have established
their own government. They've had ups
and downs, as have we. I think it's ob-
vious that the present government in Iran,
as I just answered, would like to have
good relationships with us. I don't know
of anything we could have done to pre-
vent the very complicated social and reli-
gious and political interrelationships from
occurring in Iran in the change of gov-
ernment. And we'll just have to make the
best of the change.
But, as I say, we cannot freeze the sta-
tus quo in a country when it's very friend-
ly to us. When the change is made by the
people who live there, we do the best we
can to protect American interests by form-
ing new alliances, new friendships, new
interrelationships, new trade relation-
ships, new security relationships, perhaps,
in the future, with the new government,
and that's the best we can do.
But to try to lay blame on someone in
the United States for a new government
having been established in Iran, I think,
is just a waste of time and avoids a basic
issue that this was a decision to be made
and which was made by the Iranian
people themselves.
ISRAELI ACCESS TO OIL
Q. Mr. President, in view of the fact
that we have some arrangement to sup-
port Israel in the event that they have oil
shortages, do you view Iran's lack of de-
sire to supply oil to Israel as creating prob-
lems for us in terms of our support for
Israel in securing secondary sources?
THE PRESIDENT. When the supply of
Iranian oil to Israel was interrupted, I
immediately notified Prime Minister
Begin and the Israeli Government that we
would honor our commitment to them.
So far, the Israelis have been able to ac-
quire oil from other sources in the Sinai,
and also on the world markets from differ-
ent countries.
We will honor that commitment. I
think that the total Israeli oil consump-
tion is only about 1 percent of the con-
sumption in the United States. So, even if
Israel should have to depend upon us for
a substantial portion of their oil, we would
352
