Apr. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Q. You don't see a dual role, though,
for the time being? You will finish one
and then start the other?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. I do not see a
dual role, no.
Yes, final question.
Q. When did you first get word or an
idea that the President had you in mind
for this?
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Oh, I think it
was about 2 weeks ago the President
asked me to the office. And we spent
about an hour going over it, and my initial
reaction, of course, negative. But he ex-
plained it very carefully as we spent that
hour, and I left with more positive thrust.
Thank you very much. I look forward
to discussing this with each of you in the
future on a personal basis.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:03 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Standby Gasoline Rationing and
Energy Conservation Contingency
Plans
Statement Urging Congressional Approval
of the Plans. April 25, 1979
On March 1, 1979, I forwarded to the
Congress the Standby Gasoline Rationing
Plan and three mandatory Conservation
Contingency Plans. Submission of these
plans had been urged by both Houses of
Congress as necessary if the United States
is to be prepared for supply interruptions.
Now congressional approval of these plans
is crucial if the Nation is to have the
standby capability to respond to energy
shortfalls. That essential congressional ap-
proval is in doubt.
Should serious supply interruptions oc-
cur, America's arsenal of available meas-
ures must include contingency plans to
ration gasoline and to mandate conser-
vation by the American public. If these
standby plans are not passed by the Con-
gress, the public could rightly ask why
their Government was not prepared for
an emergency, particularly after the
warning given by the Iranian supply
curtailment.
Yesterday, the House Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee voted to
forward the Emergency Building Tem-
perature Restrictions Conservation Plan
to the House of Representatives with a
favorable recommendation. However, the
committee voted not to forward the
Emergency Gasoline Sales Restrictions
Plan, even though this plan would only
be implemented if a State failed to de-
velop its own plan for conserving gas-
oline. There is, however, still the oppor-
tunity for Congress to approve the latter
plan. Failure to pass this plan would raise
serious questions about the seriousness of
Congress in dealing with our energy
problem.
In the Senate, the Energy Committee
has already voted against a plan to re-
strict unnecessary outdoor lighting in a
time of severe energy shortages. The
House Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce will vote today on the
Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan.
My authority to put this plan into a
state of readiness is essential to the energy
security of our Nation. Although the
petroleum shortfall we are now experi-
encing does not warrant implementation
of a rationing plan, prudence and com-
mon sense demand that we must be pre-
pared should other disruptions seriously
deepen current shortfalls and create a
situation of true national crisis.
We must demonstrate to the American
public and the world that this country
can be prepared and ready for emergen-
cies rising from oil supply interruptions.
690
