Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
early and welcome opportunity in the new
year not only to cement the ties of friend-
ship and hospitality between us but to
emphasize our expectation that our rela-
tionship with China will be a construc-
tive one. It will contribute to diversity in
the world and to peace and stability in
Asia. It is not directed against the inter-
ests of any other country.
To fulfill the promise of this new era
in Sino-American relations, we will re-
quire legislation and support from the
Congress. Such legislation is particularly
important to facilitate continued trade
and other relations with the people of
Taiwan through non-governmental in-
strumentalities and to assure continued
peace and prosperity there. This has very
high priority in our legislative program
for 1979.
USSR
We seek better relations with both the
Soviet Union and the People's Republic
of China. Doing so is profoundly in the
interests of our Nation and of global secu-
rity.
I therefore would like also to welcome
President Brezhnev to our country in the
near future. At that time we would hope
to conclude an agreement curbing the
strategic arms race. There are other areas
where our two nations can work construc-
tively together. These include a compre-
hensive nuclear test ban treaty; limits on
Indian Ocean deployments, and on the
transfer of conventional arms; and re-
straint in areas of turbulence and tension.
Such cooperative effort would do much to
make the world a safer place for all.
We will never ignore Soviet actions
which challenge our interests. We both
have a responsibility to our peoples and
the world to maintain a pattern of détente
which is genuinely reciprocal and broadly
defined.
DEALING WITH WORLD PROBLEMS
A true world community cannot be
fashioned or endure so long as the weap-
ons of war multiply and spread, so long as
ancient disputes fester and the demands
for justice are unmet, so long as much of
mankind remains impoverished and with-
out hope.
As I emphasized in my State of the
Union address, the need to curb the stra-
tegic arms race has never been more ur-
gent. It increases the risk of nuclear war.
It is a needless competition that draws
away scarce resources we need to invest
in other areas of our Nation's strength.
It undermines America's security.
The conclusion and ratification of a sat-
isfactory SALT II Treaty with the Soviet
Union is therefore among our top priori-
ties. It will make a major contribution to
enhancing our long-term security, while
keeping open our options to carry out
needed modernization of our strategic
forces and preserve our deterrence.
We will take whatever time is necessary
to negotiate a sound, verifiable agreement.
I am convinced that once the American
people and Congress have had a chance
to examine the terms and benefits of this
Treaty—and consider the shape of our fu-
ture without it-they will conclude it
serves our vital security interests.
We will continue to consult the Con-
gress as we proceed this year with other
important arms control negotiations: on
a comprehensive nuclear test ban; the pre-
vention of anti-satellite warfare; mutual
and balanced force reductions in Europe;
and limits on the rising tide of conven-
tional arms transfers.
The risks inherent in the proliferation
of nuclear technology figure prominently
among the dangers to the world commu-
nity. Although we and the rest of the
world still have far to go in dealing re-
sponsibly with such risks, the United
158
