Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 21
lowing through with a career outside of
government.
THE PRESIDENT. This has been of con-
cern to us. We've discussed it several times
around this table when the full Cabinet
was here. And as you know, there was one
amendment added to the ethics legisla-
tion in the Senate that we did not sup-
port, that created a technical problem.
And we are now working with the House
and Senate to get those defects corrected,
hopefully, before the first of July.
We have had a few people who have
resigned from Government service because
they felt that the new ethics legislation
restricted them excessively in their future
dealings with the Government, as it re-
lated to jobs that they were doing in the
Government now. I think that it was nec-
essary for some people to leave the Gov-
ernment because, in the past, there has
been too much abuse by people who
served in the Government for a limited
period of time, got special knowledge or
influence within the Government struc-
ture itself, went out and formed either
a consulting firm or joined a legal firm,
and came back and used improperly their
former contacts in the Government. That
kind of thing ought to be rooted out, and
I'm determined to root it out.
MR. CRIBBIN. Great.
THE PRESIDENT. But the technical de-
fect that was in the law, we are now trying
to correct.
MR. CRIBBINS. Thank you, sir.
FEDERAL EMPLOYEE MORALE
MR. MULHERN. Mr. President, I have
three points I'd like to make. First of all,
I understand we're supposed to be here
to give you feedback of how the Federal
employees feel.
THE PRESIDENT. Exactly.
MR. MULHERN. The morale factor, I
think, is a very significant one that we have
to react to. And I don't think that some of
the things that Bill Williams brought up
about why they are concerned also gets
over into this area of appreciation for the
work being done by the majority. We
always come out and we say to them, “We
think all of you do a good job, but there
are others," and then we dwell on those
others.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. That's true.
MR. MULHERN. I don't know of one
situation where we have gotten favorable
publicity other than-to the degree that I
think they should-than when we got on
the shot to the Moon. People got up and
said, "My God, look what they did."
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. MULHERN. And we have all these
other things that these other departments
are doing. And somehow we've got to get
it out, so that the Federal employee out
there feels inside, "what a great govern-
ment that we have here," and his part
in it.
So, I think that in addition to these
items that come up of concern to them,
they are concerned about this other situ-
ation, as to how they fit socially within
the cities and towns of our country with
respect to people. And it's unfortunate
we're not communicating to them the
real good that this Government does for
our people.
The second one is that-
THE PRESIDENT. Let me respond to
that one very briefly.
MR. MULHERN. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. What you say also
concerns me. I'm the representative of the
employees of the Government, and I'm
the top employee in the Government. I
would say, not quite facetiously, that any-
body who thinks they are being criticized
as an employee ought to pick up the news-
paper every day and compare the criti-
923
