Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 18
In 1975 he was appointed Lieutenant
General and assigned as Deputy Chief of
Staff for Manpower at Marine Corps
Headquarters. From October 1976 until
assuming his present duties, he served as
Commanding General, Fleet Marine
Force, Atlantic, in Norfolk, Va.
Barrow's personal U.S. decorations in-
clude the Navy Cross, the Army Distin-
guished Service Cross, the Silver Star,
three Legions of Merit, two Bronze Stars,
and the Joint Service Commendation
Medal.
Older Americans Month, 1979
Proclamation 4658. April 18, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The older American embodies not only
a lifetime of experience and accomplish-
ment, but also invaluable and often un-
recognized resources of talent, energy and
wisdom. Our country's awareness of the
contributions and potential of our older
people has steadily grown in recent years,
as an increasing number of Americans
have shown that their later years can in-
deed be rewarding ones for themselves
and their communities.
Yet for too many of our people, the
later years are often wasted and miserable
because of health problems. This year's
theme for the May observance of Older
Americans Month is "Better Health
Through Better Care."
firmity." Good adequate health requires
more than just the treatment of sickness
and injury, though providing treatment
is vital. Good health care must also in-
clude proper nutrition, preventive and
health maintenance services, as well as
provision for long-term care.
In older persons the interrelationship
between physical and mental health is
especially important. Mental health serv-
ices for the elderly have been sadly lack-
ing in this country. Active and satisfying
lives are both dependent upon and neces-
sary to maintaining the health of older
Americans.
The accessibility of all types of health
services is critically important to the el-
derly, and holding down the costs of both
crisis-oriented and preventive services is
essential if the real needs are to be met.
As we make greater use of the abilities
of older Americans, and find ways to bet-
ter meet their special needs, particularly
in relation to health services, all of our
people will benefit.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate the month of May
1979 as Older Americans Month. I ask
public officials at all levels, doctors, nurses,
and other health professionals, and people
of all ages, to promote better health care
and social services for older people, and
to undertake appropriate projects both on
a public and on a personal level to ensure
the best possible health for older people.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighteenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
Health is defined by the World Health
Organization as a "state of complete
physical, mental and social well-being, [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
not merely the absence of disease and in-
3:40 p.m., April 18, 1979]
673
