May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tion 3 of that Order, but subject to the
limitations set forth in that Order.
1-403. As used in this Order, the words
"Volunteers," "functions," "United
States," and "United States Government
agency" shall have the same meanings, re-
spectively, as they have under the Act.
1–5. National Voluntary Action Program.
1–501. The National Voluntary Action
Program to encourage and stimulate more
widespread and effective voluntary action
for solving public domestic problems, es-
tablished in the Executive Branch of the
Government by Section 1 of Executive
Order No. 11470 of May 26, 1969, is
continued in ACTION. That program
shall supplement corresponding action by
private and other non-Federal organiza-
tions such as the National Center for Vol-
untary Action. As used in this Order, the
term "voluntary action" means the con-
tribution or application of non-govern-
mental resources of all kinds (time,
money, goods, services, and skills) by pri-
vate and other organizations of all types
(profit and nonprofit, national and local,
occupational, and altruistic) and by indi-
vidual citizens.
1-6. Director of ACTION.
1-601. In addition to the functions
vested in the Director of ACTION by the
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973
(42 U.S.C., Section 4951 et seq.), Reor-
ganization Plan No. 1 of 1971, and Sec-
tion 1-401 of this Order, the Director of
ACTION shall:
(a) Encourage local, national and in-
ternational voluntary activities directed
toward the solution or mitigation of com-
munity problems.
(b) Provide for the development and
operation of a clearinghouse for informa-
tion on Government programs designed to
foster voluntary action.
(c) Initiate proposals for the greater
and more effective application of volun-
tary action in connection with Federal
programs, and coordinate, as consistent
with law, Federal activities involving such
action.
(d) Make grants of seed money, as au-
thorized by law, for stimulating the de-
velopment or deployment of innovative
voluntary action programs directed
toward community problems.
1-602. The head of each Federal de-
partment and agency, or a designated rep-
resentative, when so requested by the Di-
rector of ACTION or the Director of the
Peace Corps, shall, to the extent permit-
ted by law and funds available, furnish
information and assistance, and partici-
pate in all ways appropriate to carry out
the objectives of this Order, the Domestic
Volunteer Service Act of 1973 and Reor-
ganization Plan No. 1 of 1971.
1-603. The head of each Federal de-
partment or agency shall, when so re-
quested by the Director of ACTION, des-
ignate a senior official to have primary
and continuing responsibility for the par-
ticipation and cooperation of that depart-
ment or agency in matters concerning vol-
untary action.
1-604. The head of each Federal de-
partment or agency, or a designated rep-
resentative, shall keep the Director of AC-
TION informed of proposed budgets,
plans, and programs of that department
or agency affecting voluntary action pro-
grams.
1-605. Under the direction of the Presi-
dent and subject to the responsibilities of
the Secretary of State, the Director of
ACTION shall be responsible for the gen-
eral direction of those ACTION func-
tions, which jointly serve ACTION
domestic volunteer components and the
Peace Corps, and for advising the Director
of the Peace Corps to ensure that the func-
880
