Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 4
and 923.52 of the Annex to this procla- sion to these negotiations. I am confident
mation.
(4) This proclamation shall be effec-
tive as to articles entered, or withdrawn
from warehouse, for consumption on or
after January 6, 1979, and before the close
of January 5, 1982, unless the period of
its effectiveness is earlier expressly modi-
fied or terminated.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fourth day of
January, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:56 p.m., January 4, 1979]
NOTE: The annex is printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of January 8, 1979.
International Trade Agreements
Memorandum From the President.
January 4, 1979
Memorandum for the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations
I have today sent the attached notices
to the Speaker of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives and the President of the Sen-
ate. These notices shall be published in
the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
We have an important opportunity this
year to build a new and better approach
to international trade. The first important
step depends on acceptance and imple-
mentation by the Congress of the agree-
ments reached in the Tokyo Round of
multilateral trade negotiations. We are
now within sight of a successful conclu-
that the results will embody the U.S. ob-
jectives outlined by the Congress in the
Trade Act of 1974 and developed in close
consultation with members of the Con-
gress, their staffs, and our private-sector
advisors. Neither Bob Strauss, my Special
Trade Representative, nor I will accept
anything less on behalf of the United
States.
The progress of the negotiations is such
that I can notify the Congress at this time
of our intention to enter into several
international agreements dealing mainly
with non-tariff trade matters. These
agreements, to which Congress gave a
high priority in its mandate for the nego-
tiations, are intended primarily to ensure
that the international trading system is
both fair and open. The agreements are
listed and identified below and are
described more fully in an attachment to
this letter.
• An agreement on subsidies and coun-
tervailing duties will limit trade-distorting
subsidy practices and will enunciate more
clearly the right of the United States and
others to counteract such practices. The
agreement may provide for a number of
conforming changes in the international
Anti-dumping Code.
• An agreement on safeguards in re-
sponse to a specific Congressional direc-
tive, will ensure that countries observe
international trading rules when tempo-
rarily limiting imports that are injuring
domestic industries.
• An agreement on technical barriers to
trade or standards will require countries
to use fair and open procedures in the
adoption of product standards and related
practices that affect international trade.
• An agreement on government pro-
curement will increase opportunities for
5
