Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
citizens, under the able leadership of Wil-
liam J. McGill, president of Columbia
University. It will make an important
contribution to the system's long-term de-
velopment. My administration will study
the recommendations with care, along
with the proposals being developed in
Congress. I look forward to a year of con-
tinued advances for public broadcasting.
Budget Rescissions and Deferrals
Message to the Congress. January 31, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report ten
proposals to rescind a total of $914.6 mil-
lion in budget authority previously pro-
vided by the Congress. In addition, I am
reporting six new deferrals of budget au-
thority totalling $1,169.8 million and six
revisions to previously transmitted defer-
rals increasing the amount deferred by
$28.8 million.
The rescission proposals affect pro-
grams in the Departments of Energy,
Health, Education and Welfare, Housing
and Urban Development, the Interior,
and several independent agencies.
The new deferrals and revisions to ex-
isting deferrals involve programs of the
Departments of Agriculture, Commerce,
Defense, Energy, the Interior, Justice,
Labor, Transportation, the Treasury, and
the Tennessee Valley Authority.
The details of each rescission proposal
and deferral are contained in the attached
reports.
The White House,
January 31, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescis-
sions and deferrals are printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER Of February 5, 1979.
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
of China
Agreement Between the United States
and China on Cooperation in Science and
Technology. January 31, 1979
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
PEOPLE'S Republic of CHINA ON Co-
OPERATION IN SCIENCE AND TECH-
NOLOGY
The Government of the United States
of America and the Government of the
People's Republic of China (hereinafter
referred to as the Contracting Parties);
Acting in the spirit of the Joint Com-
munique on the Establishment of Diplo-
matic Relations between the United
States of America and the People's Re-
public of China;
Recognizing that cooperation in the
fields of science and technology can pro-
mote the well-being and prosperity of both
countries;
Affirming that such cooperation can
strengthen friendly relations between both
countries;
Wishing to establish closer and more
regular cooperation between scientific and
technical entities and personnel in both
countries;
Have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1
1. The Contracting Parties shall de-
velop cooperation under this Agreement
on the basis of equality, reciprocity and
mutual benefit.
2. The principal objective of this
Agreement is to provide broad opportuni-
ties for cooperation in scientific and tech-
nological fields of mutual interest, thereby
promoting the progress of science and
technology for the benefit of both coun-
tries and of mankind.
200
