Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 26
The Treasury Department will be re-
sponsible for holding the Trust Fund and
for current year and long range revenue
estimates and for tax expenditure esti-
mates. The extent of resources in the
Trust Fund which shall be available for
new initiatives shall be determined on the
basis of estimates, by fiscal year, of receipts
and revenue foregone made by the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, and the total costs of
all other demands upon the Trust Fund
as determined by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
Office of Management and Budget re-
sponsibilities will include:
• completing reviews of proposed new
initiatives and determining whether ade-
quate revenues exist for new initiatives to
be undertaken and making recommenda-
tions to the President;
• providing annual projections of
budget authority and outlays for the life
of each approved spending initiative; and
providing an annual report to the
President and Congress describing the
operation of the Trust Fund and the pro-
jections of future balance.
The Department of the Treasury will
be responsible for:
• an estimate for the FY 80-FY 82 pe-
riod of the amounts of added income taxes
paid in consequence of the President's de-
control decision;
• annual estimates of the tax expendi-
tures and foregone excise tax revenues
(if any);
⚫ long range revenue estimates updated
annually, based on constant real world oil
prices; and
• Trust Fund accounting.
Line agencies will be responsible for
developing annual budget estimates for
approved initiatives, proposing new initia-
tives for energy purposes if adequate Trust
Fund balances are estimated to exist by
OMB, justifying Presidentially approved
requests before Congress and implemen-
tation of appropriated programs. The
Department of Transportation will be
responsible for developing and implement-
ing the additional mass transit assistance
program. The Department of Energy will
be responsible for developing and imple-
menting through the normal budget proc-
ess the energy initiatives specified by the
President and other initiatives to the ex-
tent permitted by Trust Fund balances
estimated by the Office of Management
and Budget.
REPORT TO CONGRESS
Each year a full report on Trust Fund
projections and activities, will be trans-
mitted to Congress along with any re-
quired specific authorization and appro-
priation requests for approved spending
initiatives.
CONCLUSION
Prompt enactment of legislation built
on these specifications is essential to a
sound energy policy for the future of our
country. This initiative is one of the most
important of my Presidency.
Taken together, the windfall profits tax
and the Energy Security Trust Fund will
provide us with the means to move ahead
to maximize domestic energy production,
to establish stronger conservation habits,
and to build toward the day when our
reliance on imported oil no longer threat-
ens the very security of this Nation. It will
do so in a way which is fair and equitable
and which protects the neediest in our
society.
The Members of my Cabinet and
Senior Staff and I look forward to work-
ing with each of you in the Congress to
ensure that these vital proposals are
quickly and fully enacted.
The White House,
April 26, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
727
