Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 20
Most of the progress that has been ini-
tiated and achieved has not come from
government. This progress has come from
voices outside of government that slowly
but surely were united in shouting for
justice and equality in our own Nation,
and slowly-often after many years, even
generations-government finally listened.
The long struggle for civil rights, for
equal rights, for human rights has been
a cycle of action, and then reaction, of
lash and then backlash, for the cancer of
racial injustice has always been near the
heart of America.
Three hundred and sixty years ago, the
first slaves were unloaded on the east
coast of this continent in chains. One year
later, the pilgrims landed on Plymouth
Rock searching for freedom. The story of
America has been the struggle and agony
of a people trying to heal that contradic-
tion-and it's been painful, and it's not
over.
A great victory still remains to be won
where we are sure about our future,
where we are sure about justice, sure
about equality, sure about the morals and
commitments of our Nation, sure that
government accurately represents what
our people are and what they would like
to be. It can be done. Much has been done
already. If it had not, you would not be
here and I would not be here.
We must continue to fight our battles
and to overcome our fears together, or
we will not be able to stand together for
these purposes tomorrow.
In his Nobel Prize acceptance speech,
Dr. King said, "I have the audacity to
believe that peoples everywhere can have
three meals a day for their bodies, educa-
tion and culture for their minds, and dig-
nity, equality and freedom for their
spirits."
I share that audacious dream. And I
ask you to join each other, and to join with
me, in the struggle to make that dream
come true.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 a.m. in
the quadrangle at Cheyney State College,
Cheyney, Pa. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Dr. Wade Wilson, president of the
college, Stephen Shelton, senior class president,
and Antoinette Blango, class valedictorian.
Death of Ben Fortson
Statement by the President. May 20, 1979
The death of Ben Fortson is a loss to
all Georgians. He loved his State and its
people and acted on that love through a
lifetime of public service.
The people of Georgia shared his affec-
tion and repeatedly returned him to his
post as secretary of state through an era
of profound political, social, and econo-
mic change.
In my years in State government, par-
ticularly as Governor, I grew to know and
greatly admire Ben Fortson. In one inci-
dent early in his career, he particularly
demonstrated the courage and style that
added dignity and integrity to State gov-
ernment for more than 40 years: All of
State government was in turmoil over
who was the legal Governor and, quietly,
he kept the Great Seal of Georgia hidden
in his wheelchair to prevent the con-
tenders from using it to make their actions
official until the controversy could be
decided appropriately.
He was never too busy to stop and
make history come alive for schoolchil-
dren, and he consistently added a per-
sonal touch to the many activities of his
office. The Georgia State Capitol will
seem a far more lonely place without "Mr.
Ben."
Rosalynn and I extend our deepest
sympathies to his family.
913
