Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
establishment and maintenance of an ac-
ceptable alternative multinational force.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[His Excellency Mohamed Anwar El-Sadat,
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt.]
March 26, 1979
Dear Mr. Prime Minister:
I wish to confirm to you that subject to
United States Constitutional processes:
In the event of an actual or threatened
violation of the Treaty of Peace between
Israel and Egypt, the United States will,
on request of one or both of the Parties,
consult with the Parties with respect
thereto and will take such other action as
it may deem appropriate and helpful to
achieve compliance with the Treaty.
The United States will conduct aerial
monitoring as requested by the Parties
pursuant to Annex I of the Treaty.
The United States believes the Treaty
provision for permanent stationing of
United Nations personnel in the desig-
nated limited force zone can and should
be implemented by the United Nations
Security Council. The United States will
exert its utmost efforts to obtain the
requisite action by the Security Council.
If the Security Council fails to establish
and maintain the arrangements called
for in the Treaty, the President will be
prepared to take those steps necessary to
ensure the establishment and mainte-
nance of an acceptable alternative multi-
national force.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[His Excellency Menachem Begin, Prime Minis-
ter of the State of Israel.]
Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty
Remarks of President Carter, President
Anwar al-Sadat of Egypt, and Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel at the Signing
Ceremony. March 26, 1979
PRESIDENT CARTER. During the past 30
years, Israel and Egypt have waged war.
But for the past 16 months, these same
two great nations have waged peace. To-
day we celebrate a victory-not of a
bloody military campaign, but of an in-
spiring peace campaign. Two leaders who
will loom large in the history of nations,
President Anwar al-Sadat and Prime
Minister Menahem Begin, have con-
ducted this campaign with all the cour-
age, tenacity, brilliance, and inspiration
of any generals who have ever led men
and machines onto the field of battle.
At the end of this campaign, the soil of
the two lands is not drenched with young
blood. The countrysides of both lands are
free from the litter and the carnage of a
wasteful war. Mothers in Egypt and
Israel are not weeping today for their
children fallen in senseless battle. The
dedication and determination of these
two world statesmen have borne fruit.
Peace has come to Israel and to Egypt.
I honor these two leaders and their
government officials who have hammered
out this peace treaty which we have just
signed. But most of all, I honor the peo-
ple of these two lands whose yearning for
peace kept alive the negotiations which
today culminate in this glorious event.
We have won at last the first step of
peace, a first step on a long and difficult
road. We must not minimize the obstacles
which still lie ahead. Differences still sep-
arate the signatories to this treaty from
517
