Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 4
Message to the Congress. April 4, 1979
loan guarantee programs together into Budget Deferrals
one economic development financing pro-
gram in EDA. It will make it possible for
the Federal government to provide one-
stop service to urban and rural communi-
ties and private businesses that are seek-
ing economic development loan and loan
guarantee assistance. It also will stream-
line Federal aid in this area, reduce Fed-
eral red tape and improve the manage-
ment of the economic development fi-
nancing programs. After Congress has
acted upon the reorganization plan, I will
submit legislation that consolidates the
SBA and FmHA program requirements
into EDA's economic development fi-
nancing program.
To the Congress of the United States:
The economic development legislation,
reorganization plan and accompanying
program consolidations will substantially
expand the economic development aid
available to rural and urban areas. I in-
tend to ensure that both rural and urban
areas are guaranteed a fair share of the
new resources. In addition, I will take
every step to preserve and strengthen our
capacity to deliver this aid to rural and
urban areas efficiently and promptly.
This package of economic develop-
ment legislation and reorganization pro-
posals represents an important departure
from previous urban and rural assistance
efforts. For the first time, the Federal gov-
ernment is committing substantial re-
sources to attracting private sector jobs
and investment to the lagging areas of
our country. For the first time, we are ask-
ing the private sector to join us in our re-
development efforts. I am hopeful that
Congress will join me in this sensible ap-
proach to urban and rural problems and
will enact this important legislation.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
April 4, 1979.
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
two new deferrals of budget authority
totalling $109.8 million. The deferrals in-
volve aircraft research and development
activities of the Department of Defense
and the Interior Department's explora-
tion program at the National Petroleum
Reserve in Alaska.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
April 4, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the de-
ferrals are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER
of April 9, 1979.
Hospital Cost Containment
Remarks at a White House Briefing on the
Proposed Legislation. April 4, 1979
How many of you think we need to
pass hospital cost containment legislation?
[Laughter] Would you raise your hand?
How many
of you will help us with it?
Would you raise your hand? How many
of you think we are going to win it?
[Laughter and applause] You don't need
me. [Laughter]
I think all of you know that one of the
major responsibilities of a President is to
detect problems that exist in our society
and to try to marshal enough of an effort
to correct those problems or to answer
difficult questions that affect the well-
being of our Nation. I don't know of any
issue that is more important to me at this
point than controlling inflation, because
603
