May 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tion Act (EPCA), 42 U.S.C. 6261 (d) (1)
and 6422, I am hereby transmitting to the
Congress for its approval an amendment
to the Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan
(Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan No. 1)
which I transmitted on March 1, 1979.
During the consideration of the Stand-
by Gasoline Rationing Plan, concerns
were raised by both Houses of Congress
that the Plan did not treat states and the
citizens within states equitably. The pur-
pose of this amendment is to add new
provisions to the rationing plan to elimi-
nate the potential for disparities during
plan operation. The first provision alters
the procedure for determining allotments
of ration rights by including a historical
gasoline use factor in each state, and ex-
pands the State Ration Reserve, thereby
compensating for disparities both within
and among states. The second change
limits the number of vehicle allotments
each household could receive, reflecting
my belief that households with over three
vehicles should not receive excessive bene-
fits at the expense of other households.
Under this amendment, each state will
be provided with an expanded State Ra-
tion Reserve of eight percent not only to
provide for the needs of the handicapped
and hardship applicants as already pro-
vided in the plan, but to provide addi-
tional flexibility to the states in dispens-
ing supplemental ration allotments to
citizens with special needs. The National
Ration Reserve is anticipated to remain
at approximately two percent of the
available gasoline supply.
The amendment also provides a new
method for calculating the ration rights
to be alloted to each registered vehicle.
Instead of allocating the net total avail-
able gasoline supply equally to vehicles in
all states, the amendment provides for
half the available gasoline supply to be
distributed equally to vehicles and half to
be allotted on the basis of historical gas-
oline use in the respective states.
Another provision limits the number of
ration rights received by each household
to three vehicle allotments. Ration rights
not distributed to members of a house-
hold pursuant to the limitation of this
amendment will be distributed to the
State Ration Reserve in the state in which
such household is located. This amend-
ment would not preclude members of a
household from obtaining additional ra-
tion rights from the State Ration Reserve
on the basis of hardship or other factors.
The procedures for approval by Con-
gress of an amendment to a contingency
plan are detailed in Section 552 of the
EPCA, and require among other things
that a resolution of approval be passed
by each House of Congress within 60 days
of submittal of the amendment. I urge the
Congress to give this amendment expe-
dited consideration so that it may be ap-
proved promptly with the Standby Gaso-
line Rationing Plan.
The EPCA does not specify in Section
552 the form which the resolution of ap-
proval is to take. As I noted in my sub-
mission of the Standby Gasoline Ration-
ing Plan on March 1, 1979, it is my view
and that of the Attorney General that ac-
tions of the Congress purporting to have
binding legal effect must be presented to
the President for his approval under Ar-
ticle I, Section 7 of the Constitution.
Therefore, I strongly recommend that
Congressional approval of the amend-
ment be in the form of a joint resolution.
If this procedure is followed, the amend-
ment itself, agreed to by the Congress and
the President, will not later be subject to
possible judicial invalidation on the
ground that the President did not ap-
prove the resolution.
814
