May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in trying to do their normal daily tasks.
California is a fast-growing State; jobs
have increased, thereby contributing to
the health of our economy. This growth
naturally increases demand for gasoline.
We must act to ensure that jobs and eco-
nomic growth are not lost.
We are still feeling the effects of the
Iranian cut-off. It takes 2 months to
transport oil from Iran to the United
States, and additional time to get that
crude oil through the refining and dis-
tribution system. This has contributed to
making late April and May the low point
in gasoline availability.
The Department of Energy, to help al-
leviate the shortage in California, recently
changed its allocation rules to bring the
basis for allocating supplies among the
States up to date and to include growth
as a factor. This will help California since
it is a fast-growing State, and old or out-
of-date allocation bases hurt more there
than in States with steady or declin-
ing populations. Once this new allocation
formula is fully in place, California will
begin to feel relief.
As I requested when I visited Califor-
nia on May 5, the Department of Energy
has prepared a report on the underlying
causes of the shortages and long lines in
California. This report is now complete,
and it is being released at the same time as
this statement.
The report indicates that the shortfall
in California has reached about 70,000
barrels of gasoline per day, relative to
1978 levels. Since demand has grown over
the last year, the shortage is even greater
than that, although restoration of supplies
to 1978 levels would ease the situation
considerably.
The reasons for this shortfall are sev-
eral-fold. The worldwide crude oil short-
age caused by the loss of production in
Iran last winter has made petroleum
supplies tight throughout the world. The
crude oil which did become available to
partially offset the Iranian loss was lower
quality, and therefore not as much gaso-
line could be produced. The gasoline allo-
cation formula in effect prior to recent
DOE changes was not able to reflect the
rapid rate of growth in California and
contributed to the shortage in the last
month. Finally, the inability of the Con-
gress to deal with the overall oil prob-
lem when I proposed my comprehensive
energy program in April 1977 has left us
as a nation, and California particularly,
more vulnerable and less well prepared
than we should be.
We have already taken steps to deal
with this problem. At my direction, the
Department of Energy has made two very
important changes in the nationwide rules
for allocating gasoline supplies between
the States. On March 1, the Department
brought the base period for gasoline allo-
cation up to date from 1972 to 1978. This
began the process of ensuring that rapidly
growing States such as California are not
penalized by basing gasoline allowances
on out-of-date statistics. On May 1, an
additional change was made to allow au-
tomatic growth adjustments for gasoline
dealers who have experienced unusually
high growth since the 1978 base period.
This will give California added supplies
to accommodate growth which has oc-
curred over the last year.
Once they are fully established in the
system, these changes should significantly
ease the California situation. In addition,
on May 11 of this year, the Department
issued a rule which will assure adequate
diesel fuel supplies for California's vast
agricultural production.
In June 1978, the
the Department
amended its entitlements program to pro-
vide refiners with additional incentives to
use California-produced crude oil. This
874
