May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Democratic National
Committee
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at the Committee's Spring Meeting.
May 25, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Coleman said that was
a good poll.
I would have been here a little earlier,
but my carpool was late. [Laughter]
When I arrived, I noticed that my free
parking place had been taken away.
[Laughter]
We have some problems in our coun-
try. One of them is energy. I told the Con-
gress today-they're going home on recess,
leaving Washington—that I could guaran-
tee them enough gasoline to get home.
[Laughter] Now, the trip back-[laugh-
ter]—we will have to look into that. May-
be John White, our great chairman, can
assess the advisability of a nationwide ap-
plication of the killer bee program.
[Laughter]
I didn't come here to announce, and I
didn't come here to outline past achieve-
ments. I want to speak to you this morn-
ing in kind of a rare way for a politician,
for a President speaking to his own party
leaders and his own personal friends.
I intend to answer questions in a few
minutes, but first, I want to talk to you
about the responsibility that we share as
leaders of the Democratic Party. We won
a great victory together in 1976, but the
words which Adlai Stevenson used at the
Democratic Convention still prey on my
mind. He said, “Even more important
than winning an election is governing the
Nation. When the tumult and the shout-
ing die," he said, "there is the stark reality
of responsibility in an hour of history."
The responsibility for governing this
Nation belongs to us Democrats. We
fought for it, and we won this privilege.
And the American people now are looking
closely to see how we discharge this re-
sponsibility. Some of that responsibility is
very pleasant, very enjoyable, but some of
it is very difficult.
You can inventory what we've already
done—in cities, in jobs, world peace. But
at times like these, it's not adequate, even
when Democratic leaders assemble, just to
inventory what we have done. The chal-
lenge is to look at now, and the challenge
is to look to the future and not to sit here
and congratulate one another when our
Nation still faces troubled times.
In times like these, we must make de-
cisions to deal with those problems, to
answer those questions in a way that is not
always easy and that's not always popular.
The founders of our Nation wondered
whether a government of free people
could rise above narrow, sectional inter-
ests in times of crisis and work for the
good of the whole country. That is exactly
the challenge that we face today.
The American people are disturbed, the
American people are doubtful, the Amer-
ican people are uncertain about the fu-
ture, the American people do not have
automatic trust in you or me or other
Democratic officials.
Too many Americans today are watch-
ing the spectacle of politicians grappling
with the complex problems, for instance,
of energy and inflation. They see the
demagoguery and they see political timid-
ity, and they wonder if we who are in office
are equal to the challenge.
The American people are looking to us
for honest answers-not false claims, not
evasiveness, not politics as usual-but
they look to us for clear leadership. What
they often see here in Washington and
elsewhere around the country is a system
of government, which we love and which
we are sworn to protect, which seems in-
capable of action. They see a Congress
948
