Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
There are few areas of potentially
greater controversy than those that touch
upon the varying economic opportunities
of peoples and places. The White House
Conference addressed those potentially
divisive issues in a spirit of constructive
accommodation. There was a willingness
among those who labored in the work-
shops to take into account opposing views,
framing reports which encourage those of
us in elected office to approach these is-
sues in a similar spirit. It is in that spirit
that I forward to you my views on the
Conference and my recommendations for
action.
Regional Commissions
Memorandum From the President.
January 19, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies and Federal
Cochairmen of Multistate Regional
Commissions
Subject: Regional Commission Support
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE
The White House Conference on Bal-
anced National Growth and Economic
Development found that the varied and
changing problems and economic circum-
stances in the Nation's regions require
greater flexibility in the way Federal poli-
cies and programs are designed and ad-
ministered across the country. This variety
suggests a need for strong state and local
action to develop regional balanced
growth policies and to target local, state
and Federal funds in accord with these
strategies. Multistate regional commis-
sions established under the Appalachian
Regional Development Act of 1965 and
Title V of the Public Works and Eco-
nomic Development Act of 1965 and
strengthened under the Regional Develop-
ment Act of 1975 are intended to enhance
development opportunities and conditions
in multistate regions. Through planning
and selective management of resources
and activities, these commissions also
afford a common framework within which
the different levels of government can
apply their energies to regional problems.
In light of the changing patterns of
economic activity across the country, and
in order to extend the ability of states and
localities to shape Federal policies in be-
half of regional concerns, new processes
for planning, coordination and policy sup-
port are required. To develop and carry
them out will require cooperation on the
part of the Secretary of Commerce, Fed-
eral departments and agencies, the Inter-
agency Coordinating Council, the Federal
Cochairmen of the Appalachian and Title
V Regional Commissions and the Federal
Regional Councils.
By means of this memorandum, I am
instituting a regional growth policy proc-
ess to assist the regional commissions in
developing and implementing their multi-
year regional development plans and an-
nual investment programs. These plans
and, more importantly, the annual in-
vestment programs should be developed
from the ground up, reflecting substate
and state development plans. Through
this policy process, the regional commis-
sions will be given an opportunity to pre-
pare recommendations to Federal de-
partments and agencies for solutions to
problems of regional growth and decline.
In framing these recommendations, the
commissions will consult with the Federal
departments and agencies affected, taking
advantage of the expertise available in
the regional headquarters of each agency,
as well as with substate, local and private
interests.
79
