Mar. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
uefied and synthetic natural gas exports
to the U.S., and other energy-related tasks
as may be appropriate.
The President and the Prime Minister
will designate promptly senior officials
from their respective governments to
serve on this consultative mechanism.
MTN
The Prime Minister and the President
expressed satisfaction over progress
achieved between them in the Multilateral
Trade Negotiations. They agreed that
timely completion of a balanced MTN
agreement involving all the participants
would make a notable contribution to re-
ducing inflation and improving the pros-
pects for sustained and balanced growth
in the world economy.
SALT
The President and the Prime Minister
discussed prospects for the conclusion of a
SALT II treaty with the Soviet Union
and agreed that such a treaty would be a
significant step forward in the important
task of restraining the nuclear arms race
and of developing a more stable basis for
maintaining world peace and security.
The President acknowledged the Prime
Minister's contribution to the nuclear
arms control debate and expressed his
appreciation for Canada's support for
the U.S. pursuit of SALT II negotiations.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel
White House Statement. March 4, 1979
Over the past 4 days, the President and
the Prime Minister, together with their
advisers, have had 8 hours of intensive
conversations. In a friendly, straightfor-
ward manner the two sides discussed the
strategic situation in the Middle East and,
in great depth, all the unresolved issues
in the negotiations.
During the course of today's meetings,
President Carter put forward suggestions
designed to help resolve some of the out-
standing differences between Egypt and
Israel. Prime Minister Begin stated that
he would seriously study these suggestions
and consult with his colleagues.
In the meantime, President Carter will
be in touch with President Sadat to re-
view the situation in light of the Ameri-
can-Israeli discussions over the past few
days.
The meeting today lasted 1 hour, 30
minutes. Those participating on the Amer-
ican side were: the President, the Vice
President, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance,
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, the
President's Assistant for National Security
Affairs Zbigniew Brzezinski, White House
Press Secretary Jody Powell, Ambassador
Alfred Atherton, Assistant Secretary of
State Harold Saunders, U.S. Ambassador
to Israel Samuel Lewis, NSC staff mem-
ber William Quandt, State Department
Legal Adviser Herbert Hansell, and Ad-
viser to the Secretary Edward Sanders.
Those participating on the Israeli side
were: the Prime Minister, Israeli Am-
bassador to the United States Ephraim
Evron, Director of the Prime Minister's
Bureau Yehiel Kadishai, Military Secre-
tary to the Prime Minister Brig. Gen.
Ephraim Poran, Israeli Ambassador to
the United Nations Yehuda Blum, Legal
Advisor, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Meir
Rosenne, Special Assistant to the Prime
Minister Yehuda Avner, Press Secretary
for the Prime Minister Dan Patir, and
Minister of the Israeli Embassy Hanan
Bar-On.
382
