Apr. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
they have not earned. Unless you speak
out, they will have more influence on the
Congress than you do.
Second, the inevitable scrambling by
interest groups for a larger share of these
revenues can leave the Congress divided,
bogged down, and, therefore, unable to
act. Unless your voice is heard, once
again the selfishness of a few will block
action which is badly needed to help our
entire Nation.
I will fight to get this tax passed, to
establish the energy security fund, and
to meet our future energy needs. And to-
night I appeal to you for your support.
Please let your Senators and Represent-
atives in Congress know that you support
the windfall profits tax and that you
do
not want to see the need to produce more
energy be turned into an excuse to cheat
the public and to damage our country.
We can meet our energy challenge, but
I am not going to put an undue burden
on people who can hardly make ends
meet as it is. Part of the proceeds of the
windfall profits tax will go to help those
among us who will be hurt most by rising
energy prices.
I will also ask every State to pass laws
protecting Americans from arbitrary cut-
offs of heat for their homes. We will also
channel the tens of millions of dollars we
are winning in lawsuits against oil com-
panies for price-gouging into further
energy assistance for lower income citi-
zens. And for the sake of fairness, I will
ask Congress to close foreign tax credit
loopholes that now give unnecessary bene-
fits to the major oil companies.
In order to ease short-run inflationary
pressures for the time being, I will see
that action is taken to lift existing fees
and duties on imported crude oil and its
products.
Besides removing Government controls
on oil to encourage production, we must
take other actions to increase supply and
to make the most of our own domestic
fuel reserves.
I have today signed an Executive order
that will set strict deadlines for cutting
through Federal redtape on important
new energy projects, such as pipelines to
serve the northern part of our country,
seaports, and also refineries.
We will move to eliminate bureaucratic
barriers to construction of the pending
pipeline from California to Texas, which
has been stuck in a quagmire of more than
700 State and local permit applications
for the last 14 months.
We will step up exploration and pro-
duction of oil and gas on Federal lands.
This week, my personal representatives
began negotiations in Mexico City which
we hope will lead to an agreement on
sales of Mexican natural gas to the United
States at a price that is fair to both
countries.
The three Federal agencies which reg-
ulate the coal industry will report to me
within 60 days on ways to encourage
greater use of coal, our most abundant
fuel resource. And I will soon announce
significant measures to increase and to
accelerate the use of solar energy.
In addition to producing more energy,
we must conserve more energy. Conser-
vation is our cheapest and cleanest energy
source. It helps to control inflation, and
every barrel of oil we save is a barrel we
don't have to import.
We have recruited 19 other consuming
nations to join us in pledging to reduce
expected oil consumption by 5 percent.
To help accomplish this conservation goal
in our country, I've asked Congress to
grant me standby authority in four areas,
one of which, for example, is to require
that thermostats in all commercial build-
ings be set no higher than 65 degrees in
winter and no lower than 80 degrees in
612
