Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 31
nothing can diminish the rightness of what
you tried to do. Yours was the greater love.
You died for the man you tried to save,
and you died pro patria. As I write this 11
years after your death, the country for
which you died wishes to forget the war
in which you died. Its very name is a curse.
There are no monuments to its heroes,
for memorials are reminders and they
would make it harder for your country
to sink into the amnesia for which it
longs. It wishes to forget, and it has for-
gotten, but there are a few of us who do
remember, because of the small things
that made us love you, your gestures, the
words you spoke, and the way you looked.
We loved you for what you were, and what
you stood for."
And I would like to say, as President,
on behalf of 220 million people of our
country, we love you for what you were
and what you stood for; and we love you
for what you are and what you stand for.
Thank you very much.
Two things-I'm not in a hurry, and I
would like to do-
AUDIENCE MEMBER. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes?
Q. I think that I do feel honored being
here today. But I think there is a dishonor
if we let this week just go by without try-
ing to implement programs that realisti-
cally deal with a lot of the problems that
the Vietnam combat veterans still suffer
from.
You can say that most Vietnam era
veterans have readjusted. But I would
like to see a study done on the combat vet-
erans, because those are the ones who are
still having problems; those are the ones
who are still coming into my office week
after week after week at Swords to Plow-
shares in San Francisco.
And there are really no realistic pro-
grams to deal with their problems. So, I
think if you want to honor me as a
Vietnam-disabled combat veteran, that
you also have to implement realistic pro-
grams. And I think you have it going on
the right track to do that. And I think
that Max has. But I think there needs to
be more, because I want to come home
again. And unless I can come home again,
there has to be programs to let me come
home again.
THE PRESIDENT. What's your name?
Thank you very much, Jack. Jack Mc-
Closkey? Thank you.
I was going to say that you're welcome
to look at this. It's your home, and I'm
not in any hurry. I would like to stand
just outside the door and shake hands with
those of you who would like to meet the
President personally. It would be an honor
for me. And you've honored us by being
here.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:32 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
Department of Justice
Assistant Attorney General. May 31, 1979
Nomination of Alan A. Parker To Be an
The President today announced that he
will nominate Alan A. Parker, of Cali-
fornia, to be an Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral. He would replace Patricia M. Wald,
who has resigned. Parker has been general
counsel of the House Judiciary Commit-
tee since 1973.
He was born November 28, 1927, in
New York City. He received an LL.B.
from the University of Santa Clara Law
School in 1964. He served in the U.S.
Army from 1946 to 1947.
From 1948 to 1951 and from 1953 to
1960, Parker was a safety engineer and
manager with Hale Hendlin Co. From
975
