June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
powers to take advantage of the situation
in southern Africa at the expense of the
United States.
No other government on Earth has ex-
tended diplomatic relations or recognition
to Zimbabwe-Rhodesian Government.
However, these actions of the United
States that I'm describing should help and
encourage the newly elected authorities,
including Mr. Muzorewa, to intensify
their efforts to achieve genuine majority
rule, an end to apartheid and racism,
based on firm, reasonable, constitutional
processes that exemplify the very princi-
ples on which the United States Govern-
ment has been founded.
I consider this principle to be extremely
important to represent in international
affairs what our Nation stands for, what
our people believe in.
I recognize, to be perfectly frank with
you, that I do not have a majority of
support in the United States Senate. My
guess is that at the present time in the
House we would have difficulty in this
position prevailing. But because it is a
matter of principle to me personally and
to our country, because I see the prospect
of our Nation being seriously damaged in
its relationship with other countries, in
southern Africa, and elsewhere, because
to lift sanctions at this time would di-
rectly violate international law, our past
agreements ever since President Johnson
under the United Nations, and would not
contribute to the best interests of either
our country or the people in Zimbabwe-
Rhodesia, I intend to do everything I
can within my power to prevail on this
decision.
It means a lot to our country to do
what's right and what's decent and
what's fair and what is principled. And
in my opinion, the action that I've de-
scribed fulfills these requirements.
Now Secretary Vance, who is with me
on the platform, will be glad to answer
any specific questions that you might have
about this issue.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:20 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Black Music Association
Remarks at a White House Dinner Honoring
the Association. June 7, 1979
How many of you know what month
this is? Somebody said June. Right on!
This is Black Music Month.
As you know, the purpose of the Black
Music Association is to preserve, protect,
and perpetuate black music on an inter-
national basis. And the time to do it on
an international basis is right now at the
White House, the center of your Govern-
ment, and Rosalynn and I are very glad
to have you here.
The Black Music Association is not an
old organization, but it was one that was
organized at the right time in the right
place for the right reason. It's only a year
old, but I understand it already has 2,000
members. And tomorrow in Philadelphia,
you'll have your founders meeting in a
very appropriate place.
As you know, our own Nation was
founded in Philadelphia. And I was
thinking this afternoon that if we had
had the Black Music Association or-
ganized 203 years ago, so that Benjamin
Franklin and Thomas Jefferson and
George Washington could have just heard
some of this music at the very beginning,
our country could have avoided a lot of
trouble and a lot of heartache and a lot
of struggle and a lot of suffering and a
lot of division, and would be even greater
than it is now.
1014
