Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 12
QUESTIONS
U.S. RELATIONS WITH IRAN
Q. Mr. President, do you see much
realistic hope of entering into a mutually
productive relationship with the new Gov-
ernment of Iran?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I see continued
hope for very productive and peaceful co-
operation with the Government of Iran.
This has been our posture in the past, and
it will continue to be our posture in the
future.
In the last few hours, our Embassy has
reported that the followers of designated
Prime Minister Bazargan have been very
helpful in ensuring the safety of Ameri-
cans, and we've been consulting with
them very closely. So, I believe that the
people of Iran and their government will
continue to be our friends and that the
relationship will be helpful to us.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH TAIWAN
Q. Mr. President, you said in an inter-
view over the weekend that a future Presi-
dent has the option of going to war and
protecting Taiwan. Senator Jackson says
you should be more restrained. My ques-
tion is, would you go to war to protect
Taiwan?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no intention of
going to war. The relationship that we
have with Taiwan is one based on mutual
interest, and I wanted to point out that
no future decision by myself or my suc-
cessor is prevented. But our country is
one that believes in peace, and I have no
anticipation that there will be any re-
quirement for war in the Western Pacific.
Q. Mr. President, on the same subject
of Taiwan, two related questions. You
had earlier said that no resolution by
Congress was necessary and suggested that
almost any resolution that might come
out of Congress which would give any
kind of reassurance to Taiwan might not
meet with your approval. I wanted to ask
you, in the first place, whether you've
changed your mind in any way about that,
whether there is any kind of resolution
from Congress which might be accepted
by you? I have in mind particularly the
approach of Senators Kennedy and Cran-
ston.
And secondly, there remains confusion
resulting from your January statement
that you had pursued the goal of getting
from the Chinese Government a commit-
ment for peaceful solution of the problem
of Taiwan. And, as you know, that re-
sulted in some misunderstanding, which
you might like to clarify.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, to repeat what
I said in the last press conference, I think
we pursued the goal of getting a maxi-
mum commitment possible from China
about the peaceful resolution of their dif-
ferences with Taiwan successfully. We
did get the maximum, in my opinion, that
was possible.
I have never said that I would not ac-
cept any resolution from the Congress. I
have said that I don't think a resolution is
necessary, because the legislation we pro-
posed to the Congress, in my opinion, is
adequate.
I could not accept any resolution or
amendment to the legislation that would
contradict the commitments that we have
made to the Government of China, on
which is predicated our new, normal re-
lationships. And I think that any resolu-
tion or amendment that would go as far
or further with the defense commitments
to Taiwan would be unacceptable.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, you had a relatively
optimistic statement about the energy
shortfall a couple of minutes ago, I
257
