June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
requirements may haul truckload lots to
any point. Rates are subject only to the
antitrust law's prohibition on predatory
pricing. "Truckload" transportation is de-
fined as carriage (a) by specialized com-
modity carriers, as categorized by the
Commission; (b) in lots over 10,000
pounds; or (c) in lots under a single bill
of lading.
PROPOSAL FOR FURTHER CHANGE
The legislative changes I am proposing
in this bill will make the trucking industry
substantially more efficient, competitive,
and responsive to consumers. It will also
greatly reduce government interference
with the economic decisions of trucking
companies. However, there will remain
a greater degree of regulation over truck-
ing than exists for any industry of com-
parable size and competitive potential.
After increased competition in this indus-
try has had a chance to take hold, we
should consider whether ICC regulation
over the trucking industry should con-
tinue.
The bill requires the Secretary of Trans-
portation, in cooperation with the ICC
and the Department of Justice, to report
to the Congress by January 1, 1983, on
the effects of this legislation, and whether
ICC regulation over the trucking industry
should be continued.
Finally, I will soon send to Congress
proposals which assure that consumers re-
ceive increased protection in the house-
hold moving industry.
IMPROVEMENT OF SERVICE TO SMALL
COMMUNITIES
2. In determining whether applications
for entry meet the "public convenience
and necessity" standard, the ICC is di-
rected to emphasize increased service to
small communities. There is no such re-
quirement in existing law.
3. Certificate restrictions are liberalized
to improve service to small communities.
For example, many certificates today
specify the actual highway a trucking
company must use. If a truck leaves the
designated highway to serve a town off
the beaten track, it is violating the law.
The proposed legislation liberalizes these
certificate restrictions, and makes it easier
for trucking companies to obtain authority
to serve small towns.
Many existing certificates do not allow
trucks to make intermediate stops and
serve towns between authorized points.
These restrictions are particularly harm-
ful to towns that are so small that truck-
ing companies are unwilling to undergo
the costly and often unsuccessful process
of obtaining authority to serve them. The
proposed legislation would remove these
restrictions and permit carriers to stop at
intermediate points immediately.
4. The program for phased route ex-
pansion without ICC approval will em-
phasize increased service to small com-
munities. There is no such program under
existing law.
5. The agricultural commodity and
agricultural co-op exemptions are sub-
stantially broadened. This will give car-
riers serving small towns increased oppor-
tunities to fill their trucks with commodi-
ties they cannot now carry.
6. Increased pricing flexibility will
allow lower backhaul rates to small com-
The bill I propose contains the follow-
ing provisions that will improve trucking_munities.
service to small communities:
1. The general policy statement that
governs ICC decisions specifically directs
the ICC to improve small town service.
There is no such provision in existing law.
7. Any carrier that meets financial,
safety, and insurance requirements (a “fit,
willing, and able" carrier) may enter a
point which an authorized carrier no
longer serves, or which a railroad aban-
1124
