Preface
This book contains the papers and speeches of the 39th President of the
United States which were issued by the White House Press Office during the
period January 1-June 22, 1979. A second Public Papers book completing
President Carter's third year in office will be printed later in 1980. The material
has been compiled and published by the Office of the Federal Register, National
Archives and Records Service, General Services Administration.
The material is presented in chronological order within each week, and the
dates shown in the headings are the dates of the documents or events. In instances
when the release date differs from the date of the document itself, that fact is
shown in the textnote. Every effort has been made to ensure accuracy. Tape
recordings are used to protect against errors in transcription of Presidential
remarks, and signed documents are checked against the original to verify the
correct printing. Textnotes, footnotes, and cross references have been provided
by the editors for purposes of identification or clarity. Speeches were delivered in
Washington, D.C., and other documents released there, unless indicated. All
times noted are local times.
All materials have been fully indexed. In addition to the usual subject-matter
entries in the index, the material has been classified in categories reflecting the
type of Presidential activity or document. For example, a reader interested in the
President's speeches will find them listed in the index under "Addresses and
Remarks." An index accounting for all the materials for 1979 will be included
in Book II.
The Public Papers series was begun in 1957 in response to a recommendation
of the National Historical Publications Commission. An extensive compilation of
messages and papers of the Presidents covering the period 1789 to 1897 was
assembled by James D. Richardson and published under congressional authority
between 1896 and 1899. Since then, various private compilations have been
issued, but there was no uniform publication comparable to the Congressional
Record or the United States Supreme Court Reports. Many Presidential papers
could be found only in the form of mimeographed White House releases or as
reported in the press. The Commission therefore recommended the establish-
ment of an official series in which Presidential writings, addresses, and remarks
of a public nature could be made available.
The Commission's recommendation was incorporated in regulations of the
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register, issued under section 6 of
the Federal Register Act (44 U.S.C. 1506), which may be found in Title 1,
Part 10, of the Code of Federal Regulations.
vii
