Feb. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
legislation that has been passed by Con-
gress and you also talk about enforcing
wage and price guidelines, as well as im-
plementing people's own voluntary efforts
to reduce energy usage in the country.
But
my question is, most of the people,
from our standpoint here, seem to feel
that we are definitely not in an energy
crisis per se. They still haven't been quite
convinced. And then, when you say-
THE PRESIDENT. You mean the White
House Press Corps or the-[laughter]-
Q. No, no, I'm talking about the aver-
age American citizen.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. You said the
people here-
Q. And then you talk about-well, you
asked the poor people in the country
about the energy crisis, and you asked
whether or not they would be inclined to
reduce, cut down on their usage of
lights-
THE PRESIDENT. What's your question?
Q. -or adhere to the 55-minute-
power my question essentially is, how
are you going to enforce implementation
of voluntary understanding of the energy
crisis, the situation that we are in? And
how are you really going to impress upon
the people to voluntarily hold back, cut
back on their energy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one obviously
persuasive factor is the rapidly increasing
prices of energy, which exercises economic
restraint on people's wastefulness. When a
person's electric power bill or heating bill
goes up in a home, they are naturally more
inclined to insulate their home, to cut
down the thermostat, and so forth. When
the price of gasoline goes up here and in
other countries, people are naturally in-
clined to move toward more efficient auto-
mobiles or to reduce the unnecessary use
of automobiles.
In addition to that, there's a patriotic
element involved. When a President or
other leaders call on the American people
voluntarily to join together to enhance the
economic well-being of the entire Nation,
that has a good receptivity among the
people of our country, now and in the
past.
We have passed about 90—I'd say, 65
percent of the comprehensive energy pro-
posals that I made to the Congress. Some
of those are mandated by law, that there
have to be shifts away from oil to coal, to
solar power, and to natural gas, and to
nuclear power, in some instances. Also,
there are encouragements built into the
law that now give people tax reductions if
they shift toward a better insulation for
their homes, for instance.
And the last thing is that we have man-
dated more efficient automobiles, that
each year, step by step, the entire auto-
mobile production industry, here and
abroad, have to comply with much more
strict standards on automobile efficiency.
So, a combination of all those things,
voluntary, patriotism, and mandated con-
straints, are the sum total of our energy
policy.
THE FEDERAL DEBT
Q. Mr. President, your budget advisers
are projecting sizable and rapidly growing
budget surpluses after fiscal '81. This is
sort of an old-fashioned idea, but I'd like
to ask you, have you given any thought to
using some of this money to reducing the
Federal debt, which is now at $800 billion?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, when
you have a budget surplus, that in itself
reduces the Federal debt. The surplus is
used to pay off existing debt. Those pro-
jections, however, many years in the fu-
ture, 4 or 5 years in the future in some
instances, are predicated on a fairly stable
number of Federal programs. They do
include basic welfare reform and an evolu-
tion into a comprehensive health program.
262
