Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 7
itself. The level of radiation was carefully
monitored even before they found out the
President was coming. [Laughter] And as
I pointed out, I was getting about one-
third the radiation in the control room
that I would have been getting if I was
in an airplane flying from Washington to
Los Angeles at 35,000-foot altitude.
We have monitored very carefully the
entire region, as you know, around Three
Mile Island. And we've not found any
evidence that there's an excessive level of
radiation. It had been well within the
safety precautions. And I think the same
thing applies to the water in the Susque-
hanna River as well.
The entire government structure and
the nuclear industry, I think the entire
country-indeed, the whole world-is
concerned about maintaining an even
safer set of standards in the nuclear in-
dustry. But I can tell you that I felt per-
fectly safe when I was there with my wife.
And I believe that they have done a good
job in protecting the safety of the people
who live in that area.
TUITION TAX CREDITS
Q. Mr. President, Gerard Sherry, the
Voice, in Miami. Several private groups,
school groups especially, have suggested
you have reneged on your precampaign
promise to support tax tuition credits.
Can you give me some idea where you
feel this might be in error, in relation to
the charge that you have reneged on a
campaign promise to support tax credits?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it's re-
neging at all. I've always been concerned
about
the constitutional prohibition
against the mixing of church and state
and pointed out frequently during the
campaign what we had done in Georgia
when I was Governor.
We authorized a direct allocation of
State funds to the colleges of Georgia,
both private and public, on a per capita
basis, beginning, I think, with $400 per
student, increasing it while I was Gov-
ernor to $600 per student. So, there are
some elements of aid to private colleges
of which I strongly approve.
But to see a substantial amount of very
limited funds for education going outside
the public education system, I thought,
and still believe, has been in error. And
this would have been an extremely costly
proposal to the Federal budget. And my
objection was on that basis and not
[just] ยน on constitutional grounds.
Q. Thank you.
PRAYER IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Q. Mr. President, the Helms amend-
ment to the education bill calls for the
opportunity for voluntary prayer in pub-
lic schools and other public buildings.
That's obviously going to be a constitu-
tional issue. Do you see it as unconsti-
tutional?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't try to judge.
I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know. The
Constitution, I think, has been interpreted
by the Supreme Court in such a way that
students should not feel a constraint to
pray while they are in a public school.
And as a Baptist, not particularly a Presi-
dent, I agree with that. I think that prayer
should be a private matter between a per-
son and God.
There are constraints that are placed on
students other than ordering a child to
pray. If everyone else in the classroom is
engaged in public prayer and doing it
voluntarily, for a young 7- or 8-year-old
child to demand the right to leave the
room is a difficult question to answer. But
in general, I think the Government ought
to stay out of the prayer business and let
ยน Printed in the transcript.
625
