Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
I am directing the Chairman of the White
House Interagency Coordinating Council
and the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to work with the De-
partments and Agencies to accelerate
progress toward this objective.
One model will be the Department of
Agriculture's invitation to Governors to
develop joint investment strategies with
its agencies. This has resulted in a rural
development cooperation
cooperation agreement
signed by the State of North Carolina and
the Farmers Home Administration. Such
opportunities will be offered to other
states in the months ahead. These initia-
tives represent a kind of "contract fed-
eralism," providing a new predictability
of Federal action and a new recognition
of state circumstances.
The national energy policy I presented
to Congress is another essential element in
growth policy. The resulting landmark
legislation will help conserve natural re-
sources, encourage exploration for natural
gas by phased deregulation, lead to re-
form of utility rates, and encourage the
conversion to coal. I have also proposed
a new five-year Energy Impact Assist-
ance Program to increase the capability
of State and local governments to man-
age rapid growth resulting from energy
development.
URBAN AND RURAL POLICY
Last spring, this Administration framed
the “New Partnership to Conserve Ameri-
ca's Communities," the Nation's first
comprehensive and unified urban policy.
This partnership is being implemented
through four new Executive Orders, more
than 100 improvements in existing Fed-
eral programs, and 19 legislative pro-
posals. The elements include:
Targeted employment tax credits to
encourage private sector businesses to hire
unemployed youths from low-income
households.
• Location of Federal facilities slated
for metropolitan areas in inner cities in
order to provide jobs and make those
neighborhoods more attractive for rede-
velopment.
Purchasing by Federal agencies of
more goods and services from areas with
high unemployment rates.
• Increased funding for HUD's hous-
ing rehabilitation program.
• Revisions in Commerce's Economic
Development Administration programs to
strengthen minority economic develop-
ment and to target aid to economically
distressed people and places in all regions
of the country.
• Allocation of $15 million to neigh-
borhood and voluntary organizations for
housing and neighborhood revitalization
projects.
Funding joint transportation and
economic development projects.
• A new system for analyzing major
new legislative, budgetary or regulatory
initiatives in terms of their potential ad-
verse effect on communities, both rural
and urban.
This Administration is actively review-
ing rural development needs, focusing
initially on four areas-health, housing,
transportation, and water and sewer sys-
tems-identified by Conference partici-
pants as particularly significant.
The principles expressed in the Urban
Policy have had beneficial effects on over-
all government operations. This initiative
encouraged my Administration to under-
take the rural policy review which, taken
together, will comprise a balanced com-
munity policy.
NEW LEGISLATION
The Administration expects to forward
to Congress proposals for legislation
77
