Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
coordination between private, local, State,
Federal officials.
Obviously, nuclear reactor safety is the
preeminent concern, and I believe that
this is an opinion shared by Americans
throughout our Nation. It's not a new
concern for me. I've been involved in nu-
clear power in one form or another since
1952, and I'm familiar with the limita-
tions of it, and I'm familiar with the
concerns about it.
It's hard to estimate accurately how
many people's lives may have been af-
fected by very low levels of additional
radiation. It's hard to quantify them. But
if any single person either dies prema-
turely or has any sort of injury or aber-
ration, it would be of deep concern to me.
But I think we have a proper degree,
now, of commitment, through this Com-
mission-which will report very expedi-
tiously, commensurate with a broad range
of their discussions and investigations in 6
months to prevent any further accidents
of this kind.
Q. Do you still consider yourself a
strong supporter of the concept of nu-
clear power?
THE PRESIDENT. I have always thought
that nuclear power should be used as a
last resort in the evolution of energy. But
I also recognize that when you use what
oil is available, and what natural gas is
available, and what coal is available, and
what solar energy is available, up until
now we have seen a need to use nuclear
power.
We now get about 12 percent, I think,
of our electricity from nuclear power.
Some States, like Illinois, for instance, get
a great deal more of their power from
nuclear powerplants. And it would not be
advisable to terminate this use peremptor-
ily. The thing to do is those that have to
continue to provide needed power-to
make sure they are safe and, in the future,
to try to have conservation, which we've
never emphasized in our country ade-
quately, and to shift to alternative means
of power to reduce the necessary depend-
ence upon atomic power which we have
experienced in recent years.
GASOHOL
Q. Mr. President, Mike Waring, from
the Blackhawk Stations. In your speech
this morning, you mentioned the in-
creased spending for gasohol develop-
ment by the Federal Government. So far,
the Department of Energy has down-
played the importance of gasohol. Why do
you think gasohol should be developed,
and how much can we count on it in the
future for downplaying our gasoline
usage?
THE PRESIDENT. It's one of those in-
cremental approaches to energy that will
be of aid. To decrease the gasoline con-
sumption of automobiles to get ½ mile
more per gallon has a tremendous bene-
fit over our country. Other nations, like
Brazil in some regions, have at least 10
percent of all their automobile fuel con-
sisting of gasohol or similar materials.
I think gasohol has a possibility beyond
its actual cost and use, because gasohol
can be evolved from waste products that
are presently very costly. It's extremely
costly, for instance, in the making of, say,
paper, where you take the entire tree,
minus its bark, and through chemical
processes, extract paper. Formerly those
gases were sometimes dispensed into the
atmosphere. It was a very costly process.
The heat had to be generated anyhow,
and you were fouling the atmosphere with
very precious gases. Now those same com-
panies, through new techniques that
they've just learned in the last few years,
are condensing those gases and using
them in a form similar to gasohol or
methanol.
Additionally, animal wastes, food
wastes that are resulting from the proc-
essing of all kinds of foods, including
799
