Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
time Boundary Treaty between the United
States of America and the Republic of
Venezuela, signed
signed at Caracas on
March 28, 1978; and the Maritime
Boundary Agreement between the United
States of America and the Republic of
Cuba, signed at Washington, Decem-
ber 16, 1977.
These treaties are necessary to delimit
the continental shelf and overlapping
claims of jurisdiction resulting from the
establishing of a 200 nautical mile fishery
conservation zone off the coasts of the
United States in accordance with the
Fishery Conservation and Management
Act of 1976, and the establishment of 200
nautical mile zones by these neighboring
countries.
The treaty with Mexico establishes the
maritime boundary between the United
States and Mexico for the area between
twelve and two hundred nautical miles off
the coasts of the two countries in the
Pacific Ocean and Gulf of Mexico. In this
regard, it supplements the Treaty to Re-
solve Pending Boundary Differences and
Maintain the Rio Grande and Colorado
River as the International Boundary be-
tween the United States of America and
the United Mexican States, signed at
Mexico November 23, 1970, which estab-
lishes maritime boundaries out to twelve
nautical miles off the respective coasts.
The treaty with Venezuela establishes the
maritime boundary between the two
countries in the Caribbean Sea, between
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands
and Venezuela where the 200 nautical
mile zones overlap. The treaty with Cuba
establishes the maritime boundary be-
tween the two countries in the Straits of
Florida area and the eastern Gulf of
Mexico where the 200 nautical mile zones
overlap.
I believe that these treaties are in the
United States interest. They are consist-
ent with the United States interpretation
of international law that maritime bound-
aries are to be established by agreement
in accordance with equitable principles
in the light of relevant geographic cir-
cumstances. They will facilitate law en-
forcement activities, and provide for cer-
tainty in resource development.
I also transmit for the information of
the Senate the report of the Department
of State with respect to each of these
treaties.
I recommend that the Senate give early
consideration to these treaties and advice
and consent to their ratification.
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Presidential Medal of Freedom
Announcement of Award to Margaret Mead.
January 19, 1979
The President today announced that
he will award the Presidential Medal of
Freedom posthumously to Margaret
Mead.
The President has asked U.N. Ambassa-
dor Andrew Young to present the award
to Margaret Mead's daughter, Dr. Cathe-
rine Bateson. The presentation will take
place on Saturday, January 20, at a spe-
cial program honoring the contributions
of Margaret Mead, sponsored by the
American Museum of Natural History in
New York City.
The citation accompanying the medal
follows:
"Margaret Mead was both a student of
civilization and an exemplar of it. To a
public of millions, she brought the central
insight of cultural anthropology: that
varying cultural patterns express an
underlying human unity. She mastered
her discipline, but she also transcended it.
87
