Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April, 6, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With American Press Institute Editors.
March 30, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body.
I would like to open by commenting on
one very important issue, and that is the
subject of energy, and then spend the rest
of our time answering your questions
about subjects that you choose.
ENERGY
Almost exactly 2 years ago, I presented
to the Nation and to the Congress a de-
scription of the energy problems and a
proposal for the evolution of a national
energy policy that I thought would be
adequate. After 18 months of debate, the
Congress passed the national energy act,
and it encompasses roughly 50 or 60 per-
cent of what we did propose. It's a major
and a very important beginning.
Since then, the energy problems that I
described have gotten worse, not better.
Recent interruption of the Iranian oil sup-
ply, the increases in OPEC oil prices
which I think are a prelude of what is
going to be the case for the next number
of years have emphasized the extreme
importance of our country taking firm
action.
We must conserve all the energy that
we can. We must shift toward a depend-
ence on domestic production of petroleum
products more than we have in the past
and, of course, shift toward alternative
fuel supplies on a more permanent basis.
I have a great confidence in American
technology and American vision, Ameri-
can innovation, American courage, and
the will of the American people to resolve
this question ultimately in a satisfactory
fashion.
But for the immediate future, we will
continue to be dependent upon petroleum.
And the prices and supplies of petroleum
products are under the control of a cartel
whose interests are not always compatible
with our own. And, as you know, we now
import about 50 percent of our total oil
supplies.
Next week, I'll make a statement to the
American people and to the Congress on
this subject. And I hope and believe that
the American consumers, the American
energy industry, and the Congress will join
in with me in a firm partnership to alle-
viate the threat to our Nation's econ-
557
