Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 12
So, I think the situation is improving
rapidly, and I will learn a great deal and
my country will benefit very much from
my coming visit with your people and
your President.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President,
President López Portillo has said that
Mexican oil production is adjusted to the
needs of Mexico. Do you expect an in-
crease of oil and gas production to meet
the needs of the United States, or some
kind of agreement on this issue?
THE PRESIDENT. I expect the rate of
exploration and production of oil and gas
in Mexico to be decided by the Mexican
people only. This is not something that
we should try to influence. This should be
done with very careful attention to what's
best for the Mexican people.
We have been very pleased to see the
prospect of new prosperity and new
growth in job opportunities and a better
quality of life for the people of Mexico
because of the new discoveries of this
valuable energy source. And we want to
be a good customer for the portion of oil
and gas that Mexico decides to sell to us
as a neighbor. But the price must be fair,
and the control of production and dis-
tribution must be kept in the hands of
the Mexican people.
So, we want to be good customers, and
we feel that your people and the people
of
my country will benefit from these new
energy discoveries.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Turning to the
problem of illegal immigration, Mr. Presi-
dent, what do you see as a solution to this
problem which our two countries share?
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I will
have to enforce the laws of my country.
And I've been very deeply impressed on
my visits to Mexico with the desire of
Mexican people to live in accordance with
the law.
In some ways, the immigration laws
that we now have in effect have not been
workable, and I have submitted to the
last Congress proposals for change in
those immigration laws. The Congress did
not act on my proposals. Before I decide
whether or not to submit new laws to
Congress or what form they should take,
I want to consult very closely with Presi-
dent López Portillo and other interested
Mexican officials so that when we do
change our law, it will be one that will be
fair and workable and will protect the in-
terests and the basic human rights of even
those who have come to our country in
the past in violation of our immigration
laws.
We want to be fair to all those who've
come here, whether they originally came
within the bounds of the law or otherwise,
and to make sure we have a law that's
simple and workable and suitable both to
the Mexican people and to the people of
my country.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President,
every United States President since Frank-
lin Roosevelt, I think, has met with his
Mexican President and hailed the visit as
a breakthrough for both countries. But
after the speeches are over, very little
really happens. I don't know if you agree
with this. Is your visit, Mr. President,
merely ceremonial, or can you promise
followup actions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there will be
followup actions. When President López
Portillo was inaugurated, even before I
was President, my wife went to the cere-
monies. When I was inaugurated, Mrs.
López Portillo came here to be an honored
guest. When I decided who would be my
first foreign visitor after I became Presi-
dent, my choice was President López Por-
tillo. And our Vice President has been to
Mexico, and we've had constant consul-
tations at the Cabinet level of our top
Ministers. And, as I mentioned earlier in
the interview, we've already concluded
agreements relating to irrigation, agri-
253
