May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
brate human freedom which we enjoy.
And many more have lived quietly, de-
fending day by day against the cynical,
the selfish, and the unconcerned, the
principles that we hold dear-often they
have done this in their homes or in their
small communities, often at great cost and
without any praise, without any recogni-
tion, without any glory.
I pray that we will never again have to
defend our freedoms in battle with the
shedding of blood, and that the love of
peace which fills our hearts will at last
prevail. But to survive, our system must
not only beat back the sword of aggres-
sion; it must also beat back the silent
meaningless without this unless it means
the guaranteeing of rights of all those who
dwell within our borders. It's meaning-
less if it does not mean freeing the human
spirit in our midst, whatever the language
in which its voice, its dreams.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. at
the plaza, located in El Pueblo de Los Angeles
State Historical Park.
Earlier in the day, the President attended
separate meetings with Los Angeles community
leaders, black leaders, and members of the
California Chicano Caucus.
hand of injustice that's armed only with Los Angeles, California
our own apathy and our own timidity.
I'm committed to making sure that all
the people all the people-within our
borders, no matter how they may have
gotten here, are treated always with
dignity and with justice. And I am also
committed to protecting the basic human
rights of every person in this country,
whatever their legal status might be.
I will make sure, within the bounds of
my authority and capability as President
of the United States of America, that no
one is exploited or abused, either by un-
scrupulous employers, unprincipled gang
bosses or smugglers, who prey on poverty,
ignorance, and human misery, and who
sometimes even hold little children as
hostages to wring a few extra dollars from
empty pockets and work-worn hands.
[At this point, the President again spoke in
Spanish. He then translated his remarks as
follows.]
Justice and respect for each individual's
rights-wherever that individual might
come from-must be practiced every day
by every one of us. It's not enough to be
fair to most of the people most of the time.
We must be fair to all, all of the time. Our
own independence in the United States is
Remarks at a Cinco de Mayo Celebration.
May 5, 1979
¡Buenos tardes a todos! [Good after-
noon, everybody!]
Thank you
for the "Viva Carter" signs.
Now put them down so the folks can see,
please.
Senator Cranston; Governor Brown;
Mayor Bradley; distinguished Members
of the Congress; President Hahn; my
good friend Ed Edelman, who sponsored
this celebration; Senator Montoya; As-
semblyman Alatorre and Art Torres;
other friends who've come here together
today:
As President of a nation which has a
great number of citizens who speak Span-
ish, I would like to say a few words, first
of all, in Spanish.
[At this point, the President spoke in Spanish.
He then translated his remarks as follows.]
To demonstate that I can speak two
languages, I will now use English.
As you know, we are here to celebrate
the spirit of liberty and independence
that Mexican Americans have symbolized
by Cinco de Mayo. That day in Puebla in
810
