Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
whether it will be dim, as our fossil re-
sources decline, is the choice that is now
before us. We must take the path I have
outlined today.
The White House,
June 20, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Yoshio
Hori and Yoshiki Hidaka of the Japan
Broadcasting Corporation (NHK).
June 20, 1979
MR. HORI. I'm most grateful to you for
giving us this opportunity to make an in-
terview with you as part of the very tight
schedule between Vienna talks and Tokyo
summit.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's a great op-
portunity for me to be able to talk to the
Japanese people, and I look forward to
the interview.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
MR. HORI. Thank you. Anyway, first
of all, please accept our congratulations
on the successful culmination of the
SALT II talks. And the signing of the
accord is a tribute to many years of your
effort. We Japanese wish to express deep
satisfaction and thanks to you, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. We believe that this
new agreement between ourselves and the
Soviet Union will not only help our own
two nations to have a more peaceful fu-
ture, but also will be a great contribution
to the entire world to limit armaments
and to lead towards peace.
MR. HORI. And this question: Could
you tell me a little more completely the
future image of the world peace and pros-
pect of disarmament?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no doubt that
both we and the Soviet Union are deter-
mined to control armaments in the future.
Both nations will stay strong. My most im-
portant responsibility is to guarantee the
security of the United States of America
and also the security of our allies and to
protect our interests. So, within a realm
of strength, we will reduce armaments on
both sides, particularly nuclear weapons,
and we hope that other nations will join
us in this commitment in years to come.
MR. HIDAKA. How is your feeling right
now, after returning from meeting with
Mr. Brezhnev down there?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm very pleased
with the results of the Vienna talks, but
now I'm thinking almost exclusively about
the happy prospect of being in Japan.
This is a very exciting thing for me. I
don't think there's any doubt that our
close relations with the people of Japan
and the prospect for the economic summit
there is one of the most important and
exciting responsibilities that I have.
U.S.-JAPANESE RELATIONS
MR. HORI. For keeping world peace,
Japanese people are more concerned with
the elimination of the causes of war rather
than the maintenance of the balance of
powers. What kind of role do you ex-
pect for Japanese involving world peace?
THE PRESIDENT. The close relationship
between the United States and Japan is
important not only for the economic pros-
perity of the people of both countries, but
it's also a great stabilizing factor in main-
taining world peace. For any other nation
to look upon this close friendship and
close alliance in trade, commerce, cul-
ture, security, science, education, tourism,
between the United States and Japan, it
gives the accurate feeling of mutual
strength and mutual confidence, and, I
1107
