May 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Paul Tillich said the search for the truth
about our relationship with God and our
fellow men is religion. And when we lose
that desire to search for this truth, we lose
our very religion.
The United States-and its people-is
a searching nation. We are a free nation,
not afraid to face defects, not afraid
to expose problems, not afraid to debate
differences, not afraid to correct mistakes.
We want our Nation to be unified, strong,
free, peaceful, with equality for our
people. We want our Government to
achieve greatness, to realize its ultimate
potential. And we know that for a society,
or for a government, the highest potential
it can reach is to achieve simple justice.
That's not quite high enough. It's not
the ultimate, because a single human be-
ing close to God can achieve not only
simple justice but love. And perhaps
that's the reason why individual human
beings like Martin Luther King, Jr., have
been able to reach higher and set a higher
standard and achieve more in social
progress and social justice than has a gov-
ernment. And it imposes an obligation on
all of us in this room-leaders, blessed,
influential to set our standards high.
It would be a terrible day for us to
awake and find that our inflation prob-
lems had been cured, we had plenty of
energy, our material needs were met,
poverty was eliminated, that we had then
a nation with no purpose, without hope,
exhausted in our struggle for material
things, with the best of the American
dream abandoned. Where would be our
victory? What would be the measure-
ment of our achievement?
I'm very grateful that your own slogan
for this banquet, or perhaps this year, is
"The Unfinished Task." Achievements
have been great, but we should not ignore
the challenges which face us, which are
still great. I have no doubt that we, in a
spirit of love, can meet this challenge.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:28 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel. Prior to his remarks, he received
the Brotherhood Award of the National Con-
ference of Christians and Jews.
Vietnam Veterans Week, 1979
Remarks at a White House Reception.
May 30, 1979
MR. CONWAY. Mr. President, the Post-
master General and I would like you to
accept on behalf of all Vietnam veterans
this special Vietnam veterans stamp that
will be issued on Armistice Day this year.
In the Postal Service, we like to think of
stamps as minibillboards which tell the
world what we Americans think is im-
portant. And although only a small ges-
ture, this stamp is our way of honoring
and thanking all the Vietnam veterans
who answered their Nation's call to duty.
[At this point, the President and James V. P.
Conway, Deputy Postmaster General, unveiled
the design of the new U.S. postage stamp.]
THE PRESIDENT. You have honored me
and my family, and you have honored this
President's house by coming here this
afternoon.
In March I signed a proclamation for
Vietnam era veterans week. In that proc-
lamation, I pointed out that the Vietnam
war was the longest and most expensive in
the history of our country. It resulted in
the most costly gifts of human life and the
greatest degree of human suffering. In ad-
dition, the war itself, the circumstances
of it, were highly divisive in our country,
perhaps more so than any other war ex-
cept the War Between the States, more
than 100 years ago.
972
