Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
that, and we have to tie up some of our
own competent people to shuffle papers
back and forth between Portsmouth and
Washington.
As a teacher and as a person that be-
lieves in teaching by example, along with
many in my profession, I would suggest
that before we have a department of edu-
cation, you consider whether this is going
to add to the shuffling back and forth of
paper, or whether this is going to furnish
money to students who need it, to teach-
ers, to administrations that need it.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Joe. Let
me respond very briefly.
My first public office was a member of
the Sumter County School Board, where
I live. And I became familiar then with
some of the elements that you've just
described.
One of my first meetings as President
was with the 50 State school superintend-
ents. I asked them to go back to their own
States, including the superintendent of
New Hampshire, and to give me a list, my
Office of Management and Budget, of all
those forms and reports and requests that
they considered to be unnecessary. This
has been done. And a great number of
those forms and reports have been elim-
inated. Some are required by Congress,
and we've not yet been able to get the
laws changed. But I know that this is an
onerous burden that separates the local
community from the Federal Government
rather than binding the two together, with
the local government controlling, to let
Federal Government help with education.
In the last 2 years, we've just about
doubled the allocation of Federal funds
for education. We are trying to help. At
the same time, we are trying to prevent
any encroachment of the Federal Govern-
ment into decisions being made at the
local government on how the schools
should be operated.
I would like for you to send to me,
through your Congressman or through
your Senator, a list of specific forms that
you think are unnecessary or that can be
consolidated or eliminated or abbreviated
or made more infrequent in their required
sending to Washington. And I will per-
sonally look into this that you send me, as
President of the United States, if you as a
teacher will do your share of this bargain.
Would you mind doing that for me?
Q. No, I wouldn't. Thank you, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. And I'll carry out my
part of the deal, too. Thank you, Joe.
THE PRESIDENT. John, you and Norm,
when Mr. Arnstein sends you this list of
forms, you come to the Oval Office, if you
don't mind, and bring them to me. And
I'll try to do something about it, because
probably what applies to him in his class-
room applies to people all over the United
States, and I'd really like to do something
about it.
Yes, ma'am?
FEDERAL MORTGAGE PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Pamela
Foster. I am very proud to be an Ameri-
can, and I'm even more proud that you
are my President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
Q. But I'm also especially proud that I,
too, am from the South-[laughter]—
Woodruff, South Carolina. I am associ-
ated with a real estate firm here in Ports-
mouth.
And my question, sir, is, do you see, in
the near future, any Federal mortgage
money coming to the seacoast area? Sea-
coast area.
THE PRESIDENT. I heard what you said.
[Laughter] I heard your question. I was
trying to think of the answer. [Laughter]
Well, the reason I hesitate is because, as
you know, there is a tremendous amount
709
