Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
State governments, and the Federal Gov-
ernment. I served for Governor for 4
years. I had absolutely no access, no co-
operation, no communication, no consul-
tation with the Federal Government in
Washington, no matter how hard I tried.
That's been changed. Any Governor in
our Nation, any mayor in our Nation,
Republican or Democrat, will tell you that
what I say is true.
We have passed, for the first time in
almost a hundred years, a landmark civil
service reform bill that will now reward
accomplishment, not mediocrity. It will
give our thousands of excellent Federal
employees a chance again to be proud of
their own lives' work. And you'll see a
difference when you call a Government
agency or participate in a Federal pro-
gram. We can make government work
for you.
The American people complained
about the regulatory nightmare, and we
heard their voices. Our reforms in just
a few areas have already saved consum-
ers $22 billion, for instance, in reduced
airline fees. We've eliminated a thousand
unnecessary OSHA rules that harassed
employers without protecting our workers'
health or safety. Our new regulatory re-
form bill, now in Congress, will bring
much needed rationality to the entire reg-
ulatory process.
We can protect the health and the
safety of our people and the environ-
ment. And we can lift the unnecessary
burden of meddlesome regulations that
threaten to smother our people in a
mountain of paperwork. And I'm deter-
mined to be successful in this effort.
I found, in Washington, good Federal
employees at all levels of responsibility
concerned about a bureaucracy where
waste and fraud were so common that
often investigators and auditors could not
even estimate the extent of it. We've given
the people honest and competent govern-
ment.
In cleaning up the GSA scandals, in
cracking down on fraud in HEW and
other departments, in appointing Inspec-
tors General now in all major agencies,
we've been following Andrew Jackson's
credo, which he gave us in 1832. "There
are no necessary evils," he said, "in gov-
ernment. Its evils exist only in its abuses."
It's not enough for our Government to
work. Our economy must work also. The
American people expect stable prices and
jobs for all who seek them. As President,
I intend to see that we have both.
We are in the midst of the longest eco-
nomic boom in the history of our Nation.
We have tended recently to become de-
pressed over every individual item of the
day's economic news. That kind of pes-
simism about our country and its
strength is unwarranted, and it should not
detract from what our Nation is nor
should it detract from our accomplish-
ments.
In 2 years, we have reduced unemploy-
ment by 25 percent in our Nation. Today,
almost a hundred million Americans have
jobs. We've created a net increase of more
than 72 million of those jobs since I took
office. And every one of these jobs means
that another American is contributing to
our productive economy. We have put
America back to work.
And I would like to say, as a former
businessman, that business has shared in
these good times. Profits have grown by
more than 34 percent since January of
1977. And last year, net farm income in-
creased 30 percent.
But our economy will not be truly
healthy until we bring inflation under
control. It's been a burden for our Na-
tion for the last 10 solid years.
Five months ago, I announced a tough
program of voluntary standards to slow
634
