Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 23, 1979
Conservationist of the Year
Award
Remarks on Accepting the Award From the
National Wildlife Federation.
March 20, 1979
MR. SCROGGIN. Good morning, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Four years ago, you spoke to our an-
nual meeting in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
and if I remember correctly, your air-
plane ran into a bank of snow out at the
airport that morning; also encountered a
St. Patrick's Day parade on the way to
the hotel. But nevertheless, he made it on
time, and he made one whale of a good
speech.
In fact, the reason we had invited him
to that particular program was that he
had demonstrated that he was a conserva-
tionist Governor. And little did we realize
that we'd be here, some 4 years later, pre-
senting an award to a conservationist
President.
Mr. President, I'd like to read the
citation.
[At this point, Dr. Fred Scroggin, president of
the National Wildlife Federation, read the ci-
tation, the text of which follows:
CONSERVATIONIST OF THE YEAR
National Wildlife Federation is pleased to
present its 1978 Conservationist of the Year
Award to President Jimmy Carter in recogni-
tion of the noteworthy environmental record
he has compiled during the first two years of
his term in office. This record includes his ap-
pointment of outstanding persons to positions
of authority in the protection of the environ-
ment and management of natural resources,
his efforts to stop wasteful and destructive pork
barrel water projects spending, his selection of
the least environmentally objectionable route
for the transmission of Alaskan gas, his strong
support of endangered species and solar energy,
and his initiative to establish a major urban
recreation program. In December, 1978, his
record was crowned by forceful, courageous,
and imaginative action taken to protect large
portions of the fragile ecosystem of Alaska,
following failure of the 95th Congress to pro-
tect this magnificent national heritage from
reckless development. By invoking the 1906
Antiquities Act and various sections of the
Federal Land Policy Management Act to with-
draw 110 million acres and to create national
parks and monuments, wildlife refuges, wild
and scenic rivers, forests and wildernesses, Pres-
ident Carter personally, and through the In-
terior Department, has assured that the un-
matched wealth of natural resources they con-
tain can be preserved for future generations of
Americans.]
President Carter, on behalf of the offi-
cers, board of directors, staff, and Na-
tional Wildlife Federation, it is my
pleasure to present to you this statuette of
a whooping crane, recognized as our top
conservationist award for 1978.
Congratulations, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. President Fred Scrog-
443
