Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 11
ing no word of English, speaking their old
language; and then giving birth to a new
generation, to another generation; and
then turning into the mightiest Jewish
community in the history of our people
since the days of Alexandria during the
Second Temple, and contributing so much
to the civilization and culture and devel-
opment of the United States, and helping
so much the State of Israel.
Since the famous words were written
to America and about it, "Give us the
poor," well if not for that miracle of those
25 years, millions more of Jews would go
the way you and I, Mr. President, saw
today when we visited Yad Vashem.
May I say, although it's a festive dinner,
that when we both heard the children
singing, [in Hebrew] "I believe with a per-
fect faith in the coming of the Messiah,
and though He tarry, I shall wait daily
for His coming," [in English] and knowing
that with this prayer, our fathers and
mothers went into the gas chambers, I
couldn't help all the time thinking these
children and smaller ones were dragged
to a wanton death. If I said this, I said
everything.
And this is the reason, Mr. President,
why we, remembering the saga of Amer-
ica, who helped to save a whole section of
our people, is living in our hearts; why we
love and respect your country, not because
of any interest, but from the heart; why
we are your friend and your faithful ally;
why we are grateful for your help; and
why we help as much as we can your
country.
And this is also the reason why we want,
so much, peace with all our hearts, with
all our souls; why we pray for it, why we
yearn for it; why we made so great sacri-
fices for its sake; why this parliament gave
an overwhelming support, with the sacri-
fices, to the completion of our labors to
achieve peace.
Mr. President, we have to care for the
security and the future of our people. This
is our responsibility. We shall carry it out
under any circumstances. Never again
should a foe, a bloodthirsty enemy, be сар-
able of killing Jewish children. And we
shall do whatever is humanly possible to
make their life secure, not only in this gen-
eration but for all generations to come, in
this land of our forefathers, to which, as
of right, we came back.
Therefore, we want a real peace treaty.
It must be real. It cannot last a few
months, or even a few years. It must last
for generations, actually forever. There-
fore, we must care of its wording, because
it has to be clear that this is going to be a
real peace, and with the peace must come
security.
Therefore, we cannot and we shall not
put under jeopardy and danger our civil-
ian population. We shall defend it under
any circumstances, even with our lives if
necessary, as we have done. This is the
problem. Some say to us, "What do you
care? Even peace treaties are broken, can
be broken." Respectfully, I would like to
explain to the learned men who teach us
this chapter in history that we, too, read
some pages of history.
For instance, I always remember since
my boyhood the famous saying made by
the German Ambassador to Edward Grey,
the Foreign Minister of Great Britain, on
behalf of the German Chancellor, Beth-
mann Hollweg, when the German army
swept through neutral Belgium, and so
an international agreement which lasted
for 84 years was trampled underfoot. And
when Grey said, "If you don't evacuate
Belgium, we shall go to war against you,"
that Ambassador, on behalf of his
Chancellor, Bethmann Hollweg, said,
"But, Mr. Minister, are we going to go to
war for a scrap of paper?"
421
