Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 14
The goals which lie at the heart of my
mission today-improving our own Na-
tion's security and enhancing the pros-
pects for world peace and the avoidance
of nuclear war-transcend all other issues
that I will ever face in my own life in
public service.
I'm grateful for the guidance of mem-
bers of my Cabinet, my administration,
the Congress, and the American people,
and for the good wishes of our Nation as
I go on this mission.
I go to Vienna with a confidence which
can only come from representing the
greatest, the most powerful, and the most
free society on Earth.
Thank you all very much. I'll certainly
do the best I can.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
8 a.m. on the South Lawn of the White House.
Veterans' Health Care
Amendments of 1979
Statement on Signing S. 7 Into Law.
June 14, 1979
Out of a deep sense of commitment,
Congress by resolution, and I by procla-
mation, called upon the Nation this year
to honor the sacrifice and contributions
of the 9.9 million Vietnam era veterans
during Vietnam Veterans Week, from
May 28 through June 3, 1979. The veter-
ans of Vietnam had to demonstrate an
extra measure of heroism because of the
divisiveness of the war. We as a nation
are finally ready to recognize and appre-
ciate their valor and patriotism.
The statistics that show that the over-
whelming majority of returned Vietnam
veterans have readjusted successfully are
a tribute to their courage, but no comfort
to those who have not been able to over-
come the psychic or physical damages of
the war. In declaring Vietnam Veterans
Week, I spoke of our Nation's moral debt
to these veterans. In signing S. 7, we
begin today to repay that debt.
S. 7 will enable the VA to provide spe-
cial readjustment counseling for Viet-
nam era veterans and their families. This
is an extremely important feature. The
burden and pain of the war and its recur-
ring trauma are shared fully by the veter-
ans' families. Their well-being is essential
for successful rehabilitation. The coun-
seling provision includes important
mental health followup services as well.
The VA will make every attempt to pro-
vide services for eligible veterans and,
when necessary, avail itself of the services
of community mental health centers and
other facilities where VA readjustment
counseling centers are inaccessible or un-
able to provide necessary services.
S. 7 will also permit the VA to establish
a 5-year pilot program for the treatment
and rehabilitation of veterans with alco-
hol or drug dependence or abuse prob-
lems. While drug problems are on the
decline among Vietnam veterans, alcohol
problems are rising. This important pilot
program will enable veterans to receive
appropriate treatment and counseling for
these special problems in their own com-
munities where such treatment is most
effective.
I am concerned about the hospital con-
struction provision of S. 7 which may de-
lay or impair important hospital construc-
tion projects undertaken by the VA sys-
tem. Our commitment to the health needs
of our veteran population must come first;
I believe that VA recommendations on
future construction sites have been based
on that commitment. I hope that this new
authority in S. 7 will not politicize nor
1039
