Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
2. Assistance will not be costly and will
not impose an inflationary burden on the
economy. The major clothespin manu-
facturers have provided commitments to
comply with the Administration's anti-
inflation program.
3. Major clothespin producers have
given their assurances that the relief
period will be used to modernize facilities,
improve distributional channels and pro-
mote their product. These steps should
put them in a better competitive position
once relief is lifted.
This determination is to be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:33 p.m., February 8, 1979]
Anti-inflation Program
White House Statement on a Meeting With
Government Officials To Discuss Competition
Policy. February 8, 1979
President Carter, his chief inflation
fighter, Alfred Kahn, and Consumer Ad-
viser Esther Peterson met today with Mi-
chael Pertschuk, Chairman of the Federal
Trade Commission, and John Shenefield,
Assistant Attorney General in charge of
the Antitrust Division of the Justice De-
partment, to discuss the role of competi-
tion policy in fighting inflation.
Pertschuk and Shenefield reported on
actions by the FTC and the Justice De-
partment to keep prices down by challeng-
ing private and public restraints on
competition. These restraints include
collusion, price fixing, and excessive
regulation.
Pertschuk indicated that the Commis-
sion had established health care, food,
housing, transportation, energy, and cloth-
ing as priority sectors in which inflation
has taken a heavy toll on consumers. In
health care delivery, for example, the
Commission has barred publication of
medical society fee schedules, "ethical"
bans against salaried practices by spe-
cialists, and Blue Shield discrimination
against health maintenance organizations.
Antitrust Division cases and investiga-
tions cover a broad range of industries and
commodities affecting the daily lives of
consumers, including the construction, en-
ergy, mining, paper products, metals, and
food industries. Shenefield noted that the
civil and criminal cases filed by the Anti-
trust Division in the last year involved
over $9 billion in commerce.
Professional self-regulation and pro-
fession-inspired regulation are also under-
going Antitrust Division and Commission
scrutiny. Restraints by doctors, lawyers,
accountants, and realtors are currently
under investigation. Some professional
groups, such as veterinarians and psychol-
ogists, have recently responded by under-
taking voluntary reforms to free up com-
petition.
Additionally, the agencies have been
working in close cooperation with con-
cerned State legislators and regulators to
enhance procompetitive actions at the
State level. The FTC's model State gen-
eric drug substitution law (sent last week
nor) would allow pharmacists to fill pre-
by President Carter to each State Gover-
scriptions with lower cost equivalent drugs
unless otherwise specified by the physician.
The President, in his inflation message,
noted his support for those regulations
"which fight inflation." The Commission's
recent eyeglass rule will enable consumers
to benefit from price advertising and com-
parative shopping for eyeglasses. Rules be-
ing considered this year would also pro-
vide information on insulation and on
energy costs of major appliances.
234
