Feb. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
rights of individuals have indeed been an
inspiration to us all.
So, Mr. Prime Minister, we welcome
you, your beautiful wife, your son, your
daughter, your political party representa-
tives to our country.
After frequent visits to our Nation, you
have made many friends in the past who
welcome you here today. And I have no
doubt that this visit will let you depart
from our Nation, after an extensive tour,
with a large number of new friends for
you, your family, and the people of your
great nation.
Welcome to the United States, Prime
Minister Kriangsak.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, friends, ladies and gentle-
men:
This is for us an auspicious day. On be-
half of my colleagues, I want to thank you
for this warm and generous welcome. It
is a special pleasure to return to a country
which has so many close ties with Thai-
land and so many happy associations for
me, personally.
We in Thailand look at our relationship
with the United States as something spe-
cial. Like you, we cherish our independ-
ence, our freedom, and our way of life.
Our nations have worked side by side to
advance these cherished beliefs in South-
east Asia and throughout the world. Our
ties are based on mutual interest and re-
spect, and our peoples have benefited
from our common endeavors. I am con-
fident that they will persist.
But our relations transcend politics.
Some 100,000 of my countrymen have at-
tended schools and universities in the
United States. Our peoples also retain
close ties with Americans through pro-
fessional associations, business partner-
ships, and frequent travel.
Throughout these contacts and shared
experiences, the links between our peo-
ples are firm and progressive. Most im-
portantly, our peoples get along well to-
gether. We Thais enjoy your openness and
informality. On our part, while I can-
not say we outdo your famous Southern
hospitality, Americans seem to feel at
home with us.
The nations of Southeast Asia have wit-
nessed many dramatic events during the
past few years. I regret that the peace and
stability that we long for in Southeast
Asia has not yet been established. The
killing still goes on. While the present situ-
ation has dangers, we are confident that
the strength and the resiliency of the Thai
people will enable us to withstand all
challenges.
We also know that we have the support
and encouragement of the United States
and most other countries of the world.
Both the material and moral strengths of
the United States are vital to the peace of
the world.
The Thai people are pleased with your
continuing recognition that the peace and
well-being of Asia is of vital interest to the
United States, and with your determina-
tion to continue to play an active role in
the region. We believe such an active and
constructive American presence is essen-
tial if we are to achieve peace and con-
tinue with our political and economic
development.
We appreciate your commitment to the
security of Thailand. Your response to the
unfortunate developments in Kampuchea
is evidence of your concern and your
values. For its part, Thailand has tried
hard to improve relationships with all our
neighbors, based on the principle of mu-
tual respect, territorial integrity, and non-
interference.
Elementary prudence requires us to im-
prove our own defenses. We will rely on
222
