Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 6
relationships that have naturally come to
be shared between our two people have
been of intense value both to them, as
expressed by the Prime Minister to me to-
day, and obviously have been of great
value to the people of our own country.
We are concerned about recent devel-
opments in Kampuchea, or Cambodia,
the invasion of that country by their
neighbors, the Vietnamese. We joined
with Thailand and the other countries of
the ASEAN region in the United Nations,
in a proper way, to condemn this viola-
tion of international borders, again, not
plotting against anyone, but expressing
the concern that we feel very deeply and
the concern of the overwhelming num-
ber of governments throughout the world
about this threat to the peace of the
region.
But again, Thailand stands like a rock,
honored and respected by their historical
friends and allies, also honored and re-
spected even by their potential adversaries.
I read the biographies of the leaders of
Thailand who came here today with the
Prime Minister. And in almost every inti-
mate and, I think, accurate biography
that I read in preparation for the visit,
there was a phrase that caught my eye,
referring to intense, personal honesty or a
total absence of fraud and corruption
throughout the political career of those
who serve Thailand.
So, the cleanness and the decency and
the patriotism and the personal commit-
ment to the service of one's fellow hu-
man beings is indeed a permeating char-
acteristic of the Prime Minister and those
who serve with him in this great country.
The name Thailand itself comes from
"the land of freedom." And I'm very
deeply honored tonight to share with you
other Americans the role of host to the
leaders of a great people.
I would like now to propose a toast:
To His Majesty the King of Thailand,
to Prime Minister Kriangsak, his family,
and those who've come with him, and to
the great and free people of the land of
the free, Thailand.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, distinguished guests and
friends:
We have been warmed and delighted
by your welcome for me and my col-
leagues today, and we all wish to express
our profound gratitude for the hospitality
and friendliness we have encountered
since our arrival. It is indeed a special
occasion to be once again in the United
States, where we have so many good
friends and so many happy associations.
Earlier today, we had an opportunity
to discuss together some matters of mutual
concern and of vital importance for the
future well-being of my country, of South-
east Asia, and, perhaps, of the world.
For the past 40 years, the United States
has been the leader of the world. You
have been in the forefront of scientific
and technical developments. You have
led the effort for a peaceful world. You
have been a major moral force for human
betterment which has intensified under
the leadership of President Carter. The
United States has been indispensable, Mr.
President.
I'm pleased that you share our strong
views about the importance of the Amer-
ican presence in Asia and the Pacific and
the need for an active and constructive
U.S. role in Southeast Asia. Such an
American role and presence quite simply
is needed if peace is to be strengthened
and prosperity expanded. We, for our
part, have been grateful for American
help in protecting our security and ex-
panding our economy.
227
