May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the Germans, the French, and others who
are interested in the stability and strength
both politically and economically of Tur-
key. They are important along with
Greece in dealing with the southern flank
of NATO, and we have that as a partial
responsibility of our own.
Domestic affairs: The control of infla-
tion is important. I would say that the
most important single action that the
Congress can take this session is to pass
the hospital cost containment legislation.
So far, we've been disappointed in the
response of the House of Representatives.
We hope that they will see that this is
something they can contribute to the con-
trol of inflation.
And the unfortunate vote of the House
yesterday on the gasoline rationing
standby plan, which I would have the
authority to evolve-it will take 8 or 9
months—and which could be imple-
mented only if there was a genuine emer-
gency, as assessed by me and the Con-
gress jointly, was a very severe setback—
as I said earlier-in my opinion, an em-
barrassment, indeed, a shock to me.
Those are a few of the many issues
that we face. I think as we go through the
coming months and years, we're going to
see that the energy shortage is not a
transient thing. It's not something that
somebody caused deliberately. It's some-
thing that's with us permanently. And
we are dealing with a limited supply of
energy of all kinds; we are trying to shift
away from reliance on imported oil to-
ward greater production in our own coun-
try, shifting to alternate supplies, strong
conservation of energy in all its forms.
We have announced this morning a
100-percent allocation of diesel fuel for
farmers and for fishermen. This is a hun-
dred percent of their needs. And, of
course, next winter we'll be faced with a
requirement that home heating oil needs
be met. This will be guaranteed also for
those who live in the colder regions of
our country.
This means that with a given, limited
supply of oil, the motorists who have
perhaps unnecessary transportation will
have to conserve, which they have not yet
shown a willingness to do.
None of these issues are simple; none of
them are easy. And I hope that when I go
out of office, that the American people can
say that I and the Congress have dealt
with these issues courageously and have
put the long-range interest of our country
ahead of any short-term political gains we
might derive from avoiding these kinds of
problems which have been with us, some
of them, for a long time.
I'll be glad to answer any questions that
you might have now on any issue.
QUESTIONS
RHODESIA; MINORITY ISSUES
Q. Yes, Mr. President, I'm the editor of
the California Voice, which is the oldest
black newspaper west of the Rockies. So,
my question is going to be dealing with
what our readers think is important for
them.
THE PRESIDENT. Good.
Q. Can I have your personal opinion
on the Weber case? And I'd also like to
know what do you tell blacks who are say-
ing that a wave of conservatism in this
country, Proposition 13 and Bakke, is
starting to erode many of the gains that
blacks made in the late sixties? That's my
second part of the question. And my third
and final part is-
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not-you
know we've got 35 people in the room.
[Laughter] I'm not sure that we can let
one person have three questions. Can I
846
