Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
March 23
The President met at the White House
with:
-Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance,
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown,
Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Mr. Moore.
The President participated in a briefing
on the administration's programs and
policies given for civic and community
leaders from Massachusetts in Room 450
of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President has extended an invita-
tion to Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira of
Japan for an official visit to the United
States on May 2 to discuss bilateral and
multilateral policies and economic issues
of mutual concern.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or
nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted March 20, 1979
DONALD EUGENE SYVRUD, of Virginia, to be
United States Alternate Executive Direc-
tor of the International Monetary Fund for
a term of 2 years, vice Thomas Byron Craw-
ford Leddy, resigned.
D. CLIVE SHORT, of Nebraska, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Nebraska
for the term of 4 years, vice Ronald C.
Romans, term expired.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following listing contains releases of the
White House Press Office which are not in-
cluded in this issue.
Released March 19, 1979
Statement: U.S. delegation's visit to Saudi
Arabia, Jordan, and Egypt-by Zbigniew
Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs
Released March 20, 1979
Announcement: nomination of D. Clive Short
to be United States Marshal for the District
of Nebraska
Released March 22, 1979
Announcement: signing ceremony for the
peace treaty between Egypt and Israel and
the schedule of additional events related to
the visit of President Anwar al-Sadat of
Egypt and Prime Minister Menahem Begin
of Israel
Released March 23, 1979
Announcement: status report to the Congress
on Federal advisory committees
News conference: on proposed freight rail in-
dustry deregulation legislation-by Secretary
of Transportation Brock Adams, Stuart E.
Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Do-
mestic Affairs and Policy, and Representative
James J. Florio of New Jersey
ACTS APPROVED BY
THE PRESIDENT
NOTE: No acts approved by the President were
received by the Office of the Federal Register
during the period covered by this issue.
468
