Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 8
sition to achieve these goals. The Plan I
am forwarding today shows how these
programs relate to our overall energy
problem, and to the other policies and
programs which we must carry forward.
This National Energy Plan explicitly
recognizes the uncertainties-geologic,
technological, economic, political, and
environmental-which confront us. It
presents a strategy for dealing forth-
rightly with the uncertainties, with the
threats and promises of our energy future.
The analysis in the Plan shows the need
to move aggressively to meet the grave
energy challenges to our Nation's vitality.
My April 5th proposals confront those
challenges squarely. Together with the
National Energy Plan, we are providing
a firm foundation for dealing with these
challenges today and for decades to come.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 7, 1979.
Energy Emergency in Florida
Memorandum From the President.
May 7, 1979
Memorandum for the Administrator,
Environmental Protection Agency
Based on a request submitted to me by
the Governor of the State of Florida to
extend my April 6, 1979 determination
mination from May 5 to June 4, 1979.
This extension shall be effective for not
more than thirty (30) days and is limited
by the same conditions as my original de-
termination. If, during the extension, I
find that a regional energy emergency no
longer exists in Florida, I will direct that
this extension be rescinded and that all
suspension orders issued by the Governor
be terminated on the day of that rescis-
sion. You will continue to retain full au-
thority to disapprove temporary suspen-
sion of regulations in Florida and to
exercise your emergency powers author-
ity under Section 303 of the Clean Air
Act, when and if necessary.
It is important to keep suspensions to
an absolute minimum since Section 110 (f)
of the Clean Air Act limits each suspen-
sion to a maximum duration of 120 days.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:04 a.m., May 8, 1979]
NOTE: The memorandum was announced on
May 8.
Flag Day and National
Flag Week, 1979
Proclamation 4660. May 8, 1979
that a regional energy emergency exists By the President of the United States
in the State of Florida of such severity
that a temporary suspension of certain
particulate and opacity control regula-
tions which apply to fossil-fuel fired elec-
tric generating plants under the Florida
Air Quality Implementation Plan be
necessary, and that other means of re-
sponding to the energy emergency may
be
inadequate, I hereby extend that deter-
of America
A Proclamation
Two years after the Battle of Bunker
Hill, on June 14, 1777, the Continental
Congress chose a flag which tellingly ex-
pressed the unity and resolve of Colonials
who had banded together to seek inde-
pendence. The delegates voted "that the
817
