Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 29
II agreement which we have just nego-
tiated.
The agreement on new types of ICBM's
is that each side can only have one new
ICBM during the life of the treaty. And
that was carefully planned in order to
provide stability and to stop the enormous
buildup which the Soviets have been
demonstrating in recent years to catch up
with us, since we were originally far ahead.
And if we can maintain that rough equiv-
alency with the Soviet Union, maintain
an adequate defense, and maintain the
security of our own missile systems, that is
a major contributing factor to peace.
So, it is not destabilizing. I think it is
stabilizing.
Q. Have you decided on the MX?
THE PRESIDENT. Not yet.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, on the Middle
East, sir, is it feasible in your view to ex-
pect the Palestinians and other Arab na-
tions to join the peace process as long as
the United States does not put forward
some of its own ideas in greater detail
about what autonomy is going to look like
on the West Bank and Gaza?
In other words, as long as the Israelis
are continuing to say there will be no
Palestinian homeland, there will be no
entity linked or unlinked to Jordan, there
will be no Palestinian state, is it not in-
cumbent on the United States, again in
this peace process, to come forward with
some ideas of its own in order to encour-
age the Palestinians to join in?
THE PRESIDENT. We've never been reti-
cent about putting forward our ideas both
to the Israelis and the Egyptians and to
others about what ought to be done in the
West Bank, Gaza area. We've never es-
poused an independent Palestinian state.
I think that would be a destabilizing fac-
tor there.
I believe the next step ought to be the
exchange of views during the negotiations
between Israel and Egypt. We will observe
the different proposals that are inevitably
going to be made; some of them have been
described publicly. Then later on, after the
negotiations proceed as far as they can do
with any degree of momentum, we will
reserve the right-requested, I might say,
by both Israel and Egypt- to put forward
United States proposals to break a dead-
lock or to provide a compromise solution.
We have been involved in that kind of
process both at Camp David and when I
went to the Middle East. I think that's
one of the reasons that we've been as suc-
cessful as we have so far.
But for us to preempt the negotiations
by putting forward, to begin with, an
American proposal, I think, would be
counterproductive, and it would remove
some of the reasonable responsibility that
ought to be directly on the shoulders of
Prime Minister Begin and his government
and President Sadat and his government.
I might say that this past weekend, I
talked personally to President Sadat and
to Prime Minister Begin and, this morn-
ing, to Secretary Vance. And they were
all very pleased and very excited not only
at the progress made in El Arish and Beer-
sheba but also at the attitude on both sides
toward a constructive resolution of these
very difficult issues.
So, at this point, I feel very hopeful
that both sides are negotiating in good
faith. We'll be there to help them when
they need our help.
BERT LANCE
Q. Mr. President, last week an Atlanta
grand jury indicted your former budget
director, your friend, Mr. Lance, on crim-
inal charges. I'm aware of the fact that
the courts have enjoined discussion of this
case and won't ask you to do that, sir, but
967
