Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
torically burdened by war, and it has
brought the peoples of Europe and North
America even closer together. To these
ends, the Alliance has maintained strong
military forces, and it has developed
unique practices of political consultation.
General Rogers will make important con-
tributions to both of these efforts, draw-
ing on his long and distinguished career
as a soldier-statesman.
In recent years, the Alliance has faced
difficult challenges. Most important is the
steady growth and modernization of War-
saw Pact and especially Soviet-forces.
We are now moving together to meet that
challenge. We will succeed. I have been
deeply gratified by our Allies' response,
through the NATO Long-Term Defense
Program-adopted at the NATO Sum-
mit here last May-and through efforts
to increase cooperation in defense pro-
curement. It is vital to Allied security
that the members of NATO fulfill these
new commitments.
In the United States, we are making
greatly needed increases in our defense
capabilities. Much of this added strength
will apply directly to NATO defense. We
remain the world's most powerful coun-
try-militarily, politically, and econom-
ically and I am determined that this
position not be eroded. This strength,
coupled with that of our NATO Allies, is
the best hope for peace in Europe, and the
best prospect for limiting and reducing
the weapons of war.
In times of change and often turmoil in
other parts of the world, the strength of
NATO takes on an added dimension. It
becomes even more important to guaran-
tee security and stability in Europe, to
give us added confidence in our ability to
prevent the growth and spread of conflict,
and to enable us to work effectively for
peace in the world beyond the NATO
area.
Because of the continuing importance
of NATO, I am pleased that General
Rogers will undertake these new and de-
manding responsibilities. He will play a
key role in the revitalization of Alliance
defenses, and in the strengthening of the
political bonds of our relations with
Canada and the European members of
NATO. His distinguished career demon-
strates his fitness to undertake these bur-
dens-and he will have my full support
and, I am sure, that of the Nation, as well.
Ambassador at Large and
United States Coordinator for
Refugee Affairs
Nomination of Dick Clark.
February 28, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Dick Clark, of Lamont,
Iowa, to be Ambassador at Large and
United States Coordinator for Refugee
Affairs.
Clark was born September 14, 1928,
in Central City, Iowa. He received a B.A.
from Upper Iowa University in 1953 and
an M.A. from the State University of
Iowa in 1956. He served in the U.S. Army
from 1950 to 1952.
From 1956 to 1959, Clark was a teach-
ing assistant at the State University of
Iowa, and from 1959 to 1965, he was an
assistant professor of history at Upper
Iowa University.
From 1965 to 1972, Clark was admin-
istrative assistant to Congressman John
Culver. From 1973 to January 1979, he
was U.S. Senator from the State of Iowa.
He was a member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, and chairman of
its Subcommittee on African Affairs.
364
