Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 2
And we will continue to work for peace
around the world.
We won a victory of this kind when a
peace treaty was signed recently, 2 months
ago, between Egypt and Israel. We saw
the first fruits of that just recently, and it
thrilled my heart to see Israeli ships going
through the Suez Canal, to see Israel re-
turning occupied territory to Egypt, and
to see open borders between Egyptians
and Israelis, who have hated each other
and killed each other's young men for
decades, even for centuries, for almost
2,000 years.
That treaty was possible because of two
courageous men, President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin. But we were able
to help at some crucial points because of
the moral strength and the moral leader-
ship of our country. That treaty was not
any personal accomplishment, though I
was proud to be part of the process. What-
ever I was able to contribute was possible
only because both those nations, their
leaders and their people, recognized that
the American people-not just one ad-
ministration, not just one particular Presi-
dent, but the American people—will al-
ways support those who seek freedom and
justice and peace. That's what the United
States Government must stand for in the
world.
Freedom, justice, and peace-these are
the sources of our true power on which all
else must rest. These are the principles, as
you know, which have made America
great.
One of our finest rights in America is
that we have the blessing to speak our
minds, to complain, to debate, to argue,
to study, and to resolve issues in the politi-
cal arena.
In our eagerness to do that, sometimes
we forget how much we have actually ac-
complished. We forget our enormous
material abundance, and we forget the
wonderful treasure of our freedom. We
cannot afford to forget our blessings. To
lose sight of our basic strength, just be-
cause we have some problems and differ-
ences and arguments and transient set-
backs, would be even more unrealistic
than to ignore those transient problems.
Our land is broad, our people are
diverse, and many of our people, unfortu-
nately, are frightened by a future which
they see as very different from the past
that we've known. It will be very differ-
ent, just as our world now is very different
from what it was in my boyhood or among
our ancestors, but this should not be a
cause of fear.
The problems are real and they are
serious, but they are manageable if we
have the courage and the will to face them
together. There is no doubt that we have
the strength. We have a degree of respect
and freedom for individuals and a com-
mitment to provide the finest possible op-
portunity for every American that's un-
matched in human history. We do, in-
deed, live in the strongest country on
Earth. We cannot let all that strength, all
the innate power of our natural and hu-
man resources be frittered away by fear or
by futility.
Franklin Roosevelt understood how
fear itself could immobilize people, and
in a much more desperate moment, he
warned us of the power of fear to destroy
us. We cannot let the fear of change, of
uncertainty, or the fear of some manage-
able limits on material goods immobilize
our mighty Nation.
I'm very proud to be part of you. I'm
very proud to be the leader of our party
and the leader of our Nation. In difficult
times, we Democrats have always seen
not doubt, but hope; not divisiveness, but
unity, growing out of a respect and an
understanding of our differences and of
our human strength.
995
