Jan. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
today, it is still your intention this year
to propose some variation of the well-
head tax or take some other action that
would have the effect of raising domestic
oil prices?
THE PRESIDENT. Ultimately, domestic
oil prices will have to be raised substan-
tially. As you know, the law changes twice,
as fixed now: once in May of this year
and, again, I believe, in October of 1981,
when all controls go off of oil prices. Ex-
actly what schedule that decontrol might
take and what compensatory tax assess-
ments might be passed by the Congress-
those decisions have not yet been made.
And I'm not prepared yet to announce
decisions that haven't been made. But
we'll be consulting with Congress and try-
ing to assess how we can balance the in-
evitable increase in oil prices to constrain
consumption and, at the same time, to
have a minimal adverse impact on infla-
tion.
It's a difficult decision. Those two
decisions work against one another. But
I'll have to make them eventually, and I
will announce them later on when I
decide.
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES IN IRAN
Q. Mr. President, do you see any dan-
ger of our losing our intelligence listening
posts in Iran? And if we do lose those
posts, will we have enough backup ca-
pability so that you can assure Congress
that we can verify a new SALT agree-
ment if you get one?
THE PRESIDENT. There is obviously, in
any country where we have intelligence
sources, a danger for those sources to be
modified or lost. We had this occur, as
you know, a few years ago in Turkey,
when we had an embargo against the sale
of military weapons to Turkey. And this
has happened from time to time in an
evolutionary way.
We have constantly been able and de-
termined to provide increasing capability
for surveillance which would allow us to
compensate for those changes that are in-
evitable in any changing society.
So, I can assure the public and the
Congress that no matter what happens
to the specific intelligence sources in Iran,
we can adequately compensate for their
change and provide adequate verification
for the compliance by the Soviet Union
with SALT agreements.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. There seem to be a lot of people
who think that the Soviets now are gain-
ing a military edge over us.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Now, isn't this perception basic to
the problem of getting a SALT treaty rat-
ified?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the per-
ception is accurate. I think that militar-
ily, we are certainly equal to or superior
to the Soviet Union in our own capabil-
ity. Certainly, in addition to that, we have
harmony with our neighbors, which the
Soviet Union lacks. And our allies are
free and independent and tied to us phil-
osophically with a deep commitment, as
is the case with NATO and other alli-
ances. The Soviets can't match that de-
pendability and independence among
their allies.
Economically, politically, I think our
systems are superior to the Soviet Union.
There is no doubt, however, that the
approval of the SALT treaty by the
American people and by the Congress
will certainly be influenced by perceptions
that we are indeed now and we will in-
deed in the future be secure and that our
military strength and capability in its to-
tality will be adequate to meet any Soviet
56
