Feb. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
or proprieties in the pricing or distribu- special needs; prepare students for em-
tion of energy products.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-fourth news
conference began at 11:30 a.m. in Room 450
of the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Department of Education
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. February 13, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am sending to the Congress today my
proposal to establish a Department of
Education.
There is a compelling need for the in-
creased national attention a separate Cab-
inet department will bring to education.
issues. Our Nation's pluralistic education
system, considered the most competent
and open in the world, faces many prob-
lems and challenges: a decline in public
confidence in the quality of education;
unacceptably high rates of high school
dropouts and of young people who lack
basic educational tools and specific skills
for productive employment; and increas-
ing demands for retraining and learning
opportunities.
The primary responsibility for educa-
tion in our Nation lies with State and
local government. The Federal govern-
ment has a limited, but critical responsi-
bility to help public and private institu-
tions meet these challenges: to ensure
equal educational opportunities; to in-
crease access to postsecondary education
by low and middle income students; to
generate research and provide informa-
tion to help our educational systems meet
ployment; and encourage improvements
in the quality of our education. The
achievement of each of these goals will be
enhanced by a new Department of Edu-
cation.
Through our legislative and budget ini-
tiatives of the past two years, this Ad-
ministration has given high priority to
meeting these educational commitments.
My budget for FY 1980 provides for $13.3
billion in education outlays, about a 45
percent increase above the level when I
came into office. Last year, we established
a legislative framework, the Middle In-
come Student Assistance program, to help
solve one of our major education prob-
lems-the growing cost of a college edu-
cation. The establishment of a Cabinet
Department of Education will reflect the
continued high priority my Administra-
tion places on education.
A Department of Education will bring
our Nation's educational challenges and
the Federal government's role in meeting
them to the forefront of domestic policy
discussion. Such discussion is vital to an
activity that directly affects 60 million
students, teachers and educational em-
ployees and constitutes a $120 billion pub-
lic and private enterprise.
Establishing a separate Department will
create, for the first time, a Cabinet-level
advocate for education with direct access
to the President, the Congress, and the
public.
Second, it will give Federal education
programs the full-time, high-level leader-
ship and management that they cannot
receive in a structure so large and com-
plex as the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare. This will allow the
Federal government to fulfill its respon-
sibilities in education more effectively. It
will eliminate duplication in the admin-
264
