Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 4
nedy-not seeking publicity, not seeking a
confrontation, but because he believed in
a principle so deeply that he was not at all
fearful or timid about a confrontation
with the highest elected official of our
country.
His struggle was not easy, but the vic-
tories he won were permanent, steps that
seemed to be small. And one of the reasons
for their permanence as building blocks
for the future was that he did not leave
behind him a battlefield of bitterness.
His own personal character assuaged
the feelings of those who confronted him
on the opposite side of an argument and
lost. They accepted the judgment that was
rendered when A. Philip Randolph won
his important victories.
He was a man who studied Shakes-
peare—not to show that he was highly
educated or erudite, not to learn how hu-
man beings can move like chameleons on
and off the stage life with constantly
changing principles and ideals and com-
mitments, but he studied Shakespeare so
that he could learn the constant truths of
the human soul.
I found a passage from Shakespeare
that I think might be appropriate, and I'd
like to read it. It's just two lines. "Wher-
ever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
his honor and the greatness of his name
shall be❞—and a very strange but perti-
nent ending-"and shall make
nations."
"Wherever the bright sun of heaven
shall shine, his honor and the greatness
of his name shall be and shall make new
nations."
It would not be appropriate to take
away from many others, some in this
church, credit for the achievements of the
last few years or decades. But I don't
think there's any doubt that A. Philip
Randolph contributed to the making of a
new nation-not a perfect nation, not a
nation worthy of maintaining the status
quo, but a nation of struggle which has
observed progress and which recognizes
that progress still remains to be made be-
cause we live in a society even here in the
United States where inequality and ha-
tred, deprivation and hunger, racism, still
exist.
But I think that A. Philip Randolph
and his life exemplified one additional
truth that I'd like to say. Institutions,
governments set as goals material prog-
ress: opening up the West, the expansion
of our Nation, increase in gross national
product, achievements of which chambers
of commerce can be proud in individual
cities. Those kinds of evidence of progress
are supported by a wide range of institu-
tions and organizations that mutually ben-
efit from them. But social progress-
equality, liberty, freedom, justice—that
kind of progress comes rarely from gov-
ernment as the initiator; it almost invari-
ably comes from a courageous human
being whose fellow workers might call him
the Chief.
We have a great nation. It can be much
greater if we never forget the life and the
times and the constant presence in our
lives of the Chief.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. at
the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal
Church.
The Cyprus Conflict
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. June 4, 1979
To Speaker Tip O'Neill: (To Chairman
Frank Church:)
In accordance with the provisions of
Public Law 95–384, I am submitting the
following report on progress made during
the past sixty days toward the conclusion
997
