Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
ARTICLE IV
1. Each Party undertakes not to start
construction of additional fixed ICBM
launchers.
2. Each Party undertakes not to re-
locate fixed ICBM launchers.
3. Each Party undertakes not to con-
vert launchers of light ICBMs, or of
ICBMs of older types deployed prior to
1964, into launchers of heavy ICBMs of
types deployed after that time.
4. Each Party undertakes in the process
of modernization and replacement of
ICBM silo launchers not to increase the
original internal volume of an ICBM silo
launcher by more than thirty-two percent.
Within this limit each Party has the right
to determine whether such an increase
will be made through an increase in the
original diameter or in the original depth
of an ICBM silo launcher, or in both of
these dimensions.
5. Each Party undertakes:
(a) not to supply ICBM launcher de-
ployment areas with interconti-
nental ballistic missiles in excess of
a number consistent with normal
deployment, maintenance, train-
ing, and replacement require-
ments;
(b) not to provide storage facilities for
or to store ICBMs in excess of
normal deployment requirements
at launch sites of ICBM launchers;
(c) not to develop, test, or deploy sys-
tems for rapid reload of ICBM
launchers.
6. Subject to the provisions of this
Treaty, each Party undertakes not to have
under construction at any time strategic
offensive arms referred to in paragraph 1
of Article III in excess of numbers con-
sistent with a normal construction
schedule.
7. Each Party undertakes not to de-
velop, test, or deploy ICBMs which have
a launch-weight greater or a throw-weight
greater than that of the heaviest, in terms
of either launch-weight or throw-weight,
respectively, of the heavy ICBMs de-
ployed by either Party as of the date of
signature of this Treaty.
8. Each Party undertakes not to con-
vert land-based launchers of ballistic mis-
siles which are not ICBMs into launchers
for launching ICBMs, and not to test
them for this purpose.
9. Each Party undertakes not to flight-
test or deploy new types of ICBMs, that is,
types of ICBMs not flight-tested as of
May 1, 1979, except that each Party may
light-test and deploy one new type of
light ICBM.
10. Each Party undertakes not to flight-
test or deploy ICBMs of a type flight-
tested as of May 1, 1979 with a number of
reentry vehicles greater than the maxi-
mum number of reentry vehicles with
which an ICBM of that type has been
flight-tested as of that date.
11. Each Party undertakes not to flight-
test or deploy ICBMs of the one new type
permitted pursuant to paragraph 9 of this
Article with a number of reentry vehicles
greater than the maximum number of re-
entry vehicles with which an ICBM of
either Party has been flight-tested as of
May 1, 1979, that is, ten.
12. Each Party undertakes not to flight-
test or deploy SLBMs with a number of
reentry vehicles greater than the maxi-
mum number of reentry vehicles with
which an SLBM of either Party has been
flight-tested as of May 1, 1979, that is,
fourteen.
13. Each Party undertakes not to flight-
test or deploy ASBMs with a number of
reentry vehicles greater than the maxi-
mum number of reentry vehicles
with which an ICBM of either Party has
1053
