June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and understanding between the United
States of America and the Soviet Union,
to reduce the dangers of nuclear war,
and to move towards a more stable and
a more secure world.
This summit involves the United
States and the Soviet Union directly. But
all people have an urgent stake in these
talks. No human being can rest secure in
a world of unrestrained nuclear weapons.
All nations and all people share an over-
riding interest in maintaining peace in
the nuclear age.
This city is especially appropriate as a
setting to pursue the goals of understand-
ing. Historically, Vienna has been a cross-
roads where different cultures and polit-
ical systems meet. The United States and
the Soviet Union, for instance, concluded
the first major cooperative agreement of
reduce substantially the dangers of nu-
clear holocaust.
The people of Vienna, the people of
Europe, and the peoples of many other
nations have known the bitter price of
war twice in this century. With the suc-
cess of this summit meeting, all people will
take another step towards security and
lasting peace.
Mr. President, thank you for your good
wishes. We'll do our best to make them
come true.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:50 p.m. at
the Vienna Airport.
Following his remarks, President Carter
went to the residence of the U.S. Ambassador
to Austria, where he stayed during the sum-
mit meeting.
Toast at a Working Dinner Hosted by the
United States Delegation. June 16, 1979
the postwar period 24 years ago in this Vienna Summit Meeting
city in 1955, helping to move both nations
beyond the hostilities and suspicions of
the cold war era towards stability in
Europe and greater cooperation in the
pursuit of
peace.
Vienna is the headquarters of the In-
ternational Atomic Energy Agency, on
which all nations rely to provide safe-
guards for the peaceful use of atomic
power. And along with New York and
Geneva, Vienna is the third city of the
United Nations.
For nearly three decades, the United
States and the Soviet Union have sought
to limit and to control the momentum of
the nuclear arms race. This week we con-
tinue in that process with the signing of
SALT II. We have no illusion that this
agreement will rid the world once and for
all of danger, nor will it end all the dif-
ferences that exist between our two coun-
tries. But we are confident that SALT II
will widen the areas of cooperation and
I have a brief toast, with your permis-
sion, Mr. President.
Mr. President, we have come to Vienna
in search of common understanding in a
spirit of common sense. We have come to
explore, to clarify, and to attempt to re-
solve all our differences. We have come to
take one more step towards avoiding a nu-
clear conflict in which some few might
survive, but which no one can win.
Mr. President, if I had one thing to
mention in my toast tonight, it would be
to propose our two nations' success in
holding a steady course towards control
of weapons and then halting any drift to-
wards uncertainty that might come from
our failure to control and to regulate the
arms competition.
We must consider the wider possibili-
ties of SALT II. As we worked to con-
clude our agreement on strategic arms,
1048
