Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, January 12, 1979
Saint-François, Guadeloupe
Remarks to Reporters Following the
Conclusion of Meetings Between the President
and Western European Leaders.
January 6, 1979
PRESIDENT GISCARD D'ESTAING. I will
now give you the results of our talks. First,
I would like to emphasize the personal
and trusting nature of our conversations.
We have, in fact, stuck to the initial ob-
jective of this meeting, which was to have
a political and global consideration of the
situation, and in particular, we did not go
into such matters as economic and mone-
tary considerations.
For me and like my colleagues, I've
taken part in a number of international
meetings-I would like to say that I con-
sider that our discussions went into con-
siderable substance and depth. We found
no divergence among us concerning the
assessment of the situation. Naturally,
there were differences in the stresses
placed on certain features, but there was
no divergence.
Our talks have brought to light a dual
objective, which is, first, to increase secu-
rity and, secondly, to reduce tension in the
world.
We considered that the legitimate rec-
ognition of the realities of the present-day
world should be accompanied by the pur-
suit of efforts designed to improve the
world situation and, in particular, the pur-
suit of the efforts towards détente and the
efforts towards limitations of armaments
and, in particular, expressing the hope for
an early conclusion of the SALT agree-
ment. Finally, special attention was de-
voted to the development of the North-
South relations.
Now, if you want me to engage in the
usual exercise of trying to find appropri-
ate adjectives to qualify a meeting, I
would say that the adjectives that come to
mind would be as follows: The meeting
has been frank, friendly, and useful.
PRIME MINISTER CALLAGHAN. I would
like to begin by thanking President Gis-
card for his initiative in calling us to-
gether and inviting us for what has been a
very valuable and informal occasion. And,
also, I'm sure I'm allowed to say our
thanks to the people of Guadeloupe for
entertaining us in this most delightful and
beautiful island.
I think I can almost forgive the French
for recovering it from the British,
although, no doubt, though, the occasion
will come when we shall have to call for
it back again. [Laughter]
Secondly, I'd like to echo what Presi-
dent Giscard said about the nature of the
17
