Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
our children inherit will be even stronger
and even better than it is today.
We cannot resort to simplistic or ex-
treme solutions which substitute myths
for common sense.
In our economy, it is a myth that we
must choose endlessly between inflation
and recession. Together, we build the
foundation for a strong economy, with
lower inflation, without contriving either
a recession with its high unemployment
or unworkable, mandatory government
controls.
In our government, it is a myth that
we must choose between compassion and
competence. Together, we build the foun-
dation for a government that works—and
works for people.
In our relations with our potential ad-
versaries, it is a myth that we must choose
that there is a more powerful force than
government compulsion-the force
created by the cooperative efforts of mil-
lions of Americans working toward a com-
mon goal.
Business and labor have been increas-
ingly supportive. It's imperative that we
in government do our part. We must stop
excessive government growth, and we
must control government spending habits.
I've sent to this Congress a stringent
but a fair budget, one that, since I ran
for President in 1976, will have cut the
Federal deficit in half. And as a percent-
age of our gross national product, the
deficit will have dropped by almost 75
percent.
This Congress had a good record last
year, and I now ask the 96th Congress to
continue this partnership in holding the
between confrontation and capitulation. line on excess Federal spending. It will
Together, we build the foundation for a
stable world of both diversity and peace.
Together, we've already begun to build
the foundation for confidence in our eco-
nomic system. During the last 2 years, in
bringing our economy out of the deepest
recession since the 1930's, we've created
7,100,000 new jobs. The unemployment
rate has gone down 25 percent. And now
we must redouble our fight against the
persistent inflation that has wracked our
country for more than a decade. That's
our important domestic issue, and we
must do it together.
We know that inflation is a burden for
all Americans, but it's a disaster for the
poor, the sick, and the old. No American
family should be forced to choose among
food, warmth, health care, or decent hous-
ing because the cost of any of these basic
necessities has climbed out of reach.
Three months ago, I outlined to the
Nation a balanced anti-inflation program
that couples responsible government re-
straint with responsible wage and price
restraint. It's based upon my knowledge
not be easy. But we must be strong, and
we must be persistent.
This budget is a clear message that,
with the help of you and the American
people, I am determined, as President, to
bring inflation under control.
The 1980 budget provides enough
flation, but enough support for our coun-
spending restraint to begin unwinding in-
try to keep American workers productive
and to encourage the investments that
provide new jobs. We will continue to mo-
bilize our Nation's resources to reduce our
trade deficit substantially this year and to
maintain the strength of the American
dollar.
We've demonstrated in this restrained
budget that we can build on the gains of
the past 2 years to provide additional sup-
port to educate disadvantaged children,
to care for the elderly, to provide nutri-
tion and legal services for the poor, and
to strengthen the economic base of our
urban communities and, also, our rural
areas.
This year, we will take our first steps to
develop a national health plan.
104
