May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Members of the House, as you well know,
finally put some integrity in the quality
of farm products, particularly grain we
sell overseas.
Net farm income in the short 2 years-
net farm income has gone up 40 percent,
and exports every year hit a new record.
We've now provided an opportunity for
farmers to control their own harvest until
it's ultimately sold with increased farm
storage.
These are the kinds of things that
I could spend a long time talking about
that ought to be emphasized. And if any-
body criticizes the Democratic Party, the
Members of Congress, my administration,
for the courageous action that we've tried
to take, just ask them to think back 3
years
and compare their life then and their life
now. We obviously still have problems in
our country but we are not afraid to face
them.
I'd like to say this in closing: I've got
a little time set aside, and I've already ex-
pressed my thanks to you for what you
mean to me personally, and to our coun-
try, from this podium. But I don't like to
approach Iowa people on opposite sides of
a velvet rope. So, I would like to ask you,
if you don't mind, to come by one at a
time and let me shake your hand and
thank you personally and pledge my com-
plete, dedicated service to make you proud
of our Nation. And if you don't mind, I'd
like to get an individual photograph with
you as well. Okay?
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. in
Monterey Rooms 3 and 4 at the Des Moines
Hyatt House.
Undocumented Aliens
Letter to State Governors. May 4, 1979
During my visit to Mexico City in mid-
February, I had a frank and useful dis-
cussion with President López Portillo on
the complex issue of border law violations
and particularly the problem of undoc-
umented workers. We agreed to cooperate
closely to explore the question in the con-
text of the social and economic problems
involved a solution that also respects the
dignity and human rights of those con-
cerned. One aspect of this question, the
treatment of undocumented workers in
the United States, has been of particular
concern to me and to President López
Portillo.
As I stated in Mexico, it is my respon-
sibility to enforce our immigration laws.
Those individuals who violate the law will
be dealt with as the law prescribes. But
it is also our responsibility to deal fairly
and humanely with any persons accused
of being undocumented workers.
For some time we have been making a
special effort at the Federal level to en-
sure their fair treatment under the law.
The Immigration and Naturalization
Service has steadily improved the condi-
tions under which undocumented work-
ers are temporarily confined and has
adopted a number of measures to prevent
mistreatment and to allow apprehended
aliens time to settle their affairs before
departure. The Department of Labor is
making a special effort in those areas be-
lieved to have a sizeable presence of un-
documented workers to enforce wage,
hour, safety and health standards and to
assure that workers who are apprehended
and removed from the country receive all
wages due them.
Since many of the problems that un-
documented aliens experience are under
state and local jurisdiction, I ask that you
give these concerns your close personal
interest. I, in turn, would welcome your
suggestions of areas you might suggest
in which further Federal action would be
useful.
806
