Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 23
ing world through our opposition to rac-
ism, our commitment to human rights,
and our support for majority rule in
Africa.
The multilateral trade negotiations are
now reaching a successful conclusion, and
congressional approval is essential to the
economic well-being of our own country
and of the world. This will be one of our
top priorities in 1979.
We are entering a hopeful era in our
relations with one-fourth of the world's
people who live in China. The presence
of Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping next
week will help to inaugurate that new
era. And with prompt congressional ac-
tion on authorizing legislation, we will
continue our commitment to a prosper-
ous, peaceful, and secure life for the peo-
ple of Taiwan.
I'm grateful that in the past year, as in
the year before, no American has died in
combat anywhere in the world. And in
Iran, Nicaragua, Cyprus, Namibia, and
Rhodesia, our country is working for
peaceful solutions to dangerous conflicts.
In the Middle East, under the most dif-
ficult circumstances, we have sought to
help ancient enemies lay aside deep-
seated differences that have produced
four bitter wars in our lifetime.
Our firm commitment to Israel's sur-
vival and security is rooted in our deepest
convictions and in our knowledge of the
strategic importance to our own Nation
of a stable Middle East. To promote
peace and reconciliation in the region, we
must retain the trust and the confidence
both of Israel and also of the Arab nations
that are sincerely searching for peace.
I am determined, as President, to use
the full, beneficial influence of our coun-
try so that the precious opportunity for
lasting peace between Israel and Egypt
will not be lost.
The new foundation of international
cooperation that we seek excludes no na-
tion. Cooperation with the Soviet Union
serves the cause of peace, for in this nu-
clear age, world peace must include peace
between the super powers-and it must
mean the control of nuclear arms.
Ten years ago, the United States and
the Soviet Union made the historic deci-
sion to open the strategic arms limitations
talks, or SALT. The purpose of SALT,
then as now, is not to gain a unilateral
advanage for either nation, but to protect
the security of both nations, to reverse the
costly and dangerous momentum of the
nuclear arms race, to preserve a stable
balance of nuclear forces, and to demon-
strate to a concerned world that we are
determined to help preserve the peace.
The first SALT agreement was con-
cluded in 1972. And since then, during 6
years of negotiation by both Republican
and Democratic leaders, nearly all issues
of SALT II have been resolved. If the
Soviet Union continues to negotiate in
good faith, a responsible SALT agree-
ment will be reached.
It's important that the American peo-
ple understand the nature of the SALT
process.
SALT II is not based on sentiment;
it's based on self-interest-of the United
States and of the Soviet Union. Both na-
tions share a powerful common interest
in reducing the threat of a nuclear war.
I will sign no agreement which does not
enhance our national security.
SALT II does not rely on trust; it will
be verifiable. We have very sophisticated,
proven means, including our satellites, to
determine for ourselves whether or not
the Soviet Union is meeting its treaty
obligations. I will sign no agreement
which cannot be verified.
The American nuclear deterrent will
remain strong after SALT II. For exam-
ple, just one of our relatively invulner-
107
