Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
This notation is in accordance with similar
procedures established at Camp David.
Dear Mr. President:
March 26, 1979
In response to your request, I can con-
firm that, within one month after the
completion of Israel's withdrawal to the
interim line as provided for in the Treaty
of Peace between Egypt and Israel, Egypt
will send a resident ambassador to Israel
and will receive a resident Israeli ambas-
sador in Egypt.
Sincerely,
A. SADAT
[The President, The White House.]
March 26, 1979
Dear Mr. Prime Minister:
I have received a letter from President
Sadat that, within one month after Israel
completes its withdrawal to the interim
line in Sinai, as provided for in the Treaty
of Peace between Egypt and Israel, Egypt
will send a resident ambassador to Israel
and will receive in Egypt a resident Is-
raeli ambassador.
I would be grateful if you will confirm
that this procedure will be agreeable to
the Government of Israel.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[His Excellency Menachem Begin, Prime
Minister of the State of Israel.]
Dear Mr. President:
March 26, 1979
I am pleased to be able to confirm that
the Government of Israel is agreeable to
the procedure set out in your letter of
March 26, 1979 in which you state:
"I have received a letter from Presi-
dent Sadat that, within one month after
Israel completes its withdrawal to the
interim line in Sinai, as provided for in
the Treaty of Peace between Egypt and
Israel, Egypt will send a resident am-
bassador to Israel and will receive in
Egypt a resident Israeli ambassador."
Sincerely,
M. BEGIN
[The President, The White House.]
March 26, 1979
Dear Mr. President:
I wish to confirm to you that subject
to United States Constitutional processes:
In the event of an actual or threatened
violation of the Treaty of Peace between
Egypt and Israel, the United States will,
on request of one or both of the Parties,
consult with the Parties with respect
thereto and will take such other action
as it may deem appropriate and helpful
to achieve compliance with the Treaty.
The United States will conduct aerial
monitoring as requested by the Parties
pursuant to Annex I of the Treaty.
The United States believes the Treaty
provision for permanent stationing of
United Nations personnel in the desig-
nated limited force zone can and should
be implemented by the United Nations
Security Council. The United States will
exert its utmost efforts to obtain the req-
uisite action by the Security Council. If
the Security Council fails to establish and
maintain the arrangements called for in
the Treaty, the President will be prepared
to take those steps necessary to ensure the
516
