Apr. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
OLIN C. ROBISON, president of Middlebury
College, Middlebury, Vt., and a former Re-
gional Director for the Peace Corps (on
confirmation, he would be designated Chair-
man of the Commission);
NEIL C. SHERBURNE, secretary-treasurer of the
AFL-CIO Minnesota Federation of Labor
until his retirement in 1978, a member of
the board of regents of the University of
Minnesota, and active in civic affairs;
LEONARD L. SILVERSTEIN, a Washington attor-
ney, vice president and director of the Na-
tional Symphony, and a trustee of the
Corcoran Gallery of Art;
MAE SUE TALLEY, of Scottsdale, Ariz., former
president of the Castle Hot Springs Corp.,
former publisher and editor of the Arizonian
newspaper, and active in civic affairs and
support of the arts.
United States Naval Academy
Board of Visitors
Appointment of Two Members.
April 27, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of two persons as members of
the Board of Visitors to the United States
Naval Academy for terms expiring De-
cember 30, 1981. They are:
PASTORA SAN JUAN CAFFERTY, of Chicago, an
associate professor in the School of Social
Service Administration and the Committee
on Public Policy Studies at the University
of Chicago;
WALTER J. LEONARD, of Nashville, Tenn., pres-
ident of Fisk University.
Clinch River Breeder Reactor
Statement on Action by the House Science
and Technology Committee. April 27, 1979
Thursday's House Science and Technol-
ogy Committee's vote to proceed with
construction of the liquid metal fast breed-
er nuclear reactor at Clinch River was a
significant setback to a rational and re-
sponsible nuclear energy policy. In spite
of forceful leadership by the committee's
chairman, Don Fuqua, the members of
the committee voted to force continua-
tion of spending at a rate of $15 million
per month, or more, for this unneeded
project.
The Clinch River breeder reactor is
technically unsound. It is a waste of more
than 12 billion of our taxpayers' dollars.
It is inconsistent with our nonproliferation
policy.
During a time when our attention
should be riveted on improving the safety
and operation procedures of the light
water reactor technology which we now
use, the debate over the Clinch River
breeder reactor spurred on by special in-
terests has diverted our time and resources
toward a new and unnecessary plutonium
technology. I have proposed an orderly
and scientifically sound breeder research
and development program which will
make this technology available to us if and
when it is needed.
Now we do not need the Clinch River
breeder reactor, which was originally un-
dertaken as a crash program to commer-
cialize plutonium breeder reactors. Corn-
ers were cut, and designs have been locked
into place without the benefit of the sci-
entific improvements which research con-
tinues to make available.
We have plenty of time to develop a
safe, efficient, technically sound, and pro-
liferation-resistant breeder design. We
have an immediate need to make needed
assessments of and improve the safety of
our current nuclear technology, which the
Three Mile Island accident shows are so
vitally needed. We do not need to decide
now to build a plant based on a wholly
new technology about which far less is
known than the nuclear reactors we now
use.
I want to repeat my longstanding and
consistent request to the Congress to deny
730
