June 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
So, we're going to tax the oil companies
very heavily they can keep 29 cents out
of every dollar—with a windfall profits
tax. The windfall profits tax will go into
an energy security fund. That fund will
grow year by year because of increase in
OPEC prices and because of increase in
prices on domestic oil because of its
shortage.
That energy reserve fund, or security
fund, will be used to alleviate the heavy
burden on the poor families of our coun-
try, to improve mass transit, which we
need, and to provide a reservoir of money
for research and development to develop
other sources of energy-solar power, geo-
thermal, gasification, liquefaction of coal.
The essence of it is this: If the Amer-
ican people will work together and accept
the fact that we do have too much de-
mand for limited supplies of energy, our
country is strong enough to resolve the
problem. We have the capability to re-
solve the problem. But we've got to face it
frankly, and we've got to work together.
MR. DANCY. But people are skeptical
about this. And one reason seems to be
that the crisis appears and disappears mys-
teriously. One week there's a gasoline
shortage in California. The Governor of
California comes here and talks to you,
and you say that, "Well, the situation is
going to get better." And the next day
Jody Powell says, "Well, it's not going to
get
all that much better." How can people
know what to believe?
THE PRESIDENT. Sometimes people
don't want to face an unpleasant fact.
That's a characteristic of my own, and it's
a characteristic of the American people
as well.
May was a very bad month. In the lat-
ter part of last month, May, we did have
an increase in imports of oil. The Cali-
fornia people helped a great deal, because
they recognized the problem. Perhaps at
first they overreacted to it, but eventually
they began to use more rapid transit, they
began to share automobiles, they began to
observe the 55-mile-per-hour speed limit.
The odd-even days imposed by Governor
Brown helped to some degree, and the
problem was partially alleviated.
The problem is not going away. Even
at the best of circumstances in June or
July, we are still going to have less gaso-
line available in California than they had
a year ago. So, it won't be good. It will be
better than it was in May.
MR. DANCY. Mr. President, the poll
also shows that 55 percent of the people
don't believe that you or the Congress are
doing a good job of managing this gaso-
line shortage. How do you restore, you
and the Congress, restore some faith in
your leadership?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a hard question
to answer. I don't claim that the Govern-
ment has done a good job with the energy
problem; it hasn't. I would say last year,
the Congress passed about 65 percent of
the legislation that I had put forward 2
years ago on energy. We have not yet had
the political courage or ability to deal with
oil. We're not only the world's greatest
consumer and waster of oil, we're also one
of the world's largest producers of oil, and
the oil lobby is extremely powerful in
Washington. And it's been difficult to deal
with this subject.
If the people ever get aroused enough
to demand action, there's no doubt in my
mind that the Congress will act. I think
we have an excellent chance now to get
the windfall profits tax passed, which will
discourage waste, encourage production
in America, and set up a reserve fund to
explore other sources of energy. If this is
done, it'll be a major step forward. And I
think under those circumstances, the peo-
ple will begin to see that the Government
is doing its best.
986
