Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 5
(iii) ensure appropriate reflection of:
(1) diplomatic factors;
(2) international commercial, compet-
itive and export promotion factors;
(3) needs for governmental or com-
mercial confidentiality;
(4) national security considerations;
(5) difficulties of obtaining informa-
tion and agency ability to analyze mean-
ingfully environmental effects of a pro-
posed action; and
(6) the degree to which the agency is
involved in or able to affect a decision to
be made.
(c) Agency procedures under Section
2-1 may provide for categorical exclu-
sions and for such exemptions in addition
to those specified in subsection (a) of this
Section as may be necessary to meet
emergency circumstances, situations in-
volving exceptional foreign policy and
national security sensitivities and other
such special circumstances. In utilizing
such additional exemptions agencies shall,
as soon as feasible, consult with the De-
partment of State and the Council on
Environmental Quality.
(d) The provisions of Section 2–5 do
not apply to actions described in Section
2-3 (a) unless permitted by law.
SEC. 3.
3-1. Rights of Action. This Order is
solely for the purpose of establishing in-
ternal procedures for Federal agencies to
consider the significant effects of their
actions on the environment outside the
United States, its territories and posses-
sions, and nothing in this Order shall be
construed to create a cause of action.
3-2. Foreign Relations. The Depart-
ment of State shall coordinate all com-
munications by agencies with foreign gov-
ernments concerning environmental
agreements and other arrangements in
implementation of this Order.
3-3. Multi-Agency Actions. Where
more than one Federal agency is involved
in an action or program, a lead agency,
as determined by the agencies involved,
shall have responsibility for implementa-
tion of this Order.
3-4. Certain Terms. For purposes of
this Order, "environment" means the nat-
ural and physical environment and ex-
cludes social, economic and other envi-
ronments; and an action significantly
affects the environment if it does signifi-
cant harm to the environment even
though on balance the agency believes the
action to be beneficial to the environ-
ment. The term "export approvals" in
Section 2-5 (a) (v) does not mean or in-
clude direct loans to finance exports.
3-5. Multiple Impacts. If a major Fed-
eral action having effects on the environ-
ment of the United States or the global
commons requires preparation of an en-
vironmental impact statement, and if the
action also has effects on the environment
of a foreign nation, an environmental im-
pact statement need not be prepared with
respect to the effects on the environment
of the foreign nation.
The White House,
January 4, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:38 p.m., January 5, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was re-
leased on January 5.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
13
