Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 5
summer. As soon as I get that authority,
I will use it.
Steps will be taken to eliminate free
parking for Government employees in or-
der to reduce the waste of energy, partic-
ularly gasoline, in commuting to and from
work.
We will use tax credits to encourage
the use of wood-burning stoves.
I'm asking all citizens to honor, and
all States to enforce, the 55-mile-per-hour
speed limit. This is one of the most ef-
fective ways to save fuel.
I will set targets for our 50 States to
reduce gasoline consumption and ask each
State to meet its target. The timetable
will be strict. If States fail to meet their
targets when gasoline shortages exist, then
I will order mandatory steps to achieve
the needed savings, including the week-
end closing of service stations.
If these savings are not made, we will
almost certainly have gasoline shortages
as early as this summer.
In addition, I ask each of you to take
an important action on behalf of our
Nation. I ask you to drive 15 miles a week
fewer than you do now. One way to do
this is not to drive your own car to work
every day. At least once a week take the
bus, go by carpool or, if you work close
enough to home, walk.
This action can make a significant dif-
ference for our country. For each day
that we do this, we can save hundreds of
thousands of barrels of oil. This will help
to hold down the prices of fuel, and you
obviously will save money you otherwise
would have spent on gasoline.
As needed, on a temporary basis, I may
extend certain environmental deadlines
and make regulatory changes to help
avoid serious shortages of gasoline.
Unless utilities do so voluntarily, they
may be ordered to run non-oil-burning
generating plants at full capacity and then
to transmit the extra power to areas where
oil burners can be phased out.
So far, I have spoken about producing
more energy and conserving more energy.
Now, in the next few minutes, I would
like to talk about the third and the most
promising part of our battle for energy
security-shifting to
abundant
sources of energy by the development and
the use of American technology.
We're already investing some $3½ bil-
lion each year to develop the new energy
supplies we will need for the future. But
we must step up this effort. Just as we
harnessed American dedication and
brainpower to put men on the Moon, we
will make the same kind of massive, pur-
poseful effort to achieve the goal of na-
tional energy security through technology.
We must begin now so that we can regain
control over our energy future.
That's why the energy security fund-
with the tax on windfall oil profits that
will pay for it is so vitally important.
That's why every vote in Congress for
this tax and for this fund will be a vote
for America's future, and every vote
against it will be a vote for excessive oil
company profits and for reliance on the
whims of the foreign oil cartel.
The energy security fund will let us
pursue a sound strategy of energy research
and development.
In years to come, we can then design
automobiles, buildings, appliances, and
engines that serve us better and use less
energy.
We can improve mass transit and make
our entire transportation system cleaner,
faster, and more efficient. We can broaden
the use of our huge coal deposits by turn-
ing coal into clean gas, liquid, and solid
fuels.
We can learn how to use our immense
reserves of oil shale.
613
