Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 7
He was in Wausau on a fishing trip.
And when he spent all weekend fishing
north of Wausau, he came back and had
a two-word press conference. They came
up and asked him, "How do you like the
fishing in Wisconsin?" And he thought for
a while and he said, "Prefer Maine."
[Laughter]
Well, my feelings toward Virginia are
quite different from Calvin Coolidge's
toward Wisconsin.
This last decade or more has been an
era of dissension and disappointment for
Democrats of Virginia. There have been
too many agonizingly close defeats. In
1973, I came here to campaign twice-
all one weekend, and another time while
I was Governor of Georgia, for Henry
Howell. And he lost by seven-tenths of
one percentage point. In 1976, another
campaign in which I participated, along
with Fritz Mondale, we lost by about
20,000 votes out of 1.6 million cast. And,
as you know, last year Andy Miller lost
a heartbreaking election by only, I think,
4,800 votes out of 1.4 million.
So, we have had some serious setbacks,
very close campaigns lost, and the candi-
dates have obviously been disappointed.
So have I. But Virginia has suffered in
the past; in the future, it will be quite
different. I think it's sobering to think that
in a State which is the birthplace of the
Democratic Party, this is the only State in
the Nation which, since 1966, has not
elected a Democratic Governor or
Democratic United States Senator and
has not cast an electoral vote for a Demo-
cratic candidate for President. But that's
all behind us now.
You won the Lieutenant Governor's
race with Chuck Robb, and there is no
one in this room who thinks that Chuck
Robb's career in politics will stop with
Lieutenant Governor. And other great
Virginia Democratic candidates will join
him for future victories. I think the fu-
ture of the Democratic Party in Virginia
is bright indeed.
Tonight, all segments of the party are
here. And when I looked down at the list
of notable Democrats who are attending,
my heart was warmed indeed. I wish I
could claim credit for the great turnout,
but I know the real drawing card is
Speaker John Warren Cooke. It's an hon-
or for me to be here with him. He is
famous in Virginia, but he's famous all
over the country as well. As you know, he
was honored as the National Legislator
of the Year in 1975 for his long and out-
standing service, and he's honored again
by you tonight, and I'm honored to be
with him.
The next 22 years will be a time of
testing for the Virginia Democrats. You'll
have the opportunity to elect Democrats
to almost every State and local office. To-
day, you have the organization, the unity,
the spirit, the finances, and the determi-
nation to regain the rightful place of lead-
ership in the State where American dem-
ocracy was born. Virginians can win, and
the Democrats will win in Virginia. And
I'll be there helping you to win those
victories.
I feel a partnership with you, much
closer, perhaps, than many of you would
realize. It's of intense interest to me how
Virginia goes in future elections. And I've
been happy when you've won and heart-
broken when you've lost, in the last few
years, since I've gotten to know many of
you. We've shared common problems, and
we share a common future.
We have honored the ancient principles
of our party in victory and defeat. And I
think more and more, the Democratic
Party on the national level and the Demo-
cratic Party on the State and local level
631
