Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 24
religious services together, one of the last
things we do each day. And we never miss
under any circumstances. Since I was go-
ing to be gone tonight, we had our wor-
ship service before I left the White House
today about 3 o'clock. So, I do perform
my partial duties as a Christian. I still fall
far short of what God expects of me.
I don't predicate my support of the
ERA on scriptural references. I think if
one reads different parts of the Bible, you
can find a good argument either way. I
know that Paul felt very strongly that
there ought to be a sharp distinction be-
tween men and women, and women's role
ought to be minimal. But I have a feeling
that Christ meant for all of us to be
treated equally, and He demonstrated this
in many ways.
But I really don't think that it would
be possible for me to prove all the argu-
ments for or against ERA by reference to
the Bible. I look to the Bible as a source
for guidance and pray for God's guidance.
But that's about the best answer I can
give you on the ERA.
MEETING WITH ELK CITY FARMERS
Q. Good evening, Mr. President. I'm
Pat Walker. And since this is an agricul-
tural area to which you have returned,
and we are primarily a farming commu-
nity here, would it be possible for you to
meet with our Elk City farmers—not a
radical agriculture committee from out of
State, but with our hard-working young
farmers in this area?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll try to. I don't
know when I'll have time to do it, but I
would like very much to. Do
you think
that a group of them could come to
Washington to see me?
Q. I think so, sir. If they had a
special invitation, I'm sure they would.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I extend to a group of
Elk City young farmers an invitation to
come and visit me at the White House. I
will be glad to listen to them. And I also
would not object at all to their bringing
along some of the so-called radical farm-
ers. [Laughter]
I have no objection to their expressing
their beliefs and their desires. I have
recognized many years of my own life,
when I was a full-time farmer, the need
for the farmers' voice to be heard. And I
look forward to having them come, and
you can contact me directly at the White
House for arranging the time for the visit.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to ask one of
my staff members to-it might be better
for us to contact you, because I get about
an average of more than 50,000 [5,000] ¹
letters every week, and I would certainly
hate to see your letter, Ms. Walker, get
lost. So, Keech,² if one of you would con-
tact Ms. Walker and get the address. We'll
contact you, okay?
CORPORATE PROFITS
Q. Noel Patten from Viola, Kansas. It
is indeed a pleasure to be here tonight. I
would like to extend to you a personal
greeting from the Wheat State.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Q. Mr. President, recently it was an-
nounced that there was a 26.4-percent in-
crease in corporate profits over last year.
Is the Government really going to be able
to control business in its fight against in-
flation?
THE PRESIDENT. It's hard to say. As
you know, the profits fluctuate so wildly
from one quarter to another or one month
¹ Printed in the transcript.
2 Keech LeGrand, White House staff advance
person.
473
