Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 16
a report to the Congress on progress
toward meeting these goals.
As I indicated on September 26, 1978,
in my Statement on Export Policy, this
Administration attaches high priority to
increasing American exports. The Export-
Import Bank plays a very significant role
in that effort. Accordingly, this Adminis-
tration has sought to make the Bank's fi-
nancing more competitive with the official
export financing provided by other gov-
ernments and, at the same time, to im-
prove the International Arrangement on
Export Credits so as to avoid costly and
self-defeating export credit competition
between sovereign governments.
I directed the Secretary of the Treas-
ury to undertake the appropriate negotia-
tions. In fact, Secretary Blumenthal had
already alerted foreign governments to the
need for a broadened and strengthened
International Arrangement at the OECD
Ministerial Meeting in June 1978 and the
issue was again raised at the meeting
which prepared the agenda for the Bonn
Summit. In September 1978, Secretary
Blumenthal emphasized to the Finance
Ministers of our major trading partners
the importance of substantive improve-
ments in the International Arrangement
on Export Credits. He presented detailed
proposals designed to bring the financing
terms set forth in the Arrangement closer
to worldwide commercial practices and to
broaden the Arrangement to cover sectors
presently excluded from coverage.
Briefly, these proposals called for in-
creases ranging from 1/2 to 3/4 of one per-
cent in the minimum interest rates called
for by the Arrangement, the elimination
of local cost support by export credit
agencies, and greater restraint in the use
of highly concessional mixed credits. In
addition, maximum repayment terms and
minimum interest rates were proposed for
aircraft, nuclear power plants and liqui-
fied natural gas (LNG) tankers, sectors
presently excluded from the Arrange-
ment. Similarly, a proposal was made to
have the Arrangement cover credits for
agricultural commodities in excess of
three years but not more than ten years.
Additional possibilities for improving the
Arrangement emerged during the subse-
quent discussions.
These proposals were presented to the
twenty-two countries participating in the
International Arrangement on Export
Credits for consideration at their October
1978 meeting. At our urging, these coun-
tries agreed to establish a working group
to consider improvements in the Arrange-
ment. The working group met in Decem-
ber 1978 and in January 1979. In addi-
tion, representatives of the U.S. Govern-
ment discussed these proposals at length
in bilateral meetings with other govern-
ments.
Although the substance of our proposals
appeared to constitute a basis for nego-
tiation, the required unanimity for the
changes we sought in the Arrangement
was lacking. As a result, no agreement re-
garding modifications in the Arrange-
ment acceptable to the U.S. Government
could be reached.
I have therefore reluctantly concluded
that further negotiations would not be
productive at this time. If the countries
which have opposed the improvements
we have suggested evidence their willing-
ness to be more forthcoming, I would be
prepared to resume negotiations at any
time.
For the present, however, the lack of
progress requires us to reexamine our own
efforts to assure that we remain competi-
tive in the export credit field. Our exami-
nation may well indicate that we should
modify some of our own programs and
policies until such time as there is more
willingness among our trading partners to
impose the needed self-discipline on ex-
port credit practices.
439
