Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
United States-Mexico Treaty
on Extradition
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. March 22, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty of Extradi-
tion Between the United States of
America and the United Mexican States,
signed at Mexico City on May 4, 1978.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Treaty.
The Treaty is one of a series of modern
extradition treaties being negotiated by
the United States. It expands the list of
extraditable offenses to include narcotics
offenses, aircraft hijacking, bribery, and
obstruction of justice, as well as many
other offenses not now covered by our
existing Extradition Treaty with Mexico.
Upon entry into force, it will terminate
and supersede the existing Extradition
Treaty and Additional Conventions be-
tween the United States and Mexico.
This Treaty will make a significant con-
tribution to international cooperation in
law enforcement. I recommend that the
Senate give early and favorable consider-
ations to the Treaty and give its advice
and consent to ratification.
The White House,
March 22, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Select Commission on
the Select Commission on Immigration
and Refugee Policy. They are:
Reubin Askew, who was Governor of
Florida from 1971 to 1979, and is now
practicing law in Miami. Askew was a
Florida State representative and State
senator prior to his election as Governor.
He has also been designated Chairman
of this Commission.
Rose Matsui Ochi, executive assistant
to Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley and
director of criminal justice planning for
the city of Los Angeles. Ochi was previ-
ously a staff attorney for the Western
Center on Law and Poverty.
Joaquin Francisco Otero, international
vice president of the Brotherhood of Rail-
way and Airline Clerks. Otero, of Spring-
field, Va., was born in Cuba in 1934 and
emigrated to the United States in 1954. He
became a naturalized citizen in 1960.
Otero has worked actively with the AFL-
CIO/COPE in creation of a Labor Coun-
cil for Latin American Advancement.
Cruz Reynoso, associate justice of the
Third Appellate District in Sacramento,
Calif. Reynoso has taught law at the
University of California and the Univer-
sity of New Mexico and has served as di-
rector of California Rural Legal Assist-
ance.
The Commission also includes:
-the Secretary of State, the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Labor, and the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, ex officio;
-four members of the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee, appointed by the Presi-
dent pro tem of the Senate. Those ap-
Immigration and Refugee Policy pointed, who were announced in the Sen-
Appointment of the Four Public Members.
March 22, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of the four public members of
ate on March 19, are Senators Kennedy,
DeConcini, Mathias, and Simpson;
-four members of the House Judiciary
Committee, appointed by the Speaker of
the House. Those appointed, who were
450
