Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
National Science Board
Nomination of Michael Kasha To Be a
Member. January 30, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Michael Kasha, of Tal-
lahassee, Fla., to be a member of the
National Science Board for a term expir-
ing May 10, 1984.
Libraries and Information Science. They
are:
Francis Keppel, of Cambridge, Mass.,
director of the Aspen Institute program
in education for a changing society and a
senior lecturer at the Harvard Graduate
School of Education. Keppel is a former
dean of the Harvard Graduate School of
Education and has also served as Assistant
fare for Education.
Kasha, 58, is director of the Institute Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
of Molecular Biophysics and professor of
physical chemistry at Florida State Uni-
versity in Tallahassee.
Patent and Trademark Office
Nomination of Sidney A. Diamond To Be an
Assistant Commissioner. January 30, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Sidney A. Diamond, of
Tucson, Ariz., to be an Assistant Commis-
sioner of Patents and Trademarks.
Diamond, 64, is an attorney and is
presently counsel to a New York law firm.
He is an expert on patent and copyright
law and has served as chairman of the
American Bar Association's section of
patent, trademark, and copyright law. He
is vice president of the International
Patent and Trademark Association and
the author of numerous articles on trade-
mark and patent law in legal and other
periodicals.
National Commission on
Libraries and Information Science
Nomination of Three Members.
January 30, 1979
The President today announced three
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Commission on
Bessie B. Moore, of Little Rock, Ark.,
executive director of the Arkansas State
Council on Economic Education. Moore
has been a classroom teacher, a county
and State supervisor of schools, and State
coordinator of environmental education
for the Arkansas Department of Educa-
tion.
Philip A. Sprague, of Michigan City,
Ind., a consultant to and member of the
executive committee of Milton Roy Co.,
former director of the Foundation for
Instrumentation Education and Research,
active in community affairs in Michigan
City.
National Inventors' Day, 1979
Proclamation 4635. January 30, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The founding fathers in Section 8 of
Article I of our Constitution provided
that the Congress shall have the power to
promote the progress of the useful arts by
securing for a limited time to inventors
the exclusive right to their discoveries.
The first Congress, pursuant to that
Constitutional provision, enacted legisla-
tion providing inventors with such a right.
That legislation became the first United
196
