Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 11
your family have any plans to do likewise?
And if so, could you elaborate on that a
little bit, please?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we comply with
the thermostat settings and have ever
since the first time I began to work on that
in 1977. We've shifted, as you know, the
White House fleet of cars to smaller and
more efficient automobiles. Our travel is
pretty much official, except for rare va-
cations, which we hope to take on Easter.
I hope we can set an example for the
rest of the Nation. We have just begun.
the construction of a solar heating unit
on top of the West Wing, just behind the
Oval Office, this month, which will be
completed before the end of April.
So, we are trying to do a few personal
things to demonstrate our belief in the
principles that I described the other night.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-seventh news
conference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broadcast
live on radio and television.
Labor Dispute in the
Trucking Industry
Statement by the President. April 11, 1979
Last night, all the outstanding issues in
the labor dispute between the Teamsters
and the trucking industry were settled. I
welcome this news for three important
reasons. First, normal operations in the
trucking industry will be resumed very
quickly. Second, the settlement is within
the administration's voluntary pay stand-
ard. Third, the increase in wages and cost
of fringe benefits under the new contract
will be substantially less than in the pre-
vious contract that was negotiated 3 years
ago.
I commend the parties for the responsi-
bility they have shown in making a very
important contribution to controlling
inflation.
NOTE: Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the Presi-
dent on Inflation, read the statement on the
President's behalf at approximately 11:40 a.m.
to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
President's Commission on the
Accident at Three Mile Island
Remarks Announcing Establishment of the
Commission. April 11, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. In my address to the
Nation last week, I announced that I
would appoint a Presidential commission
to investigate the nuclear accident at
Three Mile Island. It's essential that we
learn the causes of this accident and make
sure that the safety of our own citizens is
never again endangered in this way.
I'm pleased to announce today that I
have signed the Executive order creating
the Presidential commission, and I have
appointed 11 distinguished Americans to
serve on it.
I have just met with the Commission's
Chairman, Dr. John Kemeny, who is
president of Dartmouth College and who
possesses one of the most brilliant and in-
cisive minds in this country. He has de-
voted his life to analyzing and to solving
some of the most difficult, technical prob-
lems of our generation.
His skills and his background, widely
recognized, ideally qualify him for the
complicated task of determining the truth
behind the accident at Three Mile Island.
I have no doubt that Dr. Kemeny will
succeed completely in this effort.
657
