Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the road to their solution. But this does
point a finger in the right direction.
From you
and your associates, Mr.
President, we have received great under-
standing as regards what troubles us. We
have agreed that human rights are of
fundamental importance. And we have
expressed our will to decide all the mat-
ters that were included in our very broad
agenda. And I believe that a very good
way to begin is to express our will to do
so, to commit our intelligence and our
good faith. And I believe that this is what
we have been able to do during our meet-
ings, commit our intelligence and our
good faith.
This is what I have understood this
fruitful dialog to mean, a dialog which
we have agreed to continue within a very
short time.
Until that time comes, Mr. President,
until our associates are able to clear the
way, let
let us,
Mr. President, keep alive our
willingness to live in freedom and, with-
out losing this freedom, resolve the very
serious problems of international coexist-
ence.
There is no other way but to respect
values. For that great purpose, Mr. Presi-
dent, for the effort that you are making
in
your willingness to have human rights
prevail in the world, for your expressed
will to decide problems which are so diffi-
cult between two countries such as ours,
for the merit it means to be fair when you
are strong, I wish to raise my glass and
offer a toast to your health, to the health
of
your wife, and to the great people of
the United States.
Thank you.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 12 midnight
at the U.S. Ambassador's residence. President
López Portillo spoke in Spanish, and his re-
marks were translated by an interpreter.
Earlier in the evening, President Carter and
President López Portillo attended a perform-
ance of the Philharmonic Orchestra of Mexico
City at the Teatro de la Ciudad.
Mexico City, Mexico
Remarks Before the Mexican Congress.
February 16, 1979
Mr. President and distinguished Members
of the Congress of Mexico:
As President of the fourth largest Span-
ish-speaking nation, I speak to you-as
best I can in the language of Mexico,
the largest Spanish-speaking nation on
Earth.
Nearly a decade ago, the great Mexican
poet Octavio Paz wrote these words about
the United States, and I quote:
"For more than a century that country
has appeared to our eyes as a gigantic but
scarcely human reality. Smiling or angry,
its hand clenched or open, the United
States neither sees nor hears us, but keeps
striding on, and as it does so, enters our
land and crushes us. It is impossible to
hold back a giant. It is possible, though
far from easy, to make him listen to
others. If he listens, this opens the possi-
bility of coexistence."
My friends, I have come to Mexico to
listen.
This is a time to appreciate the mutual
benefits of our historical friendship as
neighbors. But it is also a time of exciting
changes within our two countries and in
our relationship with each other.
I have come here better to comprehend
these changes and to gain a greater
understanding of your views.
In the last 3 days, I have spent many
hours with your President, José López
Portillo. Together, we are working to
shape a lasting relationship that is based
on balance and equality, based on mutual
respect for sovereignty and independence,
and a mutual recognition of our shared
destinies.
The relations between our two countries
are extremely complex. To quote Octavio
Paz once more: "What separates us is the
284
