Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
There are many elements to this strategy.
We are emphasizing research on reproduc-
tive biology and the underlying mech-
anisms of normal development and of
disease. This work exploits the modern
techniques of molecular biology, the neu-
rosciences, behavioral sciences, and
gene-
tics. We are increasing laboratory, clini-
cal, and epidemiological research on the
role of nutrition in normal development,
good health, and disease. We are expand-
ing research and services to reduce un-
wanted pregnancy, smoking, and alcohol
and drug abuse among adolescents. We
are placing more cmphasis on the causes
of common disabling conditions such as
diabetes, arthritis, and neurological and
digestive diseases. And we are stressing
research on the biological and behavioral
aspects of mental illness, drug abuse, and
alcoholism to reflect the recommendations
of the Commission on Mental Health.
In spite of our desire for better health,
government spending alone will not en-
sure success. As we have learned from the
emphasis on cancer over the last decade,
advances depend on new discoveries
whose rate cannot be predicted. There-
fore, we must nurture a broadly-focused
program of research, with a clear, long-
term commitment. Accordingly, in view
of the substantial increases provided by
Congress last year above my requested in-
crease, I believe an effective biomedical
research effort can be maintained with-
out any further increase in 1980. This
pace for biomedical research is appropri-
ate; over the period of fiscal years 1979
and 1980, funding will increase at an aver-
age of twelve percent per year, thus main-
taining our vigorous national effort in
biomedical research. We have every rea-
son to be optimistic that health research
in the years ahead will save lives and im-
prove the quality of life for millions of
people.
IMPROVING THE REGULATORY PROCESS
Over the past 15 years our Nation has
established or improved programs dealing
with air and water pollution, toxic sub-
stances, noise, radiation, automotive safe-
ty and fuel economy, worker health and
safety, and numerous other hazards. My
Administration will continue to enforce
these important laws faithfully. But addi-
tional improvements are possible and de-
sirable. I am convinced that continued
investment in science and technology is
required to improve our regulatory pro-
grams. Environmental, health and safety
regulatory decisions must have a sound
scientific basis. Consequently I
strengthening the research and develop-
ment base in both regulatory and research
agencies. I have proposed an increase in
the Environmental Protection Agency's
health effects research program for Fiscal
Year 1980, with greater emphasis on long-
term research.
In addition, we have begun three inter-
agency activities that will improve regula-
tory decisions. The Regulatory Council,
which I established last fall to ensure that
regulations achieve their statutory goals
in the most economic and balanced way,
has prepared the Nation's first Regulatory
Calendar-an outlook of proposed reg-
ulatory activity. During the coming year,
I expect the Council to identify govern-
ment-wide scientific needs-programs, re-
sources, and policies—that will improve
the regulatory process. Second, the Inter-
agency Regulatory Liaison Group-com-
prised of the Environmental Protection
Agency, the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, and the Consumer Prod-
uct Safety Commission and Agriculture's
Food Safety and Quality Service-will
535
