Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 23
-In those states which have adopted
two-parent coverage, the family suddenly
loses all benefits when the family bread-
winner begins to work more than 100
hours a month. For a minimum wage
earner that is only $290 per month. Yet
a higher wage earner can earn more in 100
hours while retaining welfare benefits.
-A family which has been receiving
public assistance and then starts to work,
can continue receiving assistance even
though their earnings may be higher than
those of low-income families who are
working but have never been on public
assistance.
The present system is cumbersome and
needlessly difficult to administer. For
example:
-Recipients who work are required to
submit detailed lists of work-related ex-
penses-which must then be used to cal-
culate benefits. This is burdensome to the
recipient and the system, and invites errors
and fraud.
-The basic Federal welfare program
and the food stamp program currently
have different definitions of income and
assets, although the same state offices usu-
ally administer both programs, and al-
though welfare recipients are almost
always eligible for food stamps as well.
This new legislation makes a number
of important program simplifications and
adopts measures to reduce error and
abuse. Savings from reduced errors in the
first full year of implementation will be
about $300 million. This is in addition to
the Administration's present efforts in
child support enforcement and error re-
duction, which will yield savings of over
$800 million in the coming year.
The present system provides insuffi-
cient opportunities for families to move
off cash assistance and into productive
jobs. The great majority of family heads
receiving cash assistance want to work.
Most of the poor who are able to work do
in fact work, but usually in low paying
and sporadic jobs. In 1977, more than
three-fifths of the 3.8 million families with
children with incomes below the official
poverty line had either a part-time or a
full-time worker. Over a million of these
families were headed by women, most of
whom supplemented their meager earn-
ings with welfare. Yet, only one-fifth of
these working poor families had a worker
who was able to find a full-time, year-
round job. In addition, almost three mil-
lion other families with children live close
to the poverty line despite the efforts of
one or more family workers.
Even in a period of austerity and fiscal
stringency, our Nation cannot afford to
ignore its most pressing needs and its most
needy. We must do what we can as soon
as we can.
The legislation I am submitting today
will help to meet the most pressing prob-
lems of our welfare system in the follow-
ing ways:
• increase employment and training
opportunities. Those who are expected to
work will be required to do so if a suit-
able job is available. In addition, my pro-
posed new legislation will assure partici-
pation in a structured job search effort,
add resources for training and—for those
for whom a private job cannot be found-
seek to provide a public sector work op-
portunity. There will be over 620,000
work and training opportunities for wel-
fare eligibles including 400,000 newly
funded public service employment and
training slots. The program is structured
to assure that required work will always
pay more than welfare. Subsidized public
sector jobs will only be available to those
who have completed a rigorous search for
private work. Thus, individuals will have
substantial opportunity and incentive as
well as a requirement to move from wel-
939
