Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 22, 1979
Vienna Summit Meeting
Remarks of President Rudolph Kirchschläger
of Austria and President Carter at the
Welcoming Ceremony. June 14, 1979
PRESIDENT KIRCH SCHLÄGER. Mr. Presi-
dent of the United States of America, on
behalf of the people of Austria, I bid you,
Mr. President, your distinguished wife,
Mrs. Carter, and your distinguished party,
a very cordial welcome on Austrian soil.
We Austrians are delighted and pro-
foundly gratified at the fact that your
meeting with the Chairman of the Pre-
sidium of the Supreme Soviet of the
Soviet Union takes place in Vienna, the
capital of the Republic of Austria. We
hope sincerely that we will be able to offer
you for your encounter an environment
and an atmosphere which will facilitate
your highly responsible talks.
I am well aware of the fact that we
have no right and that we have no wish
to influence your deliberations. But, Mr.
President, let me add one more word to
this welcome, speaking not only as the
Federal President of the Republic of Aus-
tria but also as one of the about 4,000
million human beings in this world.
We hope and we wish and we trust
from the depth of our hearts that the
meeting between you, Mr. President, and
the Chairman of the Presidium of the
Supreme Soviet will lead not only to the
signing of SALT II but will also help to
develop the relations and the relations of
trust between the world powers and will
contribute towards the further process of
détente and thus towards a reduction of
armaments.
Mr. President, once again, a very cor-
dial welcome to you in Austria.
PRESIDENT CARTER. We are all de-
lighted to visit the beautiful and historic
city of Vienna. And on behalf of the
American people, I want to express my
appreciation to President Kirchschläger,
Chancellor Kreisky, and the Government
and the people of Austria for hosting this
summit meeting.
The good wishes expressed by your
President have been very important to
me and accurately express the purpose of
our meeting.
The United States and Austria are
united by strong bonds of friendship,
mutual respect, and shared devotion to
democratic ideals. The people of my
nation unequivocally support and appre-
ciate the freedom, the independence, and
the neutrality of Austria.
I've come to meet with President
Brezhnev on a mission of peace-to
strengthen and to enlarge cooperation
1047
