May 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in view of the confidence and friendship
you have expressed publicly for Mr.
Lance, I wonder if you could share with
us your reaction to the indictment and
your feeling about Mr. Lance at this time
as a person?
THE PRESIDENT. Bert Lance is still my
friend. I don't see any benefit to be de-
rived from my commenting on the actions
that are presently underway within the
legal system of our country.
in, is experiencing a shortage of motor
gasoline available for retail distribution,
such that the public health, safety, or wel-
fare is endangered, he may require motor
gasoline retail sales outlets in that State
or locality to:
(a) Supply with gasoline (including
gasohol) vehicles:
(1) which have a license plate number,
the last digit of which is an even number,
or where there are only letters on the
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press]. license plate, the last letter of which is a
Thank you, Mr. President.
letter in the first half of the alphabet (A-
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. Thank M), only on even days of the month;
you, everybody.
NOTE: President Carter's fiftieth news confer-
ence began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building. It was broadcast live
on radio and television.
Gasoline End-User Allocation
Executive Order 12140. May 29, 1979
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING
ΤΟ MOTOR GASOLINE END-USER
ALLOCATION
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and the statutes of the
United States of America, including the
Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of
1973, as amended (P.L. 93-159), and as
President of the United States of America,
notwithstanding the delegations to the
Secretary of Energy in Executive Order
11790 as amended by Executive Order
12038, it is hereby ordered:
SECTION 1-101. Each Governor is
hereby delegated the authority to establish
a system of end-user allocation for motor
gasoline, subject to the terms and condi-
tions as set forth below.
SEC. 1-102. When a Governor deter-
mines that his State, or any locality there-
(2) which have a license plate number,
the last digit of which is an odd number,
or where there are only letters on the
license plate, the last letter of which is a
letter in the last half of the alphabet (N-
Z), only on odd days of the month; and
(3) which have individually or as a
class been designated by the Governor of
that State as eligible to purchase gasoline
on any day in order to assure adequate
supplies for such vehicles to protect the
public health, safety, or welfare, or to as-
sure necessary governmental services (in-
cluding local, State and Federal).
(b) Require purchasers to purchase a
specified minimum amount of gasoline
(including gasohol), expressed in either
gallons, fractions of gas tanks, or dollars,
as determined by the Governor; and
(c) Supply gasoline at specified times
of day or on specified days, as determined
by the Governor to be necessary to reduce
the length of or prevent lines of pur-
chasers.
SEC. 1-103. A Governor may adopt
such additional rules or regulations not in-
consistent with Department of Energy
policies and regulations and subdelegate
this authority as he deems necessary to im-
plement and enforce the provisions of sec-
tion 1-102 above.
968
