Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The Commission's final Report and its
five volumes of supporting materials con-
stitute the most exhaustive compilation
of information on the subject of wire-
tapping and electronic surveillance ever
assembled. The record of the Commission
stands as an enduring monument to the
difficult and conscientious work of its dis-
tinguished members and dedicated staff.
While its conclusions may be subject to
differing degrees of public acceptance,
there can be no doubt that the Commis-
sion has rendered outstanding service to
the American public by its thorough and
sensitive exposition of the conflicting de-
mands of law enforcement and individual
privacy which inhere in the use of court-
authorized electronic eavesdropping.
The Commission's Report has reaf-
firmed my belief that the Federal Gov-
ernment has used this extraordinarily
effective investigative technique in the in-
vestigation of serious crimes in a highly
responsible and circumscribed manner,
and that so used, it has preserved and will
continue to preserve the delicate balance
that must be maintained between the
needs of law enforcement and the de-
mands of personal privacy.
The White House,
April 2, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty
Letter to Six Congressional Committee
Chairmen on Legislation To Implement
the Treaty. April 2, 1979
I am writing to you to urge your im-
mediate attention to the authorizing leg-
islation and the 1979 supplemental ap-
propriations request I will soon be trans-
mitting to implement the Peace Treaty
between Israel and Egypt. This supple-
mental request requires urgent enactment
prior to the likely consideration of other
pending supplementals in order to avoid
delays which could threaten timely imple-
mentation of the Treaty.
The legislation to be transmitted will
provide $4.8 billion in special financial
aid to the two countries over the next
three years. This will be in addition to on-
going regular programs of military and
economic assistance. Because much of the
military financing will take the form of
guaranteed loans, requiring only frac-
tional appropriations, budget authority
for the assistance package will be $1.47
billion. Estimated budget outlays over the
next four years will total $1.1 billion, with
$350 million occurring in 1979 and $315
million in 1980.
Within the $4.8 billion total for special
aid, I am proposing that $3 billion be
made available to Israel in two com-
ponents.
-The first provides $800 million in
grants to cover the direct costs of relocat-
ing two Israeli airbases now located on
territory to be returned to Egypt.
-The second provides $2.2 billion in
foreign military sales credit financing to
Israel. These funds will finance other
Israeli relocation costs and some upgrad-
ing of force structure consistent with the
new territorial arrangements.
For Egypt, I am also proposing a two
part aid package totalling $1.8 billion.
-The larger component provides $1.5
billion in military sales credit financing
on the same terms offered to Israel. It
will help Egypt maintain a modern well-
equipped military force, and play a re-
sponsible role in promoting stability and
moderation in the region.
—In addition, I will propose to provide
Egypt with $300 million of special eco-
590
