Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
The limitations provided for in Article
III of the Treaty shall not apply to such
airplanes.
The aforementioned airplanes may in-
clude only:
(a) airplanes other than bombers
which, as an exception to the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Article
VIII of the Treaty, have been
converted into airplanes equipped
for cruise missiles capable of a
range in excess of 600 kilometers
or for ASBMs;
(b) airplanes considered to be heavy
bombers pursuant to subpara-
graph 3(c) or 3(d) of Article II
of the Treaty; and
(c) airplanes other than heavy bomb-
ers which, prior to March 7, 1979,
were used for testing cruise mis-
siles capable of a range in excess
of 600 kilometers.
The airplanes referred to in subpara-
graphs (a) and (b) of this Agreed State-
ment shall be distinguishable on the basis
of functionally related observable differ-
ences from airplanes which otherwise
would be of the same type but cannot per-
form the mission of a bomber equipped
for cruise missiles capable of a range in
excess of 600 kilometers or for ASBMs.
The airplanes referred to in subpara-
graph (c) of this Agreed Statement shall
not be used for testing cruise missiles ca-
pable of a range in excess of 600 kilo-
meters after the expiration of a six-month
period from the date of entry into force of
the Treaty, unless by the expiration of
that period they are distinguishable on
the basis of functionally related ob-
servable differences from airplanes which
otherwise would be of the same type but
cannot perform the mission of a bomber
equipped for cruise missiles capable of a
range in excess of 600 kilometers.
First Common Understanding. The term
"testing," as used in the Agreed State-
ment to paragraph 1 of Article VIII of
the Treaty, includes research and devel-
opment.
Second Common Understanding. The
Parties shall notify each other in the
Standing Consultative Commission of the
number of airplanes, according to type,
used for testing pursuant to the Agreed
Statement to paragraph 1 of Article VIII
of the Treaty. Such notification shall be
provided at the first regular session of the
Standing Consultative Commission held
after an airplane has been used for such
testing.
Third Common Understanding. None of
the sixteen airplanes referred to in the
Agreed Statement to paragraph 1 of
Article VIII of the Treaty may be re-
placed, except in the event of the invol-
untary destruction of any such airplane
or in the case of the dismantling or de-
struction of any such airplane. The pro-
cedures for such replacement and for
removal of any such airplane from that
number, in case of its conversion, shall be
agreed upon in the Standing Consulta-
tive Commission.
To Paragraph 1 of Article IX of the
Treaty
Common Understanding to subparagraph
(a). The obligations provided for in sub-
paragraph 1(a) of Article IX of the
Treaty do not affect current practices for
transporting ballistic missiles.
Agreed Statement to subparagraph (b).
The obligations provided for in subpara-
graph 1(b) of Article IX of the Treaty
shall apply to all areas of the ocean floor
and the seabed, including the seabed zone
referred to in Articles I and II of the
1971 Treaty on the Prohibition of the
1073
