May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
where a President can learn at the same
time with the full video coverage. And I
hope that the listeners here will appreciate
the technological advances that have been
made in the cable television industry and
also will see this as a means by which the
American people can influence govern-
ment, both the Congress and the Presi-
dent, to do an even better job. That's what
we want to do, and with your help, I'm
sure we can do that and make our great
Nation an even greater Nation in the
future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. from
the Map Room at the White House. Bob
Schmidt is president of the association.
Welfare Reform Legislation.
Message to the Congress on the Proposed
Legislation. May 23, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting today my Welfare Re-
form program in two bills: the Social Wel-
fare Reform Amendments of 1979 and
the Work and Training Opportunities
Act of 1979. Enactment of these proposals
will be an important step in addressing the
key failings of the present welfare sys-
tem-promoting efficiency, improving in-
centives and opportunities to work, and
substantially improving the incomes of
millions of poor people.
For too many years, we have lived with
a welfare system universally recognized to
be inadequate and ineffective. It is a
crazy-quilt patchwork system stitched to-
gether over decades without direction or
design. It should offer opportunity, but
often breeds dependency. It should en-
courage and reward useful work, but often
penalizes those who find jobs.
The guiding principles of my proposals
are simple: those who can work should;
and there should be adequate support for
those who cannot.
The legislation I am submitting today
will:
-redirect our welfare system towards
employment wherever possible, and
provide training and jobs to break
the cycle of poverty;
-help secure stable employment with
an adequate income for millions of
low-income families;
-save hundreds of millions of dollars
each year by reducing waste, fraud,
and error through tightened and
streamlined administration;
-remove major inequities in the pres-
ent welfare system and redirect as-
sistance to those most in need and
least able to help themselves.
In my campaign I pledged to work for
welfare reform. The need for reform is no
less serious now. I urge Congress to act
promptly on this critically important so-
cial legislation. The need for action is
clear:
The present system is both inadequate
and unacceptably unfair. Despite major
efforts at all levels of government in the
last twenty years, millions of American
families throughout the U.S. still live in
poverty. Moreover, under the present sys-
tem assistance to needy households varies
widely from state to state. Welfare bene-
fits, including both food stamps and cash
assistance, range from 49 percent to 96
percent of the poverty level. For example,
current combined benefits in Mississippi
for a family of four are $3,540 per year,
while a poor family in Vermont receives
$6,540. Twenty-four states have chosen
not to provide Federally-supported cash
benefits to two-parent families, while
twenty-six do provide such assistance.
Many technical provisions of current
law are inequitable or unnecessarily re-
strictive. For example:
938
