Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
give me a sense of the Congress. And
immediately after the signing ceremony
Monday, I met with a tiny group of key
congressional advisers. Clem Zablocki was
obviously at the top of the list, to tell him
the terms of the treaty, the agreements
that had been consummated, and to ask
his counsel on how to proceed in the fu-
ture. And now, of course, the honoring
of American commitments in the House
of Representatives is in the hands of Clem
Zablocki, and I'm proud of it.
In many ways, a university is measured
by the quality of its alumni. Marquette is
a remarkable university because of many
reasons. That's obviously one of them.
I know that sometimes there are disap-
pointments in things like the NCAA play-
offs-[laughter]-which I will not men-
tion tonight. But if the NCAA included
as an athletic event the production of re-
markable and distinguished alumni, Clem
Zablocki alone would still have Marquette
in the finals. And I want to thank you
from the bottom of my heart for produc-
ing such a great statesman and a personal
friend. And I want to express my admira-
tion for your sound judgment in choosing
him the Outstanding Alumnus of the
Year.
Thank
part of it.
you very much for letting me be
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:16 p.m. at the
Milwaukee Performing Arts Center. He was
introduced by Father John P. Raynor, S.J.,
president of Marquette University, whose
alumni association sponsored the event.
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Remarks at the State Democratic Party's
Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner.
March 31, 1979
Secretary of State Vel Phillips, Chairman
Bleicher, Senator Nelson, Senator Prox-
mire, Chairman Reuss, Congressman As-
pin, Chairman Zablocki, Al Baldus,
Mayor Maier, Ambassador Lucey, my
good friends in Wisconsin:
I'm glad to be back with you.
This is indeed a great week for me and
for our Nation. I have personal gratitude
for one single event that I'll never forget
the rest of my life, and that is an oppor-
tunity to come here and join you at the
Jefferson-Jackson Day banquet in Wis-
consin.
Seriously, it's a gratifying experience in-
deed to work very closely with two men of
wide ethnic background differences, dif-
ferent religion, who have to live and work
closely in proximity to one another, some-
times divided by strife and differences in
the past, and to see them come together
in the spirit of harmony and cooperation.
I believe this arrangement might be per-
manent. As a matter of fact, Dr. Brzezin-
ski and Cy Vance have been friends ever
since Monday, and I'm very grateful for
it. [Laughter]
We have an opportunity to observe
from the White House superb achieve-
ment. This Wisconsin congressional dele-
gation is a source of great pride to me.
You occupy, because of seniority and
sound judgment and competence, chair-
manships of some of the major commit-
tees, as you well know.
But in addition to the congressional
delegation, this State, this city has a lot
of which to be proud. Mayor Maier is
one of the leaders among the leaders of
the great metropolitan mayors and county
officials of our country. And when I have
a very serious problem to address that
relates to improving the life of people in
the cities throughout the country, Henry
is one of those to whom I turn for advice
and counsel and support. And I thank
him for it.
573
