Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
bassies, consular offices, and other facili-
ties abroad, including all military facilities
and naval vessels and stations.
The White House,
February 14, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:27 p.m., February 21, 1979]
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. February 14, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
revisions to three previously transmitted
deferrals increasing the amount deferred
by $33.8 million. These revisions to exist-
ing deferrals involve programs in the De-
partments of Transportation and the
Treasury and the International Commu-
nication Agency.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
February 14, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Febru-
ary 21, 1979.
Mexico City, Mexico
Remarks of President José López Portillo
and President Carter at the Welcoming
Ceremony. February 14, 1979
PRESIDENT LÓPEZ PORTILLO. Mr. Presi-
dent of the United States of America, Mrs.
Carter, upon your arrival to Mexico in the
name of the people of Mexico, in the name
of the country, in the name of the govern-
ment, in the name of my family, I cor-
dially welcome you.
Two years ago it was my pleasure to be
the first foreign head of state to visit your
country during your administration. Now
you are reciprocating this visit. Thus we
continue with the possibility of the dialog
that was started at that time.
At that time we said, and we say so once
again now, that it is good for neighbors
to be friends. It is my conviction, sir, that
from our personal contact, a good friend-
ship was started. This friendship is now
being renewed.
Very objectively, Mr. President, that
few countries in the world have so much
to talk about, so many matters as we do.
In Mexico you will find that there is
enormous interest in this visit and results
that it will bring with it. For us, among
all of our relations with the rest of the na-
tions of the world, the ones that have
more importance are those that we have
with the United States. Expectation you
will find in accordance with our pluralism
and our freedom. You will find this ex-
pectation in all mass communication
media-press, radio, television—in the
streets and also on signs on the walls.
As regards all the subjects that we are
going to deal with, I believe that we have
already set up the system for such deal-
ings with the system that we set up dur-
ing my visit to Washington.
This system was established on the
principles that are common to us both,
and on mechanisms that we agreed to set
up. However, I am completely certain
that the most important thing of all is good
will and a good disposition in order to
take care of our problems; a will to agree,
a will for peace, a will to establish our
decisions on the mandates of the law; and
perhaps the most important will of all,
the will to be friends, which means re-
272
