Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
new private sector jobs and economic
progress, new income and new hope for
the future.
This legislation will help strengthen
the economic development of distressed
urban and rural communities. It will
provide new private sector jobs and
badly-needed income to the citizens of
these communities. It will strengthen
their tax bases and attract new private
investment. It will help these communi-
ties support essential public services
without imposing high property taxes on
their citizens. And it will help these com-
munities and their citizens become more
self-sufficient in the future.
This legislation is based on one over-
riding fact of our economic life today. Our
Nation can no longer afford to rely only
on government to provide jobs and income
to our disadvantaged citizens and to our
distressed communities. We must continue
to harness the vast resources of the private
sector to help us meet these important
challenges. The legislation that I am send-
ing to Congress today is another major
step in this direction.
Two years ago when I took office, our
economy was struggling to recover from
the deepest recession since the great De-
pression. Unemployment was high, indus-
trial capacity was idle and the incomes of
American workers were well below ex-
pectations.
Today more than 7.5 million new jobs
have been created in our economy and
factories across the country have regained
high levels of production. Family incomes,
after adjustment for inflation, have risen
substantially and so have business profits.
Our economy is much stronger today than
when I took office, just two years ago.
Despite this period of strong economic
expansion, there are numerous rural and
urban areas that have not participated
fully in our Nation's economic health.
These areas still have very high unem-
ployment, low average incomes, substan-
tial poverty and loss of jobs. They do not
have enough private investment to pro-
vide jobs to their residents, nor do they
have the private sector tax base to sup-
port essential public services.
The problems of these rural and urban
communities have not been solved fully
by national economic policies. These com-
munities require special targeted aid to
bring in new private sector jobs and in-
vestment. Only with this targeted assist-
ance can we be assured that all areas of
our Nation, both rural and urban, will
participate in the Nation's economic
prosperity.
Since taking office, I have focused the
resources of the Federal government on
programs that will retain existing jobs,
bring in new jobs and income, and ex-
pand the tax base of these economically
troubled communities. I have expanded
both the tax incentives and the Federal
grant and loan programs available to
businesses that remain or locate in these
areas. With the help of the Congress we
already have accomplished a great deal.
• I have proposed, and Congress has
enacted, legislation establishing the Ur-
ban Development Action Grant (UDAG)
program in the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. This program,
which I propose to fund at $675 million in
my Fiscal Year 1980 budget, provides
grants to economically distressed cities
and urban counties for projects that cre-
ate private sector jobs and new tax base
in these communities. The first $599 mil-
lion of UDAG grants have stimulated
more than $3.6 billion of private invest-
ment in these communities. In addition,
we have encouraged cities and counties.
to use more of their Community Develop-
ment Block Grant funds for economic de-
velopment projects.
600
