Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 25, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
May 18, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very pleased to have
all of you here. I see some old friends
around the table from Georgia, and I'm
very pleased.
I think this is one of the best things that
we have done since I've been President, is
to have in, on frequent occasions, dis-
tinguished leaders of the news media
throughout the country. It gives me an
opportunity to answer your questions, to
learn about the interests around the Na-
tion, and also to express in each case, at
the beginning of the session, some par-
ticular point that illustrates the kind of
difficulties or responsibilities that a Pres-
ident has to meet.
PANAMA CANAL TREATIES
Yesterday, there was a very disappoint-
ing vote in the House of Representatives
on obtaining a rule for Panama Treaty
implementation legislation. We only won
the vote by two votes, which is very dis-
turbing to me and, I'm sure, to the Na-
tion. The fact is that the Panama treaties
have already been implemented. The
President and three other Presidents be-
fore me negotiated the treaties. The Sen-
ate has now ratified the Panama treaties.
They are the law of the land. They be-
came effective the first day of April.
The Panama Canal Zone will become
Panama territory on the first day of Octo-
ber 1979, no matter what the Congress
does this year on implementation. The
reason for the implementation legislation
is to permit the United States to operate
the Panama Canal between now and the
year 2000 and also to defend the Canal
Zone between now and the year 2000 with
U.S. forces.
If the implementation legislation is not
passed in a timely fashion and in compli-
ance with the treaty, we would be faced
with a very serious consequence.
We could not handle the problems or
needs or obligations for and to American
workers there. We could not transfer
workers from one place to another. We
couldn't deal effectively with the Pana-
manian workers who have been employed
there for many years.
The citizenship status and basic rights
of Americans in the Panama Canal Zone
would be in doubt. We could not provide
for the facilities and equipment to defend
901
