Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 1, 1979
Gold Medal for John Wayne
Statement on Signing S. 631 Into Law.
May 26, 1979
I have today approved S. 631, a bill to
authorize the presentation of a specially
struck gold medal to John Wayne. For
nearly half a century, the Duke has sym-
bolized the American ideals of integrity,
courage, patriotism, and strength and has
represented to the world many of the
deepest values that this Nation respects.
His conduct off the screen has been as ex-
emplary as that of the characters he has
portrayed. He has served, and will con-
tinue to serve, as a model for America's
young people.
I ask all Americans to join with me in
expressing our best wishes to John Wayne
as he celebrates his 72d birthday this
Saturday.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 631 is Public Law 96-15,
approved May 26.
Judge Wood had a 30-year career in
the private bar, followed by 8 years on the
bench, where he served with distinction.
A jurist who was courageous, hard-work-
ing, tough-minded, and fair, Judge Wood
was admired by prosecutors and defense
lawyers alike.
I have been assured by Attorney Gen-
eral Griffin Bell that Director William
Webster and the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation have given top priority to bringing
those responsible for Judge Wood's mur-
der to justice. Deputy Assistant Director
James Ingram of the FBI has been dis-
patched from FBI headquarters in Wash-
ington to take charge of the Federal in-
vestigation. Fifty special agents and two
FBI specialists have been assigned to the
investigation in Texas.
I know I speak on behalf of the Amer-
ican people in expressing outrage at the
senseless death of Judge Wood. Rosalynn
and I extend our deepest sympathies to his
family and friends.
John H. Wood, Jr.
Statement on the Death of the U.S. District
Judge. May 29, 1979
I am shocked and saddened by the
death today of U.S. District Judge John
H. Wood, Jr., in San Antonio, Tex. The
killing of a Federal judge—or any judge―
is an assault on our very system of justice.
All Americans join me in condemning this
heinous crime.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MAY 29, 1979
ENERGY
THE PRESIDENT. No matter how Ameri-
cans may differ on energy, we are united
on two basic goals: first, to provide every
possible means to alleviate the current
959
