Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
Failure to do so will demonstrate a weak-
ness of resolve that is simply unacceptable
in current circumstances. I hope that the
Congress will live up to its responsibility
to the American people.
Death of Marvella Bayh
Statement by the President. April 25, 1979
Rosalynn and I were deeply saddened
by the death of Marvella Bayh, whose
courage and candor in her 8-year battle
against cancer served as an inspiration for
all Americans. Marvella Bayh worked
tirelessly to spread understanding of this
dread disease and the importance of early
detection of its warning signs. At this sad
moment, our hearts go out to Senator
Bayh and their son, Evan Bayh.
NOTE: On April 27, the President attended
memorial services for Mrs. Bayh held at
the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C.
President's Commission on the
Accident at Three Mile Island
Remarks at a Meeting With the
Commission. April 25, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say, first
of all, that my selection of this group to
serve on the Commission to investigate
serve on the Commission to investigate
the events at the Three Mile Island nu-
clear powerplant has been one of the most
important responsibilities of my Presi-
dency. This Commission will be scruti-
nized very carefully not only throughout
our own Nation but, indeed, throughout
the world.
The Vice President has just returned
from a visit to six countries, most of them
in Scandinavia, and there was a deep and
intense interest in the ultimate report that
will be forthcoming from this Commis-
sion.
We've had similar inquiries, as you well
know, from major countries-Germany,
France, Great Britain, and others around
the world-who want to know the facts
about the Three Mile Island incident-
what occurred there; what were the
causes of the accident; what mistakes were
made; the roles that were played by the
power company managing the plant, the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the
local, State, and Federal Government
agencies, and others who were directly
charged with certain responsibilities; how
those responsibilities were handled; how
well they were interrelated in sharing roles
of responsibility; how well prepared all of
those entities were for an accident of this
kind?
Obviously, the most important aspect is
how can a future accident of this sort be
prevented; what authority needs to be as-
signed specifically, for instance, to the Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission that it
doesn't presently have; how are its pro-
cedures deficient; what can be done in the
future to have a better and immediate
coordination of effort among the different
government and private agencies respon-
sible for the protection of the health and
safety of the American people?
One item of particular interest is what
were the facts as they occurred and how
closely did those facts relate to the in-
formation given to the public, because
public impressions are very important,
and it's extremely important that they be
based on accurate reporting. Was the in-
formation given to the news media ac-
curate as best could be determined? If
there were errors, what were the cause of
those errors? How well did the public un-
derstand what was going on?
These questions are in the Executive
order that I signed establishing this Com-
mission. Your report will be made to me,
691
