Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
the inspiration for which they are so
greatly qualified.
Thank you again. Good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:30 p.m. in
a tent which had been erected for the occasion
on the South Grounds of the White House.
Law Day, U.S.A., 1979
Proclamation 4649. March 27, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Congress of the United States has
set aside the first day of May as Law Day,
U.S.A.
This year will mark the Nation's
twenty-second annual celebration of Law
Day-a special day for reflection on our
heritage of individual liberty and for re-
dedication to the observance of the rule of
law.
The rule of law is not automatic. Each
citizen must accept a share of responsi-
bility to administer and obey the law, if
the rights and opportunities of all citi-
zens are to be preserved.
Americans also have a responsibility
and a constitutional right to change the
law by orderly process, when such change
is needed. Our forefathers gave us this
birthright, so that the Nation and its
peo-
ple might remain free.
In the words of Thomas Jefferson,
"Laws and institutions must go hand in
hand with the progress of the human
mind."
The theme selected in recognition of
Law Day, 1979, therefore, is most appro-
priate: "Our Changing Rights."
In a rapidly changing world, it is vital
that we preserve and strengthen our abil-
ity to respond to the needs for legitimate
change while safeguarding the rights of
all citizens.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
invite the American people to observe
Tuesday, May 1, 1979, as Law Day,
U.S.A., and to reflect upon individual and
collective responsibilities for the effective
administration of the law.
I call upon the legal profession, the
courts, educators, clergymen, and all in-
terested individuals and organizations to
mark the twenty-second nationwide ob-
servance of Law Day, U.S.A., with pro-
grams and events which underscore our
Nation's devotion to the principle of equal
justice for all. To that end, I call upon all
public officials to display the flag of the
United States on all government buildings
on that day.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of March, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:02 a.m., March 28, 1979]
Department of Labor
Nomination of Janet L. Norwood To Be
Commissioner of Labor Statistics.
March 27, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Janet L. Norwood, of
Bethesda, Md., to be Commissioner of
Labor Statistics at the Labor Department.
She would replace the late Julius Shiskin.
527
