Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
Dear Mr. President:
March 26, 1979
This letter confirms that Israel and
Egypt have agreed as follows:
The Governments of Israel and Egypt
recall that they concluded at Camp David
and signed at the White House on Sep-
tember 17, 1978, the annexed documents
entitled "A Framework for Peace in the
Middle East Agreed at Camp David" and
"Framework for the conclusion of a
Peace Treaty between Israel and Egypt."
lishment of the self-governing authority
in the West Bank and Gaza in order to
provide full autonomy to the inhabitants.
Israel and Egypt set for themselves the
goal of completing the negotiations within
one year so that elections will be held as
expeditiously as possible after agreement
has been reached between the parties.
The self-governing authority referred to
in the "Framework for Peace in the
Middle East" will be established and in-
augurated within one month after it has
been elected, at which time the transi-
tional period of five years will begin. The
Israeli military government and its civil-
ian administration will be withdrawn, to
be replaced by the self-governing author-
ity, as specified in the "Framework for
Peace in the Middle East." A withdrawal
of Israeli armed forces will then take
place and there will be a redeployment of
the remaining Israeli forces into specified
security locations.
For the purpose of achieving a com-
prehensive peace settlement in accord-
ance with the above-mentioned Frame-
works, Israel and Egypt will proceed with
the implementation of those provisions
relating to the West Bank and the Gaza
Strip. They have agreed to start negotia-
tions within a month after the exchange
of the instruments of ratification of the
Peace Treaty. In accordance with the
"Framework for Peace in the Middle
East," the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
is invited to join the negotiations. The
Delegations of Egypt and Jordan may in-
clude Palestinians from the West Bank
and Gaza Strip or other Palestinians as
mutually agreed. The purpose of the
negotiations shall be to agree, prior to the
elections, on the modalities for establish-
ing the elected self-governing authority
(administrative council), define its pow-
ers and responsibilities, and agree upon
other related issues. In the event Jordan [The President, The White House.]
decides not to take part in the negotia-
tions, the negotiations will be held by
Israel and Egypt.
The two Governments agree to nego-
tiate continuously and in good faith to
conclude these negotiations at the earliest
possible date. They also agree that the
objective of the negotiations is the estab-
This letter also confirms our under-
standing that the United States Govern-
ment will participate fully in all stages of
negotiations.
Sincerely yours,
For the Government of Israel:
M. BEGIN
For the Government of the Arab Republic
of Egypt:
EXPLANATORY NOTE
A. SADAT
President Carter, upon receipt of the joint
letter to him from President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin, has added to the American
and Israeli copies the notation:
"I have been informed that the expression
'West Bank' is understood by the Government
of Israel to mean 'Judea and Samaria.'"
515
