Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 4
I look forward to our working together to
complete this effort.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:07 p.m., January 4, 1979]
O. Eastland of Mississippi, who served as
President pro tempore of the Senate from
1972 until his recent retirement.
NOTE: The notices are printed in the FEDERAL Federal Pay and the
REGISTER of January 8, 1979.
Deputy Assistant to
the President
Appointment of William Simpson.
January 4, 1979
The President announced today that
Mr. William Simpson of Gulfport, Miss.,
will join the White House staff immedi-
ately as Deputy Assistant to the President.
In this capacity, Mr. Simpson will be
working with Hamilton Jordan and his
staff on the priority goals and programs of
the administration.
Simpson was born in Gulfport on
July 29, 1923. He attended the Marion
Military Institute, Marion, Ala., and the
University of Mississippi before graduat-
ing from the U.S. Merchant Marine
Academy at Kings Point, N.Y. He saw
combat service as a naval midshipman
and officer in the Pacific Theater in
World War II.
From 1947 to 1965, he was associated
with his father and brother in operating
the family shrimp and oyster canning
facility in Gulfport. From 1965 to 1968,
he was special assistant to Mississippi Gov-
ernor Paul B. Johnson, Jr. Simpson also
served as first chairman of the Mississippi
Marine Conservation Commission and as
president of the State Port Authority at
Gulfport.
From 1968 through 1978, Simpson was
administrative assistant to Senator James
Anti-Inflation Program
Memorandum From the President.
January 4, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Federal Pay and the Anti-
inflation Program
The success of our anti-inflation effort
is critical to the economic well-being of
the nation. To achieve this success, it is
vital that the Government, in managing
its own affairs, join with the rest of the
nation in a positive commitment to reduc-
ing inflationary pressures. Accordingly, I
have determined that it would be incon-
sistent with the public interest for any
category of Federal pay rates to be in-
creased by more than 5.5 percent during
year 1979.
fiscal
To this end, this Administration and the
Congress have frozen Federal executive
pay altogether, and have placed a 5.5 per-
cent ceiling on pay increases for most Fed-
eral workers—those under the General
Schedule and related pay systems, the
members of the uniformed services, and
most Federal wage employees.
However, there are substantial numbers
of nonappropriated fund employees and
other workers employed by entities of the
Federal Government who are not covered
by these Government-wide actions, since
they are under a variety of relatively small
pay systems over which you have pay set-
ting authority. In order to ensure that
proposed pay increases for other pay sys-
tems do not exceed the maximums for
7
