June 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
President Andrew Jackson summed up
my own beliefs when he said, and I quote:
"There are no necessary evils in govern-
ment. Its evils exist only in its abuses."
We are eliminating abuses, and we are
meeting head-on the problems that face
our Nation. When I took office in January
1977, do you remember the number one
problem of our country? Unemployment.
In Gary, for instance, more than 1
worker in every 10 was out of a job.
Republican economics said we had to
tighten our belts, but you know whose
belt got tightened—those least able to af-
ford economic difficulty.
Democratic economics have taken peo-
ple off the unemployment rolls by giving
them jobs. We've had a net increase of
more than 8 million jobs in the United
States of America since I took office, with
your help a great achievement. Now,
Republicans talk about the dignity of
work, but Democrats create jobs so people
can work.
Americans know that Republicans also
talk a lot about balanced budgets. But in
the 8 years of Republican administration,
the budget deficit of the United States
Government was greater than all the def-
icits combined of the other 192 years of
our Nation's existence.
Republicans talk about cutting deficits;
Democrats cut them. By 1980, we will
have slashed the Federal deficit more than
half, and at the same time-and this is
important—we have substantially in-
creased the aid going to the elderly, to the
poor, to the young, to the sick.
We have made unprecedented commit-
ments, even more than during the Johnson
years, to teach young people basic skills
and to help our young people go to col-
lege. Farm families have been strength-
ened, net farm income is up dramatically,
and agricultural exports set new records
every year. You have certainly not seen
any grain embargoes during this admin-
istration, and you will not see them in the
future.
Okay, we have accomplished a lot. But
crucial problems still face us, and that's
what I want to talk to you briefly about
tonight: on energy, on inflation, on keep-
ing peace in a dangerous world.
Recently a Senator, Gaylord Nelson,
jokingly said that I had tackled every un-
popular issue that was before our Nation,
and when there were none left, that I
went out and looked for one. Well, that's
not exactly right, because there were al-
ways some left, as you know. I didn't have
to go around looking for tough issues.
They were around, I felt, looking for me
long before I got to the White House, be-
cause the Republicans before me were too
busy doing other things to face these issues
frankly.
The Democratic Party is the party of
the people, because the people trust us to
make difficult choices, to provide answers
for questions that are not easy, but they
are questions that must be answered for
the good of our whole Nation. They gave
us a substantial majority in both Houses
of Congress so we could find positive solu-
tions. They did not give us majorities so
that we could vote down every solution
offered just because it was not absolutely
perfect.
My experience in politics is that there
are no absolutely perfect solutions. But I
believe that our people are willing to sup-
port us Democrats if we meet the respon-
sibilities courageously and devise best solu-
tions within our power.
One of the most immobilizing fears
among our people is the fear of being
cheated and misled. As much as anything
else, this keeps our people, for instance,
from making a small, personal sacrifice to
solve the problems of inflation and energy.
992
