Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 26
FEDERAL BUDGET DEFICITS
Q. Mr. President, the Congressional
Budget Office report, the use of the $41
billion figure by Miss Rivlin and her
statement that a balanced budget by 1981
is now virtually impossible in her view—
how do you respond to that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I think our economic
projections are accurate. There are sev-
eral factors involved which I think might
cause some differences in estimates. We
took into account the very substantial
growth in our national economy that oc-
curred the fourth quarter of 1978, which
was unexpected. It shows a vigorous,
broad-based strength in our economy
that
was a pleasant surprise.
Secondly, we anticipate good results
from our anti-inflation effort, and this is
mirrored in the projections for this year.
We have also a good prospect for retain-
ing a stable dollar overseas, which we did
not have, as you well know, in 1978. The
dollar has proven to be strong recently in
several political and economic tests.
In addition, we expect to reduce sub-
stantially our trade deficit which we ex-
perienced in 1978, which will help. Our
own national growth rate in our economy
will be much more comparable with those
of our major trading partners, whereas in
the past couple of years we've had a much
higher growth rate in our country than,
say, Japan and Germany.
So, there are many factors involved
which are the bases for my believing that
our projections are accurate. I think that
we will reach the goals that I described
in the economic summaries.
OIL INDUSTRY
Q. Mr. President, the fourth quarter
profits are out for the major oil companies.
I won't mention the names, but they read
48 percent, 72 percent, 44 percent, 134
percent. Given the fact that you've asked
the country to make sacrifices to prepare
for lean and austere years, I was wonder-
ing if you'd give us your reaction to those
profits, profits that size when American
workers are being asked to hold wage in-
creases to 7 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would hope
and expect that with increases-I guess
those are increases in profits?
Q. Fourth quarter profit earnings.
The President. I guess that's, though,
increases, compared to the previous
fourth quarter.
Well, in the new energy bill, we've ob-
viously had some bases on which to in-
crease incentives for production of oil and
natural gas. We've had a substantial
amount of natural gas become available
for American consumers as a result of the
new energy legislation. And above a cer-
tain point in earnings, of course, the in-
come tax levies against even oil companies
are partially adequate.
But I would hope that we can continue,
with a more stable production rate and
with more careful conservation of exist-
ing oil supplies, to keep all industrial
profits at a reasonable level, with none
being exorbitant. As you know, we are
faced later this year with a substantial
change in the control mechanism for re-
straining oil prices. And then, I believe,
October of 1981, all controls by law will
be terminated.
And whether or not the free enterprise
system with competition and a rigid appli-
cation of antitrust laws can induce both
increased production and, therefore, more
competition and lower prices, I can't
anticipate. But I would, obviously, as all
Americans would, like to see a good bal-
ance between prices and profits.
FORMER PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON
Q. Mr. President, since former Presi-
dent Nixon will be here during the visit by
175
