June 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
me in, and my wife and my children, my
mother, and made us part of you. And I
thank you for it.
I remember Andy Jacobs was one of the
first ones who ever recognized that I might
be a future President, and I will always
remember that in particular.
During my campaign, I often wondered
why no matter where I started out, I
always wound up in Indiana. I finally
decided it was because of the Indiana
mafia who was running my scheduling.
[Laughter]
It still seems to me that sometimes we
have more people working in the White
House from Indiana even than we do
from Georgia. But I know you're very
proud of Terry and Tim and Fran.ยน Don't
brag on them too much. With our fiscal
austerity, we don't have enough money
to increase their salaries. [Laughter] But
I wish they would stand up just a moment.
Tim, Fran, Terry.
As you know, we don't just have
Hoosiers in the White House, we've got
Bill Schreiber, who has helped us with the
U.S.-Canada Boundary Commission. He's
doing a good job. So far, we've only given
up a small part of the territory of the
United States to Canada. [Laughter] As
you well know, we have Jim Joseph and
Leo Krulitz in the Interior Department
doing a superb job. And I think one of
the stars of our administration has been
Bob McKinney at the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board. I thank
you for letting
them serve in Washington.
I rode in from the airport with Don
Michael and Patty Evans. You don't know
how it makes a Democratic President feel
to see a tremendous demonstration of
hard work and harmony and cooperation
ยน Terrence D. Straub, Special Assistant for
Congressional Liaison (House), Timothy E.
Kraft, Assistant to the President, and Frances
M. Voorde, Deputy Appointments Secretary to
the President.
and dedication and political courage that's
been exemplified here tonight, with 3,500
strong Democrats all ready to continue to
work, some in '79, and get some fine
Indiana mayors elected this year; next
year to change 7 Democratic Congress-
men into 11 Democratic Congressmen
from Indiana.
And I particularly would like to see
Indiana follow the tradition of Henry
Schricker and Roger Branigin and Matt
Welsh and have a Democratic Governor
from Indiana elected in 1980.
As I stood outside, I heard what Birch
Bayh had to say about the Democratic
delegation in Congress. You can really be
proud of them. Lee Hamilton's support
has been superb in foreign affairs. Phil
Sharp has made sure that our energy re-
sources are fairly shared. Floyd Fithian
was talking to me on the way in from
Washington today about the need of
farmers and better energy supplies for
them; Andy Jacobs, whom I already men-
tioned, Adam Benjamin helping us to keep
the Federal budget deficit down.
As you know, the Republicans spent a
lot of money last year to put a third Crane
in Congress, but the people of Indiana
wisely decided to keep Dave Evans. I
thank you for that.
I
spent last night and today with a few
key Members of the House at Camp
David. John Brademas was there, the
superb Democratic whip, who's shown the
kind of leadership that causes the Amer-
ican people to give us a strong Democratic
majority in the Congress and who will
keep it there. And I would like to say, in
addition, how much I appreciate the kind
of spirit that John Brademas has shown.
And, as you know, in the three terms
that Birch Bayh has served, he's come to
symbolize the kind of character and cou-
rageous action which molds and which
shapes the character and the spirit of the
990
