Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 29
schools-more in the North, ironically,
than in the South these days. And racial
discrimination, protected by law in hous-
ing, is still a burden for those who suffer
from discrimination to attempt to correct
through a complicated and highly expen-
sive legal system.
Our Nation is at peace. No American
has lost a life in battle since I've been in
the White House. But we still live in a
world which perhaps more than any other
time in history is spending more of its
resources on militarism, on weaponry, and
we still have not yet been successful in
controlling the threat of the ultimate
weapon-nuclear explosives.
This past year the world was shocked
by witnessing the television series about
the Holocaust. Many of us searched our
souls, but the thread of anti-Semitism still
hangs like a dark cloud in our world. Our
Nation, so wealthy, still has a lower and
lower standard of morality. Families are
disintegrating, the institution of marriage
is scorned and ridiculed by many, the unity
of our Nation, threatened, as each person
becomes more self-sufficient and more
doubtful about the efficacy of institutions
which we in the past have held so dear.
But our Nation, in spite of these threats
or these faults or these opportunities, is
still almost unique. We have some advan-
tages. We are a nation of refugees. We are
the mixing pot of the world. We under-
stand diversity and how to live in harmony
when we are different. And this ability to
contemplate others' problems, others' at-
titudes, others' languages, others' heritage,
is an advantage.
Not too long ago I was meeting with
the Prime Minister of Japan. We were
talking about refugees from Indochina.
Our Nation, in the last 2 or 3 years, has
accepted 190,000 refugees, and we're now
processing 30,000 more—not enough. But
I pointed out to Prime Minister Ohira
that the Japanese have only received and
processed three. And there was a general
consensus around that table that the rea-
son for that is that the Japanese are so
homogeneous in their racial makeup, in
an ancient island civilization, that there's
an incapacity to receive aliens and to ac-
commodate them successfully.
We still have a long way to go in our
attitude toward the other nations, and we
tend to adopt the ancient prejudice of the
South by equating the faults or the sins of
a few toward the many, and therefore
rationalize a lack of action on our part to
repair damage to the human spirit, to root
out prejudice and bigotry and hatred and
inequality.
We look at Rhodesia, and we see the
acronyms ZAPU and ZANU, and we
think about leaders there who have asso-
ciated with socialist countries, and we say,
"Well, it must be all right not to pursue
majority rule with aggression and deter-
mination and idealism and commitment.
Apartheid may not be so bad, because
look at the political philosophy of the
leaders of the blacks who seek equality."
The same thing applies as an attitude in
the Middle East—and affects you and me.
The most difficult single issue in the
Middle East concerns Palestinians. And
because some Arabs, some Palestinians,
are filled with hatred and commit them-
selves publicly to boycotts and to terror-
ism, there's an unwillingness to address the
basic problem of the Palestinian refugee in
an open and compassionate and con-
cerned way.
But we are a people who search for
answers in spite of difficulties and who,
over a period of years-sometimes, un-
fortunately, generations have always
made progress.
971
