June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Noting the important role of the UN as
an instrument for maintaining peace, se-
curity and the development of interna-
tional cooperation, the USA and the
USSR confirm their intention to promote
the improvement of the effectiveness of
this organization on the basis of the UN
Charter.
The sides noted with satisfaction the
positive developments which have taken
place in recent years with respect to the
situation on the European continent.
They underscored the significance of the
Final Act of the Conference on Security
and Cooperation in Europe. The two
sides agreed that continuation of the
CSCE process is important to promote
security and cooperation in Europe. They
called attention to the need for full im-
plementation of all the provisions of the
Helsinki Final Act. The USA and the
USSR will work to facilitate a construc-
tive meeting of the representatives of the
participating states of the All-European
Conference, which is scheduled to take
place in 1980 in Madrid.
Each side reaffirmed its interest in a
just, comprehensive and lasting peace in
the Middle East and set forth its position
on ways and means of resolving the Mid-
dle East problem.
There was an exchange of views con-
cerning developments in Africa. They
noted some normalization of the situation
in certain areas of that continent, and the
efforts of the independent states of Africa
toward cooperation, economic develop-
ment and peaceful relations and the posi-
tive role in this respect of the Organiza-
tion of African Unity. They also indicated
their respective views regarding the situa-
tion in Southern Africa.
The sides recognized the importance to
world peace of peace and stability in Asia.
They agreed that the independence, sov-
ereignty and territorial integrity of all
nations in the area must be fully re-
spected. They also indicated their respec-
tive views regarding the situation in
Southeast Asia.
IV. COOPERATION IN BILATERAL MATTERS
The importance of cooperation between
the USA and the USSR on the basis of
mutual benefit, in accordance with the
agreements which exist between the two
countries, was emphasized. The sides took
note of positive developments in the wide
range of cultural, academic, scientific and
technical exchange programs, which are
continuing between the two countries.
Proceeding on the established princi-
ples of equality, reciprocity and mutual
benefit as the basis for the conduct of such
programs, the sides reaffirmed their com-
mitment to continue and intensify coop-
eration in these areas.
The two sides confirmed that economic
and commercial relations represent an im-
portant element in the development of
improved bilateral ties. Both sides stated
their position in favor of strengthening
these relations, and recognized the neces-
sity of working toward the elimination of
obstacles to mutually beneficial trade and
financial relations. The two sides ex-
pressed their determination to encourage
the relevant organizations and enterprises
in their respective countries to enter into
mutually beneficial commercial agree-
ments and contracts on a long-term basis.
President Carter and President Brezh-
nev expressed mutual satisfaction with
the results of the talks which were held.
They are convinced that the deepening of
mutual understanding between the sides
on several issues as a result of the meeting
and the consistent implementation of the
agreements which have been reached will
facilitate the development of US-Soviet
1086
