Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 22
announced in the House on March 19, are
Representatives Rodino, Holtzman, Mc-
Clory, and Fish.
30th Anniversary of NATO
Proclamation 4648. March 22, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Thirty years ago in Washington on
April 4, 1949 the North Atlantic Treaty
was signed. From that act grew the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, or NATO,
an alliance welded together by a common
dedication to perpetuating democracy, in-
dividual liberty and the rule of law.
For three decades, NATO has success-
fully deterred war and maintained sta-
bility in Western Europe and North
America, thus securing the well-being and
prosperity of its fifteen member states:
Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the
Federal Republic of Germany, Greece,
Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Nether-
lands, Norway, Portugal, Turkey, the
United Kingdom, and the United States
of America.
Though collective defense against pos-
sible aggression was the most urgent re-
quirement at its founding, NATO has al-
ways been much more than just a military
pact. The spontaneous political develop-
ment of the Alliance demonstrates that
true security is far more than a matter
of weaponry and armed battalions. In the
final analysis, true security flows from the
freely-given support of the people and
their willingness to participate in the de-
fense of common ideals.
Since NATO's inception, the interna-
tional situation has evolved in many re-
spects and NATO has adapted to these
changes-militarily, politically and eco-
nomically. Today the Alliance remains
as relevant and centrally important to our
security and way of life and to the inde-
pendence of the United States as it was
in 1949. Then as now, the firm support
of Congress and the American people for
NATO reflects their deep conviction that
NATO is the cornerstone of United States
foreign policy.
As NATO moves forward into another
decade of achievement, we look toward
the future with confidence, aware that
continuing Allied cooperation will pro-
vide the international stability and se-
curity upon which our ideals, our civili-
zation, and our well-being depend. As
NATO begins this new chapter in its dis-
tinguished history, I am proud to rededi-
cate the United States to the NATO ob-
jectives which have served the cause of
peace so well.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby direct the attention of the Na-
tion to this thirtieth anniversary of the
signing of the North Atlantic Treaty; and
I call upon the Governors of the States,
and upon the officers of local govern-
ments, to facilitate the suitable observance
of this notable event throughout this an-
niversary year with particular attention
to April, the month which marks the his-
toric signing ceremony.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-second day
of March, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:18 a.m., March 23, 1979]
451
