May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
patriotic." I have not been able to get leg-
islation out of committee. And the other
bill that we have proposed to the Con-
gress
is on hospital cost containment. And
I said a few minutes ago that the oil
companies had the biggest and most pow-
erful lobby. It's almost matched by hospi-
tal owners and doctors, many of whom
are the same people, and you think, where
is the competitive nature of health care?
Who keeps the hospitals from putting peo-
ple in the beds unnecessarily, performing
operations that are not necessary? If
somebody is going to be operated on
Tuesday morning, put them in the bed on
Friday so the hospitals can derive more
profit, perform procedures that are not
necessary that's what we're trying to
stamp out.
I'm having a terrible time getting that
bill out of the Ways and Means Commit-
tee. I can't get it out of the commerce
committee in the House, and I admit that
this failure that I just described to you is,
to a major degree, my fault. Maybe if I
was a better politician, I would have
gotten these bills through the Congress.
I've done the best I could. I have never
backed down. I'm going to continue to
fight. But I guarantee you, almost, this:
that if everyone in this room would put
10 percent as much time trying to get
hospital cost containment passed and to
deal with our energy problem, I believe
we could succeed. What Member of Con-
gress, as a Democrat, could stand up
against you? Very few.
We're coming up now with SALT. I
have one life to live on this Earth. I've got
one political career. And I will never face
an issue-unless our country actually goes
to war, God knows I hope it doesn't hap-
pen-but absent that, I will never face an
issue so important as getting SALT rati-
fied by the Senate. I won't tell you all the
reasons now. But I need you to help me
with it, not in a quiet way, saying, "I think
that's a great idea, I hope it passes," but
in there fighting for it.
And I haven't made my announcement
of what I'm going to do in 1980, but I've
never backed down from a fight; I've
never been afraid of the public opinion
polls. And if and when I decide to run,
it would be in every precinct in this coun-
try, no matter who else ran. And I have
no doubt that it would be successful, be-
cause we've got a good record. And if we
can prevail on these three issues—energy,
inflation, and SALT-we'll have an even
better record.
And I think with the courage that you
asked me to exhibit—and I'll do the best
I can to alleviate your concerns-if you
will help me, we'll win, because we de-
serve to win, not because we're Demo-
crats, but because we deserve to win.
OIL PRICE DECONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, first of all, I'm de-
lighted to see that you have the sign be-
hind you that you used in Virginia when
you addressed our Jefferson-Jackson Day
dinner. You addressed that group with
the same courage and conviction that you
have addressed us. I happen to be a
Democrat. I've supported Democrats
always from the courthouse to the White
House. I started with Franklin Delano
Roosevelt and moved right up to Jimmy
Carter, and I've never regretted support-
ing the Democratic nominee and feel that
we have offered the best the entire time.
I waited a while before I supported
Jimmy Carter because, simply, I felt I was
supporting one of the greatest men that
I've ever had the privilege of supporting,
and that was Hubert Humphrey. When I
was assured that Hubert Humphrey was
not going to be a Presidential candidate
again, I've had the pleasure of supporting
the man that I place in the same category
that I placed Hubert Humphrey, a man of
952
