Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 24
decent home, and protection against dis-
ease.
It can help us build a nation and a
world where all people are free to seek
the truth and to add to human under-
standing, so that all of us may live our
lives in peace.
Tonight, I ask you, the Members of
the Congress, to join me in building that
new foundation-a better foundation—
for our beloved country and our world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:04 p.m. in the
House Chamber at the Capitol. He was intro-
duced by Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives. The address was
broadcast live on radio and television.
Chinese New Year, 1979
Message of the President. January 24, 1979
New Year's Eve in the Chinese tradi-
tion is a time of reunion and reconcilia-
tion. It is a time when family quarrels are
forgotten and when doors and windows
are left open to give access to any benef-
icent spirits that may be passing.
This tradition takes on a special sig-
nificance this year as the American and
Chinese people build new ties of friend-
ship and mutual cooperation.
Let Americans of Chinese ancestry and,
indeed, all our citizens join in a special
New Year's prayer that this relationship
will blossom for the benefit of all Chinese
and American people and of all nations.
Rosalynn and I welcome this opportu-
nity to express our warmest New Year
wishes to all Chinese Americans. May
this Year of the Ram be remembered for
having strengthened the structure of
peace and fulfilled the hopes of all man-
kind for a more tranquil, prosperous and
satisfying life.
JIMMY CARTER
Department of the Army
Nomination of Michael Blumenfeld To Be
an Assistant Secretary. January 24, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Michael Blumenfeld, of
Washington, D.C., to be Assistant Secre-
tary of the Army for Civil Works.
Blumenfeld was born November 10,
1934, in Brooklyn, N.Y. He received a
B.A. from Harvard College in 1958 and
M.B.A. from Harvard Graduate
School of Business Administration in 1960.
He served in the U.S. Army from 1953 to
1956.
From 1960 to 1967, Blumenfeld was an
account executive, then vice president and
account supervisor, for Benton & Bowles,
Inc., Advertising. From 1967 to 1969, he
was Director of Public Affairs and Edu-
cation for the United States Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission. From
1969 to 1970, he was assistant to the vice
president, public affairs, of Consolidated
Edison Co. of New York.
From 1970 to 1973, Blumenfeld was
deputy health services administrator of
the city of New York. From 1973 to 1977,
he was director of public affairs for New
York University.
Since March 1977, Blumenfeld has
been Deputy Under Secretary of the
Army. In this position he oversees the
Army's civil works program, a job which
has included encouraging effective dialog
between the Army Corps of Engineers
109
