Feb. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I hope that I was able to give you and
our American friends and colleagues an
accurate picture of Thailand today. We
are a proud but peace-loving people who
cherish our traditional institutions and
our way of life. Monarchy, Buddhism,
and nation are all integral parts of the
Thai fiber. In most of our domestic and
foreign policy, we share with you a wide
convergence of views and a strong mutu-
ality of interests.
Our highest priority at home is to build
a modern, just, and prosperous society
and, at the same time, preserve that cul-
ture which defines our national identity.
Toward that end, my government is con-
centrating on helping our poorer farmers
and accelerating agricultural growth. I
have named this year in Thailand the
Year of the Farmer, and my government
will do its utmost to give meaning to that
phrase.
Like Americans, the Thai people rec-
ognize the importance of human rights
and the connection between economic
prosperity and the development of human
potential.
Like you, we favor economic growth
spurred by individual initiative. We also
want to see American investment in Thai-
land. We need and welcome your busi-
nessmen. They can both serve themselves
and serve the people of Thailand as
well.
In foreign affairs, we seek to build
stable friendships with all nations in Asia,
based on mutual respect and noninterfer-
ence without regard to ideology.
The establishment of relations between
the United States and the people of the
republic of China will be a major con-
tribution to the peace and stability of Asia.
Similarly, although we are small and less
directly involved, we welcome your efforts
to develop a more constructive relation-
ship with the Soviet Union and to con-
clude a SALT agreement.
We live in an age where peace is in-
divisible and where peace is essential
among the great powers.
One area of particular concern to Thai-
land is the continually troubled Indo-
china. Peace has not yet come. Cam-
bodia, or Kampuchea, with which we
have a long common border, remains be-
set by war. The tragic exodus of Indo-
china's refugees continues at even higher
levels, and the burden has fallen most
heavily on Thailand and Malaysia.
But here, also, your country has played
an exemplary role. The Thai people do
not expect anyone to solve our problems.
That is our responsibility. And we are con-
fident we will meet it. But we do need the
understanding and cooperation of the in-
ternational community and, most impor-
tantly, the commitment of the United
States to help us deal with international
problems which start beyond our borders
but impact heavily on Thailand.
For this reason, we ask for your con-
tinued awareness and support in meeting
the challenge to our common humanitar-
ian principles posed by thousands of ref-
ugees arriving on our shores and those of
other countries in Southeast Asia.
We ask your cooperation in helping us
to purchase, on a timely basis, the means
we need to defend ourselves. And we look
to you as a friend and as the world's most
advanced nation for the knowledge and
technology to help advance the social wel-
fare of our people. And that is all we ask.
Mr. President, Thailand and the
United States have a long history of close
friendship, common interests, and shared
values. The United States helped Thai-
land in extraterritoriality, and you have
consistently helped us maintain our in-
tegrity. No other nation has been as close
228
