!
Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 8, 1979
Energy
Interview With John Dancy of NBC News.
June 1, 1979
MR. DANCY. Mr. President, you've been
meeting with oilmen this past week to get
firsthand information from them on the
shortages. I'd like to hear from you what
we can expect in terms of supplies in June,
July, and August.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm meeting with both
the oil people and also consumers and
other groups.
We have a permanent problem with
oil supplies. We lost 200 million barrels of
oil because of the problems in Iran. The
last 2 weeks, oil imports have increased
somewhat.
We believe that in the summer, we'll be
better off than we were in May, which
was perhaps our worst month, but even
at best, in the summer, we're going to have
no more oil or gasoline than we had a year
ago. And demand for gasoline, because of
more automobiles and a lack of conserva-
tion ethic or commitment, is going to
cause some continued shortages.
We have relieved the spot shortages, I
think, to some degree in California, pri-
marily because of the small increase in
supply and also because of strong conser-
vation efforts made by the people of Cali-
fornia.
MR. DANCY. Let's talk about that de-
mand problem for just a moment. The
latest NBC News-AP poll shows that 65
percent of the people in the country sim-
ply don't believe that there is a gasoline
shortage. Is there a shortage in this coun-
try?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. In April of 1977,
more than 2 years ago, I proposed to the
Congress a comprehensive energy policy
for the first time in the history of our Na-
tion. After 18 months of tough debate and
argument, the Congress passed not one bit
of legislation concerning oil. It's that diffi-
cult.
The Congress hears from the special
interest groups, particularly the oil lobby.
They very seldom hear from the Ameri-
can people. We have now come back to
the Congress with a package that will
work-slow, steady, carefully monitored
decontrol of oil to get the Government out
of it and to let the free enterprise system
work, which will improve conservation,
increase domestic exploration and produc-
tion, and also open up an opportunity to
decrease imports and dependence on for-
eign supplies. There will be some increase
in the price of oil and gas inevitably, no
matter what we do.
985
