Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
attention to general knowledge in addi-
tion to more specialized study. Through
cooperative programs as well as ex-
changes, the two governments will pro-
mote and assist their respective efforts to
this end.
ARTICLE II
The two governments will encourage
and facilitate further development of
development of
contacts and exchanges between the
peoples of the two countries, including
but not limited to interchanges between
representatives of professional groups, cul-
tural organizations, news and public
information organizations, radio and tele-
vision organizations and academic institu-
tions and persons on the basis of shared
interests.
ARTICLE III
The two governments will encourage,
through mutually agreed programs and
exchanges, enhanced understanding be-
tween the two peoples. Programs and ac-
tivities to further this objective may in-
clude, but would not be limited to, the
publication and distribution of books,
magazines, and other printed materials;
production and dissemination of films,
recordings, and other audio-visual mate-
rials; as well as exhibitions relating to his-
tory, culture, arts and contemporary life;
presentations of musical, dramatic and
dance performances; and sports. In order
to make such presentations and materials
more readily understood in the other
country, each government will encourage
the development of activities such as
translation programs.
ARTICLE IV
The two governments will encourage
the broadest participation and support by
non-governmental as well as governmental
institutions for programs and activities
covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
On behalf of the Government of the
United States of America, the Executive
Agency for this Agreement shall be the
International Communication Agency;
on behalf of the Government of the
People's Republic of China, the Executive
Agency for this Agreement shall be the
Ministry of Culture of the People's Re-
public of China.
The two Executive Agencies shall com-
municate with one another to review and
assist in the implementation of this Agree-
ment and may meet periodically as they
may agree. They may reach understand-
ings with one another regarding specific
programs for agreed periods of time,
which will guide the implementation of
this Agreement.
The two Executive Agencies will en-
courage and facilitate, as appropriate, the
development of contacts and cooperation
between government agencies, institutions
of higher learning, research institutes and
other entities of the two countries and the
conclusion of agreements between such
bodies for mutually beneficial activities.
ARTICLE VI
This Agreement shall come into force
on the date of signature for a period of
five years. It shall be automatically re-
newed for another five years unless one of
the governments gives written notice of
termination to the other at least six
months prior to the expiration of the
period, and shall be renewable accord-
ingly thereafter.
DONE at Washington this 31st day of
January, 1979, in duplicate in the English
and Chinese languages, both equally au-
thentic.
208
