Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 29
imported oil and to increase domestic pro- drastically, so that in spite of very rapid
duction of oil.
I've also proposed a windfall profits tax
to capture, for public benefit, a substantial
portion of the increased prices of oil result-
ing from decontrol. And I proposed an
energy security fund to protect those who
are least able to afford the rapidly increas-
ing costs of energy, to improve mass trans-
portation systems in our country, and to
bring the full force of American science
and technology to bear on this crucial
problem.
These proposals, while not universally
popular, are essential to get this country
moving firmly on the way to a more lasting
solution for our energy problem. I hope
that I can have the support of the Con-
gress and the American people for these
energy proposals.
And now, I'd be glad to answer ques-
tions.
QUESTIONS
OIL SUPPLIES AND PRICES; PRESIDENT'S
USE OF HELICOPTERS
Q. Mr. President, I have a three-part
question. What do you say to Members
of Congress and the industry who say that
decontrol will not lead to greater supplies?
Also, what do you say to poor people who
cannot afford the needed gas at these
higher prices? And why did you use heli-
copters for two private fishing trips in re-
cent days?
THE PRESIDENT. Can I take my choice
of the questions? [Laughter]
Q. You can start from the beginning.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I'm convinced that the
government control of oil prices has not
worked. We presently have controls. Oil
production in this country has continued
to go down about 6 percent per year. De-
pendence on imported oil has gone up
increases in the cost of foreign oil, our
country has seen its imports now equal
about one-half total consumption. This
has robbed our Nation of valuable dollars.
It's cut our country out of potential jobs.
It's created very serious problems in our
trade balance, and it's discouraged Ameri-
can production. It's also subsidized foreign
oil and made energy seem to be much
cheaper for consumers than it actually is.
I think it's better to reduce the Federal
bureaucracy and to decontrol oil prices
very slowly and steadily—oh, just 1 or 2
percent per month for 28 months—so that
we can have increased domestic produc-
tion and a reduction in imports.
As far as the poor people are concerned,
we are only willing to let the oil com-
panies keep, out of each dollar increased
in price, about 29 cents. The rest goes to
either local or State or Federal govern-
ments or to the owners of land where oil is
produced.
The income for the Federal Govern-
ment from the windfall profits tax,
brought about by decontrol of oil, will go
into an energy security fund. A substan-
tial portion of this fund will be used to
pay to poor families for the increased cost
of oil and other energy. The rest of it will
go, as I said, for rapid transit and to pro-
duce additional supplies of oil.
It's much less expensive for me, when I
travel from one place to another, to go
by helicopter. When I go by highway, be-
cause of security requirements, I have a
very large entourage, including seven or
eight carloads of press who follow me
when I go by car. And at each intersection
along the highways, the State Police have
people there to guard the intersections to
prevent my injury in case of an accident.
So, it's much less expensive for me to go
by helicopter.
961
