Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
dollar, the Federal Government will get
about 55 cents. The industry will realize
about 25 cents, roughly. We can't tell ex-
actly, because part of the tax, as you know,
is predicated on how much OPEC prices
go up above and beyond the inflation
rate. If they continue to rise relative to
the inflation rate, the tax levies would be
proportionately higher.
This leaves the oil industry, as a result
of decontrol, after they pay Federal and
State taxes, about $6 billion, which
should and I hope will be used to invest
in increased production of oil and gas in
our country.
Another major problem that I face at
this point is the economy. We had very
good news today on our balance of trade
position. We've been heavily emphasizing
increased exports, and we've been en-
couraged by the trends. We've also been
very encouraged by the stabilization of
the value of the dollar since we took
strong action last November. And as you
know, the gross national product of our
country is sound and, we think, is increas-
ing at approximately the proper rate, one
that we would choose if we could arbi-
trarily select one.
The inflation rate is very high. Most of
the inflation does come from the items
over which we have and can have no
control-commodity prices traded on the
international markets, oil prices, the
price of food products that are heavily
affected by adverse weather conditions,
like the extremely severe winter weather,
and low beef herds that are a result of
the price controls that were imposed 5
or 6 years ago.
But we have been very encouraged with
the response, both of the working people
of our country and also of management,
in trying to hold down wages and prices
under the voluntary system. It does have
teeth. It is effective. And I think we have
been blessed by having it. It's not always
perfect; we've had to evolve it in a hurry.
But the response from the business com-
munity and the labor community has been
encouraging to us.
I think the best thing for me to do
now is to respond to any questions that
you might have. I'll try to be brief and
to the point, and I'll recognize you arbi-
trarily.
QUESTIONS
U.S.-MEXICAN RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, the relations with
Mexico are very important in our energy
program. We heard there for quite a while
that Portillo was making statements, and
we were countering. I haven't heard,
really, lately, where that situation stands.
Have we improved our relations? Have
there been any new negotiations with
Mexico on their oil exports?
THE PRESIDENT. Compared to the re-
ports in the press, the situation was al-
ready improved. [Laughter] It never has
been nearly so bad as it was projected
immediately prior to my visit there. But
there seemed to be a wave of reporting
that swept the country, almost in an un-
controllable fashion. And when I was
there, meeting for literally hours in a har-
monious relationship with López Portillo,
he and I were both deeply concerned
about the exaggeration of differences be-
tween us.
Obviously, Mexico has a rapidly in-
creasing prospect for development—do-
mestic consumption and also the export-
ing of oil and gas. What they do about
these factors-exploration, production,
and distribution-is entirely and com-
pletely a decision for them to make. They
guard this prerogative very jealously. And
I agree completely. We do not want to
get involved in that.
736
