Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the one hand, and increased competition
on the other. If the situation is not
changed, even some healthy railroads of
the South and West will face grave diffi-
culties within a few years.
The solution to the railroads' difficulties
is not massive government subsidies or
new government intervention. Simply to
maintain the current rail system would
require $2.5 billion of federal funds each
year between now and 1985 with the
totals likely to grow larger after that. In-
vesting such large sums of tax dollars to
preserve an outmoded system would be
highly inflationary and ultimately fruit-
less.
Deregulation presents the only viable
option to either massive increases in fed-
eral subsidies to the railroads or increased
government intervention in their opera-
tion-both of which are highly undesir-
able. Instead of relying on huge federal
subsidies we must seek to create an en-
vironment in which the railroads them-
selves can regain their economic health
by aggressively improving their operations
and profitability. We must eliminate the
outmoded rules that have prevented rail-
roads from managing their operation effi-
ciently, responding to competitive oppor-
tunities and utilizing equipment profit-
ably. We must allow the industry the flexi-
bility to set rates at levels that generate a
fair return on the investment and that
attract traffic lost to unregulated modes.
Where continued regulation of market
abuse is still necessary, we must insure
that ICC decisions are rendered promptly,
fairly and consistently.
The legislation that we are proposing
results from a full examination of the ex-
isting regulatory system for railroads. The
legislation would create a far more limited
regulatory scheme-one that reflects the
railroads' current competitive and finan-
cial status, and one that provides incen-
tives for the railroads to cut costs, im-
prove service and productivity, and price
services competitively.
Specifically these proposals would:
• Allow railroads to set prices for their
services without interference from the
government. To prevent sudden disloca-
tions, this rate freedom would be phased
in gradually over five years with real rate
ceilings allowed to increase by 7 percent
per year. At the same time, inflationary
general rate increases should be gradually
phased out in favor of company-by-com-
pany pricing of services.
• Transfer jurisdiction over rail merg-
ers from the ICC to the Justice Depart-
ment under standard anti-trust laws.
There is no reason why railroads that do
not compete with each other should be
treated differently from other businesses
seeking to merge.
• Set new guidelines for ICC approval
of rail abandonments. These tests would
insure that railroads are not forced to con-
tinue to serve money losing lines, but
would allow shippers, states or communi-
ties to provide subsidies to maintain
service.
Clarify provisions preventing dis-
crimination among shipping communities,
ports or connecting carriers. The new
rules would continue to prevent abuses
without tying railroads to rigid price
structures.
• Establish new rules to protect railway
employees who may be affected by rail
mergers or abandonments.
• Eliminate ICC jurisdiction over
many day-to-day aspects of managing the
rail system.
The transition period to the new regu-
latory environment may involve some dis-
locations and may lead to temporary un-
certainty for some shippers, railroads and
communities. To the extent possible we
shall continue to use existing federal pro-
460
