Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
liberate denial of telemetric information,
such as through the use of telemetry en-
cryption, whenever such denial impedes
verification of compliance with the pro-
visions of the Treaty.
Third Common Understanding. In addi-
tion to the obligations provided for in
paragraph 3 of Article XV of the Treaty,
no shelters which impede verification by
national technical means of compliance
with the provisions of the Treaty shall be
used over ICBM silo launchers.
To Paragraph 1 of Article XVI of the
Treaty
First Common Understanding. ICBM
launches to which the obligations pro-
vided for in Article XVI of the Treaty
apply, include, among others, those
ICBM launches for which advance noti-
fication is required pursuant to the pro-
visions of the Agreement on Measures to
Reduce the Risk of Outbreak of Nuclear
War Between the United States of Ameri-
ca and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, signed September 30, 1971,
and the Agreement Between the Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
the Government of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics on the Prevention of
Incidents On and Over the High Seas,
signed May 25, 1972. Nothing in Article
XVI of the Treaty is intended to inhibit
advance notification, on a voluntary basis,
of any ICBM launches not subject to its
provisions, the advance notification of
which would enhance confidence between
the Parties.
Second Common Understanding. A mul-
tiple ICBM launch conducted by a Party,
as distinct from single ICBM launches re-
ferred to in Article XVI of the Treaty, is
a launch which would result in two or
more of its ICBMs being in flight at the
same time.
Third Common Understanding. The test
ranges referred to in Article XVI of the
Treaty are those covered by the Second
Agreed Statement to paragraph 2 of
Article VII of the Treaty.
To Paragraph 3 of Article XVII of the
Treaty
Agreed Statement. In order to maintain
the agreed data base on the numbers of
strategic offensive arms subject to the
limitations provided for in the Treaty in
accordance with paragraph 3 of Article
XVII of the Treaty, at each regular ses-
sion of the Standing Consultative Com-
mission the Parties will notify each other
of and consider changes in those numbers
in the following categories: launchers of
ICBMs; fixed launchers of ICBMs;
launchers of ICBMs equipped with
MIRVS; launchers of SLBMs; launchers
of SLBMs equipped with MIRVs; heavy
bombers; heavy bombers equipped for
cruise missiles capable of a range in ex-
cess of 600 kilometers; heavy bombers
equipped only for ASBMs; ASBMs; and
ASBMs equipped with MIRVs.
To Paragraph 2 of Article II of the
Protocol
Agreed Statement. Warheads of a cruise
missile are independently targetable if
maneuvering or targeting of the warheads
to separate aim points along ballistic tra-
jectories or any other flight paths, which
are unrelated to each other, is accom-
plished during a flight of a cruise missile.
To Paragraph 3 of Article II of the
Protocol
First Agreed Statement. If a cruise mis-
sile is capable of a range in excess of 600
kilometers, all cruise missiles of that type
shall be considered to be cruise missiles
capable of a range in excess of 600 kilo-
meters.
1075
