Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, January 19, 1979
National Advisory Committee
for Women
White House Statement. January 13, 1979
The commitment of this administra-
tion to issues important to the women of
the country is strong and permanent.
Each member of the National Advisory
Committee for Women was personally se-
lected by the President, and they are in-
dividuals for whom he has great respect
and in whom he continues to have con-
fidence. We hope that the members of the
Committee will continue to serve in this
work, which is so important to gain the
legitimate rights of women.
The President feels that the Commit-
tee can and will be more productive on
behalf of women, and individual mem-
bers on behalf of their constituencies, if
there is a harmonious working relation-
ship between the administration and the
Committee's leadership.
The President reached his decision to
appoint a new Chairperson after con-
cluding that new leadership is necessary
to achieve the goals he shares with the
members of the Committee and the
women of the country.
We are contacting members of the
Committee to offer the continued cooper-
ation of the administration and to urge
them to work even more effectively with
the President and with other Government
leaders toward these important goals.
Atlanta, Georgia
Remarks Accepting the Martin Luther
King, Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize.
January 14, 1979
Prime Minister Ullsten, Foreign Minister
Frydenlund, members of the diplomatic
corps from throughout the world, Senator
Talmadge, Congressman Levitas, my good
friend and mentor, Dr. Benjamin Mays,
my friend Daddy King, Coretta King,
Chairman Jesse Hill, Reverend Dr.
Roberts, ladies and gentleman:
I'm indeed glad to be back in this his-
toric church where I have attended many
inspirational and delightful services.
I would say two or three things. First of
all, that I would like to donate this money,
if Coretta has no objection, to the Martin
Luther King, Jr. Center for Social
Change, and I appreciate it very much.
Coretta referred to things that don't
change and the proper correlation of them
27
