Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
THE PRESIDENT. I got it. [Laughter] Congress passed the finest package of aid
And where do you
live?
programs for college students that this
Q. I live in Portsmouth. 228 Highland country's ever seen. The only other year
Street.
THE PRESIDENT. 228. I'll write you an
invitation-I'll let Amy write you an
invitation.
Q. Thanks. [Laughter]
PROPOSED DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. Welcome to Portsmouth, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. My name is Vernis Jackson. I'm an
elementary schoolteacher here in Ports-
mouth. My question is, during your cam-
paign for the Presidency, you promised to
work for the establishment of a Cabinet-
level department of education, separate
from HEW. Can you tell me whether your
endeavors toward this goal have been
fruitful, and do you have a timetable as
to when it should be achieved?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We've made good
progress on that. Last year the Senate ap-
proved the legislation. This year we resub-
mitted the legislation, and I think it's in
excellent shape in both the House and
Senate. I predict that we will have estab-
lished a separate department of educa-
tion this year. And I will be very eager
to sign the legislation when the Congress
passes it.
Q. Thank you.
FEDERAL AID TO COLLEGE STUDENTS
Q. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
Q. My name is Forrest Snowden, and
I'm a freshman at Winikana High School
in Hampton. What I would like to know
is what have you done to cut down the fi-
nancial costs for high school students go-
ing to college?
THE PRESIDENT. Good. Last year the
when the Congress took equally effec-
tive action was back in 1965 when the
Higher Education Act was first passed.
I think the total benefits that were al-
lotted to college students amounted to
maybe six or eight billion dollars. They
consisted of direct grants to college stu-
dents who are poor, but who are capable
of doing college work.
They consisted of increased loans to
college students whose parents have some
income but who can't afford the high
cost of college; the banks in the local re-
gion lend the students money. They pay
it back after they finish college and get a
job, and the Federal Government sup-
plements the interest rates to keep the in-
terest rates down low. And they also pro-
vided a special allocation of money for
college work programs, whereby a student
can go to college and, at the same time he
or she gets an education, can get a job,
financed partially by the Federal Gov-
ernment kind of a work-study program.
So, I think these new programs, when
they are known throughout the coun-
try-and the legislation just passed last
year-will be one of the finest opportu-
nities ever. And I hope that you will have
a chance before long to take advantage
of these programs.
Q. Okay. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Yes, sir?
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
Q. My name is John Williamson from
Rye. I want to thank you for not quitting.
It's a very unruly country we have.ยน
ยน The questioner was referring to several in-
cidents of heckling which had taken place
earlier during the town meeting.
711
