Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
I would now like to call upon the noted
chairman of the House Judiciary Com-
mittee to make some comments, if he will.
Chairman Rodino.
REPRESENTATIVE RODINO. Thank you
very much, Mr. President.
Mr. President and colleagues, first of
all, I'd like to applaud you, Mr. President,
for taking this step. I believe that we, as
Members of the Congress entrusted with
a special responsibility in the area of dis-
pensing justice, recognize the need for
our improvement in the machinery of
justice so that the quality of justice that
is dispensed is such that we can be proud.
And I believe that central to our respon-
sibility in the House Judiciary Committee
is our concern for how the citizens of this
country view the system of justice. And I
think very frankly, there has been some
question.
And I believe that these proposals that
have been advanced by Judge Bell and
Dan Meador, which have been worked
over for a period of time by the chairman
of the Subcommittee on Courts and Civil
Liberties and the Administration of Jus-
tice, Mr. Kastenmeier, along with Mr.
Railsback and the ranking minority mem-
ber of our Judiciary Committee, Mr. Mc-
Clory-I think all of this indicates the
great concern we have and the trust that
we feel that we have, especially as mem-
bers of the Judiciary Committee, in as-
suring that the system of justice is one
that reflects the highest ideals of this
country.
I believe that most important is whether
or not we, as a society, can dispense justice
in a manner to show that we are a just
society and how just is our system of justice
and whether or not the Federal court
machinery, which is there as the adminis-
trator of the system, whether or not that
Federal court machinery does treat the in-
dividual, with his certain basic belief in
that this system is one that protects funda-
mental liberties and rights, whether or not
that Federal court machinery does reflect
this. And I believe that this inures to the
respect of our Nation when we do this.
I believe that all of these proposals, Mr.
President, go generally toward these ob-
jectives and the strengthening of our sys-
tem of justice. And I pledge you, as the
chairman of that committee who takes a
great deal of pride in what we have done
and, along with Senator Kennedy as chair-
man of the Senate committee, that we will
work toward that end and realize these
objectives.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, with that pledge
from the great committee chairman, I'm
sure that the House will favorably con-
sider these proposals without delay. And
I'm very grateful to hear that.
And now, Chairman Kennedy.
SENATOR KENNEDY. We have a similar
pledge, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
SENATOR KENNEDY. I, too, want to
commend President Carter for this very
extraordinary effort in trying to make our
system of justice both more available and
more efficient. I think it's completely con-
sistent with the President's strong desire
for efficiency in government and as well
as for the protection of human rights, the
millions of Americans who do not partici-
pate in our judicial system.
Mr. President, it's been some 50 years
since the time that Charles Evans Hughes
made a recommendation to President
Roosevelt that we have had the kind of
comprehensive recommendation that we
have in this particular package which you
and General Bell and, most singularly,
Senator DeConcini and Howard Metzen-
baum have worked out so effectively for
the American people.
And I just want to join in commending
you, to indicate we have already had 2
days of hearings already in this session on
341
