Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 12
I
talks. These Multilateral Trade Negotia-
tions (MTN), the seventh round since
World War II, are the most comprehen-
sive and far reaching since establishment
of the General Agreements on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) in 1947. For the first
time, agreements or "codes" have been
concluded on a broad range of "non-
tariff" obstacles to trade. Phased tariff re-
ductions averaging about 33 percent were
also approved.
The agreements, when approved by
Congress, will establish new trading rules
that will increase the opportunities of
all nations, rich and poor, to exchange
their goods under equitable conditions.
Through such fair and open trade, we
strengthen peace and trust in the world
and make more efficient use of the world's
human and material resources.
The agreements steer us away from de-
structive protectionism and into a path of
greater export opportunities, with the
prospects of new jobs, improved produc-
tivity, and increased industrial and agri-
cultural production. The new opportuni-
ties that are thus developed will be real-
ized through vigorous efforts by govern-
ment, industry, and agriculture to pro-
mote exports.
The trade agreements that we have
signed are the product of years of work,
during which time American negotiators
have been advised and assisted by con-
cerned Members of Congress and by
hundreds of men and women from the
private sector.
I wish to take this opportunity to re-
emphasize this administration's commit-
ment to the national export policy that
stimulates our export trade. I also wish to
commend all those in the United States
and abroad whose labors resulted in the
new international trade agreements.
United States-United Kingdom
Convention on Taxation and
Fiscal Evasion
Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol
to the Convention. April 12, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, a Third Pro-
tocol further amending the Convention
between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland for the avoidance of
double taxation and the prevention of
fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on in-
come and capital gains signed at London
on December 31, 1975, as amended by
an exchange of notes dated April 13, 1976,
and by Protocols signed at London on
August 26, 1976 and March 31, 1977. For
the information of the Senate, I also
transmit the report of the Department of
State on the Third Protocol.
The Third Protocol will enter into
force immediately after the expiration of
30 days following the date on which in-
struments of ratification are exchanged.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Third
Protocol and give advice and consent to
its ratification.
The White House,
April 12, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Federal Reserve System
Nomination of Emmett J. Rice To Be a
Member of the Board of Governors.
April 12, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Emmett J. Rice, of
Washington, D.C., to be a member of the
663
