Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
peace in the world and a control of all
weapons.
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 8:10 p.m. at
the Soviet Embassy.
Earlier in the day, President Carter, Presi-
dent Brezhnev, and their delegations held
morning and afternoon meetings at the Soviet
Embassy.
As printed above, the item follows the press
release.
Vienna Summit Meeting
United States-Soviet Union Treaty on the
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms and
Related Documents. June 18, 1979
TREATY BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND THE UNION OF SOVIET
SOCIALIST Republics on THE LIMITA-
TION OF STRATEGIC OFFENSIVE ARMS
The United States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
hereinafter referred to as the Parties,
Conscious that nuclear war would have
devastating consequences for all man-
kind,
Proceeding from the Basic Principles of
Relations Between the United States of
America and the Union of Soviet Social-
ist Republics of May 29, 1972,
Attaching particular significance to the
limitation of strategic arms and deter-
mined to continue their efforts begun with
the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-
Ballistic Missile Systems and the Interim
Agreement on Certain Measures with Re-
spect to the Limitation of Strategic Offen-
sive Arms, of May 26, 1972,
Convinced that the additional measures
limiting strategic offensive arms provided
for in this Treaty will contribute to the
improvement of relations between the
Parties, help to reduce the risk of out-
break of nuclear war and strengthen
international peace and security,
Mindful of their obligations under
Article VI of the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
Guided by the principle of equality and
equal security,
Recognizing that the strengthening of
strategic stability meets the interests of
the Parties and the interests of interna-
tional security,
Reaffirming their desire to take meas-
ures for the further limitation and for
the further reduction of strategic arms,
having in mind the goal of achieving gen-
eral and complete disarmament,
Declaring their intention to undertake
in the near future negotiations further to
limit and further to reduce strategic
offensive arms,
Have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
Each Party undertakes, in accordance
with the provisions of this Treaty, to limit
strategic offensive arms quantitatively
and qualitatively, to exercise restraint in
the development of new types of strategic
offensive arms, and to adopt other meas-
ures provided for in this Treaty.
ARTICLE II
For the purposes of this Treaty:
1. Intercontinental ballistic missile
(ICBM) launchers are land-based
launchers of ballistic missiles capable of
a range in excess of the shortest distance
between the northeastern border of the
continental part of the territory of the
United States of America and the north-
western border of the continental part of
the territory of the Union of Soviet So-
cialist Republics, that is, a range in excess
of 5,500 kilometers.
1051
