Jan. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
for the resumption of negotiations. As of
the date of this report, it appeared that
both the Greek and Turkish Cypriots
were seriously and sympathetically con-
sidering the Secretary General's proposal.
The Government of Turkey has taken
a constructive attitude towards these ef-
forts to bring about a resumption of the
intercommunal negotiations. Prime Min-
ister Ecevit has publicly affirmed that the
Turkish Cypriots are prepared to return
to the table, and he has indicated that
they could accept the suggestions of No-
vember 10 as an aid to negotiation if the
Greek Cypriots were prepared to do like-
wise. During a meeting with Deputy Sec-
retary of State Christopher in Ankara on
January 11, Mr. Ecevit emphasized his
strong interest in seeing a resumption of
the intercommunal talks and expressed
the hope that some way for doing this
could soon be found.
At the time of my last report, the
United Nations Security Council was
meeting at the request of the Govern-
ment of Cyprus to consider the Cyprus
issue. On November 27, the Council
adopted a resolution by consensus that
called upon the two Cypriot parties to
cooperate in the implementation of Se-
curity Council resolutions on Cyprus
"within a specific time-frame" and urged
that intercommunal negotiations be re-
sumed. The Secretary-General was asked
to report on both these aspects by May 30,
1979. The United States fully supports
the goals of this resolution.
This Administration warmly welcomes
the initiatives that Secretary-General
Waldheim has taken and is continuing
to take to bring about sustained and pro-
ductive negotiations on Cyprus. We have
been encouraged by recent developments,
and hope very much that a resumption
of the talks will prove possible in the near
future. The U.S.-Canadian-U.K. sugges-
tions of November 10 have served a use-
ful purpose in generating some of this
forward movement and in stimulating
fresh thinking on the substance of the
problem, and it is our expectation that
they will be actively considered in the
negotiations.
A copy of Secretary-General Wald-
heim's comprehensive report of Decem-
ber 1 to the Security Council on the
United Nations operation in Cyprus is
attached.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Frank
Church, chairman of the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee.
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
of China
Toasts at the State Dinner. January 29, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Vice Premier Deng,
Madame Zhuo Lin, distinguished visitors
from the People's Republic of China,
President Nixon, my fellow Americans,
and friends:
This house belongs to all Americans,
people who are firmly dedicated to a
world of friendship and peace. And, Vice
Premier Deng, on behalf of all Americans,
I welcome you here to our house.
Your visit here, Mr. Vice Premier, is an
important milestone in the development
of friendly relations between the United
States of America and the People's Re-
public of China. I'm gratified that after
too many years of estrangement, that our
two countries have now grasped the op-
portunity to reestablish these vital, formal
links that exist between us.
In the past year, more than 120 dele-
gations from the People's Republic of
China have come here to the United States
192
