Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 23
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Dan Shilon
of Israeli Television. March 22, 1979
MR. SHILON. Mr. President, less than 2
weeks ago, when you addressed the Is-
raeli Knesset, you said, and I quote, "The
people of the two nations are ready now
for peace. The leaders have not yet proven
that we are also ready for peace, enough
to take the chance."
Now, after the leaders approved the
peace treaty, it seems that the leaders are
celebrating. The peoples are still a bit
cautious about it. How can you explain
it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me correct
you, first of all. I didn't say the leaders
of the two nations; I said we leaders. And
I was referring also to the adjacent coun-
tries, Syria and Jordan, where I believe a
substantial portion of the population are
intensely desirous of peace and an end to
hatred and terrorism and destruction and
death. So, that's what I meant when I
talked to the Knesset.
I don't believe that the peace treaties
can have their full, permanent, beneficial
impact if they are just based on a rela-
tionship between or among leaders or doc-
uments, because Sadat, Begin, Carter will
not be in office many years under the best
of circumstances. And until we have a
genuine interrelationship among the
peo-
ple of, say, Egypt and Israel, we can't
have the full connotation of the meaning
of peace. We need students to move freely
back and forth between the two countries,
tourists, open borders, free use of the Suez
Canal, the Straits of Tiran. We need in-
creased trade, mutual investment, ex-
change of employees back and forth be-
tween the two countries, an opening up
of trade between Israel and the United
States, Egypt and the United States and
Western Europe, that hasn't been there
before.
As soon as the people of the two coun-
tries get to know each other, to trust each
other, to like each other, to become mu-
tually dependent on each other, to rec-
ognize their common future, common
problems, common opportunities, at that
point, peace will be permanent and will
be full.
And I think that's the best way to dem-
onstrate to the Palestinians, to the Jor-
danians, to the Syrians, and others, the
full advantages to them of emulating
what Egypt and Israel have already done.
MR. SHILON. But on the other hand,
what are the risks to Israel and to Egypt,
if there are any, by signing the peace
treaty?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the risks
of not signing it are much greater than
the risks of signing it. Obviously, there is
going to be a period of time within which
the PLO and some of the Arab countries
will threaten increased violence or eco-
nomic punishment, terrorism, instability.
I really believe that that period is going
to be relatively brief.
So, to compare the risks with the ad-
vantages of signing the peace treaty, ob-
viously, the advantages far outweigh the
risks.
There are some doubts about the fu-
ture. This is kind of a new life, and both
countries are going into the unknown
with great predictions of problems. I
think the problems have been grossly ex-
aggerated from the very beginning. And,
of course, to the extent that we can use
our influence in a beneficial way, the
United States is not only willing but eager
to guarantee that the outcome of the
453
