Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 25
broadcasting into plain English. The FAA
reduced the hours small airlines have to
spend filling out their forms by more than
two-thirds. EPA designed creative proce-
dures that allow companies flexibility in
meeting pollution standards, leading to
potential savings of millions of dollars
without sacrificing clean air goals. We
reorganized regulation of pension pro-
grams to eliminate duplication and re-
duce paperwork.
These efforts will continue in 1979. We
have important non-legislative initiatives
underway, including: a wide-ranging re-
view of rules affecting technological inno-
vation; revisions of all OSHA safety
standards to make them simpler and more
flexible; overhauls of the regulations im-
posing costs on hospitals; streamlining
EPA permit procedures; review of re-
strictions on banking; development of a
coordinated policy on identification and
regulation of cancer-causing substances;
and increased research to improve the
factual basis for regulatory decisions on
toxic chemicals, air pollutants and radia-
tion. We will continue to scrutinize major
new rules to ensure that they accomplish
their statutory mandates without impos-
ing needless burdens.
These steps are having an impact.
Regulatory programs were created by leg-
islation, however, and we need legislation
to achieve comprehensive reform. Last
year we and Congress made an important
beginning. The Airline Deregulation Act
substantially deregulated a major indus-
try and enabled more people to fly while
saving passengers $2.5 billion in air fares.
My regulatory reform program has two
elements:
• We must work together to review the
laws that established the regulatory pro-
grams. Those that needlessly restrict com-
petition, impose rigidity, or are otherwise
out of date must be revised or eliminated.
• For the programs that are needed,
we must assure that the statutory man-
dates are executed sensibly. We must
identify alternative means of achieving
goals, choose efficient and effective ap-
proaches, and improve planning and co-
ordination. We must make it easier for
the public and those affected by regula-
tions to anticipate them, participate in de-
veloping them, comply with them, and
benefit from them. We must provide com-
mon sense management for the regulatory
process.
This year I am proposing that Con-
gress act in three areas:
1. REGULATION REFORM ACT OF 1979
Once a statute creating a regulatory
program is passed, the quality of the pro-
gram depends mainly on the men and
women who are running it. We have a
competent and dedicated
group of regu-
lators in government now, and they are
producing real advances in regulatory
reform.
We need legislation to set uniform
standards for the work they do and give
them the tools to continue their progress.
I am submitting, with this Message, a bill
to revamp regulatory procedures. This bill
strengthens the reforms introduced by
E.O. 12044, makes them permanent, and
applies them to the independent regula-
tory commissions. It also overhauls key
parts of the Administrative Procedure Act,
for the first time since 1946. It sets vital
new rules for the regulators:
• Cost-Effectiveness: The bill re-
quires that when an agency develops a
major rule, it lists the alternative means
of accomplishing the objective and the
costs and benefits of each alternative. The
public will be asked to comment on that
analysis and to suggest any additional op-
tions that should be considered. The
493
