Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
entry and their egress from our country
be consistent, understandable, and legal.
And in some instances, we'll be modify-
ing American law to comply with existing
practices. In others, we'll be trying to
bring order out of chaos. And we're try-
ing to get the cooperation of the Mexican
authorities as well.
All these factors are very complicated.
Nobody's been willing, really, in the Con-
gress yet, as you know, to address this
sensitive and politically difficult issue. We
have addressed it as best we could. And
obviously we have an open mind about it.
If we think that Mexican opinion, as ex-
pressed to me by President López Portillo,
would be constructive, that modifications
to our proposal will make it more accept-
able to the Congress and to the people of
our country and to the Mexicans, then we
would certainly advocate those changes.
FARM PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, many farmers are on
their way to Washington in a tractorcade.
What type of reception do
reception do you feel they
will get when they arrive?
THE PRESIDENT. I think as long as they
demonstrate their support for our pro-
grams [laughter] or displeasure with
some of them legally and peacefully,
they'll certainly be welcomed.
I have a background in agriculture, and
I meet with many farmers when I go
home, both those who register their ad-
vice and counsel and criticisms construc-
tively, and the ones who register their
advice, counsel, and criticism in a con-
trary way.
I think that in general, though, the
1977 farm act passed by Congress has
been a very beneficial decision made for
American farmers. Last year, net farm
income went up about 25 percent. The
only year that it's ever been that high is
1973, when there were some extraordi-
nary circumstances. And I believe that
most of the complaints that originated
the American farm movement have now
been answered.
We have each year record farm exports.
We obviously have not had an embargo
against the sale of American products
overseas. But I expect farmers-being one
of them-always to want better programs,
higher parity payments, and so I think
they'll be received well.
And I'm sure that there's not the deep
sense of indignation and animosity that
did exist 18 months ago, because many of
those problems that were legitimately de-
scribed by the American farm movement
have now been resolved successfully.
VICE PREMIER DENG OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, I wonder if you
could tell us, Mr. President, what you're
likely to say to Deng Xiaoping and what
you would like to hear from him.
THE PRESIDENT. That would take a
long time to describe all the items. As you
know, this will be the end of decades of
estrangement between the Chinese and
the American people. And I think it's an
historic change, all elements of it, for the
better.
We'll be talking about how we can en-
hance political discussions between our
two countries, to improve cultural ex-
change, student exchange, trade, technol-
ogy, science, agriculture. We'll be demon-
strating vividly to Vice Premier Deng
Xiaoping, his wife, and his party—here
in Washington, with meetings with me
and the Congress, with the receptions that
I anticipate his receiving in Atlanta,
Houston, Seattle—that we, indeed, have
a broad base of American friendship
toward the Chinese people, that we ap-
preciate the importance of this new move,
new relationship. I think we'll be discuss-
ing how the new Chinese and American
186
