Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 25
the Government in energy prices, as you
know. And by September of 1981, the
present authority for regulation of oil
prices expires. Any additional income that
is derived from possible taxes in the fu-
ture on which I've not yet decided would
certainly be channeled into new energy
sources, as well as conservation and the
enhancement of our American domestic
production. Gasohol and other similar re-
plenishable sources of fuel will certainly
be near the top of the list.
BROADCAST INDUSTRY DEREGULATION
Q. I'm Katherine Broman, president of
Springfield Television in Springfield,
Massachusetts. And you were up visiting
us a few years ago.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, and my wife was
there last week.
Q. That's right. You have taken my
question and practically answered it be-
fore, because I was going to ask you
about deregulation of the broadcast in-
dustry. But let me ask you, can you give
us a timetable as to when we are going
to be free of some of the paperwork that
you have discussed?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Charlie Ferris,
who is here with me today and will stay
until Wednesday to answer your questions
specifically, can give you a better time-
frame.
This legislation that will be proposed to
the Congress tomorrow covers not only
the FCC but all other independent regu-
latory agencies, and I've already covered
the regulatory agencies under my control
or influence already.
As you know, most of these agencies
have to be under the control of laws
themselves, because the President, of ne-
cessity, has no control over them.
We've already made a great deal of
progress. In the health field, for instance,
HEW has already eliminated more than
300 specific reports that have to be
brought in in health. In 1 day last year,
OSHA eliminated 1,000 regulations as a
wonderful gift to the American public and
to the President.
And Charlie Ferris flew from Wash-
ington to Oklahoma, now down here with
me yesterday and this morning, and he
is absolutely determined that the FCC will
equal the achievements that I have just
described. He's got my support and my
help.
So, in a generic sense, because of legis-
lation and in the FCC itself-which has
an equal determination administratively—
we will make that progress that I've de-
scribed to you.
I might point out that many of the reg-
ulations that presently are burdensome
have been proposed and supported and
are still supported by the broadcasting in-
dustry itself. So, we've got to be very care-
ful as we remove regulations not to inter-
fere in the orderly processes of your in-
dustry. But I can assure you that my own
direct Presidential influence and interest
is in it for political benefits to myself, if
I succeed, as well as what I detect to be
in the best interests of our country.
FIRST AMENDMENT PRIVILEGES
Q. Mr. President, I'm Dick Chapin
with KFOR in Lincoln, Nebraska, and I'd
like to ask the question if you believe
that broadcasters are entitled to the same
first amendment privileges as are the news-
papers?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a hard question
for me to answer, because it has so many
ramifications. [Laughter]
485
