June 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the poor people who are presently de-
prived of health care at all; the elderly,
who have a genuine fear of dependence
upon Medicare because benefits run out
or because their costs are too high;
mothers, or prospective mothers, who
have the great responsibility of bringing a
child into the world without adequate
prenatal or postnatal care; and the aver-
age American family who can be wiped
out financially by a catastrophic illness
these categories of Americans have waited
too long for action. And now with a con-
certed effort by myself and my whole ad-
ministration, the leaders in the House and
Senate who have been long impatient
about inaction, and the full support of
the American people, we will have suc-
cess this year.
Now Secretary Joe Califano and Stu
Eizenstat will be glad to answer questions
on the specific nature of the proposal for
the press. And we will now ask the Sen-
ators to go back to the Finance Committee
and pass hospital cost containment-
[laughter] to clear the decks for this
broader coverage consideration in the
very near future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 a.m. to
reporters assembled in Room 450 of the Old
Executive Office Building. Following his re-
marks, Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr., and Stuart
E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs and Policy, held a news con-
ference on the proposed legislation.
National Health Plan
Message to the Congress on Proposed
Legislation. June 12, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am proposing to the Congress
a National Health Plan. This major new
initiative will improve health care for mil-
lions of Americans and protect all our
people against the overwhelming finan-
cial burdens of serious illness.
It has been 30 years since President
Truman challenged Congress to secure
for all Americans access to quality health
care as a matter of right. It has been
nearly 15 years since the Congress, re-
sponding to the leadership of Presidents
Kennedy and Johnson, finally enacted
Medicare and Medicaid. Now, after a
decade and a half of inaction, it is time to
move forward once again.
I have consulted with the Congress,
with consumers, with leaders of labor,
management, and the health care indus-
try, and have carefully weighed every op-
tion. My proposal is practical, premised
on effective cost controls, and consistent
with sound budget practices. It will:
-protect all Americans from the cost
of catastrophic illness or accident
-extend comprehensive health cover-
age to almost 16 million low-income
Americans
-provide coverage for prenatal, de-
livery, postnatal, and infant care,
without cost-sharing
-establish Healthcare, which will pro-
vide more efficient Federal adminis-
tration of health coverage for the
poor and the elderly
-reform the health care system to pro-
mote competition and contain costs
-create both the framework and the
momentum for a universal, compre-
hensive national health plan.
PROTECTION FROM CATASTROPHIC
EXPENSES
No American should live in fear that
a serious illness or accident will mean
bankruptcy or a lifetime of debt. Yet to-
day over 80 million Americans are unpro-
1028
