May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
inflation. We've restored sanity to the
Federal budget. And I'm proud that with
the 1980 fiscal year budget, the Demo-
cratic Congress will have reduced the Re-
publican deficit by more than 55 percent
just since I ran for office in 1976. And
what is more important, we have done
this while increasing substantially, often
in an unprecedented way, our commit-
ment to the elderly, the poor, the unem-
ployed, to education, to housing, to trans-
portation, and to better cities and towns
and stronger farm families.
That's the record of Democratic eco-
nomics-and it's a winning record.
As Democrats, we've also faced the
hard truth about energy-perhaps the
most complex issue ever faced by the
United States Congress in the history of
our Nation.
Last year, Congress passed the first
comprehensive energy program in our
Nation's history. It was not easy. It did
not yet deal with oil, but it was a major
achievement.
Now the challenge ahead of us is to
pass the windfall profits tax and create
the energy security fund. You remember
when the armchair experts just a few
weeks ago said that the Congress would
never seriously consider passing a wind-
fall profits tax, that it was a hopeless ges-
ture. We've heard from the American
people, though, and in a few short weeks
this tune has changed. We know the fight
is still to come, but they've learned some-
thing important about the strength and
the courage and the responsibility of a
Democratic Congress. We will have the
energy security fund, financed by a real,
genuine windfall profits tax, to protect
the American people. And you can de-
pend on that.
When I ran for President, I promised
a government as good as the American
people. Some critics said this was corny,
some said it was just political rhetoric in
an election year. But working together,
we've proven them wrong. We have re-
stored integrity and honesty to the Amer-
ican Government. There are no more offi-
cial Government lies, no more enemies
lists prepared in the Oval Office, and we
are eliminating sellouts to special inter-
ests.
The American people were sick and
tired of waste, redtape, and Government
over-regulation. We heard their voices
and we responded.
We've passed a landmark civil service
reform bill. We've placed Inspectors Gen-
eral in every major Federal agency to
root out fraud and dishonesty. We've shut
off the regulatory assemblyline. We've
eliminated hundreds and hundreds of use-
less OSHA regulations and let that
agency function as it should. And we've
decontrolled airline rates and saved the
consumers over $2.5 billion.
But no accomplishment is more impor-
tant than our commitment to peace.
A foreign policy should be built upon
the best instincts of the American people.
It should not ever be based on cynicism
or deceit.
We've worked hard to construct a for-
eign policy that is worthy of our Nation's
noble heritage. We've spoken out for hu-
man rights around the world with a
strong voice, and we will continue to pro-
mote and to protect basic human rights
as long as I'm President and as long as
you serve in the Congress. And that's an
important, unswerving commitment of
the United States of America.
We must be committed to peace, but
we must also be militarily strong. We do
not need to prove our strength through
rash or reckless military adventures. But
our military forces must be adequate to
deter any others who may be tempted to-
ward adventurism. We Democrats will
830
