Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 7
the rate of inflation. I cautioned then
that it was a long-term program which
would not provide instant results or im-
mediate gratification.
We have had some important successes.
It's unfortunate that they've been ob-
scured by inflationary forces, many beyond
our own control, such as OPEC oil prices,
the very small cattle herds which are now
being rebuilt, and the severe winter
weather that made fruit and produce so
scarce.
Most of our Nation's largest corpora-
tions have promised to abide by our
guidelines. They have let us monitor their
performance, and I can tell you they are
keeping their word.
We have had problems with some
smaller companies that in the past didn't
think the guidelines applied to them, but
now they're beginning to understand what
we are attempting to do. But we are
greatly increasing our price-monitoring
effort to make sure that every business in
our country does its share.
And without fanfare or headlines, often
without recognition, the working people of
this country, both organized and unorga-
nized, are sharing in the fight against
higher prices. As of mid-March, contracts
that meet the guidelines have been nego-
tiated by unions covering 325,000 work-
ers, hundreds of contracts.
Inflation, however, is still a very serious
problem. Our guidelines are voluntary,
and there are times when they will be
violated. But in almost every case, wage
or price increases that exceed the stand-
ards will still be significantly lower than
if we had chosen to do nothing.
We'll fight to make the guidelines more
and more effective, week by week. And
as we get the first quarter's results and
analyze them, any company which is ex-
ceeding the guidelines will have a very
difficult time selling their products to the
Federal Government.
We must be prudent buyers. And I hope
that you will also be prudent buyers. We
will be sending out now, on a monthly
basis, a report to you on those items which
we believe have exceeded and are ex-
ceeding the prices that are most attractive
for you and for your family. And I hope
that you will purchase your supplies, your
food, very carefully. And we've joined in
with consumer groups and others to mon-
itor the prices, still on a voluntary basis.
If we're going to curb inflation, how-
ever, the Federal budget must also set an
example of restraint. And that's where
my direct responsibility comes in.
Republicans talk about balanced budg-
ets, but it takes Democrats to reduce the
deficit. A recent poll, nationwide poll,
showed that for the first time since the
two parties have been formed, more
people in this country now believe that
Democrats are fiscally responsible than
Republicans. We have always been
more fiscally responsible; now people
know it.
One reason is that in 1976, when I was
running for President, the Federal budg-
et deficit was over $66 billion. The budg-
et that I've just submitted to Congress
will realize a net reduction in our deficit
of more than 55 percent, which will get
us more than halfway toward our goal of
what you want, and that's a balanced
budget for the Government of the United
States.
The important thing is that we have
trimmed the fat in our budget without
jeopardizing the programs that help the
poor and the disadvantaged and the
[un]employed and which give our Nation
prosperity and give our Nation a strong
defense, because we know that prosperity
at home depends on our military strength
and on our commitment to peace.
635
