Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Article 5 exempts equipment whose
movement involves a deep sea voyage of
150 kilometers or more. Thus, traffic in
foodstuffs between the United States and
Europe is not subject to the ATP. In addi-
tion, and in accordance with an option
available under Article 10, the United
States will not apply the ATP to transport
equipment operating within and moving
into and out of the United States and its
territories.
However, accession to the ATP will
ensure that the United States has a voice
in ECE deliberations and decisions per-
taining to the administration of the ATP,
a matter of concern to U.S. exporters of
perishable foodstuffs and operators of
refrigerated equipment. U.S. participa-
tion will be particularly important in rela-
tion to the Article 5 exemption of carriage
involving a long sea voyage. As a con-
tracting party, the U.S. will be able to
preserve this exemption by exercising the
power under Article 18 to veto any pro-
posed changes in the ATP.
Moreover, accession will enable manu-
facturers, owners and operators of U.S.
transport equipment to have their equip-
ment tested and certified in the United
States with the assurance that the U.S.-
issued certificates will be recognized by all
of the contracting parties. While parties
to the ATP must, under the terms of
Article 2, recognize the validity of certifi-
cates issued by other contracting parties,
they need not recognize certificates issued
by non-parties. If the United States does
not become a party, U.S. transport equip-
ment which does not qualify for the Arti-
cle 5 exemption—that is, equipment mov-
ing between countries in Europe-will be
placed at a competitive disadvantage with
respect to equipment owned by nationals
of parties to the ATP. Furthermore, the
availability of testing and certification
services in the United States will enable
manufacturers, owners and operators of
U.S. transport equipment which may be-
come involved in inter-European trans-
port to test and certify their equipment
while it is still on the production line.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Agree-
ment and give its advice and consent to
accession, subject to the declaration pur-
suant to Article 10 that the Agreement
does not apply to carriage in the United
States or its territories.
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Nice Agreement on
International Trademarks
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Revised Agreement. January 19, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the revised Nice Agree-
ment Concerning the International Clas-
sification of Goods and Services for the
Purposes of the Registration of Marks,
done at Geneva on May 13, 1977. I also
transmit, for the information of the Sen-
ate, the State Department report on the
Agreement.
The revised Agreement provides that
amendments to the classification system
may be made by a four-fifths majority of
the members present and voting, instead
of a unanimous vote, as the present Agree-
ment requires. The other important
change is that the Agreement and the
classification are to be published in an
authentic English text, as well as a
French text.
Ratification of the revised Agreement
will enable the United States Patent and
Trademark Office to do its work more
efficiently, and will improve the interna-
84
