Jan. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
domestic and foreign counselors
strongly oriented, as am I, toward the
improvement of the life of minority
citizens in this country.
If I should ever have any proven alle-
gations that this is not the case with a
single Cabinet member or any of my ad-
visers, I would discharge them immedi-
ately. And I hope that the minority
citizens of our country don't feel that
when they have a special problem that re-
lates to the United States Government,
that they have to find a black person to
listen to them. I'm available, and I hope
that every member of my staff, every
member of my Cabinet feels the same
way.
BLACK SUPPORT FOR THE PRESIDENT
MR. BOONE. Mr. President, a followup.
You proved your credibility in the black
community 2 years ago when you won 90
percent of the vote. But times change and,
of course, the degree of credibility
changes.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. BOONE. You're in midterm now.
My question is, if you decide to run, and
I understand you have made a decision to
that effect, do you think you could pull a
repeat 90-percent performance in an elec-
tion, considering the heavy criticism that
you have received from the black com-
munity, particularly in the area of un-
employment and the budget? Could I
have a response to that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Boone, let me say
that I think my record on the unemploy-
ment and budget is very good. But I don't
take anything for granted. Certainly, I
don't take for granted an automatic sup-
port by the black citizens of our country
just because I'm a Democrat or just be-
cause I've been in office or just because I
got good support 2 years ago. My effort
will be continuing the next 2 years to do
a good job, so that whether I am the next
President or not, the black citizens of our
country would say, "Jimmy Carter was a
friend of ours as long as he was in the
White House." So, I want to run on my
record, if I run, and not based on any sort
of assumption that I will get support from
the black community just because of who
I am or what I've done.
PRESIDENT'S 1980 CANDIDACY
MR. BOONE. One followup, Mr. Presi-
dent. Have you decided whether you
would run, and would you share that with
us? In 1980, are you going to run?
THE PRESIDENT. I've decided, but I
haven't decided when I'm going to an-
nounce my decision.
1980 BUDGET
MR. AGURS. The last question, Mr.
President, is do you foresee a serious con-
gressional challenge to your budget-mak-
ing decisions and that is why you've put
on additional lobbying strengths? And
also, if so, do you think the lawmakers
would be more interested in increasing
your social and domestic expenditures?
What is your assessment?
THE PRESIDENT. I've worked the last
12 months on this 1980 fiscal year budget.
And I believe, Mr. Agurs, that it's a good
budget. Obviously, it's going to be 5 or 6
months, at least, before the Congress takes
final action on the budget I propose. And
during that 5 or 6 months or more, eco-
nomic circumstances will change, esti-
mates of revenue and expenditures will
become much more accurate, and there
might be some modifications to the budget
that I, myself, would propose to the Con-
gress, as I have the 2 preceding years.
But I believe that the Congress will find,
in general, this to be a fair budget, a
40
