May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
our commitment to the passage of this
legislation. It is not a partisan issue. Mo
Udall, John Anderson, and the other
Members of Congress here, almost equally
divided-I just looked at the list-between
Republicans and Democrats, have pre-
pared a proposal to go to the House floor
when the vote comes up within the next
few days.
I will do my utmost to support this
legislation in the House and Senate, and
I hope that you will greatly magnify your
own influence throughout the Nation and
let individual Members of the House and
Senate know how American people truly
feel.
This legislation encourages the econom-
ic development of Alaska. There is no
constraint at all that would interfere with
the proper growth of Alaska in population
and material wealth.
Last year, as you know, I took executive
action, which is not the easiest course to
follow, to establish 17 permanent Na-
tional Monuments, including, I think, 56
million acres. I will not hesitate to use
administrative action in the future, if
necessary, to protect the Alaskan lands
from abuse. But a far better approach is
to pass permanent legislation, approved
by a majority of the Congress and signed
by me into law.
And to summarize, you have my com-
mitment, and I need your help—not just
quiescent personal endorsements, which
might salve a troubled conscience, but an
absolute, coherent, sharply focused, sacri-
ficial commitment the next few days to do
everything you can to overcome any ob-
stacle and to have this legislation passed
into law.
There's nothing you could do for future
generations in the environmental field
that would pay richer dividends. And
when this task is accomplished—and I
believe it will be-we can all be legiti-
mately proud.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
3 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
United States-Canada Maritime
Boundary and Fishery Treaties
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaties. May 3, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice
and consent of the Senate to ratification,
two separate but closely related treaties
with Canada: the Treaty between the
Government of the United States of
America and the Government of Canada
to Submit to Binding Dispute Settlement
the Delimitation of the Maritime Bound-
ary in the Gulf of Maine Area, and the
Agreement between the Government of
the United States of America and the
Government of Canada on East Coast
Fishery Resources. Both Treaties were
signed at Washington on March 29, 1979,
and they will enter into force together
upon exchange of instruments of rati-
fication.
I also transmit for the information of
the Senate the report of the Secretary of
State with respect to these Treaties.
These Treaties will make an important
contribution to good relations between the
United States and Canada by resolving,
in a way that is fair to both Parties, a
vexing dispute over fisheries and the mari-
time boundary in the Atlantic which was
brought to the fore when both countries
extended fisheries jurisdiction to 200
nautical miles in 1977.
The maritime boundary settlement
treaty provides for the delimitation of the
776
