Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
MEETING OUR ENERGY, NATURAL
RESOURCE, AND FOOD NEEDS
The United States is richly endowed
with natural resources, both renewable
ones such as fresh water, clean air, timber,
and agricultural land; and nonrenewable
resources such as fossil fuels and minerals.
These resources have been a key factor in
our prosperity as a Nation.
We are currently using the energy and
mineral resources that are the richest, the
easiest to find, and the cheapest to pro-
duce-with substantial depletion of some.
Growth in population, industrial activity,
and a new awareness of the need to pro-
tect our environment are straining even
our renewable resources in many regions.
We are being forced to make difficult de-
cisions about allocating water and land
to one or another competing uses.
Energy
In energy, we have closely related
objectives:
•
•
reducing dependence on foreign oil
and minimizing the effects of supply
disruptions, with conservation a key
element;
implementing programs and policies
that encourage domestic energy pro-
duction and efficient use, without
serious inflationary impact;
developing
sources
inexhaustible energy
for sustained economic
growth through the next century;
• making the transition from primary
reliance on depletable oil and gas to
predominant use of more abundant
energy sources;
•
developing safe nuclear power sys-
tems which, while limiting the poten-
tial for international proliferation of
nuclear weapons, will increase our
energy supply; and
using all energy sources in ways that
do not endanger the environment
and the health or safety of our
citizens.
Today's scientific and technological in-
vestments can have only limited impact
on these objectives in the near term. It
takes time to bring new technologies to
the stage of economic competitiveness, to
develop industrial capacity, and to allow
energy users to adapt to change. My near-
term program thus emphasizes conserva-
tion, the reduced consumption of oil
where alternatives are available, and re-
moval of obstacles to the use of currently
available energy sources, such as nuclear
power, coal, or solar water heating, and
providing adequate incentives for crude
oil and natural gas exploration.
In the mid- to longer-term, however,
science and technology will help resolve
our current dilemma. They will assist in
locating and developing new sources of
supply and in using those supplies more
efficiently with reduced damage to health
and environment. Recognizing this, the
government is engaged in an aggressive
research and development effort. In this
year of limited budget resources, difficult
judgments had to be made. Nevertheless,
my budget for Fiscal Year 1980 recom-
mends an investment of nearly $3.5 billion
in civilian energy research and develop-
ment.
This country is blessed with a uniquely
abundant supply of energy in the form.
of coal and oil shale. Over one-third of
the known world reserves for coal belong
to the United States. A major challenge
is to demonstrate technologies that will
enable us to substitute these energy
sources for our ever increasing oil im-
ports. My program provides for the gov-
ernment to work closely with American
532
