Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
agreement in the ongoing negotiations on
anti-satellite systems.
Conventional Arms Transfers. The two
sides agreed that their respective repre-
sentatives will meet promptly to discuss
questions related to the next round of
negotiations on limiting conventional
arms transfers.
Chemical Weapons. The two sides re-
affirmed the importance of a general,
complete and verifiable prohibition of
chemical weapons and agreed to intensify
their efforts to prepare an agreed joint
proposal for presentation to the Commit-
tee on Disarmament.
Radiological Weapons. President Car-
ter and President Brezhnev were pleased
to be able to confirm that bilateral agree-
ment on major elements of a treaty ban-
ning the development, production, stock-
piling and use of radiological weapons
has been reached. An agreed joint pro-
posal will be presented to the Committee
on Disarmament this year.
Indian Ocean. The two sides agreed
that their respective representatives will
meet promptly to discuss the resumption
of the talks on questions concerning arms
limitation measures in the Indian Ocean.
Other Questions of Arms Limitations
and General Disarmament. In discussing
other questions connected with solving the
problems of limiting the arms race and of
disarmament, the sides expressed their
support for the Final Document adopted
at the Special Session of the UN General
Assembly on Disarmament. The sides
noted their support for a second special
session of the UN General Assembly de-
voted to disarmament and for that session
to be followed by the convocation of a
World Disarmament Conference with
universal participation, adequately pre-
pared and at an appropriate time.
The USA and the USSR will continue
to cooperate between themselves and with
other member states of the Committee on
Disarmament with its enlarged member-
ship for the purpose of working out effec-
tive steps in the field of disarmament in
that forum.
In summing up the exchange of views
on the state of negotiations being con-
ducted between the USA and the USSR,
or with their participation, on a number
of questions connected with arms limita-
tion and disarmament, the sides agreed
to give new impetus to the joint efforts to
achieve practical results at these nego-
tiations.
III. INTERNATIONAL ISSUES
There was a broad exchange of views
on major international issues. The sides
expressed their support for the process of
international détente which in their view
should become increasingly specific in na-
ture and spread to all areas of the globe,
thus helping to promote increased inter-
national stability.
President Carter and President Brezh-
nev devoted particular attention to situa-
tions of tension which complicate the in-
ternational situation and interfere with
positive developments in other areas. The
two sides believe that all states must con-
duct themselves with particular responsi-
bility and restraint in order to contribute
to the elimination of present situations of
tension and to prevent new ones from
arising.
The two sides noted the importance of
increasing international cooperation on
such global issues as the promotion of
worldwide economic development, the
protection of the environment, and the
peaceful use of space and the world ocean
for the benefit of all mankind. They ex-
pressed their support for the efforts of the
developing countries to deal with the
problems they face.
1085
