Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
assure this State they would have the
diesel fuel supplies that they need.
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. Now, the State Energy Policy Coun-
cil here doesn't feel that way. They feel
that there are going to be some severe
shortages in the State as far as diesel fuel
goes. And what I'm asking you is, what
do you feel that the proposals that you
offered this morning to the State associa-
tion are going to do to alleviate any of
these predicted shortages that the State
here feels are definitely going to happen?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would be glad
to repeat the things that I said this morn-
ing.
First of all, when any shortage occurs
on a nationwide basis, I have the author-
ity to establish priorities and to make a
limited degree of allocation. And along
with hospitals, ambulances, police protec-
tion, and fire protection, in the top pri-
ority comes food production, agriculture.
And if all the items that I described this
morning should prove to be inadequate,
then I would use that authority of mine
to make an emergency allocation of addi-
tional fuel oil, distillate, and gasoline to
the farmers to get their crops planted, cul-
tivated and, ultimately, harvested.
Secretary Bergland has already deter-
mined that under the natural gas legisla-
tion passed in 1978, that he will make
available to farmers 100 percent of their
needs for natural gas, primarily used in
the crop-drying season. So, I can assure
you that this will be adequate.
If local imbalances occur, then we will
give the Governors the authority to take
4 percent of all of the fuel oil and gas-
oline that comes into the State and allo-
cate it themselves at the State level, where
there's more sensitivity about local need,
directly to those areas that might have a
temporary imbalance.
And the other thing that we will do is
to permit suppliers of fuel oil and gaso-
line to borrow on their future allocations
if there is a shortage.
Now, I'm familiar with the fact
that the groundbreaking season and the
planting season in Iowa has been delayed.
There's going to be a rush among the
farmers to catch up with lost time. And
we have already assimilated this. Secretary
Bergland, Secretary Schlesinger, and I
have made as careful preparations as pos-
sible to assure that there is no shortage of
fuel in Iowa during this year.
And I've given you the best answer I
can, and within the bounds of my author-
ity and human competence and my com-
plete dedication, what I said this morn-
ing will be carried out.
MS. THOMAS. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
[President Carter's forty-ninth news conference
began at 2 p.m. in the Lower Monterey Room
at the Des Moines Hyatt House. As he was
leaving the room, the President answered an
additional question from a reporter as follows.]
BRITISH ELECTIONS
Q. Sir, if you'd been asked about the
change in the British Government, what
would you have said?
THE PRESIDENT. I talked with Mrs.
Thatcher within the last hour and pledged
her my support and cooperation, congrat-
ulated her on her victory. We made ar-
rangements to consult
consult very quickly
through the Foreign Secretary of Great
Britain, who will be named tomorrow, and
the Secretary of State, Secretary Vance.
I've already talked to Secretary Vance
as a followup, and told him to be pre-
pared for this consultation. She and I will
be exchanging messages and letters. We
will be meeting with each other next
month, at the latest, in Tokyo. And we've
made arrangements to have a private
803
