Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
year 1980, beginning this October, we
again increased the allocation of funds for
the poor $4 billion more. So, with the
change in aid for the elderly who are
genuinely poor and for the changes in the
rate structure of electricity and the help
for insulating homes, that's what the Fed-
eral Government can do.
There are many things, of course, that
State governments can do, as Governor
Nigh well knows, with circuit breaker-type
charges for, say, property taxes, where, if
a person is both old and poor, they might
be forgiven part of their property taxes.
And of course, there are some States
that provide special, low-cost electrical
services from the utility companies and the
State makes up the difference. But I think
for the Federal Government to take addi-
tional action on a nationwide basis would
be very difficult. And I think what I've
described is at least some help-maybe not
enough.
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM
Q. Good evening, Mr. President, and
welcome to Elk City. My name is Glorya
Wilmoth, and what I'd like to ask you is
why does the Government, every time
you turn around, take food stamps and
welfare away from the elderly to give to
the dependent children for the mothers
that are able to work, that won't work,
when the elderly really do need the
money, especially when they're in their
seventies and are unable to work?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't deny
that we give help to mothers with de-
pendent children. But I don't think it's
accurate to say that we take money away
from the elderly in order to do so.
We have made a very substantial
change in the food stamp laws since I've
been in office by not requiring that they
pay a certain amount for the food stamps
themselves. Quite
themselves. Quite often, particularly el-
derly people living on a fixed income
were not able to raise enough cash money
to pay the cash portion of the food stamps
themselves. So, we have removed that re-
quirement from the law now. I think we
are increasing the ability of the elderly
to get food stamps in that respect.
We've also tried to channel food stamp
use more accurately to people who need
it most. In the past it was abused, because
the original law, as it was written, let
people get food stamps who didn't really
need or deserve those stamps. So, I think
we are focusing in much more accurately
now on the people that you described
who do really need help in acquiring
food, but I don't agree with your prem-
ise that we have robbed the elderly in
order to benefit another group of poor
people. I think we are treating them rela-
tively fair.
Q. Okay, and I would also like to have
a kiss or a handshake.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. That will be
fine.
[At this point, the President kissed Ms. Wil-
moth.]
55-MILE-PER-HOUR SPEED LIMIT
Q. Mr. President, I'm Abbie Tillman
from Elk City. And I had three questions
in mind. Two of them have been touched
on, so I'll just forget them. But, first of
all, my boys said to tell Amy Happy
Birthday.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Q. Okay. What I wanted to know is
why does the Government threaten to
stop the Federal money that we pay in
taxes if the State of Oklahoma raises the
speed limit to 65? Because as many or
480
