May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tween us, on the one hand, and the So-
viets, on the other, in the future for mili-
tary, political, trade alliances; because the
Soviets can put themselves through a mas-
sive propaganda effort, which would be
inevitable, too, in their role of a powerful
but fair and peace-loving nation.
We would be put in the role of a power-
ful nation that was, in effect, in their
opinion, a warmonger who refused even
to participate in an equitable restraint on
the most destructive weapons on Earth.
And how we could deal effectively as a
nation in competition with the Soviets
after we rejected the SALT treaty is
something that I cannot understand and
which I would hate to have to face as a
President.
So, I am asking the Senators-the ones
that were sitting around this table day
before yesterday-"Before you vote on
SALT, take yourselves out of the role of a
Senator or out of the role of the chairman
or a member of the Armed Services Com-
mittee or the Foreign Relations Commit-
tee, and put yourself in the position of the
President, who would have to implement
a national policy and an international
policy after our Nation was crippled, in
effect, by the consequences of a SALT II
rejection."
This is undoubtedly the most important
single issue that I will ever have to face
as President, unless we are faced with
actual war. And I hope that every Ameri-
can will join in with me, not in a quies-
cent way, just observing what's going on,
but in an active way. And I particularly
hope the news media will assess the de-
tails of the SALT agreement, the conse-
quences of either passage or rejection,
and let your voices be heard in the strong-
est possible way.
It transcends partisanship; it trans-
cends the necessary objectivity of the news
media toward politicians. And I hope
that legitimately, within the bounds of
the role of the news media, that you will
actively support and promote the ratifica-
tion of the SALT treaty.
MS. BARIO. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:15 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Patricia
Y. Bario is an Associate Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on May 12.
Middle East Peace Negotiations
Appointment of James Leonard as Deputy to
Ambassador Strauss. May 12, 1979
The President has appointed Ambassa-
dor James Leonard as Deputy to Am-
bassador Robert Strauss for the negotia-
tions on the West Bank and Gaza.
Ambassador Leonard, who had planned
to retire from his present position as
Deputy U.S. Representative to the U.N.
this summer, has agreed to defer his re-
tirement. He will attend the opening of
the negotiations with Secretary Vance
and lead the U.S. delegation at the talks
following the Secretary's departure. He
will begin working immediately with
Ambassador Strauss on all aspects of the
American participation in the negotia-
tions. The President, Secretary Vance,
and Ambassador Strauss are delighted to
have a man of Ambassador Leonard's
experience and background undertake
these negotiations.
Presidential Scholars
Announcement of the Selection of 121 Students
as Presidential Scholars of 1979.
May 14, 1979
The President today announced the
Presidential Scholars for 1979. They are
852
