Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
entry vehicles or reentry vehicle with ad-
ditional velocity of more than 1,000
meters per second.
which sustain flight through the use of
aerodynamic lift over most of their flight
path and are not weapon-delivery vehi-
cles, that is, unarmed, pilotless, guided ve-
To Paragraph 8 of Article II of the hicles, shall not be considered to be cruise
Treaty
First Agreed Statement. If a cruise missile
is capable of a range in excess of 600 kilo-
meters, all cruise missiles of that type shall
be considered to be cruise missiles capable
of a range in excess of 600 kilometers.
First Common Understanding. If a cruise
missile has been flight-tested to a range in
excess of 600 kilometers, it shall be con-
sidered to be a cruise missile capable of a
range in excess of 600 kilometers.
Second Common Understanding. Cruise
missiles not capable of a range in excess
of 600 kilometers shall not be considered
to be of a type capable of a range
of 600 kilometers if they are distinguish-
able on the basis of externally observable
design features from cruise missiles of
types capable of a range in excess of 600
kilometers.
Second Agreed Statement. The range of
which a cruise missile is capable is the
maximum distance which can be covered
by the missile in its standard design mode
flying until fuel exhaustion, determined
by projecting its flight path onto the
Earth's sphere from the point of launch
to the point of impact.
Third Agreed Statement. If an un-
manned, self-propelled, guided vehicle
which sustains flight through the use of
aerodynamic lift over most of its flight
path has been flight-tested or deployed
for weapon delivery, all vehicles of that
type shall be considered to be weapon-
delivery vehicles.
Third Common Understanding. Un-
manned, self-propelled, guided vehicles
missiles if such vehicles are distinguishable
from cruise missiles on the basis of exter-
nally observable design features.
Fourth Common Understanding. Neither
Party shall convert unarmed, pilotless,
guided vehicles into cruise missiles capa-
ble of a range in excess of 600 kilometers,
nor shall either Party convert cruise mis-
siles capable of a range in excess of 600
kilometers into unarmed, pilotless, guided
vehicles.
Fifth Common Understanding. Neither
Party has plans during the term of the
Treaty to flight-test from or deploy on
aircraft unarmed, pilotless, guided ve-
hicles which are capable of a range in ex-
cess of 600 kilometers. In the future,
should a Party have such plans, that
Party will provide notification thereof to
the other Party well in advance of such
flight-testing or deployment. This Com-
mon Understanding does not apply to
target drones.
To Paragraph 4 of Article IV of the
Treaty
Agreed Statement. The word “original”
in paragraph 4 of Article IV of the
Treaty refers to the internal dimensions
of an ICBM silo launcher, including its
internal volume, as of May 26, 1972, or
as of the date on which such launcher
becomes operational, whichever is later.
Common Understanding. The obligations
provided for in paragraph 4 of Article IV
of the Treaty and in the Agreed State-
ment thereto mean that the original
diameter or the original depth of an
ICBM silo launcher may not be increased
1065
