May 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I need your help. I'm willing to do my
part, and I believe that you will do yours.
Together, we can solve this problem and
have an even greater America in the
future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:17 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
President's Commission on
Executive Exchange
Executive Order 12136. May 15, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in order
to amend the responsibilities of the Presi-
dent's Commission on Personnel Inter-
change and to continue its work of
enriching both the Government and the
private sectors by enabling the most
promising executive to work in the other
sector, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment of the Commission.
1-101. The President's Commission on
Personnel Interchange is continued and
renamed the President's Commission on
Executive Exchange.
1-102. The Commission shall be com-
posed of such officials in the Executive
agencies and such persons from the pri-
vate sector as the President may from
time to time appoint. The Chairman shall
be designated by the President. The mem-
bers of the commission and the Chairman
compensation, but shall be provided with
travel expenses, including per diem in
lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law.
1-2. Functions of the Commission.
1-201. The Commission shall develop
an Executive Exchange Program in which
promising executives from the Executive
agencies, and from the private sector, who
have demonstrated the ability to rise to
high management positions, will be se-
lected as Exchange Executives and placed
in positions in the other sector which offer
significant challenge, responsibility, and
regular and continuing contact with
senior officials.
1-202. The Commission shall develop
an education program which places the
work experience of the Exchange Execu-
tive in the broader context of both the
Federal Government and the private
sector.
1-203. The Commission shall supervise
and review the operation of the Program,
and recommend to the President ways to
promote and improve the exchange be-
tween the Government and the private
sector.
1-204. The Commission shall ensure
that the Program operates in compliance
with the merit principles set forth in Sec-
tion 2301 of Title 5 of the United States
Code.
1-3. Responsibilities of Executive Agen-
cies.
1-301. Each Executive agency shall, to
the extent permitted by law, cooperate
with the Commission and furnish it with
shall serve two-year terms at the pleasure such assistance as the Chairman may re-
of the President.
1-103. Members of the Commission
who are officers or employees of the Fed-
eral Government shall receive no addi-
tional compensation by reason of this
Order, and members who are not such
officers or employees shall serve without
quest in connection with the Program.
1-302. The head of each Executive
agency shall designate a presidential ap-
pointee who is not a member of the Com-
mission to serve as liaison to the Com-
mission.
866
