Jan. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The spending restraint in this budget
means that in some areas the Government
will simply not be able to do as much as
it has in the past. Inevitably, real sacri-
fices must be made if we are to overcome
inflation. In formulating this budget, I
have made every effort to spread that
burden fairly and objectively. Restraint
has not been applied arbitrarily.
However, there are areas where we can-
not make major reductions. I have sought
to reconcile the need for extraordinary
restrictions on Government spending with
the need to maintain a strong defense; to
implement a national energy policy; to
assist people in need; and to continue
important public services and investments.
First, as President, it is my central re-
sponsibility to ensure that our defense
forces are strong enough to deter aggres-
sion. This budget does that.
In May of 1977 I met with our NATO
allies and urged that we work together to
strengthen our common defense. They are
meeting the goal that we agreed upon.
We must and will do our share.
In total, the 1980 defense budget pro-
vides for growth in outlays in real terms
of 3% above the current year's spending.
Most of this increase will be for strength-
ening our NATO forces and maintaining
the strategic balance. The budget con-
tinues my policy of steady modernization
of our strategic forces, and improved com-
bat readiness of our tactical forces. It also
emphasizes research and development to
meet future challenges to our security. At
the same time, however, it restrains de-
fense costs by introducing important eco-
nomies in purchasing, supply manage-
ment, and personnel costs and numbers.
Second, the 1980 budget recognizes the
vital importance of energy to the Nation.
Because of our dependence on foreign
oil, we continue to be in danger of having
supplies disrupted as they were 5 years
ago. It is essential that we continue to
move forward with an effective national
energy program that will decrease our
demand for foreign oil and protect against
disruption of foreign oil supplies.
The 1980 budget provides for the con-
tinued buildup of the strategic petroleum
reserve. It continues to assist in the devel-
opment of technologies to tap our domes-
tic energy resources more effectively. I
have given special emphasis to developing
advanced solar power technologies. The
budget proposals give increased attention
to more efficient use of uranium, to nu-
clear proliferation and environmental
problems, and to effective measures to
deal with nuclear waste.
Third, even when budget restraint is
essential, we will continue as a compas-
sionate society to meet our commitments
to the disadvantaged. Therefore, I have
ensured that my budget include adequate
funds for programs that help those Amer-
icans most truly in need. To make these
funds as effective as possible, the budget
includes recommendations for adjust-
ments in direct payment programs, better
targeting of existing programs, and im-
proved management so that funds are not
wasted but go to the people for whom
they were intended.
My administration is developing a na-
tional health plan. Consistent with the
development of that plan, the budget
emphasizes programs to address critical
health needs. As early steps toward this
plan, my proposals extend health serv-
ices to 2 million more low-income children
and pregnant women who cannot afford
health care that they need, and bring new
health care resources to people who live
in medically-underserved areas. The
budget includes new and expanded pro-
grams to reduce activities that cause ill
health, such as drug and alcohol abuse,
as well as to protect individuals and com-
munities from pollution and other toxic
substances; increased funding for mental
98
