Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
WOOD-BURNING STOVE FOR THE
WHITE HOUSE
Q. Dave Beeder, from the Omaha
World-Herald. You said today you were
planning to buy a stove for the White
House. What room are you going to heat
with that stove?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't say I was
going to buy it. [Laughter] One of the
stove manufacturers-[laughter]—sent a
letter to one of the United States Senators
and said they had a stove that they would
like to contribute to the American people
to be used in the White House or at Camp
David. And I have asked for further in-
formation about it. And I intend to install
it, depending on its configuration and so
forth, either in one of the rooms where we
live or, perhaps, in my private office in the
West Wing. But this is a contribution to
the American people, and I might hasten
to add that when I leave the White
House, the
will stay there.
stove
[Laughter]
OIL PRICE CONTROLS
Q. Mr. President, the other day in a
news conference when talking about de-
regulation, you said it wasn't your idea,
and you indicated that the reason you
hadn't pushed it was because chances in
Congress were very unlikely for passage.
My question now is, would you support
deregulation or an extension of price con-
trols on gasoline if it passes both the House
and Senate this year?
THE PRESIDENT. This question concerns
me because it has a very complex effect,
perhaps, on what Congress does. I don't
think there's a chance in the world that
the Senate, with a potential filibuster, will
possibly pass legislation to extend price
controls on oil. If the House and Senate
pass this legislation and send it to me, I
will certainly not veto it. We will live with
it. The thing that concerns me is that
there are many people, because of varying
motivations, who want to stop the pas-
sage of a windfall profits tax. And as long
as they can hold out a glimmer of hope
that we won't have either-we won't have
decontrol, so therefore we need not have
a windfall profits tax-I'm afraid that the
oil companies might escape the sure impli-
cation of a windfall profits tax.
So, to summarize, if the Congress
should pass extended controls, I would
not veto it, but I believe we need to con-
centrate our efforts on passage of a real,
strong windfall profits tax.
Q. A brief followup. Will you con-
tinue to fight it in the House as you did
the other day—the extension of controls?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we didn't make
an all-out effort to stop it. What we did
do was to point out to the Members of the
House the argument that I've just de-
scribed to you, that it's almost impossible
to conceive of extended controls passing
the entire Congress and, therefore, let's
don't sidetrack the congressional effort
and let the oil companies escape the im-
position of the windfall profits tax.
My judgment is that no matter what
the House does, the Senate will never pass
an extension of oil price controls. And so,
we have got to focus our attention not on
a fruitless effort with that legislation, but
on a real, genuine test of strength between
the American people and the oil com-
panies and get a windfall profits tax
passed.
EXCHANGES OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
FOR OIL
Q. Mr. President, this morning you
mentioned that you're going to be talking
with Mexican officials this weekend about
801
