Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 12
wage settlements and price settlements to
be even lower. We have tightened up as
we've gone along with more experience,
and we've found a ready compliance.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, could we have your
assessment on SALT and whether you
can get it through the Senate in much the
same form in which you intend to sign it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know,
we've negotiated this SALT treaty now
for going on 7 years, under three Presi-
dents, and it's been negotiated in the most
extreme specificity, much greater specific,
detail negotiation than ever existed with
the limited test ban or SALT I or the
ABM treaty.
There's been a hard negotiation, a
tough negotiation on both sides, and the
Soviets, I think, as have we, have been
not only tough but fair. We have gotten
the best deal we can. It's not perfect. I
could have written a unilateral treaty if
I didn't have to consult with the Soviets,
that it would have been more attractive
to us and less attractive to them. But for
the Senate to expect the Soviets sub-
stantially to change their posture just be-
cause we unilaterally want them to do so
is fruitless and, I think, would cause a
rejection of SALT treaty completely.
I think the treaty is to our great ad-
vantage and also to the Soviets' great ad-
vantage. And I need not go into all the
details of SALT II, but I think that it's,
at the least, very fair, well-balanced,
stable, verifiable, adequate, and a move
in the right direction. It leads to SALT
III, which will be even better.
Rejection of the treaty, however, will
have the most devastating consequences
to our country and, I think, to world
peace. It will sever, to a substantial de-
gree, the workable relationship between
ourselves and the Soviet. It will shake the
confidence of our own NATO Allies in
our ability to get along reasonably well
with the Soviets and leave them in an in-
creasingly vulnerable position. It would
make it almost impossible for us to pur-
sue successfully the control of nuclear
weapon development in countries like
India, Pakistan, Iraq, Argentina, Brazil,
Taiwan, South Korea, and other nations
who have the technical ability to produce
nuclear weapons, but have refrained from
doing so because they saw an overall,
worldwide restraint.
If we show that we are not willing to
restrain our own nuclear arsenal, when
it's to our advantage and the Soviets' both
to do it—we would already have several
thousand nuclear weapons-there's no
way that I could go to someone like Prime
Minister Desai in India, with whom I
have had long discussions on this, and
say,
"We have set a good example for you,
now you restrain yourself and don't ever
develop another explosion in India." It
would be almost impossible for me to do
it. So, it would wipe out any real good op-
portunity for us to constrain nuclear
weaponry.
And as you know, there are three ways
that we can compete with the Soviet
Union. One is militarily through a pro-
spective or actual war, which we both
want to avoid. The other is what we are
doing. We are meeting them competi-
tively in the political realm and also in the
philosophical and moral and ethnic
realm. And that's where the competition
goes on.
If the Soviets should sign SALT II and,
in effect, ratify it-which is, I think, in-
evitable and if we should sign it and
then reject it, we would lose our competi-
tive ability to reach effectively the hearts
and minds of other people around the
world who will be making a choice be-
851
