May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sive way even when you go home than you
have in the past.
Today, the purpose of this meeting is to
recognize the outstanding small business
people of our country, and particularly the
outstanding small business person of the
Nation. This is intense competition, and
it takes a long and laborious analysis to
determine who is the best among a lot of
superior and outstanding people.
I'm very glad that we have a number
of minority business leaders represented
here, a number of businesswomen rep-
resented here. And I hope that this trend
can continue, because these choices are
not made just to honor a woman or just
to honor someone who can speak Spanish
or who happens to be black. The competi-
tion is among all. And I think the fairness
of it has now been demonstrated most
vividly this year than ever before.
Well, I'm very pleased to do this, and
I'd like to ask Vernon to come forward
now with the award and Gary McDaniel
from Kansas to come, and I guess I'll par-
ticipate in the delivery of the award.
This is Gary McDaniel and his senior
partner, Virginia, who 10 years ago in-
vested $23,000 of their own money into a
new business to produce air filters. They
also got a $25,000 loan from the Small
Business Administration. And since that
time, their sales volume has been, since
that first year, has multiplied more than a
hundred times. And now this originally
tiny, new flower on the free enterprise
garden of the United States has become
a flourishing garden, and their air filters
have not only brought profit and now
fame [laughter]-to the McDaniels but
has also helped us to have a cleaner en-
vironment and Americans to have a
better life.
And I want to congratulate Gary on
this superb achievement and to read the
award. "The United States of America,
Small Business Administration, presents
the National First Place Small Business
Person of the Year Award to Gary L. Mc-
Daniel, Kansas City, Kansas, for exempli-
fying the imagination, initiative, inde-
dependence, and integrity by which the
American small business person makes a
vital contribution to the Nation, to the
economy, and to the free enterprise sys-
tem, Washington, D.C., May 16, 1979."
Signed, Vernon Weaver.
I would like to say they are from Sa-
betha, Kansas, and not Kansas City. How
far are you from Kansas City?
MR. MCDANIEL. A hundred miles.
THE PRESIDENT. A hundred miles from
Kansas City. Well, that's-congratula-
tions to you.
MR. MCDANIEL. Thank you very much,
Mr. President.
I really don't know what to say. I am
quite honored. And I think the first thing
I'd like to say is the honor has my name
on it only, but it really should include
Virginia's, because she works in the busi-
ness as many hours as we do, and has
from the day it started.
I wish to thank the National Advisory
Council for selecting us. I wish to thank
the SBA for the confidence they had in
us in the beginning in providing us with
the operating capital we needed to get
started. As one person asked me one time,
"Why do you keep going back to the
SBA?" Well, if you find a well with good
water, don't hesitate to go back and drink
it. [Laughter]
We've gone to the SBA four times for
loans to expand our business. The only
other thing I can say is thank you, and
we're very flattered and honored.
MR. WEAVER. I'll just say a few words,
because I never keep the President wait-
ing.
870
