Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 7
education, health care, human rights, and ily's help, and many others, I believe that
peace.
No American should ever have to live
in fear of bankruptcy because of a serious
illness or a serious accident. No poor per-
son should go without decent medical
care in the richest nation on Earth. This
is easy to talk about. We've heard
speeches, we've heard testimony, we've
had press conferences in support of na-
tional health insurance for 30
But
not a single bill has passed either the Sen-
ate or the House. The time has come for
us to quit talking and get down to work.
years.
I'll send my national health program to
the Congress next week. Together we can
move towards-[applause]. Yesterday, I
might add, I met with Russell Long, who
is supportive. He had talked to Abe Ribi-
coff, who is supportive. Senator Kennedy
shares the same goal I do. I met last week
with Al Ullman, with Charlie Rangel.
We've consulted very closely with leaders
of the Congress, some of whom have not
been willing to move in the past. But I
think now, together, we can move towards
the goal that we share: a comprehensive
system of national health insurance to
protect every American citizen.
Together, we can continue the civil
rights revolution. We can offer jobs and
training to minority teenagers who now
grow up with no hope. We can rid the
legacy of prejudice and discrimination
from our society.
American women have waited 203
years for full equality. It's time to make
the equal rights amendment the law of
the land. If this great union would take as
a major responsibility and goal the focus-
ing of your own attention on individual
members of the State legislatures in those
four or five States that now face the final
decision on the equal rights amendment,
with my help and my wife's help, my fam-
we can prevail.
Together we can continue the world-
wide struggle for human rights. There are
brave men and brave women in many
nations striving against great odds to taste
the kind of freedom which you and I take
for granted. They look to America to hold
high the lamp of freedom and liberty, and
they must know that they are not alone.
I pledge to you that as long as I am your
President, our Nation will always stand
up in defense of freedom and human
rights in every nation on Earth.
Last week I welcomed several hundred
Vietnam veterans to the White House. I
told them that Americans feel love and
respect and gratitude for the heroism and
the sacrifice of every young American who
served in Vietnam. You could see among
that group of veterans, many of whom
were in wheelchairs, the terrible cost of
war. When I leave this office, I have no
higher prayer than to be able to say that
no young American has had to fight or
die in combat and that all Americans have
lived in peace.
Lasting peace in the Middle East and
around the world can mean much more
than just the absence of war. Together,
we can begin to remove the specter of a
nuclear holocaust from the world.
Next week I will go to Vienna to sign
a treaty with the Soviet Union limiting
nuclear arsenals on both sides. There is
no doubt that SALT II will enhance the
security of the United States. There is no
doubt that the SALT treaty will leave our
Nation stronger to compete peacefully and
successfully with the Soviet Union. There
is no doubt that the SALT treaty goes a
long way toward controlling present and
future nuclear weapons. There is no
doubt that the SALT treaty helps us to
prevent other nations who don't presently
have nuclear weapons from developing
1011
