Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 5
cerning such procedures prior to placing
them in effect.
2-2. Information Exchange. To assist
in effectuating the foregoing purpose, the
Department of State and the Council on
Environmental Quality in collaboration
with other interested Federal agencies
and other nations shall conduct a pro-
gram for exchange on a continuing basis
of information concerning the environ-
ment. The objectives of this program
shall be to provide information for use
by decisionmakers, to heighten awareness
of and interest in environmental concerns
and, as appropriate, to facilitate environ-
mental cooperation with foreign nations.
2-3. Actions Included. Agencies in their
procedures under Section 2-1 shall es-
tablish procedures by which their officers
having ultimate responsibility for author-
izing and approving actions in one of the
following categories encompassed by this
Order, take into consideration in making
decisions concerning such actions, a doc-
ument described in Section 2-4(a):
(a) major Federal actions significantly
affecting the environment of the global
commons outside the jurisdiction of any
nation (e.g., the oceans or Antarctica);
(b) major Federal actions significantly
affecting the environment of a foreign
nation not participating with the United
States and not otherwise involved in the
action;
(c) major Federal actions significantly
affecting the environment of a foreign
nation which provide to that nation:
(1) a product, or physical project pro-
ducing a principal product or an emis-
sion or effluent, which is prohibited or
strictly regulated by Federal law in the
United States because its toxic effects on
the environment create a serious public
health risk; or
(2) a physical project which in the
United States is prohibited or strictly reg-
ulated by Federal law to protect the en-
vironment against radioactive substances.
(d) major Federal actions outside the
United States, its territories and posses-
sions which significantly affect natural or
ecological resources of global importance
designated for protection under this sub-
section by the President, or, in the case of
such a resource protected by international
agreement binding on the United States,
by the Secretary of State. Recommenda-
tions to the President under this subsec-
tion shall be accompanied by the views
of the Council on Environmental Quality
and the Secretary of State.
2-4. Applicable Procedures. (a) There
are the following types of documents to
be used in connection with actions de-
scribed in Section 2-3:
(i) environmental impact statements
(including generic, program and specific
statements);
(ii) bilateral or multilateral environ-
mental studies, relevant or related to the
proposed action, by the United States and
one or more foreign nations, or by an in-
ternational body or organization in which
the United States is a member or partic-
ipant; or
(iii) concise reviews of the environ-
mental issues involved, including en-
vironmental assessments, summary en-
vironmental analyses or other appropriate
documents.
(b) Agencies shall in their procedures
provide for preparation of documents de-
scribed in Section 2-4(a), with respect
to actions described in Section 2-3, as
follows:
(i) for effects described in Section 2-3
(a), an environmental impact statement
described in Section 2-4(a) (i);
11
