Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
alone cannot convey the shock and horror
that accompanied this tangible evidence
of the Nazi regime's systematic program
of genocide.
Dachau and other death-centers like
Buchenwald, Auschwitz and Treblinka
were the means by which the Nazi regime
murdered six million Jewish people and
millions of other victims in a planned pro-
gram of extermination. These crimes have
few if any equals in history. Their legacy
left deep moral scars on all humankind.
No one who participated in the liberation
of these camps or who has studied their
history can ever forget-least of all the
quarter-of-a-million survivors who found
a home and built a new life in this country
after the war.
During my recent trip to Israel, I vis-
ited Yad Vashem, the Israeli memorial to
the victims of the Holocaust. I vowed
then, and I repeat now, that the world
must never permit such events ever to
occur again.
We must never forget these crimes
against humanity. We must study and
understand the record of the Holocaust.
From this, we must learn to remain eter-
nally vigilant against all tyranny and op-
pression. We must rededicate ourselves to
the principle of equality and justice for
all peoples, remembering the terrible
fruits of bigotry and hatred.
A joint resolution of the Congress
(H.J. Res. 1014) approved September 18,
1978, authorized and requested the Presi-
dent to issue a proclamation designating
April 28 and 29, 1979, as "Days of Re-
membrance of Victims of the Holocaust."
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate April 28 and April 29,
1979, as "Days of Remembrance of Vic-
tims of the Holocaust." I ask the people
of the United States to observe this solemn
anniversary of the liberation of Dachau
with appropriate study, prayers and com-
memoration as a tribute to the spirit of
freedom, justice and compassion which
Americans fought to preserve.
On the recommendation of the Pres-
ident's Commission on the Holocaust, I
also ask the people of the United States
to note International Holocaust Com-
memoration Day of April 24, 1979.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
to set my hand this second day of April,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred seventy-nine, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America the
two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:58 a.m., April 2, 1979]
National Privacy Policy
Message to the Congress on Proposals To
Protect the Privacy of Individuals.
April 2, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am announcing today sweeping
proposals to protect the privacy of
individuals.
"The right to be let alone," Justice
Brandeis wrote 60 years ago, "is the right
most valued by civilized men." That right
is built into our Constitution, which for-
bids unwarranted searches of citizens and
their homes. At the time the Constitution
was written a time when private conver-
sations were conducted face-to-face or
through the mail and most private rec-
ords were kept at home—those protec-
tions seemed adequate.
The growth of society and technology
has changed all that. We confront threats
to privacy undreamed of 200 years ago.
Private conversations are often conducted
by telephone. Many personal records are
581
