Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 7
Το carry out the intent of Congress and
to facilitate the merit appointment of able
career executives to Presidential appoint-
ments during the few months before the
Senior Executive Service goes into effect,
I am hereby directing the heads of De-
partments and Agencies to take the fol-
lowing actions:
1. If a career executive in your agency
has been nominated by me for a Presiden-
tial appointment and that executive is
serving in a position which will be in the
SES, the executive's present position
should be officially designated SES im-
mediately. (Such designation is author-
ized by Section 413 of PL 95-454, which
became effective on October 13, 1978.)
Council on Wage and
Price Stability
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 7, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 5 of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the Con-
gress the sixteenth quarterly report of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability. This
report contains a description of the Coun-
cil's activities during the third quarter of
1978 in monitoring both prices and wages
in the private sector and various Federal
Government activities that may lead to
higher costs and prices without creating
commensurate benefits. It discusses Coun-
cil reports, analyses, and filings before
2. The agency designation should be
forwarded to the Office of Personnel
Management for review and publication Federal regulatory agencies.
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
3. On official designation by the agency,
the career incumbent of this SES position
should be given the option to convert to
SES or to decline such conversion (PL
95-454 permits the incumbent up to 90
days to make a conversion decision, but
the decision may be made at any time
during that period. In this instance, the
incumbent would need to make the deci-
sion before his/her Presidential appoint-
ment is confirmed by the Senate.)
4. If the career incumbent chooses to
convert to SES, he/she may then elect to
retain SES compensation and benefits as
provided under PL 95-454 3392 (c).
Since SES compensation and benefits do
not become effective before July 13, 1979,
until that date the incumbent will serve
under the Executive Level pay and ben-
efit provisions.
If you need further guidance in carry-
ing out this directive, the Office of Per-
sonnel Management will assist you.
JIMMY CARTER
The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility will continue to play an important
role in supplementing fiscal and monetary
policies by calling public attention to wage
and price developments or actions by the
Government that could be of concern to
American consumers.
The White House,
March 7, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Senior Executive Service
Pay Schedule
Memorandum From the President.
March 7, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
Subject: SES Pay Schedule
The Senior Executive Service (SES)
will
go into effect on July 13, 1979. The
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 pro-
vides for SES pay to range between the
393
