Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 25
THE PRESIDENT. We, obviously, have
done preliminary assessments of Chinese
credit. My own guess is that other than
extending most-favored-nation status to
the People's Republic of China, that it
would not involve any credit directly from
our Government. The credit status of the
PRC is very good, primarily because of
the enormous resources of that country
and also because they've been so reticent
in the past in accepting any credits what-
soever. And now a multibillion dollar ex-
pansion program in their own trade and
also a multibillion dollar expansion pro-
gram in investments, commercial invest-
ments in China, could very easily be fi-
nanced through normal or private busi-
ness loans because of China's very ex-
cellent credit rating.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Next question?
Representative Conable.
Representative CONABLE. Mr. Presi-
dent, you announced an export policy last
September, and you're going to have a
review, apparently, this coming spring. To
what extent will there be new legislation
suggested, do you think, or are you going
to be relying primarily on administrative
changes? We've heard a lot here today
about the extent to which the Government
stands in the of
way exports. Of course,
if we're going to get through the MTN,
we've got to be persuaded that Ameri-
cans will benefit from an increased ex-
port trade.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Export
Administration Act is up for renewal in
September.
REPRESENTATIVE CONABLE. It is, yes.
THE PRESIDENT. It will be completely
reassessed, and I think in the renewal
process, amendments will undoubtedly be
proposed and considered. I've not gone
into that in any detail yet. I would like
to see as much as possible the obstacles
removed from international trade and the
emphasis be placed on the promotion or
the enhancement of international trade.
I would like to express one caution,
however. One of the prerogatives of a
President is to have authority enough to
carry out a major responsibility that the
Constitution gives me, and that is to pro-
tect the security of our country. There
must be times, inevitably, in the life of
any President, when some trade restraints
can be used effectively to prevail in an
altercation or to protect American inter-
ests or the interests of our friends as an
alternative to possible military or much
more serious action. And with that one
exception, and the protection of the Amer-
ican free enterprise system, I would like
to see all the unwarranted obstacles, regu-
lations to trade removed. And I think
there's a lot of area of improvement there
to be tapped when the studies are com-
pleted.
Secretary Kreps feels that this is so. My
own White House staff members believe
this is the case, and Secretary Vance feels
the same. So, with the exception of pro-
tecting our own free enterprise system—
and I'm a strong supporter of antitrust
laws and deregulation and the protection
of the President's prerogative to ensure
that our Nation is protected itself—within
those very tight bounds, I think every-
thing that can be done ought to be done
this year to remove any further obstacles
to trade.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Governor Link had
a question; North Dakota.
GOVERNOR LINK. Thank you, Mr.
Chairman.
Mr. President, prior to recognition of
mainland China, trade teams have visited
and had been visiting individual States,
making some purchases of commodities
and goods and agricultural products that
they wanted and needed.
What is the recommendation and the
attitude of the administration regarding
333
