May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
solution. So, now Washington is full of
people selling snake-oil cures for inflation,
or telling science fiction stories about how
the energy crisis might be resolved over-
night.
You know, there are times when I wish
that Washington was Iowa's 100th county.
[Laughter] But I'm sure that you don't
want it. [Laughter] So, I will continue to
assume that responsibility for you.
But county officials and other local offi-
cials, so close to the people, daily account-
able, have to tell the truth to people about
whether a road can or cannot be resur-
faced, about whether a water or sewage
line can or cannot be extended, and about
where the money to pay for those things
is going to come from. That's exactly the
kind of directness I have tried to bring to
the Federal Government to practice, and
that's why I'm here today.
Let's start with the truth about 10 years
of inflation. It's a sickness born originally
from overindulgence, too much spending
with tax reductions combined, and sus-
tained by years of neglect. It's been a long
time developing. In the short run, infla-
tion may even get worse. There is no mir-
acle cure, and the measures that will work
are going to hurt.
Inflation cannot be fought by the way
people usually expect the Federal Govern-
ment to address a problem-by appropri-
ating vast sums of money for it. That
approach had a lot to do with our present
problem in the first place, and it's also
one reason that I'm very proud that,
working closely with your own congres-
sional delegation, in less than 22 years,
we will have cut the Federal deficit in
half. And I am absolutely determined
to balance the Federal Government
[budget].ยน
ยน Printed in the transcript.
But as you well know, also, the Federal
Government cannot fight inflation alone.
Either we do it together or it will not be
done. And we need to learn some of these
same tough lessons about energy.
The Federal Government has no secret,
scientific miracle tucked away that will
suddenly produce a cure for our long-
standing overdependence on foreign oil.
That's why we must use less and we will
pay more for what we use, and that is
why we must have passed by the Congress
this year, without delay, a windfall profits
tax and let the oil companies help us pay
for the future.
This is important not just because it's
not fair for the oil companies to profit
from our pain, but because we must have
the energy security fund established to
develop long-term ways to ease the pain.
You may remember that a few weeks
ago all the political experts were saying
that we had no chance in Congress to pass
a windfall profits tax. Now, the very same
people have decided that a windfall tax is
an accomplished fact and we can quit
worrying about it. They were wrong then,
and they are wrong now. Because the peo-
ple have spoken on this subject, we do
have a much better chance than the
prophets and commentators thought we
had just a few weeks ago.
The windfall tax that we proposed to
the Congress will let the oil industry keep,
to use for new production of domestic oil,
about 29 cents out of every dollar they get
because of decontrol. It may even be pos-
sible and I would favor this to get a
stronger bill out of the House. But I warn
you that the battle to get a windfall profits
tax at all, and to get it under the terms that
I have recommended to the Congress, is
a battle which is not yet won. And I need
your continued support to make sure that
a real tax is passed and the important pro-
790
