Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
significant occurrence during my own
term of office as President. We are a na-
tion at peace. It's a notable achievement
for a country as large as ours to be at
peace.
In the Mideast, war there not only
afflicts the lives of everyone involved, but
it's a constant constraint on the quality
of life when the people in Egypt, people
in Israel-who deeply desire to live in
harmony with their neighbors—have
never been able to do it since Israel was
founded.
When I go back 8 or 9 months to as-
sess what did exist then and see where we
stand now, it's almost unbelievable. Sadat
said when I was in Egypt recently that
what we achieved at Camp David was a
miracle, that he never expected either
Egypt or Israel to reach an agreement
when he went there.
I think that we now have a posture
where our excellent friends, the Israelis,
and our excellent friends, the Egyptians,
can be friends with one another. We're
going to have a short period of time-I
believe it will be short-with threats and
posturing and possibly some acts of ter-
rorism mounted against [by]¹ those who
oppose peace in the Middle East.
But my belief is that if we can open
those borders and have thousands of stu-
dents going back and forth between Cairo
and Jerusalem, and Tel Aviv and Alex-
andria, and tourists going to visit the
Pyramids and coming to see the Dead Sea
Scrolls, and open trade and commerce,
that the people themselves will so deeply
appreciate the difference in their quality
of life and their attitude toward life, that
no matter who the leaders might be in the
future, this peace will be permanent.
We're going to not stop here. We've
¹ Printed in the transcript.
got to address the very difficult question
of the Palestinian problem.
The Israelis are committed to this prop-
osition, the Egyptians are committed to
this proposition, and so are we. But I
think as we let the other Arab entities-
the PLO, Jordanians, Syrians, Lebanese,
Iraqis see the tremendous benefits of the
peace between Israel and Egypt, it's going
to be much easier to bring them in the
process and therefore achieve what I
dream about-which may not come dur-
ing my own term of office, but I'll continue
to work for-and that is a comprehensive
peace throughout the Middle East.
So, I think it is very significant, it is
permanent, it's a first step. But as Sadat
says, it's a foundation for what we all
dream for that comprehensive peace in
the Middle East. I think it's a very good
step.
TAXATION OF COMMERCIAL BROADCASTERS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Forrest Amsden,
King Broadcasting Company, Seattle,
Washington. There are a number of pro-
posals in Congress and emanating from
some members of the regulatory commis-
sions for a high spectrum tax on commer-
cial television and radio stations, as high
as perhaps half or three-quarters of a mil-
lion dollars a year for a television station
in, let's say, Dallas. These funds would be
used for a number of social purposes not
really affecting broadcasting, and also for
public broadcasting. Have you a position
on this?
THE PRESIDENT. My administration
has no intention of introducing legislation
like that. As you know, Senator Fritz
Hollings and Barry Goldwater and others
in the Senate, Congressman Van Deerlin
in the House, have introduced legislation
similar to what you've described. I have
488
