June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Office of Management and Budget to pro-
vide an additional $100 million to DOE
for use on solar programs beyond that
which had previously been identified for
the FY 1981 base program.
An essential element of a successful
national solar strategy must be a clear cen-
tral means of coordinating the many pro-
grams administered by the numerous
agencies of government which have a role
in accelerating the development and use
of these energy sources. I am today direct-
ing that the Secretary of Energy establish
a permanent, standing Subcommittee of
the Energy Coordinating Committee
(ECC) to monitor and direct the imple-
mentation of our national solar program.
The ECC membership includes the major
agencies which have responsibilities for
solar and renewable resource use. By us-
ing this existing mechanism, but strength-
ening its focus on solar and renewable
activities, we can provide an immediate
and direct means to coordinate the Fed-
eral solar effort. The Subcommittee will
report on a regular basis to the ECC, and
through it directly to me, on the progress
of our many and varied solar activities.
The Subcommittee will be able to identify
quickly any problems that arise and the
ECC will provide a forum to resolve them.
Since the membership of the ECC in-
cludes key agencies of the Executive Of-
fice of the President, especially the Office
of Management and Budget, the Special
Assistant to the President for Consumer
Affairs, the Council on Environmental
Quality, and the Domestic Policy Staff,
direct and easy access to my staff and
Members of the Cabinet is assured.
The Standing Subcommittee of the
ECC has an extremely important respon-
sibility. I am expecting it to provide the
leadership and the day-to-day coordinat-
ing function which will be essential as we
strive to meet our national solar goal.
We are today taking an historic step.
We are making a commitment to as im-
portant a goal as we can set for our Na-
tion-the provision of 20% of our energy
needs from solar and renewable sources
of energy by the year 2000.
We are launching a major program-
one which requires and has received a sig-
nificant commitment from the Federal
government to accelerate the develop-
ment and use of solar technologies.
We are marshalling the best that the
agencies of government can provide and
asking for the commitment of each of
them, in their diverse and numerous func-
tions, to assist our country in meeting our
solar goal.
The stakes for which we are playing are
very high. When we speak of energy secu-
rity, we are in fact talking about how we
can assure the future economic and mili-
tary security of our country-how we can
maintain the liberties and freedoms which
make our Nation great.
In developing and implementing a na-
tional solar strategy we are taking yet
another critical step toward a future
which will not be plagued by the kinds of
energy problems we are now experiencing,
and which will increase the prospects of
avoiding worse difficulties.
We have set a challenge for ourselves.
I have set a challenge for my Presidency.
It will require the best that American in-
genuity can offer, and all the determina-
tion which our society can muster. Al-
though government will lead, inspire, and
encourage, our goal can be achieved only
if each American citizen, each business,
and each community takes our solar goal
to heart.
Whether our energy future will be
bright—with the power of the sun—or
1106
