Feb. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
East and Southeast Asia. The responsi-
bilities that we face are serious, and they
are shared by the administration and the
Congress, by our Nation, and our allies-
and our common understanding and our
adherence to a common cause are vital.
All of us know that the internal affairs
of Iran or combat even among Commu-
nist nations are of concern to us. Many
nations are troubled, even threatened by
the turmoil in Southeast Asia and in the
Middle East. To stand by our friends and
to help meet their security needs in these
difficult times, I will consult with the
Congress to determine what additional
military assistance will be required. This
added measure of support is crucial for
stability throughout the Indian Ocean
area.
And let me repeat, in the Middle East,
in Southeast Asia, and elsewhere in the
world, we will stand by our friends. We
will honor our commitments. And we will
protect the vital interests of the United
States, and you can depend on it.
As we face this immediate series of
crises, we also look constantly to the
broader needs of security. If we are to
meet our responsibilities, we must con-
tinue to maintain the military forces we
need for our defense and to contribute
to the defense of our allies.
This year, I have proposed a substantial
real increase in the defense budget. The
events of recent weeks underscore the re-
sponsibility of the Congress to appro-
priate these funds in full. There must be
no doubt that the people of the United
States are fully prepared to meet our
commitments and to back up those com-
mitments with military strength.
Turmoil and crisis also underscore the
vital needs to work wherever possible to
stabilize and to reduce competition in
strategic nuclear weapons. This effort has
the same ultimate goals as does our strong
defense the goals of security, stability,
and peace. In pursuit of these goals, our
Nation faces no more important task this
year than the successful conclusion of a
strategic arms limitation agreement.
Just as we work to support national
independence and to aid our friends and
allies in times of trial, we must work to
regulate nuclear arms capable of threat-
ening life throughout this planet. For a
SALT agreement is a fundamental ele-
ment of strategic and political stability in
a turbulent world-stability which can
provide the necessary political basis for us
to contain the kinds of crises that we face
today, and to prevent their growing into
a terrible nuclear confrontation.
After more than 6 years of negotia-
tions-conducted by three different Presi-
dents-agreement has now been reached
on most of the major components of a
sound and verifiable SALT II treaty.
The emerging agreement will establish
for the first time equal numbers of strate-
gic arms for both sides. It will thus reverse
the Soviet's numerical advantage which
was temporarily established in the SALT
I treaty of 1972, when they had about a
40-percent built-in negotiated advantage.
To reach these new levels, the Soviets
will be required to reduce their overall
number of strategic arms. Over 250 Soviet
missiles or bombers-about 10 percent of
their strategic forces-will have to be de-
stroyed or dismantled. At the same time,
because we are now well below the agreed
ceiling, we could substantially increase
our own operational strategic forces.
The SALT II agreement will also pro-
vide negotiated limits on building new
types of weapons and limits on the im-
provement of existing ones-the so-called
qualitative arms race can be controlled.
SALT II will limit the size of land-
based missiles and the number of war-
heads that can be placed on them. With-
304
