Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 19
We'll also lay the groundwork, at least
describe the parameters or a general out-
line of the SALT III discussions if every-
thing goes well.
We'll have some discussion about trade,
I'm sure, about refugee problems, about
some potential improved ways for us to
communicate with one another if regional
altercations or disagreements should arise,
so that we can have a stable and a more
secure, more peaceful interrelationship
with the Soviet Union; at the same time,
meeting with the Soviets on a peacefully
competitive basis and prevailing in those
competitions as often as possible.
I'd say arms control, trade, better com-
munications in the future would be the
general outline. All of those items that I
described to you, certainly with the ex-
ception of SALT, still have to be approved
by the Soviets.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Morris Wilkes from KRLB in Lub-
bock, Texas. What happens if the United
States Senate does not ratify the SALT
treaties? I was talking to some Senators
on the Hill yesterday, and they said the
votes are not there and they don't see
them coming around. What happens if
they do not ratify the treaty, Mr. Presi-
dent?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a terrible pos-
sibility to have to contemplate.
The SALT negotiations are a continu-
ing process that were initiated as far back
as President Eisenhower. And we've made
steady, incremental progress-sometimes
very slow, very tedious, very careful—
with a limited test ban to protect the
atmosphere, with SALT I, with Vladi-
vostok, and now with SALT II. SALT II
has been under negotiation for going on
7 years. I'm the third President who has
participated in this process. It's a care-
fully balanced treaty. It's in our best in-
terest. It protects our own Nation's secu-
rity and will contribute to world peace
and, I think, also is in the best interests
of the Soviet Union.
Substantial amendments to the treaty-
which would be an easy way out for a
Senator, to say, "Well, we don't like what
you've done, do it again"-would be, I
think, unacceptable to the Soviet Union
and to us, if there was any substantial
change in the treaty terms. It would put
me in a very difficult position.
And I think that a rejection of the
treaty would interrupt-I wouldn't pre-
dict "terminate," but at least interrupt,
with serious consequences, the process of
controlling nuclear weapons over many
years' time.
There would be no way to move to
SALT III. It would be very difficult to
reopen SALT II, because why should a
President of the Soviet Union want to
negotiate with the President of the United
States if ultimate approval by the Senate
of a carefully balanced treaty was ex-
tremely doubtful?
It would be a terrible blow to our own
allies in Europe. I think it would shake
the strength of NATO itself, because
many of our allies in Europe feel that
they are in the forefront of some possible
confrontation between the two super pow-
ers, and they might be the first to suffer
in case a nuclear war should take place.
And for us to prove that we are not able
to get along with the Soviet Union and
control nuclear weapons, when we have
thousands of nuclear weapons on both
sides already, I think would cause many
of our allies to look with doubt on the
advisability of their having unilateral
agreements with us.
I think they would start searching for
some alternative to the NATO Alliance
exclusively. I don't think they would
903
