June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
You've always used your influence and
your power to fight for decency and to
fight for opportunity for all Americans,
for the working family, for the poor, the
elderly, the black, the handicapped, those
who don't speak English very well, dis-
advantaged kids who would never have
a chance without your help. That's the
spirit we need across our country. It's
time to put first the interests of our Nation
and our children in the United States of
America.
Now, I'm not here to tell you that there
are any cheap or easy or painless solu-
tions to the serious problems that we do
face. For too many years, our leaders
have tried to postpone the hard decisions
and to duck the unpopular choices. Now
is the time for truth. The days of the
quick fix and the painless cure, if they
ever did exist, are gone.
The inflation which has been building
in our Nation for more than 10 years will
not recede overnight. Yet it can be con-
trolled if we are determined, patient, per-
sistent, fiscally responsible, and if each
one of us, based on a belief that we're be-
ing treated fairly, is willing to sacrifice
just a little.
There is no single stroke of the pen
that can cure a 30-year growth of de-
pendence by our own country on foreign
oil. But we have the resources of our
people, that God gave us, with our in-
telligence and our technology and our
natural resources, to overcome the energy
crisis if we have the will to face the chal-
lenge together.
Every generation of Americans has
shown a willingness to sacrifice when nec-
essary, through depressions and through
war, to pass on to the next generation a
freer, stronger, and more prosperous
America. We must and we will do the
same.
This is not a time for politics as usual.
America was not built by political leaders
who got up every morning and predicated
the day's decisions on popularity polls.
Harry Truman said, "America was not
built on fear. America was built on cour-
age, imagination, and an unbeatable de-
termination to do the job."
I did not campaign across this country
2 or 3 years with all the members of my
family just to sit in comfort at the White
House or to read in some future history
books that I was the 39th President of
the United States. I sought this office to
lead, to face problems frankly and with-
out timidity, regardless of their difficulty.
If the decisions that I have to make to
safeguard the future of our country cost
me some political support, then let the
chips fall where they may.
I hope that God will never let me take
the cheap and easy way
the cheap and easy way around a difficult
problem that faces the country that I lead.
I will not slap mandatory Government
controls on wages and prices just before
the 1980 elections, as one of my prede-
cessors did, and then later watch inflation
skyrocket out of control. And I will never
fight inflation by deliberately throwing
millions of Americans out of work, as has
been done in the past.
I tell you what I want. I want to build
an economy in our country that is growing
and producing so that my Amy and your
children, in 5 years, 10 years from now,
can look forward to a steady job. I want
to see a country where every American
can work and save and build for the future
without fear that the dollar you earn this
year will be worthless next year.
If we can join in a common purpose
now, then the 1980's will be a time of
hope, a time of rebuilding America, a time
to fulfill some of the many dreams which
we share: a dream of better cities, better
1010
