June 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
access to decision memoranda-from
agencies and from EOP and White House
staff units—which involve policy issues
having a significant impact on economic
variables (e.g., inflation, employment,
real growth, productivity, competition, in-
ternational accounts, etc.).
-The departments, agencies, and Ex-
ecutive Office and White House staffs
shall work closely with the EPG to assure
the efficient coordination of economic
policymaking.
Socialist Republic of Romania and to the
Hungarian People's Republic, will sub-
stantially promote the objectives of sec-
tion 402.
The White House,
June 1, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
RECOMMENDATION FOR EXTENSION OF
WAIVER AUTHORITY
I recommend to the Congress that the
5. These procedures should be imple- waiver authority granted by subsection
mented without modification of normal
Executive Office, domestic policy and leg-
islative clearance processes.
JIMMY CARTER
The text of the memorandum was
released on June 1.
Trade With Romania
and Hungary
Message to the Congress. June 1, 1979
In accordance with subsection 402(d)
(5) of the Trade Act of 1974, I transmit
herewith my recommendation that the
authority to waive subsections (a) and
(b) of section 402 be extended for a fur-
ther period of twelve months.
In accordance with subsections 402 (d)
(5) (B) and (C), this recommendation
402 (c) of the Trade Act of 1974 (herein-
after referred to as "the Act") be further
extended for twelve months. Pursuant to
subsection 402(d) (5) of the Act I have
today determined that further extension
of the waiver authority granted by section
402 (c) of the Act and continuation of the
waivers currently applicable to the So-
cialist Republic of Romania and to the
Hungarian People's Republic will substan-
tially promote the objectives of section
402 of the Act. My determinations are
attached to this recommendation, and are
incorporated herein.
The general waiver authority conferred
by section 402 (c) of the Act has proved to
be a useful instrument in permitting the
expansion of relations between the United
States and Eastern European countries.
It permitted us to sign bilateral trade
agreements with Romania and Hungary in
April 1975 and March 1978, respectively,
sets forth my reasons for recommending thereby laying the basis for growing trade
the extension of waiver authority and for
my determination that continuation of the
waivers applicable to the Socialist Repub-
lic of Romania and to the Hungarian
People's Republic will substantially pro-
mote the objectives of section 402.
I include as part of my recommenda-
tion, my determination that further ex-
tension of the waiver authority, and con-
tinuation of the waivers applicable to the
and closer relations. Moreover, continua-
tion of this authority will provide a basis
for future steps to expand and improve
our bilateral relations with other countries
subject to subsections 402(a) and (b) of
the Act, should circumstances permit. I
believe that all of these considerations
make extension of the general waiver au-
thority in the national interest.
Extension of the waiver for Romania
will permit us to continue to promote the
978
