Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
speak Spanish, most of them having come
from Mexico or having their parents or
ancestors having come from this great
land. Your responsibility is to tie our two
countries together economically, politi-
cally, and in matters of mutual interest
and mutual security. But because of the
unique relationship, because we share so
much, your official duties, as I've just out-
lined so briefly, have important human
concerns. Yours is not a sterile responsi-
bility, and it's almost impossible in an
embassy in this country, representing the
United States, to separate matters of for-
eign policy from matters of domestic
policy.
You, perhaps more than any other em-
bassy representatives of our country, must
be both diplomats and politicians-poli-
ticians in the finest sense of the word; un-
derstanding human needs, understanding
the diversity that exists within this coun-
try and within our own Nation, under-
standing differences, and, more impor-
tantly, understanding similarities.
This special requirement for you is the
reason that I was personally interested in
asking my friend, former Governor Pat
Lucey, to take on this important responsi-
bility, because I knew that he and his
wife, Jean, were fully capable of combin-
ing the finest in diplomacy with the finest
in politics in human terms. I'm indeed
proud of Ambassador Pat Lucey, and I'm
indeed proud of every one of you.
I know that the visit of a President bur-
dens you with greatly expanded duties,
assignments, and responsibilities. It's a
challenge when there are so many highly
publicized issues which need to be re-
solved for you to make adequate prep-
arations for a visit so important as this
one.
I thank you for it, and I would also like
to thank the members of the families of
those who work here, because I know that
you've been deprived of your wives or
husbands, your fathers or your mothers, in
preparing for my visit. And I'm sure that
after I leave, having made my welcoming
address at the airport and planning to
address the Mexican Congress in Span-
ish, it'll take you 2 or 3 weeks to repair
the damage that I will have done.
[Laughter]
I would like to express special thanks to
the employees here who are Mexican citi-
zens. You understand much better than
could a citizen of the United States the
special needs and interests of the people
of Mexico. Your closeness here within the
embassy helps to ensure the closeness of
the 220 million people who live in our
country and the many millions of people
who live here. In microcosm, you repre-
sent in the finest way the interrelation-
ship between our two countries.
I want to say a word, too, to the young
Americans who attend school here, and
I'll combine them with all Americans who
work here. I hope that you will take every
possible advantage of this rare opportu-
nity to learn what you can about an ex-
citing, interesting, intriguing country and
people. The culture, the history, the lan-
guage, if learned about by you, will be an
added value for the rest of your lives.
I hope that whenever your own duties
permit, or consonant with your duties,
that you will travel throughout this land,
study its history, learn its people and
places, and absorb the consciousness of
the people who live in Mexico.
Yours is most important work, and I'm
very grateful that our country has dedi-
cated people like you, competent and pro-
fessional, to represent our great Nation in
this great nation.
Thank you very much.
And now, I would like to introduce to
you my favorite First Lady, Rosalynn.
MRS. CARTER. I just wanted to add a
word of thanks to you too for all you do
for us. You are so important to us, you
278
