Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 21
Applications for the 1980-81 program
will be available in August 1979. Appli-
cation forms and additional information
on the program may be obtained by send-
ing a postcard to the Director, President's
Commission on White House Fellowships,
Washington, D.C. 20415, or by calling
(202) 653-6263.
United States International
Development Cooperation
Agency
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Amendments to Reorganization Plan No. 2 of
1979. May 21, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit amendments to Re-
organization Plan No. 2 of 1979, which I
transmitted to the Congress on April 10,
1979. Except as specifically amended
hereby, Reorganization Plan No. 2 re-
mains unmodified.
The White House,
May 21, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
AMENDMENTS TO
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 2 OF 1979
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representatives
in Congress assembled May 21, 1979, pur-
suant to the provisions of chapter 9 of title
5 of the United States Code.
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1979,
which was transmitted to the Senate and
the House of Representatives in Congress
assembled on April 10, 1979, is hereby
amended as follows:
A. Section 2 is amended to read:
"Section 2. Director
"The Agency shall be headed by the
Director of the United States Interna-
tional Development Cooperation Agency
(hereinafter referred to as the 'Director'),
who shall be appointed by the President,
by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate, and shall receive compensa-
tion at the rate prescribed by law for Level
II of the Executive Schedule. The
Director shall have primary responsibility
for establishing overall development assist-
ance policy and coordinating international
development activities supported by the
United States. The Director shall serve as
the principal advisor to the President and
the Secretary of State on international
development matters and also shall advise
the President on all trade, science and
technology, and other matters signifi-
cantly affecting the developing nations.
The Director shall report to the President
and, on matters relating to foreign policy,
to the Secretary of State. The Director
shall designate the order in which other
officials shall act for and exercise the pow-
ers of the Director during the absence or
disability of the Director and the Deputy
Director or in the event of vacancies in
both such offices.".
B.
Section 5 is amended to read:
"Section 5. Performance of functions
"The Director may from time to time
establish, alter, consolidate, or discontinue
organizational units within the Agency
(other than units expressly established by
statute or reorganization plan). The Di-
rector may from time to time delegate
responsibility for carrying out any function
or authority of the Director of the Agency
to any officer, employee, or unit of the
Agency, or any other officer or agency of
the executive branch.".
C. Section 6 is amended to read:
"Section 6. Transfers of functions
"(a) There are hereby transferred to
the Director all functions and authorities
915
