Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I have a two-part question. Given that
very strong feeling on the part of the
city officials, can you tell me what basis
you disagree with that-as you have said
that you do in the past—and that your
1980 budget, which includes some of
these decreases, will not hurt cities? And
the second part of the question is, do
think there might ever come a time in 4,
5, 10 years, when cities would be more
independent of the Federal Government,
and if so, what would it take? I guess
that's about four questions, all in one.
you
THE PRESIDENT. I noticed that.
[Laughter]
First of all, I agree that the cities are
better off the more Federal funds they
get. Secondly, I see the difference be-
tween cities and county governments on
the one hand, and State governments on
the other. State governments have com-
plete flexibility under the Constitution to
levy what taxes they choose, very few ex-
ceptions involving international trade, for
instance. City and county governments
can only levy the kinds of taxes that the
State legislatures permit them to.
During my campaign years, I advo-
cated and when I was Governor, as
well-that revenue sharing funds should
be channeled to cities and local govern-
ments and not to State governments. And
certainly if there's a choice between them,
the cities and counties should get the
priority.
We have substantially increased allo-
cation of funds for local governments
since I've been in office, including the
fiscal year 1980 budget. This includes
some many requests that I've made to
the Congress that were carried out, plus
some that have not yet been carried out,
like countercyclical funds. But there will
be another increase next year in things
like water and sewage funds, recreation
funds, and a continuation of large
amounts of money for CETA jobs, and
others that will help the cities directly.
So, the trend has certainly, strongly, in
the last few years, been in the direction of
increasing Federal aid. There might be an
inclination on the part of the Congress
to kind of level off the increase, but I
don't see any possibility in the future of
eliminating Federal aid for the cities.
Q. Is your answer to the second part
of my question then that there is prob-
ably not a possibility in the next 5 or 10
years of cities becoming more independ-
ent from the Federal Government or from
the States, even?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe so, but
I'll have to say that that's a two-way
responsibility. If the States should give
city governments an unlimited right to
levy whatever taxes they choose, I think
that would be a serious mistake. I would
not do it as Governor. Secondly, the Con-
gress is intensely lobbied by local govern-
ment officials at the county and city level,
and I think the Congress and my prede-
cessors here in the White House have been
very sensitive to the needs of local govern-
ments.
So, I don't see any prospect at all of
the cities having to become more inde-
pendent of financial aid from the Federal
Government. The trend has been just the
opposite, an increasing allocation of Fed-
eral aid for local governments.
MS. BARIO. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one more
question.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, a policy question
with regard to the upcoming Middle East
talks, if I may. On the one hand, it's ar-
gued that a separate
gued that a separate Israel-Egyptian
peace would generate irresistible psycho-
logical momentum for a broader, compre-
250
