Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 23
in the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference, and I think she exemplifies
not only notable achievement but superb
courage in public service.
Thank you very much.
Mr. Malvin Goode, in the field of com-
munications. Would you please stand?
Nowadays we see many black commen-
tators on television, many black per-
formers in the public arts. We hear many
black voices on the radio, giving a bal-
anced tone to the report of public events
in our country. But this honoree has
served superbly for a long period of years.
He was a pioneer in news broadcasting,
prominent news broadcaster for ABC,
and also a United Nations correspondent
for ABC, originally a native of Virginia.
And he's brought a balanced analysis and
accurate reporting of the news, the
understanding of human events, not only
in our country but internationally.
And I want to express my deep thanks
to you for what you've meant for our
country, Mr. Goode.
Dr. Montague Cobb. I think everyone
knows the importance, not only in the
present time but especially in past years,
to have superb professional training in
the service of black people when adequate
education opportunities, adequate social
services, adequate medical care was not
available, when it required a special de-
gree of dedication because of the
extremely burdensome responsibilities,
because of the small number of highly
professional trained Americans to serve
so many people for each one of those
professionals.
We also know how difficult it must have
been at the time, when one was a student,
to get a doctorate in medicine. In the field
of science and health, Dr. Cobb, a medi-
cal doctor, a medical educator, an editor,
a professor of anatomy at one of our great
medical schools, Howard University, a
native of Washington, D.C.
On behalf of the people of the United
States, Dr. Cobb, I thank you.
Reverend Dr. Gloster Current, a man
who, when he stands, brings a lot of smiles
on the faces of people who know him. A
bright, invigorating personality, a great
sense of humor, a natural leader, active
in the NAACP since its early days, a
native of Indianapolis, he has been a re-
ligious leader througout his adult life, has
never even known the definition of the
word "retirement," Bishop, New York
Conference of the United Methodist
Church.
Reverend Dr. Current, congratulations
to you and my best wishes and thanks.
It would be difficult for me to single
out any special person in this group, but
if I had to single someone out, I think
most of you could guess who it would be.
And I would like to ask Dr. Martin Luther
King, Sr., to stand. And remain standing,
please. [Laughter]
I look on Dr. King not only from the
perspective of a distinguished American
honored by a President, but I look on him
in many ways as a son would look on a
father. He's a native of my State, and I
have observed him and his most distin-
guished family being a beaconlight of
truth and integrity, of distinguished
service, of inspiration to me, to many
others in this country, and indeed
throughout the world.
I believe that in honoring a Methodist
bishop, a Baptist preacher, that almost
everyone, whether black or white, sees
very clearly that the proper melding of
deep religious conviction and leadership
combined with the service of the down-
trodden, sometimes the despised, the poor,
the suffering, has been melded never so
adequately in history, with the exception
of the life of Christ, than it has in the
319
