Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
it be between a person and God and not
let it be part of a school program under
any tangible constraints, either a direct
order to a child to pray or an embarrass-
ing situation where the child would feel
constrained to pray.
It's a difficult question to answer. And
I don't know if I have given you an ade-
quate answer.
U.S. RELATIONS WITH THE PHILIPPINES
Q. Mr. President, Joseph O'Hare from
America Magazine in New York City.
As you know, there have been some com-
plaints by critics of the Marcos govern-
ment in the Philippines of the recent pact
that we have completed with the Philip-
pine Government over the bases. Could
you comment on the choices that we were
confronted with in dealing with the ques-
tion of the bases and how your emphasis
which I salute very strongly-on human
rights seems to be somewhat compromised
by the support that we're now giving the
Marcos government as a result of the leas-
ing agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. Before I became
President, I think in the fall of 1976, Kis-
singer and, I think, Romulo, negotiated
a base settlement. The one that we have
recently negotiated is much more attrac-
tive to our own country. The Philippine
Government rejected that agreement sev-
eral years ago, I think early in 1977.
I have never been under any doubt, as
a former Navy man nor as the present
Commander in Chief of our military
forces, that we genuinely need to main-
tain the right to base our naval forces in
the Philippines.
We have made the human rights issue,
arguments, as strongly as we could
pos-
sibly make them with the Marcos govern-
ment, to the extent of even straining our
relationships with the Philippine Govern-
ment. This has been done at the top level
by me and also by others who worked
within the State Department itself.
So, we are obviously not pleased with
the human rights situation in the Philip-
pines, as measured by our own standards
here in our country nor in many other
nations that I could name. But I don't
have any apology to make about the
agreement on the Philippine base rights.
I don't think that our displeasure with
meeting American-type standards on hu-
man rights protection ought to interfere
with our consummating this agreement.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Q. Now that human rights has been
mentioned-I travel a great deal, and
particularly with newspaper people on-
[inaudible]-trips, and almost consistently
during the last year and a half I've heard
about our talking about human rights on
leaders of foreign countries complain
the ground that, number one, that we
seem to be talking down to them; num-
ber two, that we don't seem to understand
their backgrounds, their religions, their
economic problems, and so forth.
For instance, the President of Bangla-
desh-the military governor, now Presi-
dent-said, "We have trouble even feed-
ing the people. When your Government
says, 'Look to human rights,' you're incit-
ing to rebellion." Now, I've been bothered
by those things.
I didn't want to mention human rights;
I wanted to be a gentleman for once in
my life-[laughter]—but somebody men-
tioned it. Now, would you mind address-
ing that, cause that's bothered me now
for 2 years.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there have been
a number of occasions around the world
where our human rights policy, which I
626
