Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 21
der the voluntary wage guidelines, I don't
think is too great a sacrifice to make to
provide an example and also to let the
people who support us with their tax
moneys have confidence that we ourselves
are willing to take action to control in-
flation in a time of trouble and challenge
for our Nation.
The other point I'd like to make is that
we have now under preparation—it has
not been concluded and it has not yet
come to my desk-a proposal to reform
the compensation system. Alan Campbell
will go over this in detail with you and
the head of the unions and those who are
interested. We must take action of this
type in order to protect the comparability
system. Otherwise, we're going to be back
in a position which the Government wit-
nessed many years ago, when every year
the Congress would decide whether or not
to give a certain salary increase. And to
bring the Federal employees pay scale into
an accurate, comparable situation with
employees in the private business and in-
dustry is a very important challenge for us
all.
I'm determined to bring this about so
that there will be stability, credibility, and
predictability in the establishment of pay
levels for Federal employees in the future.
Let me close by saying that I'm grateful
that you would come. I recognize among
you superior achievement. And because
you are here and because your own fellow
workers know what an excellent job you
have done, I know they'll look to you
advice and counsel and a report when you
return back to your own jobs.
for
We've got an outstanding nation. The
people look to us for leadership. In the
past, and even now, they have sometimes
been disappointed. I get my share of the
criticism when the people are disturbed.
You will have to share those criticisms
with me. But that should just inspire us
to work in a closer spirit of harmony and
partnership and do an even better job to
correct the defects and the problems that
we all know do exist at times in the Fed-
eral Government and set an example for
the rest of the Nation and restore the
credibility and the trust that's an integral
part of strengthening our democratic sys-
tem.
I'm very glad now, Alan, to hear from
any of the people around the table. And
I'd like to ask you to recognize them, if
you don't mind.
MR. CAMPBELL. Yes. Who would like
to make a comment or ask the President
the first question?
QUESTIONS
POLICIES AFFECTING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
MR. WILLIAMS. Mr. President, we ap-
preciate very much this opportunity to
meet with you and appreciate your en-
couraging statements about the Federal
employees. I hope that this meeting can
serve to better communicate your posi-
tions and your concerns to the Federal em-
ployees throughout the country.
I think the Federal employees, over 2
million of them, look to you as their leader
and the developer of the policies and the
programs that affect their very welfare.
We do get feedback, and there are con-
cerns and perhaps perceptions by a num-
ber of employees that perhaps a number
of steps taken by the administration have
indicated an "anti" attitude towards em-
ployees, such as the comparability pay
concept, the rumors about retirement
changes, payment for parking for Federal
employees, the overall ceiling on executive
salaries or restructuring of the pay system,
and so forth.
So, I think all of those collectively have
created a great deal of misconception,
919
