Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 20
and quality of the life of people who live
in the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The presentation ceremony began at
9:30 a.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White
House.
Vietnam Veterans Week, 1979
Proclamation 4647. March 20, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
We are a peace-seeking Nation and we
are at peace, but we must not forget the
lessons war has taught us, nor the brave
men and women who have sacrificed so
much for us in all our wars.
The decade now drawing to a close be-
gan in the midst of a war that was the
longest and most expensive in our history,
and the most costly in human lives and
suffering.ยน Because it was a divisive and
painful period for all Americans, we are
tempted to want to put the Vietnam war
out of our minds. But it is important that
we remember honestly, realistically, with
humility.
It is important, too, that we remember
those who answered their Nation's call in
that war with the full measure of their
valor and loyalty, that we pay full tribute
at last to all Americans who served in our
Armed Forces in Southeast Asia. Their
courage and sacrifices in that tragic con-
flict were made doubly difficult by the Na-
tion's lack of agreement as to what consti-
tuted the highest duty. Instead of glory,
66
1 The White House Press Office later issued
a corrected release in which the phrase reads
. . and most costly in human lives and
suffering."
they were too often met with our embar-
rassment or ignored when they returned.
The honor of those who died there is
not tarnished by our uncertainty at the
moment of their sacrifice. To them we of-
fer our respect and gratitude. To the
loved ones they left behind, we offer our
concern and understanding and our help
to build new lives. To those who still bear
the wounds, both physical and psychic,
from all our wars, we acknowledge our
continuing responsibility.
Of all the millions of Americans who
served in Southeast Asia, the majority
have successfully rejoined the mainstream
of American life.
To them, and to all who served or suf-
fered in that war, we give our solemn
pledge to pursue all honorable means to
establish a just and lasting peace in the
world, that no future generation need
suffer in this way again.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
call upon all Americans to observe May 28
through June 3, 1979, the week of our
traditional Memorial Day, as Vietnam
Veterans Week. On this occasion, let us
as a Nation express our sincere thanks for
the service of all Vietnam era veterans.
I urge my fellow citizens and my fellow
veterans, and their groups and organiza-
tions, to honor the patriotism of these vet-
erans, and to recognize their civilian
contributions to their communities in
America today.
I call upon the state and local govern-
ments to join with me in proclaiming
Vietnam Veterans Week, and to publicly
recognize with appropriate ceremonies
and activities yesterday's service and to-
day's contributions of Vietnam
veterans.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
445
