Apr. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ready penetrating the outer reaches of
the solar system and beyond. No one who
has seen those breathtaking pictures of
Jupiter and its moons sent back from
Voyager I could fail to have been sur-
prised and delighted by them. We can
expect many more such surprises, many
more such delights, as we probe further
into the universe and its mysteries.
And finally, let me say that of all the
fruits of science, none is more bitter than
nuclear weapons. And of all the respon-
sibilities of nations, none is more urgent
than the control of this most terrible men-
ace to our lives and to our civilization.
All of us are thankful that the recent
accident at Three Mile Island in Penn-
sylvania ended without harm to the pub-
lic. That accident may even have served
some positive purpose. It has, of course,
led us to redouble our determination to
improve the safety of nuclear power.
Even more importantly, however, it has
reminded us vividly of the dreadful con-
sequences of nuclear war.
We have lived too long with nuclear
weapons. We've grown too accustomed
to their shadowy presence in our lives.
We are too apt to forget what the ulti-
mate horror would be: the instant death
of millions and the slow and agonizing
death of many millions more; the de-
struction of the cultural legacy of all man-
kind; the poisoning of air and soil and
water for many dark generations to come.
In an all-out nuclear exchange, the vic-
tim would be nothing less than the past,
present, and future of our own human
species.
When President Kennedy addressed
this body 16 years ago, the Senate had
just ratified the most significant step in
nuclear arms control until that time—
the atmospheric test ban treaty. The
SALT II treaty, now nearing completion,
is part of the same process—a long, slow
progress of gradual steps toward sanity,
based on mutual self-interest. And after
SALT II, that process will continue with
a comprehensive nuclear test ban and
then with SALT III.
SALT II will reduce the risk of nuclear
war by lowering levels of strategic arms,
by containing development of new weap-
ons systems, and by contributing to a more
stable political interrelationship between
ourselves and the people of the Soviet
Union.
Many of the issues involved in assess-
ing the treaty are very complex tech-
nically, and the American people will look
to the scientific community to help shape
an educated public debate. Many of you
devoted much effort to the debate over
SALT I, and you played a major role in
forming the consensus that developed to
support that treaty. Today, I ask for a
renewal of that commitment.
If science gave us nuclear weapons,
it's no less true that science has given us
the extraordinary means of verifying com-
pliance with treaties to control those
weapons. In the great SALT II debate,
which has already begun, the participa-
tion of scientists will indeed be crucial.
Albert Einstein also said these words,
"The importance of securing interna-
tional peace was recognized by the really
great men of former generations. But the
technical advances of our times have
turned this ethical postulate into a mat-
ter of life and death for civilized mankind
today, and made it a moral duty to take
an active part in the solution of the prob-
lems of peace, a duty which no consci-
entious law [man] can shirk."
These words were more prophetic than
anyone could know, for they were spoken
more than a decade before the explosion
of the first atomic bomb. Those words are
important. I urge you to heed them as we
conclude SALT II, the next step towards
682
