Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
publics on the Limitation of Stra-
tegic Offensive Arms in the context
of the negotiations relating to the
implementation of the principles
and objectives set out herein.
Fourth. The Parties will consider other
steps to ensure and enhance strategic sta-
bility, to ensure the equality and equal se-
curity of the Parties, and to implement
the above principles and objectives. Each
Party will be free to raise any issue rela-
tive to the further limitation of strategic
arms. The Parties will also consider fur-
ther joint measures, as appropriate, to
strengthen international peace and secu-
rity and to reduce the risk of outbreak of
nuclear war.
Vienna, June 18, 1979
For the United States of America
JIMMY CARTER
President of the United States
of America
For the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics
L. BREZHNEV
General Secretary of the CPSU,
Chairman of the Presidium of
the Supreme Soviet of the USSR
SOVIET BACKFIRE STATEMENT
On June 16, 1979, President Brezhnev
handed President Carter the following
written statement:
"The Soviet side informs the U.S. side
that the Soviet 'Tu-22M' airplane, called
'Backfire' in the U.S.A., is a medium-
range bomber and that it does not intend
to give this airplane the capability of op-
erating at intercontinental distances. In
this connection, the Soviet side states that
it will not increase the radius of action
of this airplane in such a way as to enable
it to strike targets on the territory of the
U.S.A. Nor does it intend to give it such
a capability in any other manner, includ-
ing by in-flight refueling. At the same
time, the Soviet side states that it will not
increase the production rate of this air-
plane as compared to the present rate."
President Brezhnev confirmed that the
Soviet Backfire production rate would
not exceed 30 per year.
President Carter stated that the United
States enters into the SALT II agreement
on the basis of the commitments con-
tained in the Soviet statement and that
it considers the carrying out of these com-
mitments to be essential to the obligations
assumed under the Treaty.
CYRUS VANCE
Vienna Summit Meeting
Remarks of President Brezhnev and President
Carter on Signing the Treaty on the
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms.
June 18, 1979
PRESIDENT BREZHNEV. President Carter
and I have just affixed our signatures to
the Treaty on the Limitation of Strategic
Offensive Arms and related documents.
This has been an event long awaited by
the Soviet and American peoples, by the
peoples of other countries, by all those
who desire a durable peace and realize the
danger of a further buildup of nuclear
arsenals.
In signing this treaty, we are helping to
defend the most sacred right of every in-
dividual the right to live. Many repre-
sentatives of our two countries have
worked long and hard to draft the treaty.
I think it will be fair to specially mention
the contributions made by Secretary
Vance and Minister Gromyko, Secretary
Brown and Minister Ustinov. President
1079
