Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
Solar Energy
Remarks Announcing Administration
Proposals. June 20, 1979
In 1891, during the Presidency of Wil-
liam Henry Harrison [Benjamin Harri-
son], electric lights were first installed in
the White House, the residence of the
leaders of our country. At that time, com-
mercial electricity was not economically
feasible, but President Harrison wanted to
affirm his confidence in the technological
capability of our country.
This afternoon, I've arranged for this
ceremony to be illuminated by solar
power. [Laughter] And I think we've done
an excellent job in utilizing that tremen-
dous, sometimes untapped resource.
Unfortunately, in the last few years,
that confidence that President Harrison
expressed in our Nation's ability to meet
new challenges has not always been evi-
dent. Lately, as we have begun to see
the first signs of inevitable shortages of
fossil fuels, our country has been discon-
certed, sometimes discouraged. Some few
Americans have almost reached a state of
panic.
We import now about half of all the
oil we use from overseas. And this de-
pendence on foreign sources of oil is of
great concern to all of us.
America was not built on timidity or
panic or uncertainty about the future or
a lack of confidence in our own technology
or our own will or ability. America was
built with vision, with faith, and also with
hard work. It's time for us to recognize
once again, with the surest degree of con-
fidence, the great natural resources which
God has given us and to seize the oppor-
tunities that we have to build a more
prosperous, self-reliant, enjoyable, con-
fident future in which all Americans can
share.
Today, in directly harnessing the power
of the Sun, we're taking the energy that
God gave us, the most renewable energy
that we will ever see, and using it to re-
place our dwindling supplies of fossil fuels.
There is no longer any question that
solar energy is both feasible and also cost-
effective. In those homes now using elec-
tricity, a typical solar hot water heating
system, such as the one behind me, can
pay for itself in 7 to 10 years. As energy
costs increase, which is an almost inevi-
table prospect, that period for paying for
this investment will be substantially re-
duced. Solar energy will not pollute our
air or water. We will not run short of it.
No one can ever embargo the Sun or in-
terrupt its delivery to us. But we must
work together to turn our vision and our
dream into a solar reality.
Today, I am sending to the Congress
legislative recommendations for a new
solar strategy that will move our Nation
toward true energy security and abundant,
readily available energy supplies.
This effort to analyze where we are and
where
tremendous opportunities
might be was originated by a meeting be-
tween myself and congressional leaders
known as the Solar Energy Caucus and
by many private groups. In May of 1978,
on Sun Day, I went out to Colorado to
make a speech there. And beginning on
that date, we began to put forward, from
many sources, the recommendation sub-
mitted to Congress this day.
This solar strategy will not be easy to
accomplish. It will be a tremendous, ex-
citing challenge to the American people,
a challenge as important as exploring our
first frontiers or building the greatest in-
dustrial society on Earth. By the end of
this century, I want our Nation to derive
20 percent of all the energy we use from
the Sun-direct solar energy in radiation
and also renewable forms of energy de-
1095
