May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The mistake I made was, it has gone down
much more than that—[laughter]—and I
think energy is one reason. But we can't
back down. And I'm willing to fight this
fight and to win it, and we will win it
with your help.
1980 DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION
Q. Mr. President, my name is George
Schwartz from Philadelphia, the birth-
place of our Nation. And all I want is a
little equal time with the mayor from
Detroit. [Laughter]
I am presently the chairman of the host
committee for the site selection committee
when they come to Philadelphia June 7
and 8. I was also chairman of the delega-
tion that came down here several weeks
ago to make our presentation.
I merely want to bring to your attention
the fact and you mentioned Harry S.
Truman and the heat in the kitchen, and
I agree with you—in 1948, President Tru-
man was under attack, was under criti-
cism, very much like yourself, and what do
you think he did? He came to Philadel-
phia. [Laughter] And it was a very suc-
cessful convention for Mr. Truman, and
he was reelected. Thank you very much,
Mr. President. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I've got to go now,
let me say this, in closing, to you.
but
We talk about problems, and we talk
about fears and doubts, we talk about di-
visiveness, we talk about concerns among
the American people about government.
I was facing about a thousand or so
people in Portsmouth, New Hampshire,
not too long ago. I hadn't planned to say
it, but watching those people and their
dreams and their hopes and their genuine
concerns I'm sure there were a lot of
Republicans and Democrats in the audi-
ence I felt that every one of them
wanted their President to do a good job.
I think a lot of them there, most of
them, were willing to give me help. And I
closed my remarks by pointing out to
them that in the news media, what we
always see is the argument, the debate, the
contention, the difference, the adverse
vote, the criticism, the statistic that's not
going well. But what we fail to remem-
ber-and I don't think that the news
media ought to have to publicize this; I'm
not saying that-what we fail to remem-
ber is our country is so strong economi-
cally, politically, militarily, morally, philo-
sophically. We live in the strongest coun-
try on Earth, and we have a degree of
freedom and a sense of individuality that
lets us debate issues and lets us resolve
those issues in a political context.
I can't dominate a single person in this
Nation. I don't want to. That's not the
role of a President. But the strength that
we have can tide us over if we are threat-
ened from overseas, or as we deal with
a tiny nation looking to us for fairness, or
as we reap the consequences of worldwide
inflation, or as we acknowledge among
ourselves, eventually, that we do waste
too much energy. These kinds of things
can be resolved, and that's why I'm so
sure that the future for our Nation is
going to be much greater than its past
has been. And I'm very proud to be part
of you and the leader of a party that has
always espoused not fear, but hope; not
divisiveness, although we're so different
one from another, but cohesion and unity
when it was critical for our Nation.
We have never failed our country-we
Democrats and I don't believe we'll fail
in the future. So, in spite of our problems,
I look forward to the future, including
1980.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:53 a.m. in
the Park Ballroom at the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
He was introduced by Mayor Coleman Young
of Detroit.
954
