Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
tions of, say, costly regulations when
they're unwarranted.
So, it's a combination of business, labor,
consumers, and government. We're trying
to keep the partnership together and set
an example in my own actions.
ADMINISTRATION'S ACHIEVEMENTS
Q. Mr. President, you've been criticized
by the liberals-
THE PRESIDENT. For almost everything,
haven't I? [Laughter]
Q. From a political point of view, the
liberals are uncertain about supporting
you, the conservatives won't support you,
business has been critical, the minorities,
labor. What do you think, going in the
1980 elections, are the elements of your
political constituents?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not talking
as a candidate. I'm not a candidate and
won't make a decision on that or an an-
nouncement until later on. But I think in
the assessment by the American people of
my own administration's achievements,
there are some encouraging factors. I
think the general public opinion poll re-
sults show that people think I'm doing the
best I can, that I'm honest and well-
motivated. There have been some notable
successes recognized at the time, but then
forgotten.
In a period of a campaign, the achieve-
ments of the Democratic Party would be
better publicized than they are at this
point. Our Nation is at peace. We have
strengthened our ties with our historical
and very important alliances around the
world. We have a very strong and ade-
quate defense capability. Unemployment
has been reduced drastically.
I think the equity of treatment in the
government and in private society has
been enhanced for minority groups. We've
corrected some of the deficiencies that
exist in the system of federalism. I think
there's a much more harmonious interrela-
tionship, for instance, between local gov-
ernment, State government, and the Fed-
eral Government.
I think I've got a much better relation-
ship now with the business community
than I had when the election took place.
I'll always remember a poll that I think
Business Week conducted where, after I
was elected, only 5 percent of the leading
businessmen thought that I would be an
adequate President and/or would sup-
port me.
So, I think we've made some progress.
And I hope between now and election
time-if I decide to be a candidate-that
I'll have more achievements to point out
to the American people in a beneficial
way. But there's a great doubt among the
American people about the adequacy of
government, the integrity of government,
and this, I think, is a remnant of the Viet-
nam war, Watergate, the CIA revelations,
and so forth, when there was legitimate
reason for cynicism or concern.
I've tried to alleviate that concern by
restoring integrity to the Government and
openess that, quite often, encourages
debate and dissension and creates an
image of confusion, which is sometimes.
exaggerated. There are good things and
bad things that the public sees in our ad-
ministration, but I think, on balance,
we've done a good job.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, your inflation chief,
Mr. Kahn, just told us that the appeal for
voluntary conservation of petroleum prod-
ucts is "for the birds" and that price is
the only way to go, indicating that he's
afraid that decontrol would aggravate in-
flation and that sometimes he'd like to
have rationing, but he has to be honest
561
