Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
cost in hospitals is doubling every 5 years.
The inflationary rate in hospital costs has
been almost twice the already excessively
high inflation rate throughout the rest of
the country. It extends into ways that
you'll never realize, not only your own
family budget. If you've bought an aver-
age-priced car this past 12 months, $120
of the cost of that automobile had to go
to pay hospital insurance for the workers
who built it.
This is difficult to achieve. We were not
able to pass hospital cost containment leg-
islation last year, but I believe that we'll
succeed this year with your help.
When I was running for President in
1976, we had a Federal deficit of more
than $66 billion. I think in times of ade-
quate prosperity, which we are enjoying
now, that the Federal budget deficit
should be balanced. We've already cut
this deficit more than half, and I'll con-
tinue to work with the Congress with that
goal in mind.
I might add that we also have a very
serious problem that's not yet resolved,
concerning energy supplies for our coun-
try in the future. I doubt that the Con-
gress of the United States has ever tackled
a more difficult, complicated, and politi-
cally divisive piece of legislation. In the
final stages of this debate and congres-
sional action, which unfortunately lasted
almost 18 months, almost every key vote
between the conference committees was
decided with one Senator or one Member
of the House of Representatives finally
being persuaded to vote.
We achieved about 60 percent of what
I originally proposed to the Congress al-
most exactly 2 years ago. We've got a long
way to go. We do indeed have an energy
crisis. Many Americans still believe that
it does not exist, that they suffer from
higher fuel costs because there's some sort
of collusion between the Federal Govern-
ment and the oil companies designed to
rip off the American family. This is not
the case.
There is a dwindling supply of energy
sources. The prices are going to rise in
the future no matter who is President, no
matter which party occupies the admin-
istration in Washington, no matter what
we do. But Americans are going to have
to conserve energy. We're going to have
to shift toward more plentiful supplies of
fossil fuels like coal, and we are also go-
ing to have to open up the tremendous
reservoir of technical ability and innova-
tion and commitment of the American
public and the free enterprise system to
plenishable supplies like solar energy.
find adequate sources of energy from re-
As you know, we presently have a very
serious problem with one of the atomic
powerplants on Three Mile Island in
Pennsylvania. I've just had word from
that site that the situation is still stable
and slowly improving. But many people in
that region have been severely frightened,
and the crisis is not yet over.
I think the result of this will be, per-
haps, to remind the American people that
energy sources are doubtful. In the near
future, we will have to continue to rely not
only on coal but on nuclear power. And
we will also have a joint responsibility--
the private enterprise system and govern-
ment at all levels and private citizens—to
ensure that atomic plants that are pres-
ently in existence or now being con-
structed will indeed be even safer than we
have thought them in the past. And this
particular incident, I believe, will give us
a knowledge and a renewed concern that
will lead to improved safety precautions.
In the near future, I will be going to
Three Mile Island to learn personally
577
