Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 23
In 1968, our government formally ac-
knowledged the value of our Hispanic
heritage when Congress by joint resolu-
tion (82 Stat. 848) asked that the Pres-
ident issue an annual proclamation desig-
nating the week including September 15
and 16 as National Hispanic Heritage
Week.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the week beginning
Monday, September 10, 1979, as National
Hispanic Heritage Week. I ask that all
Americans reflect on the Hispanic heritage
of our Nation and on the need to assure
that all citizens share in the prosperity
and abundance of our great country.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-second
day of May, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4 p.m., May 22, 1979]
prehensive, fiscally responsible measures
to encourage conservation, reduce im-
ports, increase domestic production, and
support alternatives to petroleum is not
responsible policy, is a nonanswer to our
Nation's energy problems, and is not ac-
ceptable to the administration.
President's Commission on
White House Fellowships
Appointment of Three Members.
May 23, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of three persons as members of
the President's Commission on White
House Fellowships. They are:
KENNETH T. BLAYLOCK, of Woodbridge, Va.,
national president of the American Feder-
ation of Government Employees;
J. T. DYKMAN, of Bethesda, Md., president of
the White House Fellows Alumni Associa-
tion and president of the Executive Group,
Inc., an investment and real estate firm;
MARGARET BUSH WILSON, of St. Louis, Mo.,
chairman of the board of directors of the
NAACP and chairman of the St. Louis Re-
gional Panel on White House Fellowships.
Decontrol of Domestic
Oil Prices
White House Statement on the House
Democratic Caucus Vote Opposing Decontrol.
May 22, 1979
The vote today, of course, was a proce-
dural one, but any thoughts that such
votes will change the President's policy
are completely misdirected.
The President continues to seek a
phased end to controls, coupled with a
windfall profits tax to finance an energy
security fund to help develop alternative
energy forms.
The time for ducking the tough issues
is past. Continued controls without com-
Federal National Mortgage
Association
Appointment of Five Public Members of the
Board of Directors. May 23, 1979
The President today announced the re-
appointment of four of the public mem-
bers of the Board of Directors of the
Federal National Mortgage Association
and the appointment of a new member to
replace Ruth Prokop, previously the fifth
public member, who has left the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development
to serve as Chairman of the Merit Systems
931
