Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
hanced. One of the things that I look at,
for instance, is our relationship with
countries that formerly were not friends
of our Nation, vis-a-vis the Russians.
This is the first time in my memory, for
instance, that we've had really a better
relationship with India, Japan, and
China than has the Soviet Union. Egypt
is a major new friend and ally of ours,
formerly completely in the Soviet camp.
I think we've improved the relationship
with the Eastern European nations-ex-
cellent relationships with countries like
Romania, Yugoslavia, Poland, and
others. The NATO Alliance has been sub-
stantially strengthened in the last couple
of years.
For the first time in our Nation's his-
tory, we are now playing a viable role, an
influential role in Africa in a very con-
structive way-not trying to dominate
anyone. But in the past, the United States
had practically no role to play among the
black African nations.
Indonesia is now a very excellent friend
of ours; in the past, this was not the case.
I believe that our relationship with the
Philippine Government has improved
recently. The ASEAN nations look upon
us as a major ally and friend. Last year
I met around this same table with the
foreign ministers of those countries.
The Soviets did have some success in
Afghanistan, compared to what their pre-
vious relationship was with that govern-
ment, although Afghanistan has always
been very close to the Soviet Union. Now
very serious problems have arisen in Af-
ghanistan with their present government.
We are concerned that the Soviets might
play an excessive role there in trying to
interfere in the internal affairs of Afghan-
istan.
We were disappointed, obviously, in
the change in Iran. But this was a matter
that concerned the people themselves.
We had no desire nor capability of per-
petuating the Shah's government against
the will of the Iranian people. We tried
this, as you know, a few years ago in
Vietnam and were not successful in doing
it. We do not intend to interfere in the
internal affairs of another country unless
our own direct security is threatened.
I think the recent achievement of a
peace treaty between Israel and Egypt is
a major step in the right direction.
So, in balance, I think, we've got a very
good, well-rounded progress that's been
proven in our relationship with other
countries around the world.
We are treating all of the Latin Ameri-
can nations as individuals, as equals. I've
traveled extensively in Latin America, so
has my wife, other officials of our Gov-
ernment. For the first time, a Vice Presi-
dent or a Secretary of State or a President
can go to almost any nation in Latin
America now, and there are no demon-
strations against us. There are expressions
of friendship and good will and harmony.
The Caribbean-we have a new in-
terest in the economic and social stability
and prosperity in the Caribbean that was
not there in the past.
We, obviously, see many countries as
equals, whereas formerly we had a domi-
nant position, and that dominance was
overt. I look on Mexico, for instance, and
Canada and many other countries around
the world as our equals in every sense of
the word.
So, I think that our competition with
potential adversaries has been very well
consummated. And I think that the good
will that the American people have to-
wards other peoples is very exemplary.
Our absence of any desire to dominate
565
