Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 23
Federal Coal Mine Health
Activities
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. January 23, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith the 1977 Annual
Report of Health Activities under the
Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety
Act of 1969.
The Report, prepared by HEW's Na-
tional Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health, Center for Disease Control,
Public Health Service, describes the coal
mine health research conducted by the
Institute, as well as the Institute's medical
examination program for coal miners re-
quired by the Coal Mine Health and
Safety Act of 1969, as amended in 1977.
I recommend that, in order to save
HEW staff resources and time, the statu-
tory reporting requirement for this report
be changed from once every year to once
every three years. All of the information
contained in this Report is available to
Congress during annual appropriations
and oversight hearings, and HEW will
inform Congress immediately of any
scientific breakthroughs in the field.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 23, 1979.
NOTE: The 20-page report is entitled "The
Federal Coal Mine Health Program in 1977-
Eighth Annual Report of Health Activities
Under the Federal Coal Mine Health and
Safety Act of 1969."
The State of the Union
Address Delivered Before a Joint Session of
the Congress. January 23, 1979
Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of
the 96th Congress, and my fellow citizens:
Tonight I want to examine in a broad
sense the state of our American Union-
how we are building a new foundation
for a peaceful and a prosperous world.
Our children who will be born this
year will come of age in the 21st cen-
tury. What kind of society, what kind of
world are we building for them? Will we
ourselves be at peace? Will our children
enjoy a better quality of life? Will a
strong and united America still be a force
for freedom and prosperity around the
world?
Tonight, there is every sign that the
state of our Union is sound.
Our economy offers greater prosperity
for more of our people than ever before.
Real
per capita income and real business
profits have risen substantially in the last
2 years. Farm exports are setting an all-
time record each year, and farm income
last year, net farm income, was up more
than 25 percent.
Our liberties are secure. Our military
defenses are strong and growing stronger.
And more importantly, tonight, Amer-
ica-our beloved country-is at peace.
Our earliest national commitments,
modified and reshaped by succeeding gen-
erations, have served us well. But the
problems that we face today are different
from those that confronted earlier genera-
tions of Americans. They are more subtle,
more complex, and more interrelated. At
home, we are recognizing ever more
clearly that government alone cannot
solve these problems. And abroad, few of
them can be solved by the United States
alone. But Americans as a united people,
working with our allies and friends, have
never been afraid to face problems and to
solve problems, either here or abroad.
The challenge to us is to build a new
and firmer foundation for the future—for
a sound economy, for a more effective
government, for more political trust, and
for a stable peace-so that the America
103
