Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
we supported the legislation passed
to increase part-time and flexible-hour
employment opportunities; and
we supported the Pregnancy Disabil-
ity Act that outlaws employment discrim-
ination based upon pregnancy, childbirth,
or related conditions.
We are striving to improve women's
professional opportunities within the Fed-
eral government. To this end:
• women have been appointed in senior
positions in the Administration, including
two Cabinet officers. About 20% of my
senior appointees have been women, and
many of them are in areas in which no
previous women had served; and
we have strengthened and increased
our equal employment opportunity en-
forcement.
This year, in addition to continuing our
efforts to ratify the Equal Rights Amend-
ment, we will work closely with the Con-
gress to enhance the economic standing
of women-particularly the poor, minor-
ity, and elderly-by improving their ac-
cess to housing, health care, and child care
for those who choose to work. We will
expand additional opportunities this year
for women business owners and will create
a permanent interagency group to review
and help improve the position of women
business owners. I will make every effort
to select as many women as possible to
fill the 152 new Federal judgeships. Their
under-representation in the courts cannot
be continued.. Our country needs and de-
serves the full participation of women in
our society, and I am committed to taking
the steps needed to ensure this partner-
ship.
District of Columbia
My Administration worked with the
95th Congress to pass a proposed amend-
ment to the Constitution granting full
voting representation to the citizens of our
Nation's Capital. The ratification process
for this proposed amendment has begun
and I urge the state legislatures which
have not ratified the resolution to join
with the States of New Jersey, Ohio and
Michigan by promptly ratifying the
amendment. My Administration will work
this year in the effort to ratify this amend-
ment.
My Administration will also work
closely with the Congress and the new
District Government under Mayor Mar-
ion Barry to expand home rule for the
District. This includes streamlining the
procedures for Congressional review of lo-
cally enacted legislation, removal of the
Federal government from the District
budgetary process by 1982, developing a
rational formula for determining the Fed-
eral payment to the District, and an equi-
table Federal sharing of financial respon-
sibility for funding of the District's pen-
sion plan for police, firemen, teachers and
judges.
I will work with Mayor Barry to make
our Nation's Capital city a model for the
rest of the Nation to emulate.
Native Americans
The Federal government has a special
responsibility to native Americans, and I
intend to continue to exercise this respon-
sibility fairly and sensitively. My Admin-
istration will continue to seek negotiated
settlements to difficult conflicts over land,
water, and other resources and will en-
sure that the trust relationship and self-
determination principles continue to guide
Indian policy. There are difficult conflicts
which occasionally divide Indian and non-
Indian citizens in this country. We will
seek to exercise leadership to resolve these
problems equitably and compassionately.
Handicapped
For Americans with physical disabili-
ties, this year will result in continued im-
144
