Feb. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Women's Educational Programs for terms
expiring May 8, 1981. They are:
SISTER M. ISOLINA FERRE, of Ponce, Puerto
Rico, executive director of the Dispensario
San Antonio, Inc., a program providing
health care and counseling to women and
children;
their committees, we have now developed
a proposal, under the Attorney General,
that will, I think, help to remove these
obstacles from the judicial system in civil
cases. This is not just a problem for judges
and lawyers or Congress Members and
Attorneys General and Presidents. It's a
problem for all Americans and particu-
larly those who are not wealthy and who
have to deal with a court which is quite
torney specializing in labor law, civil rights lays are so costly that justice cannot be
often a mystery to them and where de-
ANNA DOYLE LEVESQUE, of Portsmouth, R.I.,
a classroom teacher in Barrington, R.I., ac-
tive in local and national teachers organiza-
tions;
SUSAN MARGARET VANCE, of Chicago, an at-
law, and family law, a consultant on com-
pliance with equal employment opportunity
laws, and former chairperson of the Illinois
Fair Employment Practices Commission.
Federal Civil Justice System
Remarks to Reporters on Proposed Legislation.
February 27, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, I want to
express my thanks to the Attorney Gen-
eral, to Assistant Dan Meador,ยน and to the
chairmen and members of the House and
Senate Judiciary Committees for making
this meeting and announcement possible.
Today, I'm sending a message to the
Congress setting out the reforms proposed
for the Federal civil justice system.
There's a general, worldwide recog-
nition that the judicial system of the
United States is admirable and worthy of
emulation and has great strength, integ-
rity, and competence. But there has been
long recognition of problems that do exist.
Sometimes, litigation is unnecessary and
is required to take place in our courts;
sometimes, necessary litigation is unneces-
sarily delayed and, when it does take
place, is extremely costly.
Working with Chairman Rodino and
Chairman Kennedy and the members of
ยน Assistant Attorney General, Office for Im-
provements in the Administration of Justice.
realized.
We will include in this recommenda-
tion a court-supervised arbitration as one
of the major proposals, whereby without
litigation, court-appointed arbitrators can
resolve civil differences.
Secondly, there will be expanded the
jurisdictional capability of Federal magis-
trates.
Third, there will be an opportunity
now for removal from the Federal court
system of strictly State cases when the liti-
gants happen to come from two different
States.
Fourth is, the Supreme Court will be
given increased authority over its own
docket. And there will be both resources
and money made available for the devel-
opment of procedures to resolve minor
disputes.
In addition to these five points which
will be proposed to the Congress, I've also
sent the Federal Courts Improvement
Act of 1979 to the Congress, which will
combine the Court of Claims and the
Court of Customs and Patents Appeals
into the U.S. Court of Appeals. This will
have a major beneficial effect when
adopted, and I'm sure that with the
leadership of those Members of the Con-
gress assembled around me this morning
that the Congress will take rapid action
and let these benefits be realized by the
American people.
340
