Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
The Department of Justice is giving
special attention to investigating and,
where warranted, prosecuting, possible
civil rights violations against any persons
of Hispanic origin.
Our country's deep commitment to
standards of justice and humaneness re-
quires us to protect the basic rights of all
people who find themselves in this nation.
JIMMY CARTER
San Francisco, California
Remarks at a Memorial Tribute for Former
Mayor George Moscone. May 4, 1979
If I had only attended Lowell High
School-[laughter] perhaps I would
have been part of the program instead of
in the intermission. [Laughter]
I want to say a few words as President,
because the death of George Moscone was
a national tragedy. And I want to say a
few words as President, because you've
come here not for oratory, but to pay trib-
ute to a fallen leader and to enjoy the
performance of superb artists. I know that
George Moscone, had he been able to
choose a program this evening, would
have called on Maestro Adler ¹ to present
to us what we have been honored and
privileged to enjoy.
George Moscone was a lover of music
and a lover of people and a lover of this
city. He was always gracious to me and
to Rosalynn when we came to visit San
Francisco, far beyond what his duties as
mayor would have required. And I knew
him, as President, as a superb mayor, a
leader throughout America who had a
special vision of what urban America
ought to be. He helped me when we be-
¹Kurt Adler, general director of the San
Francisco Opera.
gan to draft a plan for the entire Nation,
and he showed a special compassion for
a city and also a special compassion and
concern for the rights of others, partic-
ularly when they were a minority or poor
or timid or quiet or inarticulate or abused.
Gina, you know that we extend to you
our sympathy, but we also express our
pride in what George was and what he
helped to create here.
For Americans in the last 16 years, as-
sassination has partially blighted our lives,
because those who have been killed have
been America's finest. Assassination of a
public official robs us all, in a way. It takes
away our freedom. It takes away our
rights to enjoy the blessings of democracy,
to be able to choose our own leaders and
then to have those leaders govern us
throughout their entire term of office.
That's why it's such a shattering blow and
always again so unexpected when a trag-
edy of this kind occurs.
George Moscone spent most of his adult
life, as you know, serving the people of
this city and this county in a financially
sacrificial way. That's one of the results
of personal integrity and honesty. And
he was not able to live to leave a large
financial estate for his family, as you
know. But he left them a personal heri-
tage that's even more precious and which
is dramatically proven tonight and in pre-
vious efforts by those who loved him
and appreciate him and Gina and the
children and Lee, his mother, who have
established this foundation to provide for
security and a greater life for them.
San Francisco has shown its ability to
survive shocks, and this event tonight,
your participation in it, what's gone on
before, has helped us all to realize that
San Francisco is still strong enough and
united enough to survive this second ma-
jor shock that came during the end of
1978.
807
