Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 3
grandfather than the conservation of our
natural resources. When he tripled the
size of our Nation's forests, he was acting
on behalf of all Americans, for he believed
firmly that we must act as stewards for
our children's children. Were he here
today, I think he'd be amongst the first to
applaud your efforts to preserve our price-
less jewels in Alaska for future Americans,
and he'd probably use his favorite adjec-
tive, "bully," to describe your efforts.
THE PRESIDENT. It would be hard to
choose between the Tlinget tribe and
Theodore Roosevelt as to which was the
best exemplification of what America has
to preserve. Of all the people who've ever
lived here, there's no question that Theo-
dore Roosevelt was the preeminent con-
servationist. And no matter how many
Presidents might come after me, there's
no doubt in my mind that Theodore
Roosevelt will always be the preeminent
conservationist.
He was attacked by many special in-
terest groups, and the American people
realized, a vast majority of them realized
that he was right. And as each decade has
gone by since the National Forest Service
was established under his administration,
the appreciation of what he did has grown.
It was probably a close call when he first
made it. And I have no doubt that there
were well-meaning and dedicated and
honest and competent Members of the
Congress and members of the public who
sharply disagreed that a very large acre-
age should be set aside for future genera-
tions. But he was the kind of man who
could balance properly immediate bene-
fits, from which our Nation has never
suffered, and the long-range benefits,
which we are now beginning to realize in
their fullest sense.
He believed in systematic protection,
carefully considered, broad in scope, well-
defined, and ultimately endorsed over-
whelmingly by the American people.
That's what we have tried to do, to have
our decisions be both wise and balanced.
And I'm thankful for this photograph with
the inscription on it, which will always
remind me of my obligations to you and
to the people of our Nation.
Thank you very much.
I would just like to say a word in
closing.
The top environmental priority of my
administration, perhaps my entire life, has
been a carefully considered, proper pro-
tection of the wild and precious lands of
Alaska. This is not a decision that relates
only to Washington, D.C., and Capitol
Hill and the White House on the one
hand, and Alaska itself on the other; it's a
decision that affects the life of every single
American now living and who might live
in the future.
This legislation was as carefully drafted
and as thoroughly discussed and debated
as any which has ever passed the Congress,
over a number of years, out of an abun-
dance of caution, with an almost unique
sharing of responsibility between the legis-
lative and executive branches of Congress
[Government], both of us recognizing that
undoubtedly the judicial branch would
also ultimately become involved. We've
prepared our case accordingly.
And the House last year with a substan-
tial margin passed legislation which I con-
sider to be well-advised and adequate.
Because of reasons which I need not dis-
cuss now, it was not possible to get the
legislation passed through the Senate and
approved before the Congress adjourned.
Now we've started the process again.
I'm afraid that those who were so in-
tensely involved in previous years have not
adequately marshaled our strength for
this present contest in the legislative
branch. We must be almost sacrificial in
ยน Printed in the transcript.
775
