May 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
crisis at all levels of government and in
the private sector of our economy; and,
second, to get this country firmly on the
way toward more lasting solutions for the
energy question and to keep it there.
First things first: Today, by Executive
order, I'm delegating to all the Nation's
Governors the authority to help manage
our gasoline supplies over the summer.
Using these powers, which I have author-
ity to delegate, the Governors will be able
to require that at least some gasoline sta-
tions remain open on weekends, to estab-
lish minimum purchase requirements, to
prevent tank topping, which can convert
a scarce surplus into spot shortages, and
to impose an odd-even day sales system to
reduce crowding and confusion by en-
abling drivers to buy gasoline on alter-
nate days according to their license plate
numbers.
Some of this authority already exists in
some of the States, but this action will
assure that all Governors throughout the
Nation have help in managing the kind of
situation that existed this month in
Nevada, California, and some other places
in our country.
These steps will simply make it more
convenient for drivers to purchase gaso-
line, but they do not save oil or gasoline.
While some increased supply and bet-
ter management may minimize inconven-
ience, continued care, planning, and con-
servation will be required throughout the
summer if we are to avoid gasoline lines
and spot shortages.
As I've said so often, our country faces
a long-term, chronic problem in obtaining
adequate energy supplies to meet our
needs. We have not yet addressed this
basic problem. Until we put in place
policies that will cut back demand, re-
duce waste, ensure maximum production
of oil here at home, and develop alternate
supplies of energy--alternates to oil-we
will have to continue to live with the
prospect of shortages.
It's necessary to stop aggravating the
problem by blaming one another and by
seeking out scapegoats. The fact is that
the oil-producing countries are holding
down supply while the rest of the world
has increased demand. Our current diffi-
culties have been made more severe by
the stoppage of Iranian production this
winter. Over 200 million barrels of oil
which the world expected to have was
simply not produced.
To meet demand over the winter and
the spring, we had to draw down on our
own supplies and also our own reserves,
and reserve supplies of crude oil now are
at very low levels. Since it takes 60 to 90
days for oil to be moved from a country
like Iran across the ocean to our ports to
be refined and then distributed, we are
still feeling the loss of oil from that
country even though Iran is producing oil
again.
We now expect to see mild increases in
oil supply, which should help to alleviate
our present spot shortages. But in spite
of this improvement, we will at best only
have at best we will only have about the
same amount of oil during the summer
that we had a year ago. In the meantime,
Americans are expecting to use more than
we had a year ago. Unless we are able to
plan carefully and to conserve properly,
spot shortages may exist.
As this Memorial Day has indicated,
Americans are able to conserve energy if
they are determined to do so. For
example, Charles Warren, my Special
Representative in California, reports that
the use of trains and rapid transit in Cali-
fornia was way up.
But I believe this country is capable of
doing much more than just getting
through the summer. Phased decontrol
will begin June 1 to reduce our subsidy of
960
