June 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
consultations towards this end. Referring
to the Middle East peace negotiations,
the President stressed the administration's
determination to help resolve the difficult
issues that must be addressed so as to
achieve a comprehensive peace.
In addition to his meeting with Presi-
dent Carter, Vice President Mubarak to-
day met separately with Secretary Vance,
Secretary of Defense Brown, and Ambas-
sador Strauss. Vice President Mubarak
will meet with Members of Congress be-
fore he departs for London on the evening
of June 13.
National Health Plan
Remarks Announcing Proposed Legislation.
June 12, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Today I'm proposing to
the Congress a National Health Plan.
This major initiative will meet the most
urgent needs in health care of the Ameri-
can people in a practical, cost-efficient,
and fiscally responsible manner. It will
provide health care for millions of Amer-
icans and protect our people against the
overwhelming financial burdens of major
illness.
It's been 30 years since President Harry
Truman proposed access to quality health
care as a basic right for Americans, and
it's been nearly 15 years since the Con-
gress enacted legislation establishing
Medicaid and Medicare. Now is the time
to move forward again.
I challenge all those who are concerned
about health and financial security of the
American people to rise above the differ-
ences that have created stalemate for the
last 30 years, and act now, this year. No
American should live in fear that serious
illness or accident will bring bankruptcy
or a lifetime of debt. Yet today 80 million
Americans are unprotected against cata-
strophic medical costs. Millions more may
lose their health insurance through un-
employment or because of the death of a
parent or a spouse. The National Health
Plan will rid this Nation of the fear of
financial ruin from catastrophic illness.
No American should be deprived of a
right for health services or be discouraged
about obtaining medical treatment be-
cause of poverty. The National Health
Plan will extend comprehensive coverage,
a full range of medical and hospital care,
to almost 16 million low-income Ameri-
cans for the first time. No elderly Ameri-
can should be forced to depend on char-
ity when Medicare hospital coverage
reaches its limits or face unlimited out-of-
pocket expenses for medical care. The
National Health Plan guarantees ade-
quate hospital coverage for the elderly
and for the disabled, caps their out-of-
pocket expenses, and requires physicians
to accept Medicare payments as full pay-
ment for coverage of covered services.
No newborn child in America should
be denied a chance for a full and pro-
ductive life because of a lack of needed
health service care. Our infant mortality
rate is one of the highest in the industrial-
ized world. My plan will provide prenatal,
delivery, and infant care to all pregnant
women and newborn children up to the
age
of 1
year.
And no American taxpayer should be
forced to foot the bill for waste, fraud,
and inefficient administration. The Na-
tional Health Plan will establish Health-
care, a new Federal program consolidating
Medicare and Medicaid into a single ad-
ministrative unit. Through good man-
agement practices, the National Health
Plan will curb waste, will eliminate dup-
lication and abuse, and encourage com-
petition.
1024
