Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 2
I believe Americans are willing to do
their
part on energy if they feel that oth-
ers will join with them on an equal basis.
But in the long run, we'll all suffer with
a mistaken belief that somehow or another
a problem does not exist, or if it does exist,
that it will miraculously fade away. The
choice is between some temporary incon-
venience now or very real and severe hard-
ships later on.
There are no magic cures. We cannot
plant and harvest our crops any more with
mules. We cannot fuel our factories with
fireplaces. The times require plain talk
and political courage from Democrats.
The people have entrusted Democrats
with governing this country, and I have
said before that in 1980 they will again
entrust Democrats with governing Indiana
if we who are in office do a good job.
We are not elected to hide, nor to with-
draw from a fight. We've got a fight going
on now in the Congress concerning energy.
Our present laws don't work, controlling
the price of oil; our consumption and our
waste is too high; American production is
too low; we are importing an increasing
amount of oil from foreign countries; and
under the present law, you've seen what's
happened to prices.
So, we've put forward a workable pack-
age. Maybe it's not perfect; I don't claim
it's perfect. But it is absolutely necessary
that the Congress act, with your support,
on this difficult question.
The windfall profits tax which I pro-
posed to the Congress will let the oil com-
panies keep 29 cents on a dollar to be
used to explore and to produce more
American oil. Returns from that windfall
profits tax will be used to construct a
security fund for energy. Part of that
money, a great deal of money, about $800
million, will go to help the poorest fam-
ilies in our Nation who are afflicted worst
by increasing prices of energy.
Another part of that fund will go to im-
prove rapid transit, rail transportation,
and otherwise.
The other part, which will be increas-
ing fairly rapidly, is to provide research
and development to explore new kinds of
energy-solar power, gasohol, the lique-
faction and gasification of Indiana coal.
If we do these things, then my judgment
is that we can meet the tremendous chal-
lenge of worldwide energy shortages.
Early next week, I will appoint the
members of a commission to study the
potential for alcohol fuels, including gas-
ohol, to be made from such things as
agricultural products, forest wastes, gar-
bage, even coal. Birch Bayh sponsored
this legislation, and he will be chairman
of this commission. I'll also appoint, by
the way, Philip French of the Indiana
Farm Bureau.
Now, let me tell you something very
seriously, and I want you to remember
this if nothing else from my speech. We
have a great nation which can meet any
challenge if we work together. We can
solve the energy problem with the same
courage, the same pioneer spirit, the same
sense of partnership which has always
been exemplified by the people of In-
diana. Our economic strength, our mili-
tary strength, our political strength, our
ethical strength, our moral strength are
unsurpassed by any other nation on
Earth.
And the United States of America is
at peace.
The founder of our party,
Thomas Jefferson, looked back on his
long years of service to this Nation, and
he said with pride, “During the period of
my administration, not a drop of the
blood of a single fellow citizen was shed
by the sword of war." I'm also proud
that not a single drop of American blood
has been shed in war during my admin-
istration. And I pray to God every day
993
