May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
plan which will be perceived to be fair by
each person. The proposed plan, as
amended, is designed to be broadly equi-
table, practical and administrable. If we
fail to approve a standby rationing system,
the Nation's resolve to deal with a serious
supply interruption will be called into
question. The resulting damage to the
economy and personal hardships to our
citizens could be substantial.
I urge the prompt and favorable con-
sideration by the Congress of the Standby
Gasoline Rationing Plan and this amend-
ment.
The White House,
May 8, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the amendment is included
in the press release.
United States-Hungary
Convention on Taxation and
Fiscal Evasion
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. May 9, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit, herewith, for Senate ad-
vice and consent to ratification, the Con-
vention between the Government of the
United States of America and the Gov-
ernment of the Hungarian People's
Republic for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal
Evasion with Respect to Taxes on In-
come, signed at Washington February 12,
1979. For the information of the Senate,
I also transmit the report of the Depart-
ment of State with respect to the Con-
vention.
This Convention is the first income tax
convention to be negotiated between the
United States and the Hungarian People's
Republic. It is intended to facilitate eco-
nomic relations and the exchange of
scholars between the two countries by
removing tax obstacles to the flow of in-
vestment and the travel of persons.
The Convention follows closely the
United States model income tax conven-
tion and the 1977 model convention of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD). It clarifies
taxing rules, reduces or waives the tax at
source on investment income and income
from limited business or employment ac-
tivities, ensures nondiscriminatory taxa-
tion and provides for administrative co-
operation between the tax authorities of
the two countries to avoid double taxa-
tion and to prevent fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income. An accom-
panying exchange of notes clarifies some
technical points and includes some admin-
istrative provisions.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Con-
vention and give advice and consent to
its ratification.
The White House,
May 9, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Tuvalu Treaty of
Friendship
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. May 9, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate, the Treaty of
Friendship between the United States of
America and Tuvalu. The report of the
Department of State is enclosed for the
information of the Senate.
The Treaty meets the practical inter-
ests of both countries. It will satisfy the
822
