May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
dollar has been very stable ever since the
1st of November.
This has helped us, and I think we are
all grateful for this progress. But there can
be no permanent stability for the dollar or
for the international monetary system un-
less we are able to alleviate our very serious
adverse trade balance. Because of various
circumstances, which I won't try to out-
line this morning because of the press of
time, we will reduce our negative trade
balance this year about $10 billion com-
pared to last year. It would be better than
this if we weren't having an unanticipated
sharp increase in OPEC oil prices.
But I think that one of the things we
can do to compensate for this or other
threatening developments is to dramati-
cally increase the level of exports from our
country to foreign nations. This will be a
major factor in cutting down on inflation.
It'll provide new jobs for our people; it'll
give a new spirit of cooperation that might
redound to our political benefit; it'll help
to maintain peace around the world; it'll
provide more harmony within our own
country between labor and business, be-
tween the private sector and Government.
The advantages are overwhelming, and
the disadvantages are very few.
When I came into office, the so-called
Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade
Negotiations were in a dormant stage or
worse. I think there was a sense of hope-
lessness when I met with the other West-
ern democratic leaders in London 2 years
ago and Bonn, Germany, a year ago, that
nothing could be done. Under the superb
leadership of Robert Strauss, we have now
concluded agreements which are of
great
benefit to Americans.
The top legislative priority for me this
year in international economics will be
the early ratification of the Multilateral
Trade Negotiations by the Congress.
We're trying to work out agreements with
the congressional leaders so that this will
not be delayed. And I want to be sure that
when this obvious advantage to American
exporters is consummated into law, that
our American producers are ready to take
advantage of it.
Obstacles to American goods going
overseas will be removed or drastically
reduced, and some of the abuses that have
been prevalent in imports from foreign
countries will also be substantially elimi-
nated. And we must be ready to take ad-
vantage of this good opportunity.
The last point I want to make to this
group, who are so interested and so com-
petent and who'll play such a major role
in the future, is that the Export Adminis-
tration Act will be renewed this year.
There's been a great deal of controversy
about this act. What we want to have is
sure and prompt export licensing com-
bined with an adequate reserve authority
for the President to protect our national
security. And the balancing of these two
items is one that I feel sure can be better
assured because of the new Export Coun-
cil that's being established this morning.
I want to thank all the members who
have expressed your willingness to serve.
I think from my brief remarks you can
see the breadth of responsibility which
will now be on your shoulders. I welcome
a chance to form this new partnership.
It'll take part of the burdens off me, and
I think it will eliminate future problems
that we might otherwise have had to face
because of a lack of planning and coop-
eration. It'll help to alleviate the prob-
lems that we now face, and it'll make it
possible for us in the future to demon-
strate, through vigorous action, that the
free enterprise system of the United States
is the best economic system on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:28 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Roosevelt Room at the
White House.
944
