Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
You leave Washington with many new
friends, and you will return to China with
a great many more. And when you return
to your homeland, I hope that you will
convey my best wishes to Premier Hua
Guofeng and to the people of China.
THE VICE PREMIER. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
First of all, allow me to express my
thanks to you, Mr. President, for the many
friendly words which you have just said
with regard to developing the relations of
friendship and cooperation between our
two countries and two peoples. We have
just done a significant job. But this is not
the end, but a beginning.
We anticipated that following the
normalization of relations, there would
be a rapid development of friendly co-
operation between our two countries in
many broad fields. The agreements we
have just signed are the first fruits of our
endeavors. There are many more areas of
bilateral cooperation and many more
channels waiting for us to develop. We
have to continue our efforts.
It is my belief that extensive contacts
and cooperation among nations and in-
creased interchanges and understanding
between peoples will make the world we
live in more safe, more stable, and more
peaceful.
Therefore, the work we have just done
is not only in the interests of the Chinese
and American peoples but of the peoples
of the world as well. It is with these re-
marks that I mark the signing of the agree-
ment between China and the United
States on scientific and technological co-
operation, the cultural agreements, and
other documents.
Finally, I would like once again to ex-
press sincere thanks to Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter for your very warm and kind
reception which you have given us in
Washington. And I look forward to meet-
ing with Mr. President and Mrs. Carter
in the near future in China.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:40 p.m. at
the signing ceremony in the East Room at the
White House. The Vice Premier spoke in
Chinese, and his remarks were translated by
an interpreter.
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
of China
Joint Press Communique. February 1, 1979
At the invitation of the President of the
United States of America and Mrs. Car-
ter, the Vice-Premier of the State Council
of the People's Republic of China Deng
Xiaoping and Madame Zhuo Lin are on
an official visit to the United States which
lasts from January 29 to February 4, 1979.
Vice-Premier Deng and President Carter
held talks on questions of mutual interest
in Washington. Accompanying Vice-Pre-
mier Deng in the talks were Vice-Premier
Fang Yi, Foreign Minister Huang Hua
and others. Accompanying President Car-
ter in the talks were Vice President Mon-
dale, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, As-
sistant to the President for National Se-
curity Affairs Zbigniew Brzezinski and
others.
The talks were cordial, constructive
and fruitful. The two sides reviewed the
international situation and agreed that in
many areas they have common interests
and share similar points of view. They
also discussed those areas in which they
have differing perspectives. They reaffirm
that they are opposed to efforts by any
country or group of countries to establish
hegemony or domination over others, and
that they are determined to make a con-
tribution to the maintenance of interna-
tional peace, security and national inde-
212
