Jan. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
United States Sinai
Support Mission
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. January 18, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit, as requested
by section 4 of Public Law 94-110 of Oc-
tober 13, 1975, the Sixth Report of the
United States Sinai Support Mission, de-
scribing operations of the U.S. early
warning system in the Sinai Desert. The
Mission's activities are an important part
of the disengagement arrangements be-
tween Egypt and Israel concluded in
September 1975.
The cost of operating the Sinai Support
Mission during Fiscal Year 1978 was
$11.7 million, about a half million dollars
less than the amount appropriated. The
estimated budget for Fiscal Year 1979
remains at $11.7 million.
At the request of the Subcommittee on
Europe and the Middle East of the Com-
mittee on International Relations, House
of Representatives, this report includes
a brief review of the applicability of the
United States early warning system con-
cept to other areas of the Middle East. It
concludes that the basic approach to early
warning employed in the Sinai could be
successful elsewhere, provided the parties
directly concerned want and are willing
to support it.
Talks now under way in Washington
between Egypt and Israel are likely to re-
sult in substantial changes in the United
States' role in the Sinai. I will consult
closely with the Congress as these and
subsequent talks proceed, in order to in-
sure that the peacekeeping efforts of the
United States continue to advance the
goal of permanent peace in the Middle
East.
The White House,
January 18, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to the
Congress, SSM, United States Sinai Support
Mission" (28 pages plus annexes).
Federal Civilian and Military
Pay Increases
Message to the Congress. January 18, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of
section 5305 of title 5 of the United States
Code, I hereby report on the pay adjust-
ment I am ordering for the Federal statu-
tory pay systems in October 1978.
The Secretary of Labor, the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget
and the Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission, who serve jointly as my
agent for Federal pay, found that an in-
crease averaging 8.4 percent would be ap-
propriate if comparability with private
enterprise salary rates for the same levels
of work were to be achieved. The Ad-
visory Committee on Federal Pay recom-
mended that the findings of my agent be
implemented.
After considering the findings of my
agent and the recommendation of the Ad-
visory Committee on Federal Pay, I de-
termined that an across-the-board in-
crease of 5.5 percent was dictated by
economic conditions affecting the general
welfare and transmitted to the Congress
the alternative plan to that effect called
for by section 5305(c) of title 5 of the
64
