Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 23
During the 2 years of my own admin-
istration, I've proposed increases already
of more than 25 percent in Federal fund-
ing of basic research. I've asked the Con-
gress to support this increased funding in
order to meet the long-term needs of our
Nation.
I've also sought to strengthen basic re-
search in the individual Federal agencies.
Each agency has been asked to reexamine
its own budget request to see how basic
research commitments could be strength-
ened. And we've tried to resolve non-
budgetary problems that have inhibited
research in our universities-problems of
unnecessary Government regulation and
excessive bureaucratic papershuffling.
Economists estimate that advances in
knowledge have accounted for three
quarters of our own country's economic
growth in this century. By itself, that is a
decisive reason for us to support the basic
research that undergirds our technological
might. But the value of basic research is
even higher and deeper than meeting pay-
rolls and spawning new industries; the
fundamental concern of basic research is
the discovery of truth about the natural
universe. The search for truth is a cen-
tral part of what it means to be human.
No issue illuminates our Nation's prac-
tical need for science and technology
more than the energy problem.
Oil remains by far the most important
energy source, and we are in the painful
situation of relying on a greedy and unre-
liable foreign cartel for nearly half the oil
we use in this country. As that onrushing
river of foreign oil flows into our country,
a river of American money flows out,
threatening the health of our economy,
the stability of our currency, and even the
security of our Nation.
Science and technology can change
that, but only if we commit ourselves to a
national strategy of developing energy
alternatives. We have such a strategy-
one that will enable us to move away from
imported oil and increasingly move
toward nonfossil fuels-and I'm deter-
mined that we will pursue it.
Over the next decade or so, we must
rely mostly on existing technologies, but
we will pave the way for future progress
by fostering conservation, domestic pro-
duction of oil and gas, greater use of coal,
the safety of nuclear plants, and the use
of solar
of solar power.
From about 1990 through the second
decade of the next century, we will pass
through a dramatic and sometimes bumpy
period of transition. Conservation will be
forced upon us, and the mix of our energy
resources will change as we turn increas-
ingly toward unconventional sources of
fuel.
By the second quarter of the 21st cen-
tury, we will have learned to rely on
cleaner, essentially inexhaustible sources
of energy. The principal candidates in-
clude, of course, fusion and such solar
technologies as photovoltaics.
We are preparing right now for these
stages of our energy future. Our energy
research and development is already larger
in its program size than those of all our
allies combined. But we must do more.
That's why I have proposed the creation
of an energy security fund to supplement
our normal budget mechanisms. The reve-
nues for this fund will come from a wind-
fall tax on the unearned, excess profits
that would otherwise go to the oil com-
panies because of the decontrol of oil
prices over and above needed incentives
for exploration and production within
our country.
The energy security fund will provide
relief to those least able to pay for more
costly energy, and large sums will go to
finance projects that are important to our
energy future, including a regional petro-
679
