Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 6
A LOCALITY PAY SYSTEM FOR THE WHITE
COLLAR WORK FORCE
At present, General Schedule employees
of a given grade are paid the same rate
regardless of where they work in the
United States. However, pay rates in the
non-Federal sector vary widely in different
parts of our nation. As a result, Federal
pay rates are significantly higher in some
areas than local prevailing rates. In others,
Federal rates are far below the local level.
These differences either give the Federal
government an unfair competitive advan-
tage over other employers or hamper the
government's ability to recruit and retain
a qualified work force. My proposal would
minimize this problem by requiring that
the compensation of most white collar em-
ployees be comparable with compensation
in the local area.
CHANGES IN THE BLUE-COLLAR PAY
SYSTEM
The system for paying blue-collar em-
ployees, known as the Federal Wage Sys-
tem, is already based upon the principle
that Federal blue-collar pay rates should
be comparable to prevailing local non-
Federal rates. However, several features
of the Federal Wage System law are in-
consistent with this principle, such as one
which requires the use of non-local wage
data under certain circumstances and the
distortion that results from applying aver-
age local pay rates to a designated step in
the Federal grade structure. As a result,
the Federal government pays many blue-
collar workers well above local prevailing
rates. My proposal would repeal these un-
justified statutory provisions, and would
allow the Office of Personnel Management
to design provisions that reflect prevailing
practices.
INCLUSION OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERN-
MENTS IN COMPARABILITY SURVEYS
Under existing law, only private busi-
nesses are surveyed in the comparability
process used to set Federal white and blue
collar compensation rates. State and local
government employment is excluded. This
exclusion distorts true comparability. To-
day there are over 13 million State and
local employees, almost 14 percent of the
national work force. This is double the
number employed in 1962 when compara-
bility was first adopted. If compensation
for Federal employees is to be truly com-
parable to what other Americans are paid,
this large portion of the national work
force should be included in the survey. In
addition, there are a number of job cate-
gories in State and local government such
as policeman, firefighter, and social worker
which are analogous to certain Federal
job categories but are not well represented
in the private sector. This is a further rea-
son why State and local government
workers should be included in the compa-
rability survey.
INCREASED MANAGEMENT FLEXIBILITY TO
RECRUIT AND RETAIN A QUALITY WORK
FORCE
This legislation would give Executive
Branch managers needed flexibility to
adopt more efficient and equitable indus-
try pay practices. For example, premium
pay such as overtime would be patterned
after prevailing practices and the provi-
sions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Limited additional payments called "staff-
ing differentials" would be authorized to
aid in recruiting and retaining highly
qualified individuals critically needed for
the Federal work force. The Office of
Personnel Management would be author-
ized to establish special pay and classifi-
cation systems for those occupations that
do not fit a standard pattern of the Gen-
eral Schedule and for which it is difficult
to hire qualified employees. This would
be similar to the authority the Office now
has for special blue-collar schedules.
1003
