Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Remarks at a Reception for Representative
Clement J. Zablocki. March 31, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Father Raynor and
Chairman Clem Zablocki, distinguished
alumni and friends of Marquette Univer-
sity:
It's a great honor for me to be here.
The last time I was at Marquette, I had
achieved some degree of fame or notoriety
during the campaign. And I will always
remember that a large group of students
were banging on the walls and pounding
on the door, demanding the right to come
into the auditorium, which was already
very crowded. This was quite a remark-
able change from the earlier part of my
campaign. [Laughter]
And because of the dramatic difference
that occurred here at Marquette, I'll
always remember with a great deal of
gratification and friendship the attitude
that your students expressed toward me.
You're honoring a very fine statesman,
a man who is the chairman of one of the
most important committees in the
Congress.
When I was growing up as a Georgia
young man, we almost took for granted
that the chairmen of the important com-
mittees
were southerners. [Laughter]
But I noticed that the Banking Commit-
tee, which is one of the most important
of all, is headed by Henry Reuss, and the
committee that has control of all the
foreign affairs, the House International
Relations Committee, is headed by Clem
Zablocki, both from this community.
I don't know what is the basis for this
remarkable achievement. Obviously,
sound judgment on the part of the voters,
but maybe it's something in the Milwau-
kee beer that [laughter]-
Clem and I have a good partnership
when important matters arise. He's one of
the very few leaders in Congress to whom
I have to turn with increasing frequency,
because his sound judgment and his
awareness of not only parochial but na-
tional and international affairs is a great
reservoir of advice and counsel and
strength for me.
I've called on Clem also, because of
his remarkable rapport with different peo-
ple around the world, to represent me in
important affairs. When Mrs. Meir died,
I asked Clem to go to Israel to represent
me. And with the investiture of Pope
John Paul II, Clem, without too much
urging on my part-[laughter] agreed
to go and make a great sacrifice to repre-
sent me there. It was a glorious event.
Clem has an achievement that I can't
claim. He is the only person that I know
personally who has played poker with my
mother and won. [Laughter] Every time
I see my mother, she says, "You have got
to get that man Clem Zablocki back to
play poker with me. I cannot stand to
ruin my reputation by being a permanent
loser."
REPRESENTATIVE ZABLOCKI. $2.65.
THE PRESIDENT. $2.65-Mother will
never forget it. [Laughter]
But I might also say that when we have
important international events that take
place, Clem is there. He's one of the top
congressional advisers to our own negoti-
ating team trying to hammer out the
terms of a strategic arms limitation agree-
ment with the Soviet Union. And I think
this is the kind of role that Clem Zablocki
plays in a very quiet and modest and un-
publicized way, that the people in this
room, who love him and admire him,
ought to know about.
When I had extreme difficulty the last
18 months in arranging the basis for ne-
gotiating the peace treaty between Egypt
and Israel, Clem Zablocki could always
572
