Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
supply that oil from our country or from
sources in other nations without disrup-
tion of the American economy.
PRESIDENT'S WEEKEND SCHEDULE
Q. Mr. President, in view of the decision
for Prime Minister Begin to come here
Thursday evening, do you still intend to
go to Los Angeles on the weekend?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it will be
possible for me to go to Los Angeles if
Prime Minister Begin comes, as presently
planned, and if he and I are off, for in-
stance, at Camp David negotiating.
FARMERS' DEMONSTRATION
Q. Mr. President, a number of the Na-
tion's farmers have been here for the past
few weeks now
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I've heard that.
[Laughter]
Q. - protesting prices. And ap-
parently they don't seem to feel that
they're getting much sympathy from the
administration. The demonstrations have
continued tying up traffic. The other day,
a goat was tossed over the White House
fence and some farm equipment, and
damage has been done to the Mall. How
do feel about the farmers' presence
you
here, and do you agree with the sugges-
tion that they perhaps should go home
now?
THE PRESIDENT. You know, people
have to stand in line to demonstrate in
front of the White House. There are
several demonstrations every day. And
this is part of a free society, that this is
permitted.
I think the farmers have a legitimate
right to demonstrate their views or even
their displeasure against the Congress
action or against the action of this admin-
istration, as long as they do it within the
bounds of the law. And I think that in
some instances, the farmers' demonstra-
tions have caused unwarranted hardship
or interference in the right of working
people here in Washington to go to and
from their homes. When this does occur,
in my opinion, the farmers' demonstra-
tions are counterproductive.
We have tried to provide the farmers
with a forum here and to honor their
desires as much as possible. I deplore, and
many
farmers throughout the country de-
plore, the damage that has been done to
Washington-the chopping down of trees
for firewood, the breaking of the bottom
of the Reflecting Pool, the turning over
of some of the shelters for people using
rapid transit systems. Those things are de-
plorable. And I'm sure that almost all of
the farmers who are actually here with
their tractors did not want to see those
things happen, either.
Secretary Bergland has made a policy
of meeting not only with the farmers
from a particular community or State
but also with the congressional delega-
tion who represented those particular
farmers. And I think there's been a good
exchange of ideas. I think we understand
the farmers' desires and their complaints.
There is no possibility, in my opinion,
that the Congress would increase on a flat
basis the parity support prices to 90 per-
cent, which is a basic demand of the
farmers here.
But they are welcome to stay as long
as they demonstrate peacefully and legally.
And I honor that right and indeed would
cherish it.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-fifth news con-
ference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
353
