May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Already the Federal Government is
supporting 50 separate experiments in
this area. Iowa State University is one of
the leaders in this field, a statement which
I'm sure does not surprise this audience
at all. And they are particularly working
on the projects that relate to the better
use of solar power to dry crops. It may
even be possible to store energy that's
received from the Sun during the sum-
mer months, and then use that same en-
ergy in the winter months. We are plan-
ning 91 additional projects, with partic-
ular emphasis on using solar energy to
heat swine and poultry houses.
We all recognize how important a
stable, secure supply of energy is for the
economic development of rural areas and
small towns. The first question anyone
asks before building a plant in a rural
community or small town is this: "Can
you meet my energy needs?" The answer
can be "yes" if rural America applies
the same ingenuity and determination to
energy that it has to agriculture.
Moving towards energy self-sufficiency
in rural America has a very personal
meaning to me. I remember how excited
my family was by the arrival of the first
electricity on our farm when I was 14
years old. It was the biggest single event
of childhood. It had the greatest im-
my
pact on the way my family lived. It let
us stretch our lives and our horizons and
gave us the first glimpse of leisure time
during the average day.
But I also remember how farms had
windmills to pump water. The Sun dried
our crops, our meal and our flour were
water-ground, and we burned wood for
fuel, and there was never a tractor on
our farm until after I was old enough to
go off to college. We hadn't thought
about energy shortages then, or minimum
tillage, or gasohol, but I'm sure we would
have considered new energy ideas to be
not farfetched, but farsighted.
And they now represent a return to
our old principle: that government
should encourage but never dictate the
decisions made by American people or
by local initiative. That's a philosophy of
government that it's time to resurrect, in
my opinion.
Since October of 1978, we've extended
this good old principle to four other areas
of rural life-health, the housing and
social services for elderly citizens, water
and sewage systems, and communications.
And we're now working on transporta-
tion. The overall idea-which has been
missing a long time with Federal pro-
grams, as you well know-is that by the
time we are ready to announce the Na-
tion's first comprehensive rural develop-
ment policy this summer, many of these
initiatives and programs will already have
been tested and will already be in exist-
ence, here and now.
For example, on January 31, here in
Des Moines, Jack Watson,2 whom Lynn
Cutler mentioned, announced a demon-
stration project to integrate social serv-
ices with housing for old people. The re-
sponse since then has been very success-
ful. As a result, this concept will now be
incorporated in all such housing through-
out the country, and the demonstration
has been expanded from 6 to 10 sites.
I'm very pleased to announce today that
one of the first sites to be chosen will be
here in Iowa, in Decatur County.
The rural health initiative is resulting
in the construction or the renovation of
300 primary health care clinics over the
next 3 years. These clinics will provide
accessible, low-cost care to more than
1,250,000 people who previously lacked
any access to such primary health care.
On December 1, in the White House, I
announced a fundamental reform of the
way the Federal Government administers,
2 Assistant to the President for Intergovern-
mental Affairs.
794
