Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
Our friend, President Sadat, said that
you are the unknown soldier of the peace-
making effort. I agree, but as usual, with
an amendment. [Laughter] A soldier in
the service of peace, you are. You are, Mr.
President, even, mirabile dictu, an intran-
sigent fighter for peace. But Jimmy Car-
ter, the President of the United States,
is not completely unknown. [Laughter]
And so it is his efforts which will be re-
membered and recorded by generations to
come.
It is, of course, a great day in your life,
Mr. President of the Arab Republic of
Egypt. In the face of adversity and hos-
tility, you have demonstrated the human
value that can change history-civil
courage.
A great field commander once said,
"Civil courage is sometimes more difficult
to show than military courage." You
showed both, Mr. President. But now it is
time for all of us to show civil courage in
order to proclaim to our peoples and to
others: No more war, no more bloodshed,
no more bereavement. Peace unto you,
shalom, salaam-forever.
And it is, ladies and gentlemen, the
third greatest day in my life. The first
was May 14, 1948, when our flag was
hoisted. Our independence in our ances-
tors' land was proclaimed after 1,878
years of dispersion, persecution, humilia-
tion and, ultimately, physical destruction.
We fought for our liberation alone, and
with God's help, we won the day. That
was spring. Such a spring we can never
have again.
The second day was when Jerusalem
became one city and our brave, perhaps
most hardened soldiers, the parachutists,
embraced with tears and kissed the an-
cient stones of the remnants of the wall
destined to protect the chosen place of
God's glory. Our hearts wept with them
in remembrance.
[In Hebrew] "Our feet shall stand
within thy gates, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem
is builded as a city that is compact to-
gether."
[In English] This is the third day in my
life. I have signed a treaty of peace with
our great neighbor, with Egypt. The heart
is full and overflowing. God gave me the
strength to persevere, to survive the hor-
rors of Nazism and of the Stalinite con-
centration camp and some other dangers,
to endure, not to waver in nor flinch from
my duty, to accept abuse from foreigners
and, what is more painful, from my own
people, and even from my close friends.
This effort, too, bore some fruit.
Therefore, it is the proper place and
the appropriate time to bring back to
memory the song and prayer of thanks-
giving I learned as a child, in the home of
father and mother that doesn't exist any-
more, because they were among the 6 mil-
lion people-men, women, and children-
who sanctified the Lord's name with the
sacred blood which reddened the rivers
of Europe from the Rhine to the Danube,
from the Bug to the Volga, because, only
because they were born Jews, and because
they didn't have a country of their own,
and neither a valiant Jewish army to de-
fend them, and because nobody, nobody
came to their rescue, although they cried
out, "Save us, save us"-de profundis-
"from the depths of the pits and agony."
That is the Song of Degrees, written 2
millennia and 500 years ago, when our
forefathers returned from their first exile
to Jerusalem and Zion.
[At this point, Prime Minister Begin spoke in
Hebrew.]
I will not translate. Every man, whether
Jew or Christian or Moslem, can read it
521
