May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Gasoline Shortages in California
Remarks Announcing Measures To Improve
the Situation. May 16, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Last week when I was
in California, I witnessed personally the
deep distress of the people of that State
because of the long gasoline lines and be-
cause of an obvious shortage in fuel neces-
sary to get them to and from their jobs,
to and from shopping, and to perform the
necessities of life. This causes me great
concern as President, and I have done
what I could, since I returned from Cali-
fornia, to prepare a series of steps that
might help to alleviate the problem. I
think we can accurately say that the State
and local officials, the Congress, and my
administration are all working in coopera-
tion to alleviate this serious problem.
This morning I met with the Governor
of California, with the mayor of Los An-
geles, the speaker of the house in Cali-
fornia, and the congressional delegation,
to consult together on what additional
steps might be taken.
par-
This is a national problem, but it
ticularly affects adversely States like Cali-
fornia and Nevada that are growing quite
rapidly and have additional automobiles
on the highways, additional population to
consume gasoline, when in the past the
base for allocation of gasoline supplies was
many years old. Also, of course, as many of
us know, in California there's a heavy
dependence on individual automobiles
and a very low dependence upon mass
transit systems.
We have now changed the allocation
system and moved its base up to a much
more recent period. This was done the
1st of May. And I believe it will have a
substantial beneficial effect when its full
impact is felt in California.
In addition to that, we have evolved
several steps to improve the situation
today. These are being promulgated in
written form by my staff this afternoon.
This is a continuing problem, and I think
it's obvious that in the future the primary
thrust has got to be to improve production
of oil in our own Nation and to have a
heavy emphasis on conservation.
We have not found any evidence of
collusion or illegalities among the oil
companies, but I have directed the De-
partment of Justice and the Department
of Energy to launch an investigation to
assure that there are no improprieties or
any illegalities or evidences of collusion
in the withholding of fuel supplies for
California or any other State. In addition,
we will be deriving better data in the fu-
ture so that we can know more accurately
than we have in the past how much fuel
is available now and how much will be
available in the future.
We've discussed with Governor Brown,
other State and local officials of Califor-
nia and Nevada, today the steps that can
be taken at the State level to encourage
conservation-rigid enforcement of the
speed limits and some modification in
other rules for increased consumption of
gasoline if the State officials desire to
take such action.
I have designated Charles Warren ยน on
my staff, a high official in the White
House, to be my personal representative
to California and Nevada in the coming
days, to work very closely with the offi-
cials in those States to make sure that the
supplies of gasoline are improved with
the most expediency possible. Charles
Warren is a very competent person. He's
familiar with the processes here in Wash-
ington. He happened to have been the
former chairman of the committee in the
1 Chairman of the Council on Environmental
Quality.
872
