Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
-preventing export of technological
products and processes with military
applications that would erode our
security; and
-utilizing advanced technological ca-
pability in the pursuit of arms limita-
tion agreements.
MAINTAINING
TECHNOLOGICAL LEADER-
SHIP IN WEAPONS SYSTEMS
Our military investments in new tech-
nology over the years have contributed
immeasurably to our security. Now, as
other nations are becoming more profi-
cient in science and technology, we must
make certain that our own capabilities
remain at the frontier of knowledge. We
must be spared the shock of major tech-
nological surprises. It is absolutely essen-
tial for us to remain second to none in
the development and production of new
weapons.
We are moving ahead with major de-
velopment programs to increase our mili-
tary capabilities. In the strategic area,
programs are underway to strengthen
each element of the triad-air, land, and
sea-in order to preserve our deterrent
capabilities. Examples are the M-X in-
tercontinental ballistic missile, cruise mis-
siles, and the Trident submarine and mis-
sile system. We are also pursuing the
development of more survivable and re-
liable strategic warning and command
control systems.
In order to improve our capability to
fight a conventional war, we are develop-
ing and procuring new generations of air-
craft, ground vehicles and munitions. The
F-15, F-16, F-18 and A-10 aircraft, the
XM-1 tank and the Patriot air defense
missile are examples.
UTILIZING TECHNOLOGY TO REDUCE COSTS
Science and technology-properly ap-
plied-can increase efficiency, thereby re-
ducing acquisition costs and improving
the effectiveness of weapons. Science and
technology enable us to develop new ma-
terials and components at lower costs.
They can give our weapons greater reli-
ability and efficiency, thereby reducing
personnel needs. And they improve our
manufacturing productivity. Cooperation
with our allies also will help reduce costs
without sacrificing our modernization
programs. Standardization and common
operational capability among NATO
allies are important objectives.
In the procurement of weapons, we are
emphasizing competition between poten-
tial suppliers to help keep costs down.
And we have adopted new management
techniques to ensure that economies are
not overlooked. We also are analyzing
carefully the best mix of systems needed
to meet anticipated contingencies. We
have concluded that future shipbuilding
efforts should concentrate on larger num-
bers of small ships, with enhanced mo-
bility and firepower. Similarly, we are
building a new, comparatively low-cost
tactical airplane, the A-10, that empha-
sizes mobility and munitions designed for
engagement of enemy tank forces. With
imagination and effort, these various ap-
proaches will enable us to maintain tech-
nological superiority at acceptable cost.
BUILDING OUR DEFENSE RESEARCH BASE
The development cycle from proposal
of a new concept to a deployed weapons
system can take a decade or more. The
length of time for dividends from invest-
ments in basic research is even longer.
Moreover, research and development are
542
