May 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
responsibility today, if we are unwilling
to take the heat to make unpopular de-
cisions, stick together in a semblance of
unity to fight difficult battles without fear,
to set our goals high, to be inspired, to
recognize the potential greatness of our
country, to stand up and fight when it's
necessary, to offer answers to complicated
and complex questions when we know
there's no easy way-if we don't do these
things, then we will have failed in our own
hour of history.
The Democratic Party has a great his-
tory. Democrats have never been elected
to office just because we wanted to avoid
problems, to offer a timid course or a
simple solution in difficult times. We are
the party of the people not just because
we most often win a majority of the votes,
but because we believe in an America
that's united by a common purpose and
not united by a conglomeration of special
interests.
Ours is a nation, ours is an America
that lives on hope—hope based on a real
expectation of fulfillment, not based on
fear or cynicism or hatred or divisiveness
or selfishness or despair, but based on
justice, equality, optimism, and faith. If
we are true to these principles, to these
values, if we are true to that faith, then
we will meet the challenge of leadership
in the Democratic Party today. Together,
we will succeed in our present task, and
under those circumstances, I have ab-
solutely no doubt that we will win again
in 1980.
Thank you very much.
I'd like to answer a few questions.
I think there are some microphones, and
you'll have to go to the microphone, if
you don't mind.
QUESTIONS
ADMINISTRATION'S ACCOMPLISHMENTS
AND GOALS
Q. Mr. President, we are today the
party in power, the dominant party. You
are our public and party leader, and yet,
Mr. President, it often appears that you
may be reticent to fully exercise the entire
prestige and power of those positions to
bring about all these solutions which you
espouse. Could you comment on that,
please?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'll try.
I didn't take this opportunity today to
list the things we've done. The consum-
mation of a Panama Canal Treaty after
14 years of fruitless effort; the bringing
together of Israel and Egypt in a success-
ful peace treaty after 30 years of warfare
and hatred and death and destruction
and divisiveness; or the conclusion of
a SALT agreement after 7 years, when it
had been unsuccessful; or the presentation
to the Congress of these difficult issues
which they have so far successfully re-
solved-and I didn't talk about civil serv-
ice reform and the reduction in the un-
employment rate by 25 percent and the
rejuvenation of our cities, like Detroit-
I haven't talked about those things.
But there are many areas of life that
still prey on my mind, and I feel on my
shoulders the responsibility that we have
not successfully addressed and I need your
help with them. And I'd like to respond to
this question without blaming other
people. There's enough blame to go
around when we don't succeed. And I
know that the President has that responsi-
bility as the preeminent person, and I get
my share of the blame, and I am not too
weak to take it.
Now, energy is becoming the burning
issue in our country. In 1980, I predict to
you that how we handle the energy ques-
tion is going to decide who wins and who
loses, because the American people are
interested in seeing can we work together.
Before I ever took oath of office, for
the first time in the history of our Nation,
950
