Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Union and our own military allies who
can produce weapons, to join us in this
effort. But I have met my standard very
accurately, even exceeded those reduc-
tions, and I'm very proud of that achieve-
ment.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS
Q. Mr. President, what's the adminis-
tration's policy now on illegal immigra-
tion? Is amnesty still a proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. We are opposed to it,
as you know. When I was inaugurated, I
took an oath, as have all my predecessors,
to uphold the laws and the Constitution
of the United States. And I'm constrained
to do the best I can to enforce the laws.
We have, obviously, been aware of the
fact that there are hundreds of thousands
of undocumented workers who crossed
the border into our country and who live
here at the present time. We worked a
number of months on this particular prob-
lem, with all its ramifications of sensitivity
and international relationships, and made
a proposal to the Congress, I think, about
18 months ago on what should be done
about it. The Congress has not yet acted.
When I was in Mexico recently, I dis-
cussed this matter with President López
Portillo and other members of the Mexi-
can Government and have now set up an
immigration commission, which will be
headed by Governor Reubin Askew from
Florida. Governor Askew will add his own
judgment and his results of consultations
to my own and make a recommendation
on a permanent solution, we hope, to this
problem, that will be satisfactory.
But there has been no one who's dis-
covered an adequate answer. My own be-
lief is that ultimately the rapidly improv-
ing economic circumstances in Mexico
will be the best answer. But when people
can find a job—and I am very proud of
the new potential prosperity for Mexico
that seems to be in prospect because of
discoveries, unanticipated discoveries of
oil and natural gas. But we are working
harmoniously within the Government it-
self, U.S. Government, working harmoni-
ously with the Mexican Government
now, and trying to enforce the boundary
laws of all kinds.
I think we've had excellent success in
dealing with the illegal or illicit drug traf-
fic. The Mexicans point out that we have
not had adequate success in controlling
contraband from the United States going
into Mexico on which duty is not paid.
And we are working together to resolve
the problem of the undocumented work-
ers. But it's something that no one has
found an adequate answer to. But we're
still trying.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll get one more
question.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, the new relationship
that we have with Red China, our policy
at the present, pursuit of the peace on the
Mideast, and the deterioration of the
situation in Iran suggest a major reshuf-
fling of global foreign policy as far as the
United States is concerned. And some of
us feel that it's not going to stop here, that
Turkey might be next for an enhance-
ment of an alliance. May we ask, what
next; in what general direction you in-
tend to go?
THE PRESIDENT. My own feeling is
that in the last 10, 15 years, even lesser
period of time, that our influence around
the world has been substantially en-
564
