Mar. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The principal responsibilities of the
IDCA Director would be to ensure that
the varied instruments by which the U.S.
contributes to development abroad are
utilized effectively and in concert, and
that the efforts of U.S. bilateral programs
and those of the multilateral development
institutions are complementary. To carry
out those responsibilities, the IDCA Di-
rector would establish and control the
budgets and policies of IDCA's several
component agencies, and make recom-
mendations to me concerning the ap-
pointment and removal of senior officials
of each component. IDCA would
contain:
The Agency for International De-
velopment.
The Overseas Private Investment
Corporation, of whose Board of Directors
the IDCA Director would become Chair-
man.
• A new Institute for Technological
Cooperation designed to promote scien-
tific and technological research in the
developing countries, which I have pro-
posed through legislative amendment.
In addition:
• Lead responsibility for policy and
budget for our voluntary contributions to
the following international organizations
will be transferred to IDCA: UN De-
velopment Program; UNICEF; OAS
Technical Assistance Funds; UN Capital
Development Fund; UN Educational
and Training Program for Southern
Africa; UN/FAO World Food Program;
FAO Post Harvest Losses Fund; and UN
Disaster Relief Organization.
Existing arrangements with regard to
the multilateral development banks
(MDBs) would be modified so that the
Secretary of the Treasury will consult
with the IDCA Director in the selection
of candidates for the U.S. Executive Di-
rector and Deputy Executive Director
positions in the MDBs, and the IDCA
Director will advise U.S. Executive Di-
rectors on MDB projects and program
proposals.
The IDCA Director would take part
in executive branch decisionmaking con-
cerning such matters affecting interna-
tional development as trade and monetary
issues; he would speak to the relative
priority of development and other U.S.
objectives in respect of these and other
issues. He would replace the AID Ad-
ministrator as Chair of the Development
Coordination Committee.
• I have directed OMB to review al-
ternative organizational arrangements re-
specting all ACTION programs, and will
consider the possible relation of Peace
Corps to IDCA in light of the conclu-
sions of that review.
I intend to propose the creation of
IDCA under the reorganization author-
ity renewed by Congress in 1977. In ad-
dition, various administrative and pro-
gram adjustments will be made by Ex-
ecutive order and agency delegation.
I believe these steps will substantially
strengthen the coordination of U.S. poli-
cies affecting the developing world, and
will lead to a more coherent strategy of
development and the more effective use
of the various bilateral and multilateral
instruments by which the U.S. can en-
courage the growth of developing econ-
omies. I am pleased that these actions
and proposals are similar to those pro-
posed last year by the late Senator Hubert
H. Humphrey. I look forward to joining
with you to put them into operation.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 7, 1979.
NOTE: The text of the message was released
on March 8.
396
