Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 8
the great peoples of Egypt and of Israel.
I know that they share my determination
that these long negotiations will bring
fruit.
The Middle East has suffered too much
and too long from war and from the fear
of war. Arabs and Israelis alike must now
understand that bloodshed and depriva-
tion and death can never settle their dif-
ferences, can never be the path toward
renewal and hope.
For the first time in a generation, peace
in the Middle East has come within reach.
President Sadat's visit to Jerusalem, his
great and courageous reception by Prime
Minister Begin, the reciprocal visit by the
Prime Minister to Egypt-all opened the
way toward possible progress. At Camp
David, we then worked together for 13
days to forge a political framework within
which their differences might be resolved.
Our negotiations have been and are
based on the idea that peace can only be
achieved when we meet the legitimate
needs of all those who are affected by the
conflict.
Real peace will not come with a single
treaty, important as it would be. But a
treaty between Egypt and Israel is an in-
dispensable step toward the broader com-
prehensive peace that we all seek.
Negotiation is a long and tedious proc-
ess I know from personal experience.
But there are times when making peace
demands more courage than making war.
I believe that President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin possess that special kind of
courage and that they possess, as well, the
vision and the statesmanship to redeem
the great hope which they themselves
have helped to create.
So, it is with hope that I depart, hope
tempered by sober realism. As a friend of
Egypt and a friend of Israel, we will do
our best to help them achieve the peace
that they have paid for in blood many
times over.
In doing this, in seeking to lay the basis
for a stable and a peaceful Middle East,
we will also be serving our own deepest
national interests and the interests of all
the people of the world.
I know that in this endeavor, I take
with me the prayers and the good wishes
of the American people. In the difficult
work that lies ahead, I will draw strength
and sustenance from those worldwide
prayers and from your support.
Thank you very much. Goodbye, every-
body, I'm on my way.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 6:10
p.m. on the South Lawn of the White House.
International Development
Cooperation Administration
Message to the Congress on the Proposed
Agency. March 7, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Title III of the Inter-
national Development and Food Assist-
ance Act of 1978, I am writing to inform
you of the steps I have taken and pro-
pose to take to strengthen the coordina-
tion of U.S. economic policies affecting
developing countries.
I propose to create an International
Development Cooperation Administra-
tion (IDCA) as an independent agency
within the executive branch. The IDCA
Director would report both to me and to
the Secretary of State, and would serve
as our principal international develop-
ment advisor. The Director would receive
guidance concerning the foreign policy of
the U.S. from the Secretary of State. He
would submit his budget to the Office of
Management and Budget after consulting
with the Secretary.
·
395
