Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
statue of Ramses in the heart of the great
city of Cairo.
I was blessed to ride with President
Sadat on a train, in an open railcar built
in 1870, across the Nile Delta from Cairo
to Alexandria. I saw there people who
were industrious. I grew up on a farm
when there were no machines--and still,
in many parts of Egypt, with the ex-
tremely rich land, four crops per year,
beautifully irrigated, superb variety of
the produce of that country, people -hard
at work, still using in some instances ox-
en, camels, water buffalo, their hands, as
well as the most modern tools of agri-
culture.
Forty million people, only recently an
independent nation after almost 2,000
years of foreign domination, a country
ready to expand rapidly economically;
and now, because of the leadership of an
inspired man, those 40 million people
changing their whole attitude and com-
mitment from war to peace.
I'm proud to have been part of it. But
my thought, as I made my brief trip
through that country, was how rich an op-
portunity existed there for the realization
of the hopes and ambitions of many of my
own fellow Americans.
As you know, my background is as an
engineer and a businessman. And I could
think of the immediate prospects for dras-
tic and prosperous change when the Suez
Canal is now opened to Israeli ships. In 2
months, we expect the borders to be open
to unrestricted travel between Egypt and
Israel, an end to the crippling and con-
straining embargo. Government-to-gov-
ernment interrelationships have already
been established at almost every Cabinet
level between the United States and
Egypt.
But the most important interrelation-
ship has not yet been adequately explored.
I believe that the peace just confirmed
will last, not because Carter, Sadat, Be-
gin can be in office many more months or
years, but because once those borders are
open and thousands of students, tourists,
mothers, fathers, tradesmen, merchants,
scholars, archaeologists move back and
forth across those borders, the benefits of
peace will be so obvious and so tangible
and so precious that a change in the lead-
ership of those two countries in the future
cannot possibly have a deleterious effect.
I want to see very rapidly the relation-
ship between our country and Egypt
change in the same way. Ours is a system
of free enterprise, where our Government
plays a minimal role compared to the
thrust of our dynamic economic system,
where the major progress and the quality
of life of our people has been attributable
to people, leaders like yourselves. And I
sincerely hope that this dream that I have
of Egypt and you joining together to real-
ize a great, mutual advantage will be rap-
idly realized.
Today I had a private luncheon with
Prime Minister Khalil, also an engineer,
a businessman, a volunteer in government
who was sought by President Sadat, a man
who is Prime Minister, who manages the
day-by-day affairs of the Government, a
man of unimpeachable integrity, of quiet
competence, who will in the future play
an expanded role in guaranteeing that the
routine and almost inevitable bureau-
cratic obstacles will be rapidly removed,
a man who's approachable by those who
see an opportunity to invest in Egypt for
the benefit of the people whom he serves.
I want to see you and me and other
Americans help to build an even greater
Egypt.
547
