Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 16
action has resulted in increased California
crude oil production of over 60,000 bar-
rels per day. The Department has also re-
cently established incentive prices for en-
hanced oil recovery projects and newly
discovered oil, both of which will be par-
ticularly beneficial to California crude oil
production.
Earlier this month, I approved a De-
partment of Transportation grant of $650
million to Los Angeles to improve its
mass transit system. That was the largest
Federal mass transit grant ever awarded.
The funds will be used to purchase 1,200
new buses, to provide operating subsidies,
and to develop a downtown "people
mover" system. All of these projects
should result in greater use of mass tran-
sit in Los Angeles and help provide an al-
ternative to the automobile.
Today, I am directing that additional
actions be taken to relieve the supply sit-
uation in California.
First, the DOE will increase from 3 per-
cent to 5 percent the percentage of the
State's total gasoline allocation that the
Governor has authority to utilize, if re-
quested by the Governor. While this ac-
tion will not increase the total amount of
gasoline available in California, it will
give the Governor useful flexibility in di-
recting gasoline to the areas where it is
most needed.
Secondly, I am directing the Depart-
ment of Energy, working with the Depart-
ment of Defense, to change its regulations
regarding the allocation of gasoline
supplies to the Department of Defense to
ensure that only direct, essential military
and readiness oriented operations receive
a 100-percent allocation of supply. Non-
essential use of gasoline at military bases
would be curtailed. This action should re-
lease some extra supplies of gasoline for
the general population, especially in
States with major military installations
such as California.
Third, I have instructed DOE to moni-
tor the Western refineries' use of crude oil
and gasoline stocks to make sure that they
are not being unnecessarily cautious in
releasing those stocks for immediate con-
sumption. The Department will be pre-
pared to use its regulatory authorities if
necessary to assure proper use of stocks. In
addition, DOE will work with the Cali-
fornia refiners to ensure maximum pro-
duction of gasoline, consistent with our
overall national priority to rebuild home
heating oil stocks for next winter.
Fourth, I have directed the Antitrust
Division of the Department of Justice and
the Department of Energy to establish a
special auditing and investigative team to
monitor the activities of oil companies,
refiners, wholesalers, and distributors of
gasoline to ensure that supplies of gaso-
line are not being withheld or manipulated
in violation of Federal regulations or the
antitrust laws of the United States. If we
find any evidence of illegal conduct among
refiners or distributors, we will take ap-
propriate action.
Fifth, to gain additional reliable infor-
mation on stocks held outside the primary
oil distribution system, I have directed the
Secretary of Energy to expedite collection
of information on the quantities and loca-
tion of selected petroleum products (for
example, gasoline, distillate, and fuel oil)
after these products are distributed by
refiners and major wholesalers. The De-
partment should be prepared to use all
appropriate legal authority and penalties
to make sure that this information is both
accurate and submitted promptly.
Sixth, I have directed the Department
of Energy to ensure that no gasoline is
allocated away from California as a result
of gasoline station closings within the
State. Needed gasoline supplies should not
875
