Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tween Arabs and Israelis. Let there be no
more suffering or denial of rights. Let
there be no more despair or loss of faith.
Let no mother lament the loss of her
child. Let no young man waste his life on
a conflict from which no one benefits. Let
us work together until the day comes
when they beat their swords into plow-
shares and their spears into pruning-
hooks. And God does call to the abode of
peace. He does guide whom He pleases to
His way.
[At this point, President Sadat repeated the
last two sentences in Arabic.]
Thank you.
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN. Mr. President
of the United States of America; Mr.
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt;
Mr. Vice President; Mr. Speaker of the
House of Representatives; Mr. Speaker of
the Knesset; Members of the Cabinets of
the United States, of Egypt, and Israel;
Members of the Congress and the Knes-
set; Your Excellencies; chairman of the
board of governors of the Jewish Agency;
chairman of the executive of the Zionist
Organization; Mrs. Gruber, the mother of
the sons; ¹distinguished guests; ladies and
gentlemen:
I have come from the land of Israel,
the land of Zion and Jerusalem, and here
I am in humility and with pride as a son
of the Jewish people, as one of the gen-
eration of the Holocaust and redemption.
The ancient Jewish people gave the
world a vision of eternal peacc, of univer-
sal disarmament, of abolishing the teach-
ing and the learning of war.
Two prophets, Yishayahu Ben Amotz
and Micah Hamorashti, having foreseen
the spiritual unity of man under God,
1 Rivka Gruber, an Israeli public figure since
her loss of two sons in the 1948 war of indepen-
dence, and author of the book "The Mother of
the Sons."
with these words coming forth from Jeru-
salem, gave the nations of the world the
following vision-expressed in identical
terms-"And they shall beat their swords
into plowshares and their spears into prun-
inghooks: nation shall not lift up sword
against nation, neither shall they learn
war any more."
Despite the tragedies and disappoint-
ments of the past, we must never fore-
sake that vision, that human dream, that
unshakable faith.
Peace is the beauty of life. It is sun-
shine. It is the smile of a child, the love
of a mother, the joy of a father, the to-
getherness of a family. It is the advance-
ment of man, the victory of a just cause,
the triumph of truth. Peace is all of these
and more, and more.
These are words I uttered in Oslo, on
December 10, 1978, while receiving the
second half of the Nobel Peace Prize. The
first half went, rightly so, to President
Sadat. And I took the liberty to repeat
them here on this momentous, historic
occasion.
It is a great day in the annals of two
ancient nations, Egypt and Israel, whose
sons met in battle five times in one gen-
eration, fighting and falling.
Let us turn our hearts to our heroes and
pay tribute to their eternal memory. It is
thanks to them, to our fallen heroes, that
we could have reached this day.
However, let us not forget that in an-
cient times, our two nations met also in
alliance. Now we make peace, the cor-
nerstone of cooperation and friendship.
It is a great day in your life, Mr. Presi-
dent of the United States. You have
worked so hard, so insistently, so consist-
ently to achieve this goal. And your
labors and your devotion bore God-
blessed fruit.
520
