Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
consistent with each other or comple-
mented the programs of the multilateral
organizations to which we contribute.
Third, none of the agency heads testify-
ing before the Congress about his particu-
lar portion of our foreign assistance efforts
was able to speak authoritatively for the
program as a whole or for the Adminis-
tration's overall development policies and
priorities. Finally, because there was no
authoritative spokesperson, developmen-
tal concerns were at times accorded insuf-
ficient weight in executive branch deci-
sion-making on trade, monetary, and
other non-aid economic issues that affect
developing nations.
Just before his death a year ago, Sena-
tor Hubert H. Humphrey prepared a bill
intended to solve these problems. Con-
gressman Clement Zablocki introduced a
similar measure in the House. Although
the Congress took no action last year on
the organizational provisions of the Hum-
phrey-Zablocki bill, it directed me, in title
III of the 1978 development assistance
authorization act, to institute a strength-
ened system of coordination of U.S. eco-
nomic policies affecting the developing
countries, and urged me to create an
agency with primary responsibility for
coordination of international develop-
ment-related activities.
In response to the Humphrey-Zablocki
bill and the Administration's own anal-
yses, I took a number of steps last year to
strengthen aid coordination and improve
the effectiveness of our development as-
sistance programs. The Reorganization
Plan transmitted with this message con-
tinues that process. It will provide
stronger direction of U.S. policies toward
the developing world, ensure a more co-
herent development strategy, promote the
more effective use of the various U.S. bi-
lateral instruments by which the U.S. can
encourage economic and social progress
in developing countries, and ensure that
U.S. bilateral programs and the multi-
lateral programs to which we contribute
better complement each other.
This reorganization would create a new
agency, to be known as the Interna-
tional Development Cooperation Agency
(IDCA). IDCA would become a focal
point within the U.S. Government for
economic matters affecting U.S. relations
with developing countries. Subject to
guidance concerning the foreign policy of
the United States from the Secretary of
State, the IDCA Director would be the
principal international development ad-
visor to the President and to the Secre-
tary of State. The Director would replace
the AID Administrator in chairing the
Development Coordination Committee.
The IDCA Director would make recom-
mendations to me concerning the appoint-
ment and tenure of senior officials of each
component of IDCA, and would establish
and control the budgets and policies of the
Agency for International Development
and the bilateral foreign assistance pro-
grams it administers, and of the Institute
For Technological Cooperation, proposed
in legislation transmitted to the Congress
on February 26, 1979, which would sup-
port research and technological innova-
tion to reduce obstacles to economic
development.
The Overseas Private Investment Cor-
poration, which insures and guarantees
U.S. private investments in developing
countries against certain hazards, would
also be a component of IDCA, but
OPIC's Board of Directors, which the
IDCA Director would chair, would con-
tinue to set OPIC policy.
Each of these agencies would retain its
individual identity and substantial day-
to-day operating autonomy. A principal
responsibility of the IDCA Director-who
would be supported by a small staff-
643
