Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 2
United States Senate with the same kind
of ideals on which our Nation was founded
200 years ago. I thank you for your fine
delegation.
I just want to add my voice to that of
John Brademas and others, because we
share the personal loss with Birch of Mar-
vella Bayh. Her spirit and courage were
well known here in Indiana, but they
were equally well known throughout our
Nation. She faced the prospects of an
untimely death with courage and an in-
spirational attitude which sustained many
others who faced sorrow and tragedy in
their lives.
She was a personal friend of ours, and
her deep faith in God and in our country
have helped to sustain me and many
others as we faced difficult times in our
public life. We truly miss her radiant
presence, but it lives among us without
diminution.
I know that Birch, in the memorial
service for her, pointed out that he did not
want to see sorrowful faces as we talk
about Marvella. And I do have a spirit of
thanksgiving and happiness that she lived
among us. And she still lives among us, as
far as I'm concerned.
The last time I was in Indiana, I spoke
at Notre Dame about our foreign policy
and about our intention to support human
rights around the world. In the 2 years
since then, much has happened. It's been
a time of rebuilding. We've accomplished
a great deal. We have a lot to do. But
when they write the history of these years,
I hope that they'll say four things about
what you and I have been able to do
together.
First of all, I want them to say that we
Democrats have made America prosper-
ous again and that we believe as a party
in hard work and that we have put our
people back to work. That's one thing I
want them to say.
And I want the historians also to say
that we Democrats have not been afraid
to tackle difficult and controversial issues,
that we have never put temporary politi-
cal gain ahead of the permanent benefit
of the United States of America.
And I want them to say, after Vietnam
and Watergate and CIA and other em-
barrassing circumstances, that we Demo-
crats together have been able to restore
the faith and the trust of the American
people in their own Government.
And I think, as President, I want them
to say, above everything else, that
America has been at peace and that we
have been instrumental in leading the rest
of the world away from war.
That's a good, sound history lesson.
If we can build on this platform being
carried out of peace, courage, prosperity,
carried out of
trust, we will have kept faith with our
party, and we will have kept faith with
the American people, and we will enter
the 1980's as a proud, confident, strong,
and united nation. We can bring our
Nation and the world closer to a time
when war, hunger, poverty, injustice,
oppression, will be no more. This is what
you and I can do; this is what you and I
will do together.
It's sobering to think back just a few
years and remember the cynicism and the
distrust, a divided nation brought about
by those in power during the previous
administrations, to remember the disap-
pointment and a sense of betrayal that
clouded our land.
Great changes have taken place. We've
demanded a government that does not
need to cover up and which actually de-
serves the loyalty and the trust of the peo-
ple. There are no more official govern-
ment lies. There are no more enemies lists.
There are no more sellouts to the special
interest groups.
991
