Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 8
tingency Plan No. 5 which I transmitted
on May 7, 1979.
During the consideration of the Stand-
by Gasoline Rationing Plan, concerns
were raised by both Houses of Congress
that the Plan did not treat states and the
citizens within states equitably. The
pur-
pose of this amendment is to add new
provisions to the rationing plan to elimi-
nate the potential for disparities during
plan operation. The first provision alters
the procedure for determining allotments
of ration rights by basing allotments on a
historical gasoline use factor in each state,
and expands the State Ration Reserve,
thereby compensating for disparities both
within and among states. The second
change limits the number of vehicle allot-
ments each household could receive, re-
flecting my belief that households with
over three vehicles should not receive ex-
cessive benefits at the expense of other
households.
Under this amendment, each state will
be provided with an expanded State
Ration Reserve of eight percent not only
to provide for the needs of the handi-
capped and hardship applicants as already
provided in the plan, but to provide ad-
ditional flexibility to the states in dispens-
ing supplemental ration allotments to
citizens with special needs. The National
Ration Reserve is anticipated to remain
at approximately two percent of the avail-
able gasoline supply.
The amendment also provides a new
method for calculating the ration rights to
be allotted to each registered vehicle. In-
stead of allocating the net total available
gasoline supply equally to vehicles in all
states, the amendment provides for the
available gasoline supply to be allotted on
the basis of historical gasoline use in the
respective states.
Another provision limits the number of
ration rights received by each household
to three vehicle allotments. Ration rights
not distributed to members of a household
pursuant to the limitation of this amend-
ment will be distributed to the State
Ration Reserve in the state in which such
household is located. This amendment
would not preclude members of a house-
hold from obtaining additional ration
rights from the State Ration Reserve on
the basis of hardship or other factors.
The procedures for approval by Con-
gress of an amendment to a contingency
plan are detailed in Section 552 of the
EPCA, and require among other things
that a resolution of approval be passed by
each House of Congress within 60 days of
submittal of the amendment. I urge the
Congress to give this amendment expe-
dited consideration so that it may be ap-
proved promptly with the Standby Gaso-
line Rationing Plan.
The EPCA does not specify in Section
552 the form which the resolution of ap-
proval is to take. As I noted in my sub-
mission of the Standby Gasoline Ration-
ing Plan on March 1, 1979, it is my view
and that of the Attorney General that ac-
tions of the Congress purporting to have
binding legal effect must be presented to
the President for his approval under
Article I, Section 7 of the Constitution.
Therefore, I strongly recommend that
Congressional approval of the amendment
be in the form of a joint resolution. If this
procedure is followed, the amendment it-
self, agreed to by the Congress and the
President, will not later be subject to
possible judicial invalidation on the
ground that the President did not approve
the resolution.
Prompt Congressional approval of the
Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan is essen-
tial. Failure of the Congress to act will
leave the Nation vulnerable to economic
disruption and long gasoline station lines.
It is obviously impossible to develop a
821
