Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
it not only impacts directly upon the qual-
ity of life of the people whom I represent
and who also look to you for leadership,
but growing inflation separates people,
people,
one from another. It drives wedges be-
tween us. And it arouses a distrust in the
average American's mind about orga-
nized labor, about business, about the free
enterprise system, about local, State, and
Federal Government.
It's a very insidious thing. And as you
know, for the last 10 years, inflation has
been an ever-present problem for me and
my predecessors, and for you and those
who work with you.
It's hard to detect specific things that
can be done. There's no way that I can
affect the price of aluminum or wheat or
lumber. It's almost impossible to have a
direct impact on international markets.
And quite often, or most often, I would
say, the prices of commodities-barring
some extreme shortage, or awareness of an
existing shortage the prices move up
fairly well together.
Hospital treatment, medical treatment,
is an exception to the rule. The laws of
supply and demand, the free enterprise
system principles don't work, because
neither hospital owners or administrators
or doctors or patients have a built-in in-
centive to try to control prices. Ninety per-
cent of all the hospital bills are paid either
by insurers or by the Government. And
quite often, if a family has paid hospital
insurance for 5 or 6 years and nobody gets
sick, and someone does feel ill, their nat-
ural, human inclination is to go to the
hospital and get part of their money back
and, in the process, obviously be treated
for a real or imagined illness.
It's much more easy for a medical doc-
tor to put someone in the hospital for
treatment and to keep them there, readily
accessible, than it is to do otherwise. And
quite often, the medical doctors are part
owners of the hospitals themselves, and
keeping extant beds occupied is one of the
factors that go into the profit of the hos-
pital operation itself.
The rate of increase of prices of hos-
pital care has been extraordinarily high—
in the last number of years, twice as great
as the excessive inflation rate for society
as a whole. And this indicates that some-
thing ought to be done.
As you well know, the hospital costs
have been and are now doubling every 5
years. And quite often, the price of hos-
pital care doesn't show up just because a
family has someone go for medical care
personally. When you buy an automobile,
on the average, $120 of the price of that
car that you pay goes to buy hospital in-
surance for the workers who made the car.
So, it feeds back into society and shows up
in the Consumer Price Index, and there-
fore is compounded in its adverse effect
on us all.
I'm a product of the free enterprise sys-
tem. I served for years on a hospital au-
thority. My uncle, my mother, my
brother-all of us have been an integral
part of the Sumter County Hospital
Authority.
And I have seen in retrospect, from a
little different perspective, that we were
naturally inclined to buy a new machine
whenever it became available and then
to mandate, to require that every person
who came to the hospital had to submit a
blood sample or some other aspect of their
body to the machine for analysis, whether
they needed it or not, in order rapidly to
defray the cost of the purchase of the ma-
chine. And I didn't realize then that I was
ripping off people; never thought about
it too much. [Laughter] But it was a fact
back in the late fifties and early sixties.
It's even more an important element of
hospital care now than it was then.
Many of the machines obviously play
604
