June 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus parties a series of suggestions for a sub-
problem.
On May 18-19 Cyprus President
Kyprianou and Turkish Cypriot leader
Denktash met in Nicosia under the aus-
pices of U.N. Secretary-General Wald-
heim. Following intensive discussions, the
two Cypriot leaders agreed to resume full
intercommunal negotiations in Nicosia
on June 15. This is a significant decision,
which holds open the promise that tan-
gible progress can finally be made to-
wards a just and lasting Cyprus settle-
ment. The last round of negotiations was
held more than two years ago, in the
spring of 1977, and since that time the is-
sue has virtually been stalemated.
In the course of their meeting the two
Cypriot leaders concurred in a ten-point
communique, issued by the Secretary-
General on May 19, that will serve as a
basis for the new round of negotiations.
I am enclosing a copy of this communique
for your information. As you will note, the
two sides have agreed that the talks will be
sustained and continuous, and that prior-
ity will be given to the resettlement of
Varosha under United Nations auspices.
Provision is made for initial practical
measures by both sides to promote good-
will and mutual confidence.
In another significant step, President
Kyprianou and
and Mr. Denktash also
reached agreement on May 19 on a proce-
dure for resolving the long-standing hu-
manitarian problem of tracing and ac-
counting for persons missing since the hos-
tilities of 1974 and the intercommunal
violence in Cyprus during the 1960's.
As I have noted in previous reports to
the Congress, the Administration has long
been actively engaged in promoting an
early and effective resumption of Cyprus
negotiations. Last November, in conjunc-
tion with the United Kingdom and Can-
ada, we submitted to the two Cypriot
stantive basis for renewed negotiations,
and subsequently we strongly supported
Secretary-General Waldheim's efforts to
develop a negotiating agenda satisfactory
to both sides. Through regular diplomatic
channels and numerous high-level con-
tacts, we have consistently urged a mod-
erate, flexible and conciliatory approach.
More recently, we actively encouraged all
concerned to work for a successful out-
come to the May 18-19 Kyprianou-Denk-
tash meeting. I sent a message to the Sec-
retary-General just prior to the meeting
stressing the importance that we attach to
a Cyprus settlement and pledging him
our full and continuing support. Secretary
Vance also sent messages to President
Kyprianou and Mr. Denktash expressing
our strong hope that their meeting would
result in a productive resumption of inter-
communal negotiations.
It is my firm hope that the new round
of intercommunal negotiations will be
both sustained and productive, and that
concrete progress towards a Cyprus settle-
ment will soon result. I assure you that we
will continue as in past months to work
closely with the United Nations, the
Cypriot parties and our allies to help
ensure the success of these talks.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Frank
Church, chairman of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee.
The text of the communique is included in
the press release, and it reads as follows:
CYPRUS INTERCOMMUNAL NEGOTIATIONS
Communique agreed to by President Kyp-
rianou and Turkish Cypriot Leader Denktash
with United Nations Secretary General Wald-
heim, May 19, 1979.
1. It was agreed to resume the intercom-
munal talks on 15 June 1979.
998
