Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 22
Savings and loan associations exist to
channel household savings into mort-
gages. Mutual savings banks are also
major suppliers of housing credit. Because
these institutions invest in long-term,
fixed-rate mortgages, they are limited in
their ability to meet competitive rates for
savings when interest rates rise.
In 1966, interest rates rose sharply, and
depositors fled many of these institutions
to those able to pay higher interest rates.
To prevent the failure of savings institu-
tions and the disruption of the mortgage
and housing markets, deposit rate ceilings
covering commercial banks were tem-
porarily extended to thrift institutions.
The ceilings generally have been admin-
istered to permit thrift institutions to pay
higher rates of interest than commercial
banks.
Conditions have changed dramatically
since these limitations were first imposed
on thrift institutions. In the current eco-
nomic and financial environment, the
ceilings have the following effects:
They discriminate against the small
saver, who often lacks sufficient funds to
purchase market-rate securities which are
available to the large investor.
They are increasingly ineffective in
maintaining deposit flows to thrift in-
stitutions. The financial marketplace is
becoming adept at creating new invest-
ment alternatives, such as the money
market mutual funds, which induce the
small saver to withdraw his funds to
obtain benefits similar to those enjoyed
by the large investor. While the six-month
money market certificate has succeeded
in maintaining the flow of housing credit
since last year, it has imposed serious
pressures on thrift institutions, and it is
not a long-term solution.
• They avoid the discipline of com-
petition and create inefficiencies in the
financial marketplace. Financial institu-
tions are limited to non-price competitive
practices such as merchandising gifts, al-
though the consumer might prefer a
higher yield on his savings.
These problems cannot be solved over-
night. They are rooted in the structure of
our financial system, and their resolution
will require a careful and deliberate ap-
proach which takes account of the reali-
ties facing our thrift institutions.
Our savings institutions have been
required by law and influenced by tax in-
centives to invest primarily in residential
mortgages. In most states, the law con-
fines them to long-term fixed-rate mort-
gages. Their sources of funds-deposits-
have considerably shorter maturities.
When short-term interest rates rise
sharply, revenues are limited by their
earnings on the existing longer-term mort-
gages. Since their deposit liabilities are
more volatile than their assets, they must
pay depositors market rates or they start
to lose their deposits.
While raising or removing the ceilings
would give savings institutions the legal
power to pay market rates to depositors,
their economic ability to do so is still
limited by the earnings from their mort-
gage investments. Savings institutions
must be given new investment powers so
that they can afford to pay higher rates
and maintain the flow of mortgage credit.
The transition to freer deposit rates and
to new asset powers must be orderly, to
avoid major shocks to the financial
system.
The disparity between market rates and
the ceilings is greatest during periods of
high interest rates. Yet that is the time
when it is most difficult for the regulatory
agencies that set the ceilings to raise them
substantially. These agencies are also
responsible for the safety and soundness
of financial institutions. If deposit interest
rates rise sharply, the institutions' earn-
ings come under great pressure unless, at
929
