Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
sides in the building of closer ties with
as many nations as possible.
The Major Allies
Throughout 1978, the North Atlantic
Alliance and the growing partnership
which links us with both Western Europe
and Japan remained at the heart of our
foreign policy. The cooperation we share
with those whose purposes and traditions
are closest to our own is strong and grow-
ing stronger.
Through our summit meetings, and
through an unprecedented pattern of con-
sultations at other levels of our govern-
ments, we are working together on vir-
tually all of today's most critical issues:
together we are seeking to reduce the
risk of nuclear confrontation;
• we are working on ways to strengthen
the common defense;
are attempting to promote a
peaceful transition in southern Africa;
• we are striving to resolve conflicts in
the Eastern Mediterranean to support a
just and lasting peace in the Middle East
and to maintain stability in the Persian
Gulf;
• we are contributing to a sounder in-
ternational economy;
• we are consulting on the issues that
confront all our societies: the problems
of youth and age, family and community,
growth and conservation-in short, ad-
vancing our democratic ideals at home in
a time of change in each of our countries.
America's role as host for the NATO
summit meeting in Washington last
spring, and our attendance at the seven-
nation economic summit in Bonn last
summer, symbolized American commit-
ment to the strength of relations with
Europe and Japan. I look forward to
meeting these and other allied leaders at
the Tokyo Summit next June, where we
will continue the essential effort to deepen
further the cooperation between us.
A Wider Community
The changing realities of political and
economic interdependence require that
we strengthen our ties throughout the de-
veloping world and seek to improve rela-
tions with Communist nations as well.
My trips to Nigeria, India, Saudi
Arabia, Iran, Brazil, and Venezuela
underlined American sympathy and sup-
port for the international roles these coun-
tries are playing in the process of world
change. Strengthened consultations with
the ASEAN nations serve the same end.
My trip to Mexico early next month
will be a part of this process; Mexico is
important to us not only because it is a
neighbor but also because it is one of the
most vigorous democracies in this Hemi-
sphere and a leader in the developing
world. As neighbors, we share an agenda
of common concerns-trade, migration,
economic growth and social develop-
ment-that provides an opportunity to
establish a uniquely productive, coopera-
tive relationship.
My trip to Poland and the visits of
Secretary Vance and Secretary Blumen-
thal to Hungary and Romania underscore
the importance we attach to better rela-
tions with the nations of Eastern Europe.
The support of the Congress for our
policy toward Eastern Europe has pro-
vided a strong foundation for building a
stronger economic, cultural and political
relationship—a process that will continue
to go forward in the coming year.
China
The arrival next week of the first leader
of the People's Republic of China to offi-
cially visit Washington will give us an
157
