June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
into account the lifetime energy costs of
various systems. The Department of De-
fense, which accounts for about 72% of
all government-owned buildings, is play-
ing a major role in the federal solar
buildings program. To date, DOD has
over 100 solar projects in various stages
of completion, ranging in size from solar
hot water heaters in residences to solar
heating and air conditioning of Naval,
Air Force and Army base facilities. When
all of the presently planned solar projects
are complete, DOD estimates that they
will be providing more than 20 billion
Btu's of energy. The Federal government
must set an example, and I call upon the
states to do likewise.
The Domestic Policy Review recom-
mended several important changes in the
direction and nature of the Federal re-
search and development program for
future solar and renewable resource
technologies. It found that solar demon-
stration programs for active hot water
systems and high-cost centralized solar
electric technologies had been overempha-
sized at the expense of those systems
which hold wider potential to displace the
use of oil and natural gas.
As a result of the Domestic Policy Re-
view, the FY 1980 budget for DOE's re-
search and development program for solar
and renewable energy sources was redi-
rected toward technologies such as photo-
voltaics, biomass, wind energy, and sys-
tems for generation of process heat. To
respond to these new priorities, over $130
million in increased funding was provided
in the R&D program, an increase of 40%
over FY 1979 levels.
While solar heating and cooling units
are already being used to meet the energy
requirements of buildings throughout the
country, the DOE is supporting contin-
ued advances in these products, by pro-
viding funds to industry, small business,
Federal laboratories, and the research
community to reduce the cost of solar
systems and to improve performance.
Improved system design, analysis, and sys-
tem-integration activities are being car-
ried out for active heating and cooling
systems, passive systems, and agricultural
and industrial process heating systems.
The program also supports product im-
provements for such key components as
solar collectors, energy storage units, and
controls.
Photovoltaics, which permit the direct
conversion of sunlight into electricity,
hold significant promise as a solar tech-
nology for the future. Research and devel-
opment efforts are directed at reducing
the cost of photovoltaic systems. In addi-
tion, new systems which produce hydro-
gen through an electrochemical reaction
can be used to produce electricity. There
is no question about our technical ability
to use photovoltaics to generate electric-
ity. These systems are already used exten-
sively to meet remote energy needs in our
space program. The main issue now is
how to reduce the costs of photovoltaics
for grid-related applications such as pro-
viding electricity to residential buildings
over the next five to ten years. The photo-
voltaic program involves all aspects of re-
search and development, from hardware
components to materials, marketing and
distribution systems. The Federal govern-
ment has already made commitments to
purchase $30 million of photovoltaic sys-
tems at a specified cost per watt as a
means of stimulating private efforts to
reduce the cost of this technology.
DOE's research and development pro-
gram has also emphasized wind energy.
Our objective is the development of wind
systems which will compete cost-effec-
1104
