Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
they shake off colonialism or establish
their own government.
Quite often they turn to the Soviet
Union or some other ready suppliers of
weapons in the revolutionary times, but
eventually they turn to a more stable in-
terrelationship and they become more na-
tionalistic in spirit. But they still have
enormous, almost indecipherable prob-
lems in the low quality of life of people.
And they are reaching out to us for tech-
nology, for trade, and, quite often, we
overlook them. We try to treat them as
a homogeneous mass of people: We say
"the people of South America," when
the countries of South America are just
as individualistic, perhaps even more so,
obviously, than the countries, say, in Eu-
rope or in Asia. We've tried to treat those
countries with respect, with decency, as
equals, which they are, and as individuals.
I think this is a very important con-
cept for us. In dealing with trade prob-
lems we quite often forget the fact that
a small country has only one major ex-
port item. And the price of coffee or the
price of tin or zinc or bauxite or sugar is
life or death to them. And I have a re-
sponsibility, as do you, to learn about
those nations and perhaps to visit them.
You might be wanting to go to a small
country in the Caribbean on vacation. It
would really pay rich dividends for you
to understand what their lifestyle is, what
their needs are, what their yearnings are,
what their frustrations are, what their
political alignments are, what their chal-
lenges are. And just a small gesture of
friendship is reciprocated in an over-
whelming degree.
One of the major goals that I espoused
when I was running for Governor [Presi-
dent] was eventually to have normal rela-
tions with the People's Republic of China
and to deal fairly and simultaneously with
the people of Taiwan. I think we've taken
a major step in that direction, success-
fully. This is a quarter of the world's
population. Coming from the South,
being a Baptist, I grew up as a kid who
used to give a nickel or a dime for mis-
sionaries to go to China. I've always had
a warm feeling in my heart for the Chi-
nese people. And I think they respond. I
think the recent visit by Vice Premier
Deng showed that there's an instant re-
sponse when finally those barriers are
broken and you can actually reach across
and shake hands.
And we've been very careful in estab-
lishing this new relationship not to sever
our good relationships with the people of
Taiwan. I think we'll benefit in both
those ways.
I would say the most important single
responsibility on my shoulders is to have
peace, an improved understanding, con-
sultation, communication with the Soviet
Union, because on the super powers'
shoulders rests the responsibility for peace
throughout the world.
We've spent 2 years now negotiating a
SALT treaty. I spent an hour this after-
noon with the Ambassador of the Soviet
Union, talking about all the differences
that we have between us, all the possibili-
ties for improving our relations, and this
preys very heavily on my shoulders. And I
mentioned Sunday afternoon that I have
never gotten a private letter from Presi-
dent Brezhnev that in the heart of his
letter he didn't mention their intense de-
sire to improve trade relationships with
our country.
And I hope that over a period of years
that all of you will take an opportunity to
travel to China, to travel to the Soviet
Union, and to help me engender peace,
friendship with both those nations and,
of course, with others as well.
Another thing, obviously, that we try
to do is to stamp out disharmony, combat,
356
