May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
be taken away from California just be-
cause a given retailer decides to discon-
tinue his business.
Lastly, I am asking Charles Warren,
who will be leaving shortly as Chairman
of the Council on Environmental Quality,
to oversee the implementation in Califor-
nia of the actions I am taking today. Mr.
Warren will serve as my special Personal
Representative for the California shortage
problem. Before joining my administra-
tion, he served as chairman of the energy
committee of the California State Assem-
bly. He is intimately familiar with Califor-
nia's energy problems and will provide a
central focus for the administration's
efforts to ease the California shortage.
There are other possibilities for action
which depend on joint Federal/State
action for implementation.
First, enforcement of the 55-mile-per-
hour speed limit could save up to 22,000
barrels of gasoline per day in California.
I have directed the Secretary of Transpor-
tation to work with the Governors of all
States to use the moneys which the Fed-
eral Government now has available to
strengthen enforcement of the 55-mile-
per-hour speed limit. I will also support
legislative efforts which would strengthen
sanctions and accelerate the schedule of
penalties against States which fail to
enforce this limit.
Second, my administration has identi-
fied several areas where current California
environmental standards-which are more
stringent than those required by Federal
law—could yield additional gasoline sup-
plies. Lowering the State's standards for
the lead content and vapor pressures of
gasoline during the immediate shortage
could produce up to 25-35 thousand bar-
rels of gasoline a day. However, in decid-
ing whether to reduce standards, the State
must balance the health and environ-
mental effects against the additional gaso-
line available, with the decision resting
with the State of California. Should Cali-
fornia decide to change these standards,
the Environmental Protection Agency
stands ready to assist in any way possible
to approve any such action by the State.
In addition, the State might consider ex-
pediting the issuance of permits to increase
thermal recovery operations to enhance
crude oil production.
When all of these measures are imple-
mented, California gasoline supplies for
the remainder of this spring and summer
should be brought into closer balance with
demand. The specific environmental
measures and enforcement of the 55-mile-
per-hour speed limit would save a major
share of the current supply shortfall. With
the additional cooperation of California
drivers, the long lines should then ease.
Continued and close cooperation be-
tween the Federal Government and the
State of California will be essential to our
success in alleviating the current shortages.
We have taken an important step in estab-
lishing a strong partnership in a meeting
which I had this morning with Governor
Brown, California Speaker Leo McCarthy,
Mayor Tom Bradley, and the California
congressional delegation. We agreed to
work together in a mutually supportive
way to resolve this problem.
We must also bear in mind, as we work
to solve the immediate difficulties in Cali-
fornia, that our Nation has a serious,
chronic, long-term energy problem. De-
control of crude oil, which I have an-
nounced, will lead to additional produc-
tion. Conservation will continue to be a
key in dealing with the underlying energy
situation which from time to time erupts
in the kind of problem which California
has faced over the last month. My wind-
fall profits tax will generate the revenues
for a massive effort to develop alternate
876
