Apr. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
reflect environmental concerns while sus-
taining their multiple resource values.
I have asked Secretary Bergland to pro-
vide Congress with maps and resource
data to accompany my recommendations
for wilderness designations. Since some of
the areas involved are contiguous to areas
previously recommended for wilderness
as a result of the earlier review of National
Forest Primitive Areas, the Secretary will
also include updated information on these
areas.
Included in my fact sheet is a State-by-
State listing of the acreage in wilderness,
in the further planning and nonwilderness
categories, and a listing of changes made
in the Secretary's January 4 proposal. The
changes are based on comments received
from Governors, Members of Congress,
and Federal agencies during the inter-
agency review process.
NOTE: The fact sheet is included in the press
release.
Disaster Emergency in Mississippi
Telegram to Governor Cliff Finch and Mayor
Dale Danks of Jackson. April 17, 1979
I am sending Bill Simpson of my staff
to Mississippi as my personal representa-
tive to assure that all appropriate and
necessary federal assistance is being made
available. He is due to arrive in Jackson
at approximately 9:15 a.m. Tuesday,
April 17.
As you know, Bill is a native of Missis-
sippi and served until recently as admin-
istrative assistant to former Senator East-
land. He has the authority to insure that
the federal government's response to this
disaster situation is timely and of maxi-
mum assistance to the people of the af-
fected areas, and he will report to me on
his return to Washington.
My thoughts and prayers are with you
and your
fellow citizens.
JIMMY CARTER
Commandant of the
Marine Corps
Nomination of Gen. Robert H. Barrow.
April 18, 1979
The President today announced he will
nominate Gen. Robert H. Barrow,
USMC, to be Commandant of the Ma-
rine Corps. He would replace Gen. Louis
H. Wilson, who is retiring on June 30,
1979.
General Barrow is currently Assistant
Commandant of the Marine Corps, a post
he has held since July 1, 1978.
He was born February 5, 1922, in Baton
Rouge, La. He attended Louisiana State
University and the University of Mary-
land, where he received a B.S. degree in
1956. He has done graduate work at Tu-
lane University.
He was commissioned in May 1943, and
served during the latter part of World
War II with a Chinese guerrilla force
which operated in enemy-occupied terri-
tory in central China. During the Korean
conflict, he participated in the Inchon-
Seoul operation and the Chosin Reservoir
campaign as a rifle company commander.
From 1964 to 1967, Barrow served as
the plans officer, Fleet Marine Force, Pa-
cific, and as an infantry regiment com-
mander whose regiment participated in
numerous combat actions in the vicinity
of the DMZ, Khe Sanh, and A Shau
Valley.
He was Commanding General for 3
years at the Marine Corps Base, Okinawa,
and then served as Commanding General,
Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Is-
land, S.C., for 32 months.
672
