May 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tary way are committed to the improve-
ment of the system of justice itself. All of
us together share a great responsibility.
Sunday I went to church with a man
who 48 hours before was in the Soviet
Union as a prisoner.ยน He was in a cattle-
car being moved from one part of Siberia
to another. And Sunday morning he was
worshipping with us.
On occasion, I teach a Sunday school
lesson, and it just happened that for many
weeks, I had planned to teach this lesson.
I described to the class, him included,
that the highest purpose of a government,
the highest goal that a government or so-
cietal structure could hope to achieve is
justice. It's an end in itself; it's a means
to an end; and it's a pursuit which is
never completely realized. There are al-
ways challenges to it brought about by the
fallibilities of human beings, the intense
pressure of competition in a free society,
the constraint of liberty where freedom
does not exist. It's a responsibility on us,
as it is on the shoulders of the leaders of
every nation on Earth.
The deprivation of justice is a serious
matter. It can be observed, if we are sen-
sitive, by those of us who don't suffer
much from it, who quite often, perhaps
inadvertently, benefit from a deprivation
of justice, because those who are with
power or with wealth or with social prom-
inence are very likely to benefit when an
advantage is meted out in a competitive
society by the perhaps less reputable in-
fluence of our peers who, in representing
themselves for some advantage, cause
those advantages to accrue to us.
And if we stand silent and reap the
benefits of injustice, then we ourselves are
equally culpable with those who initiated
the injustice for their own direct benefit
and with deliberation. And those who suf-
ยน Ukrainian Baptist leader Georgi Vins.
fer from it are the poor and the black and
those who can't speak English well, those
who are timid or inarticulate, perhaps
even illiterate.
are,
We tend to have an attitude in our own
country to take great pride in what we
and that pride is justified. But we also
tend to think that in each millennium,
each generation has reached a pinnacle
of achievement and all the discrimina-
tions that in the past afflicted our society
have in general been removed. That's ob-
viously not the case. But when women
were given the right to vote, there was a
general sense in our Nation that we had
indeed eliminated the last vestige of dis-
crimination, not recognizing the facts that
black people in many parts of our coun-
try couldn't even register to vote or, if
registered, couldn't vote without an overt
display of personal courage on Election
Day. And many of us were part of that
system that approved or condoned depri-
vation of rights in perhaps the freest so-
ciety on Earth.
Today there are still deprivations of
justice brought about by confusion, by
delay, by complexity, by design, by a de-
mand for personal wealth in order to ob-
tain adequate legal counsel, the rem-
nants of racial or sex discrimination, the
dominance of the powerful over the
weak-those elements of concern still
exist in the United States. And a Con-
gressman or a Governor or a President
sees examples of that quite often, and
when someone like myself raises the ques-
tion, quite often the final answer is,
"Well, that's the law. That's legal." It
concerns me. And I know it concerns you
as well.
But with that concern should come ac-
tion and determination and sacrifice and
commitment and a proper degree of cour-
age to challenge the existing system, some-
times when it arouses the displeasure of
758
