Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Counsel in the Merit System Protection
Board will help ensure the integrity of the
Federal work force and protect its mem-
bers from political abuse.
State and Local Government Relations
As the first President in more than
thirty years to be elected immediately
after service as a Governor, I have made
relations with State and local government
a high priority of my Administration.
During my first two years in office, we
have strengthened the Federal system sig-
nificantly. We have involved the Federal
Regional Directors in the management of
the government and have reinvigorated
the Federal Regional Councils. As a re-
sult, the Federal government is now able
to respond better and more quickly to
State and local needs. In addition, we
have involved State and local officials in
the development of our policies to a
greater degree than any previous Admin-
istration.
Since 1977, Federal grants-in-aid to
State and local governments have in-
creased to more than $80 billion per year,
25 percent above the level of aid when I
first took office. Progress has also been
made towards my goal of giving Gover-
nors, Mayors, and county officials more
flexibility in managing Federal programs.
The Federal government is now taking
seriously, for the first time, the burdens
and costs we impose on State and local
governments and all taxpayers when we
legislate and regulate from the Federal
level.
In this time of limited budget resources
we must achieve more cost-effective man-
agement of Federal resources and place
greater reliance on the experience, knowl-
edge, and ability of State and local
governments.
In the future, we must attempt to limit
the imposition of new costs on State and
local governments, and to avoid where
possible prescribing every detail of how
they administer Federal programs. We
must work together to identify specific
ways in which more flexibility can be
given to State, city, and county officials in
the administration of Federal programs
without compromising the national pur-
poses that each program is designed to
serve.
Transportation
In 1979 we shall continue the effort
begun in the 95th Congress to reduce the
regulatory burden on the Nation's trans-
portation industry. Our proposals for sur-
face transportation deregulation will build
upon the principles of increased competi-
tion that have proven successful for the
airline industry.
Shortly, I will propose broad legisla-
tion which begins to deregulate the rail-
road industry. Regulatory reform is a cru-
cial first step toward revitalizing this im-
portant transportation mode.
In addition, I will also be proposing
significant reductions in the regulation of
inter-city bus transportation and certain
regulatory changes in the trucking area.
We are also committed to improving
the level of safety for our transportation
vigorously to pursue legislation improving
industry. As part of this effort, we intend
equipment and conditions affecting truck
drivers, and giving stronger enforcement
authority to Federal agencies.
My forthcoming Surface Transporta-
tion Regulatory Reform Message will
provide the details of these proposals.
Finally, I will propose overdue changes
in the Nation's maritime policies. We
must improve the ability of our Merchant
Marine to win a fair share of our cargo.
130
