May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cism they get to the criticism I get every
day. [Laughter] I don't object to it, be-
cause I know that constructive criticism
can make us do a better job and correct
errors in Government or defects in the
Government that we might not otherwise
have known about.
The thing that I have tried to do is to
acknowledge freely that there has been
excessive regulation, excessive redtape, ex-
cessive waste, excessive bureaucratic con-
fusion and, on rare occasions, excessive
fraud, and to point out that the rooting
out of those things is not by me against
the 2 million Federal employees, but it's
me along with the overwhelming propor-
tion of those Federal employees, all of us
trying to improve the government mecha-
nism together.
In other words, it's not me and the pub-
lic against the Federal employees, it's me
and the Federal employees, as partners,
trying to make the Federal Government
better.
And I very seldom make a speech any-
where in the agricultural area that I don't
point out the improvements that have
been made in agriculture. The year before
last, last year, again this year, we're setting
alltime records, for instance, in the ex-
port of agricultural products to foreign
countries. This is something that every-
body knows I didn't do. But this has been
done by the superb professional econ-
omists and advisers and foreign sales ex-
perts within the Department of Agri-
culture.
So, I think there is a great deal of
natural appreciation for what Federal em-
ployees do. And the thing I want to do is
to make us all not be satisfied and not
wince or cry out loud when we are criti-
cized, but say we're trying to correct those
defects and we're trying to make it so that
we are not subject to legitimate criticism
in the future.
But I'm very pleased at how we have
been courageous enough to tackle some
problems that have long existed in gov-
ernment. And I believe that we have be-
gun to convince the American people now
that we are trying to root out those few
instances of fraud and that we don't try
to cover up or hide those instances be-
cause we ourselves might be embarrassed.
It is somewhat of a reflection on me as
President, having been in office for 2, 22
years, to find that there's a person in the
General Services Administration who is
violating the law. But I would rather root
that person out and let the public know
we're rooting him out than to leave that
person there. And if I get part of the
blame, I'm just willing to accept that. And
I'm sure that most of the civil servants
are in the same category.
Go ahead and cover your next point.
PERSONNEL CEILINGS
MR. MULHERN. The second point was
that personnel ceilings have been here in
my own agency since '67.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I know.
MR. MULHERN. So, I know they're
popular with the press and others, but
sustained personnel ceilings gets down to
a point of where it becomes detrimental.
And we have to be careful when we say
that, because it sounds good, but first you
start contracting and signing cooperative
agreements, and soon you start to get
feedback: "Now, look, this is costing more
money than if you did it the other way."
And I'm sure the Government wants to do
it where it's the most efficient. But sus-
tained personnel ceilings is a real burden.
I think that that area needs to be
examined very thoroughly to be sure that
we're not overdoing it, or that there needs
to be adjustments in different depart-
ments or sections of departments.
924
