Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
tion, I think, in history, certainly in re-
cent history.
So, I would guess that the Soviet Union
is now approaching the point where they
would comply with the most-favored-na-
tions as interpreted by the Congress. And
I would hope that we could have a re-
moval of that restraint if the Soviets meet
that standard, and increase our trade with
the Soviet Union. There are legal restric-
tions on what we can sell to the Soviets.
We cannot sell them anything under the
law that would contribute directly to the
enhancement of their military capability
that might be used against us.
China is a different proposition
altogether. They don't have the outmi-
gration problem. As a matter of fact, when
I mentioned the most-favored-nations re-
straints and the Jackson-Vanik amend-
ment to Deng Xiaoping, he immediately
said, "We'll qualify right now. If you want
us to send you 10 million Chinese tomor-
row"-[laughter]-"we'll be glad to do it."
I said, "I'll reciprocate by sending you
10,000 news correspondents." He said,
"No"-[laughter]-he said, "No, this
might prevent normalization from going
forward."
But I would hope, Jim, in the next few
months, that we might find it possible to
have most-favored-nations status granted
both to China and to the Soviet Union.
That's my hope, and that's my expecta-
tion. But the Congress, obviously, is in-
volved in that decision.
Maybe one more question.
GOVERNOR BYRNE. Mr. President, in
the wake of the upheaval in Iran there are
renewed threats to "destroy Israel." Does
the United States have a response to that,
and is that response in any way dependent
on the outcome of the continued Camp
David discussions?
THE PRESIDENT. I think almost every
responsible or significant element in Iran
is strongly anti-Communist. The Shah's
followers, those who challenged the Shah
in the secular world, and the religious
leaders all are intensely anti-Communist,
although there is a small group, the Tudeh
party there, who comprise maybe three
or four thousand total-nobody knows ex-
actly—who have relationships with the
Soviets indirectly through East Germany.
Iran was supplying a large part of
Israel's oil, and among the countries of
that region, they were the only ones who
had fairly advanced trade relationships
with Israel. That has been terminated
now. And they've severed relations with
Israel, and the Israeli Ambassador has
left, as you know.
Iran does not border on Israel, and I
would guess that the Iranian Govern-
ment, any time in the foreseeable future,
would not find an opportunity to attack
Israel directly.
This does create a change in attitude in
the Mideast, and it cuts both ways. And
I'll be very frank with you: I think it in-
creases the importance of Egypt as a sta-
bilizing factor in the Arab world, since
Iran cannot be considered any more, if it
ever was, the policeman of that region. I
think Egypt, with their very large popula-
tion, their very large armed forces, will be
looked upon much more in the future as
a possible stabilizing factor. I won't go
into too much detail.
Another problem, though, that has
arisen, demonstrated in Iran, has been
the ability of the relatively few militants,
who had deep and fervent commitments,
to succeed against an all-powerful mili-
tary force and an entrenched government.
I think the success exceeded even the
ones who were among the revolutionaries,
the speed of it, the completeness of their
victory. And I think this would tend to
inspire or to instigate uprisings among
the Palestinians, for instance, or other
359
