Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 22
But it is difficult. It's going to take
time. The private sector people tell you
how difficult it is. But none of the major
companies are thinking of abandoning it,
because if you don't have performance
appraisal, what do you base decisions on?
And that means you make automatic de-
cisions, and you lose what we hope will
be brought out of it.
I can just assure you, Mr. President,
that we are working very hard to provide
training in how you do performance ap-
praisal. We're working with the employ-
ees in doing so. And I think a year and a
half from now we will have the same kind
of response to performance appraisal that
we are now getting to the Senior Execu-
tive Service.
THE PRESIDENT. Scotty, how closely do
you work with people like Ms. Garcia to
make sure that the initial stages of it are
working?
MR. CAMPBELL. We work very closely
with the personnel directors across the
Government, as well as with the Assistant
Secretaries. And I must say, we learn as
much from them as they learn from us
as we attempt to put these systems into
place.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Scotty, our
time has run out, but let me say this: As
we get into the program on merit pay
more thoroughly in the weeks and months
ahead, I hope that if a problem does
evolve where you and the personnel di-
rectors agree that we've got an unforeseen
problem, that you will come to me and let
me know about it. And we'll see what we
can do to alleviate the problem.
MR. CAMPBELL. I certainly will.
THE PRESIDENT. I think that the prin-
ciple, as you know, is very similar to the
Senior Executive Service, that within a
certain reservoir of funds, the ones who do
superior work get a higher level of pay.
And that, I think, will be an incentive for
us all to try to do a better job, to let the
American people be truly proud of the
outstanding work that we hope to con-
tinue to do in Federal Government
service.
I'm part of you, and I'm very pleased
today to have you representatives of the
different agencies and also the different
pay levels and also the different careers
come and meet with me. I've learned a lot
in preparing for this meeting, and I've
also learned a lot from your comments
and questions. I wish you well in the fu-
ture, and I know you wish me the same.
We'll do a good job for the taxpayers of
our country.
Thank
you very much.
MR. CAMPBELL. Thank you.
NOTE: The session began at 2:10 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
Alan K. Campbell is Director of the Office
of Personnel Management. Questioners were
William E. Williams, Deputy Commissioner of
the Internal Revenue Service; Rudolph F. Mc-
Duffie, manager of laundry for the Army En-
gineer Center at Fort Belvoir, Va.; Joseph P.
Cribbins, a technical adviser on aviation logis-
tics with the Department of the Army; Dr.
Francis J. Mulhern, a veterinarian in the Bu-
reau of Animal Industry, Department of Agri-
culture; Audrey N. Gibson, chief of the Secre-
tary's Correspondence Unit at the Department
of Housing and Urban Development; and An-
gelina Garcia, Director of Personnel Services
at the International Communication Agency.
Basic Law of the Federal
Republic of Germany
Message to President Walter Scheel on the
30th Anniversary of the Basic Law.
May 22, 1979
Dear Mr. President:
On the occasion of the 30th anniver-
sary of the Basic Law of the Federal Re-
public of Germany, adopted in Bonn on
May 23, 1949, I wish to extend to you
and to the people of the Federal Republic
the very best wishes of the United States
927
