Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
of our National Democratic Party, John
White, Chairman Dorval, Councilor
Dudley, friends of mine in New Hamp-
shire, and visitors from adjacent States:
I'm indeed proud to be here. This has
been a typical, very busy day in the life of
a President. This afternoon, earlier, I
gave a speech too, in New York at the
Waldorf Astoria, praising America's news-
paper publishers for their responsible and
objective journalism. [Laughter] Here in
Manchester, that speech would not be
propriate [laughter]-so, I think I'll
choose another subject for this evening.
[Laughter]
ap-
When I first began to come here in
1975, I was not accustomed to your win-
ters, you were not accustomed to the way
I talked—[laughter]—and almost nobody
was accustomed to the idea that I might
someday be President. [Laughter] But we
got to know each other, and we also lis-
tened to each other. You gave me support
when I had very few friends in this coun-
try, and I will never forget it. And I thank
you for it.
One thing that Georgia and New
Hampshire formerly had in common is
that we were formerly one-party States.
For generations, Georgia voted right—
always Democratic-[laughter]—but New
Hampshire, unfortunately, chose another
path. Some would say you went astray,
and for a long time you stayed that way.
But then things began to change. Some
Georgia voters sadly fell from grace, and
here in New Hampshire, a great revival
began to take place. [Laughter]
You elected a courageous Democratic
Senator, an inspiration to me and to you,
Tom McIntyre.
In 1974, you elected Norm D'Amours
to Congress, and you elected another great
Democratic Senator, John Durkin, even
though it took you two elections to do it.
[Laughter]
And last November, you took State gov-
ernment out of the hands of the special
interests and brought it back to the people
by electing Hugh Gallen as Governor of
New Hampshire, and I thank you for it.
The last 2 years for the United States
of America have been a time of rebuild-
ing. We've accomplished a great deal, and
there is much more to be done.
When they write the history of these
years, I hope that they will say four things
about what you and I have done together.
I want them to say that we've made
America prosperous again and that we be-
lieve, as Democrats, in hard work and that
we have put our people back to work.
I want them to say that we have never
been afraid to tackle tough and controver-
sial problems, and that we placed the
long-term good of our beloved country
always above the short-term political ad-
vantages which we might have gotten.
And I want them to say that we have
restored the trust and the confidence of
the American people in our own Gov-
ernment.
It's sobering to think back 3 years, 4
years, 5 years, and to remember the inter-
relationship between the people of this
country and our Government in Washing-
ton. It's a sobering thought, and great
changes have taken place.
But most of all, I want them to say
that America has been at peace and that
we have helped to lead the world away
from war.
If we can continue to build a new
foundation of peace, trust, and prosperity,
we will have kept the faith with our party
and with the American people. We will
enter the 1980's as a proud, confident,
strong, and a unified nation. We'll bring
our Nation and the world closer to a time
when war, hunger, and poverty and
hatred will be no more. This is what you
and I can do, and this is what you and I
715
