Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 12
in mind. It's my hope that we can move
some of those dates forward, that some of
the most urgent care that we'd like to see
provided for the American people, that
they're not now getting, will start next
year, in 1980.
Of course, all these things are nego-
tiable. We want to work with the Presi-
dent. I'm confident he'll work with us,
and we're very happy about this day.
THE PRESIDENT. Russell, when do you
think hearings might be starting?
SENATOR LONG. Well, we're already
meeting on some parts of what you're
recommending, Mr. President. We called
off a meeting today to come here and talk
to you. [Laughter] We were going to be
meeting on cost containment this morn-
ing, but we'll be back at it tomorrow
morning.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. We'll let
you hurry back and go to work.
SENATOR LONG. You can't ask for
much more prompt service than that.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Senator Abe Ribicoff,
who's worked for many years in the Sen-
ate for better health care.
SENATOR RIBICOFF. Mr. President, I
think this is doable this year. It can only
be done if the main actors will cooperate.
And the main actors are the President of
the United States, Senator Long, and
Senator Kennedy. As I analyze the three
proposals, there are so many similarities
that there is no reason why the main par-
ties involved-the President, Senator
Long, and Senator Kennedy—can't com-
promise their difference and work this
out.
In a speech on the Senate floor, I
pointed out the similarities. There is rhet-
oric, there is controversy, there is poli-
tics in this issue that affects every person
in the United States. But when you con-
sider the similarities, the controversy can
be submerged. And I believe the contro-
versy will be submerged and we should be
able to pass national health insurance this
year.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much. That's a good statement, and I
agree with you.
Gaylord Nelson, who's helped us so
much with hospital cost containment, and
also with the broader aspects of health
care.
SENATOR NELSON. Mr. President, as so
often has been my fate throughout history
in politics, I'm called upon to say some-
thing when everything else has been said.
[Laughter]
Let me say, Mr. President, I wish to
join the others here in commending you
for moving forward with a health insur-
ance plan. I think it is absolutely neces-
sary that we have Presidential leadership
in order to get moving, because there are
as many plans as there are Members of
Congress.
We're going to have to seek to reach a
common agreement on proceeding to
bring to the people of this country a sound
and efficient health care insurance pro-
gram, and you have taken a major step
in the leadership position of coming for-
ward with a proposal. And I join the
chairman of the Finance Committee in
saying that I know that we are prepared
in that committee to proceed expedi-
tiously to give consideration to the pend-
ing legislation, this one and others that
are before the committee, and, I would
hope, report legislation yet this year.
THE PRESIDENT. I think Senator Ribi-
coff expressed my feelings very clearly.
For many years, the obstacle to progress
was the wide disparity in concepts of
what health care should be. But now
there's a broad range of consensus.
I'm determined to see this legislation
passed and to have it be advantageous for
1027
