Mar. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dewey Bartlett
Statement on the Death of the Former
Senator From Oklahoma. March 2, 1979
Rosalynn and I extend our deepest
sympathy to the family of Dewey Bartlett.
He was the second Republican Gover-
nor in Oklahoma history, and although
his Senate career was cut short by his ill-
ness, he had already established himself
as a strong conservative voice in the Sen-
ate with an abiding concern for solving
our Nation's energy problems.
We were often on opposite sides on
issues, but I found him a worthy opponent
and shared his colleagues' respect for Sen-
ator Bartlett's abilities and dedication, and
join them in mourning his loss.
Geological Survey
Statement on the 100th Anniversary of the
Founding of the Survey. March 2, 1979
March 3, 1979, marks the 100th anni-
versary of the founding of the U.S. Geo-
logical Survey. On this day in 1879, Presi-
dent Rutherford B. Hayes approved
legislation authorizing "the classification
of the public lands and examination of
the geological structure, mineral resources,
and products of the national domain."
The Geological Survey has had a rich
history. It grew from the necessity of our
forebears to explore this vast and bounti-
ful continent, to understand its geograph-
ical features, and to evaluate its natural
resources. It also grew from a pioneering
legacy-from heroic achievements rang-
ing from the Lewis and Clark Expedition
to the exploration of the Colorado River
by John Wesley Powell.
The Geological Survey has served the
Nation well, providing vital information
upon which we make critical decisions
and important national policy. That pol-
icy involves our mineral resources, our
land, and our water. It helps us avoid the
risks of natural disasters and provides
knowledge useful for our urban planning,
for sound construction practices, and for
resolving many environmental and health
problems.
While focusing mainly on the United
States, the Survey's programs are also
sible for us to share geological knowledge
international in scope and make it pos-
and its benefits with other countries of
the world.
Finally, the Survey is keeping pace with
space-age science and technology. It is
working on the geology of the Moon and
the planets. It is involved in the remote
sensing of the Earth's features and natural
resources from our satellites and high alti-
tude aircraft.
I am proud to recognize the Survey's
century of valuable service to our Nation.
I wholeheartedly applaud its high stand-
ards of excellence in past accomplish-
ments and reaffirm the emphasis that this
administration places upon the continuing
importance of its scientific work.
My best wishes go out to those whose
talents and dedication have made the U.S.
Geological Survey such a vital part of our
government.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Begin of Israel
White House Statement. March 2, 1979
President Carter and Prime Minister
Begin met for 22 hours this morning in
the Cabinet Room, accompanied by their
advisers.
Cyrus Vance, Secretary of State; Zbig-
374
