Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
As the national discussion takes place,
let us be clear about what the issues are-
and are not.
Americans are committed to maintain-
ing a strong defense. That is not the issue.
We will continue to compete, and com-
pete effectively, with the Soviet Union.
That is not the issue.
The issue is whether we will move ahead
with strategic arms control or resume a
relentless nuclear weapons competition.
That's the choice we face-between an
imperfect world with a SALT agreement,
an imperfect and more dangerous
world without a SALT agreement.
With SALT II, we will have significant
reductions in Soviet strategic forces; far
greater certainty in our defense planning
and in the knowledge of the threats that
we might face; flexibility to meet our own
defense needs; the foundation for further
controls on nuclear and conventional
arms; and our own self-respect and the
earned respect of the world for a United
States demonstrably committed to the
works of peace.
Without SALT, the Soviets will be un-
constrained and capable, and probably
committed to an enormous, further
buildup.
Without SALT, there would have to be
a much sharper rise in our own defense
spending, at the expense of other neces-
sary programs for our people.
Without SALT, we would end up with
thousands more strategic nuclear war-
heads on both sides, with far greater
costs and far less security for our
citizens.
Without SALT, we would see improved
relations with the Soviet Union replaced
by heightened tensions.
Without SALT, the long, slow process
of arms control, so central to building a
safer world, would be dealt a crippling
and, perhaps, a fatal blow.
Without SALT, the world would be
forced to conclude that America had
chosen confrontation rather than cooper-
ation and peace.
This is an inescapable choice we face,
for the fact is that the alternative to this
treaty is not some perfect agreement
drafted unilaterally by the United States
in which we gain everything and the So-
viets gain nothing; the alternative now,
and in the foreseeable future, is no agree-
ment at all.
I am convinced that the United States
has a moral and a political will to control
the relentless technology which could con-
stantly devise new and more destructive
weapons to kill human beings. We need
not drift into a dark nightmare of unre-
strained arms competition. We Americans
have the wisdom to know that our security
depends on more than just maintaining
our unsurpassed defense forces. Our se-
curity and that of our allies also depends
on the strength of ideas and ideals and on
arms control measures that can stabilize
and finally reverse a dangerous and a
wasteful arms race which neither side can
win. This is a path of wisdom. This is a
path of peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:35 p.m. in
the Grand Ballroom at the Waldorf Astoria
Hotel. Allen H. Neuharth is president of the
association.
Portsmouth, New Hampshire
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session at a Town Meeting. April 25, 1979
The PresidenT. It's good to be back in
New Hampshire. And it's also good to be
back in Portsmouth. One of the most ex-
citing events of my campaign in 1976 took
place when I was spending the night with
Senator Preston. The news media came
out the next morning and said that I had
699
