Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 21
sion, and that's the agencies like yourself
and what you represent.
We are in a time, I believe, of concern,
some troubled feeling on the part of the
American people about energy, about in-
flation, about peace in the world, about
taxation, about ethics. And you and I are
partners in trying to address these troubled
times, to meet the challenges and, also,
take advantage of the exciting opportuni-
ties that we have to make a great nation's
government even greater.
American people are concerned about
some of the things in government. When
I campaigned around the country for 2
years, most of the expressions of concern
about waste, redtape, overregulation,
often came up in townhall meeting-type
formats from government employees
themselves. And those who work for gov-
ernment out in the field, actually deliver-
ing services to the people of America, see
in a much more vivid way than the aver-
age citizen in private life that any such
defect in the Government ought to be
rooted out.
And I have tried since I've been in this
office to form a partnership with you.
When there is waste, we want it to be
eliminated. Almost all of you have con-
tributed substantially and have been re-
warded for your contributions to elimina-
tion of waste. We've tried to reduce the
redtape, get rid of unnecessary regula-
tions, and on the rare occasions when
there is fraud in government, I've tried
to form a partnership with you to root
out that fraud.
We have now gotten the Congress to
pass legislation authorizing Inspectors
General in the different agencies. And
they will not only be a constant source of
investigation and improvement and in-
spiration, but they're also a place where
you can go if you have a complaint or if
you have a beneficial suggestion or if you
have a report to make about a defect in
Government. And you will be protected
from any sort of punishment.
I think we need to have some protection
for whistleblowers, who come forward in
a courageous way and say, "This is wrong
in our Government. This is something
that's been a defect for a long time and I
want it rooted out." In the past, there have
been cases where those kinds of people
have been punished, and the example of
that punishment has restrained others
from coming forward in an effective way
to improve the Government's structure
itself.
I was very pleased when the Congress
passed the civil service reform legislation.
That legislation was evolved by people
like you, working with Alan Campbell,
and that legislation, after it was evolved,
was put forward to the Congress, and I
think it passed in a very fine form.
We are now seeking to let the volun-
teers who want to come forward to take
advantage of a senior executive service
do so, and the overwhelming portion of
the senior executives do, indeed, want
to participate in the kind of career oppor-
tunity that lets their initiative and lets
their ability and lets their drive and their
competence be recognized. And it's an
inspiration to those who serve in govern-
ment to do an even better job.
And I think that Alan has been very
pleased at the vast percentage of those who
do have that opportunity to want to leave
the security which they formerly had when
everybody moves in lockstep, no matter
who does a good job and who doesn't, to
the kind of competitive world where excel-
lence will be indeed rewarded.
The suggestions that have been made
last year by more than 42,000 Federal em-
ployees and saved our Nation over $350
million is a very good example of a new
spirit of enthusiasm and dedication on
917
