Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 13
hazardous waste disposal which may ac-
crue from other incidents such as:
• contamination of surface and ground
waters including drinking water
supplies;
staggering financial costs of cleaning
up and containing wastes; and
• acute poisoning, carcinogenicity,
mutagenicity, and promotion of mis-
carriages and birth defects.
The proposed legislation is a compre-
hensive program with the financial re-
sponsibility shared by Federal, State and
local governments as well as industry. For
spills of oil or hazardous substances, the
legislation establishes a comprehensive
and uniform system of notification, emer-
gency response, enforcement, liability and
limited economic compensation for such
incidents. For uncontrolled sites, the
proposed legislation would establish es-
sentially the same program but without
economic compensation. This compre-
hensive program would be implemented
by:
requiring notification of spills and the
presence of uncontrolled hazardous
waste disposal sites;
empowering the Federal Government
to clean up and mitigate pollution in
those incidents where the liable
parties do not respond adequately or
cannot be quickly identified;
enforcing higher standards of care in
the handling of oil, hazardous sub-
stances and hazardous wastes includ-
ing recovery from liable parties of
governmental response costs and eco-
nomic compensation;
providing compensation for the eco-
nomic damages sustained by inno-
cent victims of spills.
The States have a significant role in
implementing this legislation. Although
the proposed legislation authorizes Fed-
eral action in emergency situations, the
States are expected to provide financing
for both the short-term and long-term
containment of releases from hazardous
dumpsites.
The legislation provides a major inno-
vation in the manner we approach en-
vironmental rehabilitation. In particular,
those elements of the private sector which
produce hazardous chemicals will share,
along with the Federal and State govern-
ments, in the financial responsibility for
meeting the goals of the legislation
through a system of fees.
The legislation provides for a mid-term
evaluation. Within three years of enact-
ment a report will be submitted to the
Congress which would include experience
to date in implementing the legislation;
the extent, if any, of the critical uncon-
trolled sites problem; projected funds re-
quired for spill response; extent of State
participation; and recommendations for
statutory modification in such areas as fee
structure, fund operation, liability limits,
and financial responsibility limits.
It has become abundantly clear over
the past several months that exposure of
humans and the environment to dangers
from spills of oil, hazardous substances
and hazardous wastes and from releases at
uncontrolled hazardous waste disposal
sites are two of the most pressing environ-
mental problems facing the Nation. I
believe that the proposed legislation rep-
resents a comprehensive and effective ap-
proach for protecting people and the en-
vironment from such incidents. I am
hopeful that this proposal will receive
prompt consideration and speedy enact-
ment. The health of the public and the
environment cannot afford less.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
1035
