Apr. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tennial year, it's well to remember that
faith in the future was a notable quality
of Albert Einstein. Only an optimist could
have undertaken the incredibly ambitious
task that Dr. Einstein set for himself-
the discovery and the explication of the
underlying order of our universe.
Throughout his life, Dr. Einstein
sought not only to discover order in the
natural world, but also to promote order
in the human world.
Einstein the humanitarian has much to
teach us, as does Einstein the physicist.
He saw the pursuit of science as good in
itself, but he also saw that the uses of sci-
ence are only as good-or as bad-as the
moral and political choices that deter-
mine those uses. In his own words, and I
quote, “Concern for man himself and his
fate must always form the chief interest
of all technical endeavors-in order that
the creation of our minds shall be a bless-
ing and not a curse."
The tree of science is always beautiful,
but its fruits can be bitter as well as sweet.
Our task is to nourish the tree of science
and to attempt as best we can to harvest
the fruits that are sweet. And that task
must be shared by all of us-scientists, en-
gineers, industrial leaders, educators, and
public officials alike.
I hope that science and technology in
the United States will continue to be
shaped by Einstein's vision of knowledge
that keeps the good of human beings al-
ways at the forefront.
It's in that context that I want to share
with you briefly some ideas and observa-
tions about basic research, about a strat-
egy for energy technology, about indus-
trial innovation, about scientific cooper-
ation among nations, and about the role
of science in helping to control its own
most fearsome offspring-nuclear weap-
ons. I'll be very brief.
The last President to address a con-
vocation of the National Academy of Sci-
ences, John F. Kennedy, spoke of basic
research in these words: "We realize
now," he said, "that progress in technol-
ogy depends on progress in theory; that
the most abstract investigations can lead
to the most concrete results; and that the
vitality of a scientific community springs
from its passion to answer science's most
fundamental questions."
One month to the day after President
Kennedy spoke those words, he was
stricken down by an assassin's bullet. And
then began a long period of political
trauma in our country. But in many ways,
those following years were exciting ones
in science and technology-years of
breakthrough discoveries in molecular
biology, particle physics, and many other
fields, and of technological progress epit-
omized by the triumphant landing of
men on the Moon. Yet for scientists, as for
so many of the rest of us in politics and
other fields, they were also difficult years.
American science found itself beleaguered
by two very different kinds of anti-
intellectualism: on the one hand, by the
romantic antirationalism of the counter-
culture and, on the other, by the veiled
hostility of a national administration that
distrusted the academic and the scientific
community.
The latter presented the most serious
threat. Federal policy toward science be-
came infected with a simplistic search for
a simple fix. Research that seemed to
promise a quick payoff was more amply
funded, while support of basic research
was allowed to decline. The future of our
scientific and technological primacy was
put at risk.
I came to office determined to reverse
that dangerous, shortsighted trend. And
today I reaffirm to you my commitment
to basic research, the bedrock of our sci-
entific and technological future.
678
