Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 26
time, 4 additional years of negotiations
were conducted with the Soviet Union.
My understanding is that prior to the
time I came into office, and since I've
been in office, they have negotiated in
good faith.
They are tough bargainers; we are, too.
We have tried to evolve an agreement
with the Soviet Union which would, first
of all, be verifiable, which would preserve
the security of our Nation and even en-
hance it, which would control nuclear
weapons, and which would lay a basis for
increased friendship between us and the
Soviet Union and let us control or reduce
the threat of the proliferation of nuclear
explosives to other nations throughout the
world. I think that we and the Soviets
have those goals in mind. And I hope and
expect that our progress will continue.
Now we're negotiating every day at
Geneva and supplementing that negotia-
tion through diplomatic channels, both
here and in the Soviet Union.
Q. Could you say whether they have
hardened their position in the last month
or two?
THE PRESIDENT. No, they have not
hardened their position in the last month
or two. I think their positions, along with
ours, have been adequately hard. We
have negotiated very firmly, and there
has been a steady progress. There has
never been one time since I've been in
office when we've had a recess in the ef-
forts, nor a retrogressive action when we
were discouraged. We've been making
steady progress, and we still are.
IRAN
Q. Mr. President, the shipment of 200,-
000 barrels of gasoline and diesel fuel to
Iran-doesn't that really amount to the
interference in Iran's internal affairs that
you have said the U.S. will not now be
part of? And would you stand for a sim-
ilar such action from any other nation?
And may I please follow?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see the ship-
ment of fuel supplies to Iran in any way
as an interference in the internal affairs of
Iran. These shipments of energy sup-
plies and, I'm sure, food and other
goods to let the people of Iran have a
better life, I think, are very good and con-
structive and proper. We do not have any
intention of interfering in the affairs of
Iran, the internal affairs of their govern-
ment, and we don't want any other coun-
try to do it either.
Q. To what extent do you accept a con-
gressional investigating committee's find-
ing that you and your top foreign policy
advisers must share responsibility with the
CIA for the downfall of the Shah?
THE PRESIDENT. The situation in Iran
now, politically speaking, is very sensitive,
and I can't think of anything I could say
about it that would contribute to the
hopes that we have that Iran would settle
their problems peacefully, that bloodshed
would be prevented, and that any political
change in their government would be con-
ducted in an orderly fashion in accordance
with the Iranian Constitution. So, I don't
intend to make any statements about the
impact of what we have done or will do
on Iran.
As I said earlier, we do not interfere in
the internal affairs of Iran. We do not
want any other government to do it
either.
SELECTION OF FEDERAL JUDGES
Q. Mr. President, from your experience
so far, sir, with selection committees for
Federal judges, do you think they're work-
ing out all right? And if you don't, how
would you like to change them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the ones that we
have appointed—I have myself appointed
to choose Federal circuit judges-I think
171
