Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
The carryover basis reform has the
effect of ending a situation in which many
of our wealthiest taxpayers could per-
manently escape paying income tax on
their gains from inherited property. Un-
fortunately, the effective date has been de-
layed until the end of 1979.
My Administration will strongly op-
pose any efforts to repeal this reform or
further delay its implementation.
ENHANCING BASIC HUMAN AND SOCIAL
NEEDS
In the years immediately preceding my
Administration, too many of our Nation's
basic human and social needs were being
ignored or handled insensitively by the
Federal government. Over the past two
years, we have significantly increased
funding for many of the vital programs in
these areas; developed new programs
where needs were unaddressed; targeted
Federal support to those individuals and
areas most in need of our assistance; and
removed barriers that unnecessarily kept
many disadvantaged citizens from obtain-
ing aid for their most basic needs.
The progress over the past two years
has noticeably moved us forward toward
building a new foundation to solve some
of the country's fundamental human and
social problems. My Administration has
vastly expanded assistance in the last
twenty-four months in areas of employ-
ment, education, housing, community and
economic development and health care,
which represent an improvement for the
American people.
The record of the past two years
demonstrates that government can meet
our citizens' basic human and social
needs in a compassionate way. No longer
can there be any doubt that the govern-
ment is able to treat Americans' problems
with sensitivity.
In the coming fiscal year, budget re-
straints make it more difficult to expand
funding significantly for many major
domestic programs, though some pro-
grams will be increased. We will continue
to make existing social programs work
more effectively; to reduce the waste
and fraud and excess bureaucracy which
drains tax dollars intended to meet basic
human needs. In a period of austerity, ef-
ficiency is itself an act of compassion be-
cause it unlocks resources needed for
health care, education, housing, economic
development and other urgent social
priorities.
Health Program
One of the highest goals of the 96th
Congress should be taking action to pro-
vide all Americans with the opportunity
to lead a more healthy life. This oppor-
tunity has been denied to many in our
country because of health care services
which are unaffordable, inaccessible, and
inefficient. In addition, our current sys-
tem of health care is focused on the treat-
ment of disease, with too little attention.
being directed toward its prevention. We
need a national health strategy which cor-
rects these inadequacies in the existing
system. Some of the elements of this
strategy are already in place and need
only be strengthened. Others will require
new legislation from the 96th Congress.
National Health Plan and Other
Improvements
Last year I outlined the principles
upon which the National Health Plan I
intend to propose will be based. Based
on those principles, the Administration
has been working to develop a National
Health Plan that will enable the country
to reach the goal of comprehensive, uni-
versal health care coverage. I remain
committed to that goal.
133
