May 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
flag of the thirteen United States be thir-
teen stripes, alternate red and white; that
the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue
field representing a new constellation."
With the addition of thirty-seven stars,
and after more than two centuries of his-
tory, the flag chosen by the Continental
Congress in Philadelphia is our flag today,
symbolizing a shared commitment to free-
dom and equality.
To commemorate the adoption of our
flag, the Congress, by a joint resolution
of August 3, 1949 (63 Stat. 492), desig-
nated June 14 of each year as Flag Day
and requested the President to issue an-
nually a proclamation calling for its ob-
servance. The Congress also requested
the President, by joint resolution of June
9, 1966 (80 Stat. 194), to issue annually
a proclamation designating the week in
which June 14 occurs as National Flag
Week and to call upon all citizens of the
United States to display the flag of the
United States on those days.
To focus the attention of the American
people on their country's character, heri-
tage and future well-being, the Congress
has also, by joint resolution of June 13,
1975, set aside the 21 days from Flag Day
through Independence Day as a period to
honor America (89 Stat. 211).
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate the week begin-
ning June 10, 1979, as National Flag
Week, and I direct the appropriate offi-
cials of the Government to display the flag
on all Government buildings during the
week. I urge all Americans to observe Flag
Day, June 14, and Flag Week by flying
the Stars and Stripes from their homes
and other suitable places.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighth day of May,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-nine, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:05 a.m., May 8, 1979]
Emergency Board To Investigate
a Railway Labor Dispute
Executive Order 12132. May 8, 1979
CREATING AN EMERGENCY BOARD TO IN-
VESTIGATE A DISPUTE BETWEEN THE
NATIONAL RAILWAY LABOR CONFER-
ENCE AND CERTAIN OF ITS EMPLOYEES
A dispute exists between the National
Railway Labor Conference and certain
of its employees represented by the Amer-
ican Train Dispatchers Association, a
labor organization;
This dispute has not heretofore been
adjusted under the provisions of the Rail-
way Labor Act, as amended; and
This dispute, in the judgment of the
National Mediation Board, threatens
substantially to interrupt interstate com-
merce to a degree such as to deprive a sec-
tion of the country of essential transpor-
tation service:
Now, THEREFORE, by the authority
vested in me by Section 10 of the Railway
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160),
it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. Establishment of Board. There
is established a board of three members to
be appointed by the President to investi-
gate this dispute. No member of the board
shall be pecuniarily or otherwise inter-
ested in any organization of railroad
employees or any carrier.
1-102. Report. The board shall report
its finding to the President with respect
to the dispute within 30 days from the
date of this Order.
818
