Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 4
a very real role in adequate health care.
I don't want you to interpret my remarks
as condemning hospital administrators
or owners or doctors or patients or insur-
ance companies. I think the fact is that
we're all in it together. And many of the
hospital administrators and medical doc-
tors support this program enthusiastically.
Many have already accomplished even
more than the legislation envisions.
In New England, for instance, last year
hospital costs went up about 82 percent.
We now have nine States, as you know,
that have mandatory cost containment
legislation on the books. It's being admin-
istered well; it's worked well. The hos-
pitals still prosper, and, of course, the
patients and the medical care system have
not suffered at all.
We've received extraordinarily broad
support for this legislation-business, la-
bor, consumers, local officials, State offi-
cials, the elderly-but we have a formi-
dable lobbying group marshaled against
us. And their concentrated effort on indi-
vidual Members of Congress, in the com-
merce committee and otherwise, who
have a special interest and a long-time
friendship and allegiance-at least a
knowledge of the lobbyists—is a very diffi-
cult obstacle to overcome. We were suc-
cessful last year in the Senate. We were
almost successful in the House.
We have redoubled our efforts, but the
opposition has also redoubled their efforts.
And the outcome of the struggle is cer-
tainly still in doubt.
It would not be enough for you merely
to come here, to go back home and say,
"I spent the afternoon at the White
House; I met with the President," and
use that as a conversation piece. You're
welcome to do it if you wish-[laughter]—
but if you derive any gratification from
it or any social escalation from it-
[laughter]—I would like for you to com-
pensate by actually personally and sub-
stantively helping to get this legislation
passed.
Every one of you is a leader in your own
right, and many people listen to your
voice. You can help to shape public opin-
ion at home. And more importantly, you
can marshal, I'd say, benevolent influence
on the Members of the Congress to let
them know how much you care.
If you head up a business or a labor or-
ganization or a consumer organization, I
hope that you will be personally respon-
sible for marshaling the writing of a hun-
dred or so letters or telegrams, or call
every Member of the Congress with whom
you are acquainted. I don't know of any-
thing that you could do as an investment
of time or effort that would pay richer
dividends for you or for our country.
It's very difficult to get people to express
themselves, because quite often it's a little
embarrassing or it takes a little extra time.
But I think if you would search in your
own mind for the particular project that's
of most interest to you-your own business
or, perhaps, golf, or perhaps the collection
of stamps, or whatever-and just see how
much time you put in on it and then just
allot a partial amount of time to this ef-
fort, I would be deeply grateful to you.
We have a partnership, whether we like
it or not. I personally like it. I hope you
do as well. We're partners in continuing
an inflationary spiral that robs us all, or
we can be partners in doing a tangible
thing to help abbreviate the rate of in-
crease of inflation and, perhaps, level it off
and begin to bring it down.
I know you've received all the specific
information about the legislation that you
need—perhaps more than you want. But
still I hope that you will carry from here
not just the knowledge that you've de-
rived but also a personal commitment to
help by doing something about it.
605
