Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
NOMINATIONS-Continued
Submitted May 17-Continued
ANNA DIGGS-TAYLOR, of Michigan, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Michigan, vice a new position
created by P.L. 95-486, approved October
20, 1978.
Submitted May 18, 1979
MARCUS ALEXIS, of Illinois, to be a member
of the Interstate Commerce Commission for
the term expiring December 31, 1985, vice
Alfred Towson MacFarland, term expired.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following listing contains releases of the
White House Press Office which are not in-
cluded in this issue.
Released May 14, 1979
Announcement: cosponsorship of regional sem-
inars on foreign trade and export develop-
ment by the White House and the National
Governors' Association
Released May 15, 1979
Announcement: nomination of James P. Jones
to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Virginia
Released May 16, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Avern Cohn to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Michigan
Announcement: nomination of Anna Diggs-
Taylor to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Michigan
Announcement: nomination of Stewart A.
Newblatt to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Michigan
News conference: on water policy cost-sharing
legislation by Secretary of the Interior
Cecil D. Andrus
Fact sheet: water policy cost-sharing legisla-
tion
CHECKLIST-Continued
Released May 16-Continued
News conference: on administration measures
taken to meet gasoline shortages in Cali-
fornia-by Secretary of Energy James R.
Schlesinger and Stuart E. Eizenstat, As-
sistant to the President for Domestic Affairs
and Policy
Released May 17, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Joseph W.
Hatchett to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Fifth Circuit
Announcement: nomination of Thomas M.
Reavley to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Fifth Circuit
Announcement: nomination of William L.
Hungate to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Missouri
Announcement: nomination of Howard F.
Sachs to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Missouri
Announcement: nomination of Jose A. Lopez
to be United States Marshal for the Dis-
trict of Puerto Rico
Released May 18, 1979
News conference: on basic research initiatives
in automotive technology-by Secretary of
Transportation Brock Adams, Frank Press,
Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy, and Philip Caldwell, vice
chairman of Ford Motor Co. and president
of the Automobile Manufacturers Associa-
tion
Fact sheet: basic research initiatives in auto-
motive technology
ACTS APPROVED BY
THE PRESIDENT
Approved May 18, 1979
H.J. Res. 262_
Public Law 96-11
A joint resolution to declare May 18, 1979 to
be "National Museum Day".
900
