Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 14
Communications Satellite
Corporation
Nomination of Jesse Hill, Jr., To Be a Member
of the Board of Directors. February 14, 1979
The President today nominated Jesse
Hill, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., to be a member
of the Board of Directors of the Communi-
cations Satellite Corporation until the
date of the annual meeting of the Cor-
poration in 1982.
He was initially nominated on January
18, 1979, for the remainder of a term
which will expire in May of 1979.
Hill, 52, is president and chief execu-
tive officer of the Atlanta Life Insurance
Co., the largest stockholder life insurance
company or financial institution con-
trolled and managed by black Americans.
He is also president of the Atlanta Cham-
ber of Commerce.
JAMES CLARK, JR., a Maryland State senator,
chairman of the senate finance committee and
the pension study committee, and a member
of the National Conference of State Legis-
latures' public pensions task force;
PAUL R. DEAN, of Falls Church, Va., a neu-
tral trustee of the United Mine Workers of
America health and retirement funds, and a
professor of law at Georgetown University;
WILLIAM C. GREENOUGH, of New York City,
chairman and chief executive officer of the
TIAA-CREF pension plan, an expert and
author of numerous books on pension plans
and social security;
MARTHA W. GRIFFITHS, of Romeo, Mich., a
former Member of Congress, now an attorney
with the firm of Griffiths & Griffiths;
HARVEY KAPNICK, of Winnetka, Ill., chairman
of Arthur Anderson & Co.;
JOHN H. LYONS, of Potomac, Md., general
president of the International Association of
Bridge, Structural and Ornamental Iron
Workers, and a member of the National
Commission for Manpower Policy;
DOROTHY W. NELSON, of Pasadena, Calif.,
dean of the University of Southern California
Law Center.
President's Commission on
Pension Policy
Appointment of 10 Members.
February 14, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of 10 persons as members of
the President's Commission on Pension
Policy. They are:
HENRY L. BOWDEN, an Atlanta attorney, chair-
man of the board of trustees of Emory Uni-
versity, and director of the First National
Bank of Atlanta;
JOHN T. BRAGG, of Murfreesboro, Tenn., a
Tennessee State representative, member of
the Tennessee House council on pensions
and retirement, and former chairman of the
Southern Legislative Conference;
LISLE C. CARTER, JR., president of the Univer-
sity of the District of Columbia, formerly
chancellor of the Atlanta University Center
and a professor of public policy;
The Honorable Adolph Dubs
Executive Order 12120. February 14, 1979
As a special mark of respect to the
memory of the Honorable Adolph Dubs,
Ambassador of the United States of Amer-
ica to Afghanistan, killed while in the per-
formance of his duty, it is hereby ordered,
pursuant to the provisions of 36 U.S.C.
175(m), that on the day of interment,
the flag of the United States shall be
flown at half-staff on all buildings,
grounds, and naval vessels of the Federal
government in the District of Columbia
and throughout the United States and its
territories and possessions. I also direct
that the flag shall be flown at half-staff on
the same day at all United States em-
271
