Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 6
the strength of our own people, but we
will need your cooperation in improving
our military deterrent. But we also recog-
nize that the security of Thailand depends
on more than weapons. It rests, also im-
portantly, on national unity, based on a
just and prosperous society and on long-
held Thai values.
We are working hard to move closer
to such a society. We will devote major
efforts and resources to improving the
lot of our poorer farmers. We will pro-
tect our unique historical and cultural
patterns as we protect the rights of our
citizens. We have maintained our hu-
manitarian principles and have granted
asylum to large numbers of Indochinese
refugees.
My own experience is illustrative of
the special relationship which exists be-
tween our nations and the warm bonds
which mark personal relations between
Thais and Americans.
With a number of my colleagues here,
I fought with your forces under the
united flag in Korea-the United Com-
mand Flag in Korea. For 30 years I
have worked closely and intimately with
the officials of your country in numer-
ous common endeavors. I, personally, am
grateful to the doctors and the nurses
at Walter Reed Hospital, surely one of
the world's great medical centers.
Our ties with America are simply
unique. My colleagues and I look forward
to our meeting with you, Mr. President.
We look forward to renewing old friend-
ships and forging new ones with the
American people.
In the years ahead, I am confident
that with your encouragement and sup-
port, our two countries will build on the
strong foundation of friendship to en-
hance and develop new areas for mutual
cooperation. My colleagues and I hum-
bly dedicate our visit to this cause.
Mr. President, thank you for receiving
us so warmly. Although this is our first
meeting, we feel we are among close
friends. We look forward with great an-
ticipation to what I know will be a warm
and successful visit.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:38 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Convention on the Prevention of
Marine Pollution
Message to the Senate Transmitting Proposed
Amendments to the Convention.
February 6, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to acceptance, pro-
posed amendments to the Convention on
the Prevention of Marine Pollution by
Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter,
done at Washington, London, Mexico
City and Moscow December 29, 1972
(the Convention). These amendments
provide procedures for peaceful settle-
ment of disputes arising under the Con-
vention. The report of the Department
of State is enclosed for the information of
the Senate.
Since entering into force in 1975 this
Convention has provided an important
focus for international concern about the
protection and effective management of
our oceans and for practical and con-
structive actions by Parties in the control
of marine pollution. These amendments
will make the Convention even more ef-
fective. I recommend that the Senate give
prompt consideration to them and advise
and consent to their acceptance.
The White House,
February 6, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
223
