Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
some reasonable public understanding of
the need for such monitoring.
On the other hand, I am strenuously
opposed to those proposals of the Com-
mission which recommend that Title III
be amended to authorize the Attorney
General to designate, by name, any
United States Attorney or any Federal
Strike Force Chief to authorize applica-
tions for court-ordered wiretapping, and
that the Department of Justice consider
some decentralization and streamlining
of procedures for the review and approval
of such applications by greater delegation
of screening requests and decision-mak-
ing responsibility to United States Attor-
neys or Federal Strike Force Chiefs.
The statute (18 U.S.C. Sec. 2516) per-
mits the Attorney General to delegate ap-
plication authorization to any Assistant
Attorney General and the Attorney Gen-
eral has delegated this authority to speci-
fied Assistant Attorneys General. As the
legislative history of this statute indicates,
this provision centralizes in a publicly re-
sponsible official subject to the political
process the formulation of law enforce-
ment policy on the use of electronic sur-
veillance techniques. It thus avoids the
possibility that divergent practices might
develop and insures that if abuses occur
the lines of responsibility will lead to an
identifiable person subject to the political
process. Any further delegation of this
authority would greatly attenuate this
centralized control and responsibility
which the Congress determined was es-
sential to its use. Further delegation of
such authority to the field level would
also likely result in a greater number of
application requests and court orders.
While under existing procedures applica-
tion requests are currently reviewed by
United States Attorneys and Federal
Strike Force Chiefs in the field, the final
review and approval authority must re-
main the responsibility of the Assistant
Attorneys General designated by the At-
torney General to approve such applica-
tions.
The Commission has recommended
that the Congress consider expanding the
list of Federal crimes for which electronic
surveillance orders may be obtained to
include such crimes as customs offenses,
manufacture, sale, and interstate ship-
ment of illegal firearms, and fencing of
stolen goods affecting interstate com-
merce. In view of the expression of Con-
gressional concern respecting the limita-
tion of Federal criminal jurisdiction which
was demonstrated by the extensive debate
during formulation of this provision (18
U.S.C. Sec. 2516) on the floor of the Con-
gress, I believe that a more up-to-date
examination of the experiences of the
Treasury and Justice Departments in in-
vestigating these crimes should be made
before the recommendation of the Com-
mission is either endorsed or rejected. I
have asked the Attorney General to con-
sult with the Secretary of Treasury on
this matter.
Finally, although I support the sub-
stance of certain other of the Commis-
sion's important proposals, I do not be-
lieve that any remedial legislation in this
area is necessary since the essence of these
recommendations has been implemented
by administrative controls adopted by the
Department of Justice as a result of its
experience with Title III or in response to
court decisions interpreting the statute.
Recommendations in this area include
amending Title III to require an addi-
tional showing of facts in order to obtain
an extension of a Title III court order and
that the explanation of exhaustion of al-
ternative investigative techniques include
consideration of the case under investiga-
tion insofar as practicable.
589
