Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
contract and with others pending. Is there
a next step in this battle, or what is your
plan to attempt to combat rising inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've only had
6 months, I think roughly 6 months, since
the day I announced the voluntary price
and wage standards. I have been very
pleased at the results. We called originally
for the corporations to have a decelera-
tion program, to cut back on the increase
in prices a half a percentage point below
what they did the previous 2 years. The
present standards are more stringent than
that. We have monitored all of the For-
tune 500 corporations, and now, an in-
creasing number of the medium-sized and
smaller corporations in our country.
We have found remarkable compliance.
I think we are now looking at about 13
of those corporations about which there
is some doubt. Three or four, we believe,
have been out of compliance. One or two
of those three or four have, in the last
2 days, agreed to modify their price struc-
ture and to comply. In a few instances,
they have made rebates to their customers
when they overcharged.
I called a major company in the United
States yesterday to tell them that we
thought they were out of compliance and
that we were going to announce this fact
in the near future. The executives of that
company asked me for one more chance
to come and meet with our wage and price
people to see if they couldn't work out a
way to get in compliance.
The Teamsters settlement is one that
also caused us a great deal of concern. I
don't want to get involved in exactly
whether they did or did not specifically
comply with the guidelines. The guide-
lines, in my opinion, without a doubt at
all, have drastically reduced, substantially
reduced the settlements, compared to
what they would have been without the
guidelines.
We are going to fight in every instance,
to the limit of my ability, to keep prices
and wages within the guidelines. And I
think there's been a general tone of sup-
port. General Motors, for instance, sent
out, early this month, letters to 22,000 of
their suppliers, stating that they them-
selves, General Motors, were going to com-
ply completely with the guidelines, and
they encouraged all their suppliers to do
so. And in the process of that, I think their
attitude will have a beneficial effect on
the United Automobile Workers union,
later, when the negotiations take place.
I'm not trying to predict what's going
to happen. But a common commitment to
holding down inflation, I think, is a patri-
otic gesture, and I've been pleased so far.
Let me say that there's no way that I
can control or would want to control
prices that are traded internationally, like
lead, zinc, molybdenum, silver, gold. I
can't control oil prices. Most of our prod-
ucts that are produced in our country of
a same nature, like beef, where there's a
worldwide shortage of beef herds, or soy-
beans, corn, wheat, or timber products—
these are the kind of things that you can-
not control, no matter how much you try,
even if you had legislation.
So, I think among those items that we
have an ability to control, through volun-
tary standards, we have been remarkably
successful. And I'm very proud of that
program. I think we'll begin to see results.
But it's going to be a few more months
before tangible results can be ascertained.
One other point I'd like to make is that
we gave the companies some flexibility.
For instance, in mail-order catalog com-
panies-and there are literally hundreds
or maybe thousands of those around the
country—as you know, they print up the
catalogs 6 months ahead of time. You
can't expect them to abolish all of those
price systems. And also, we let the com-
740
