Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 15
represent us so well. And sometimes I
think in Washington we don't take time
to adequately thank you for all you mean
to us, or to adequately recognize how im-
portant you are and what you do to keep
the relationship between our two coun-
tries stable and good.
And so, I'm just thankful that we could
be here personally to say to you how much
we do care for you and how much we do
thank you for all you do for our country.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. in
the courtyard of the embassy building.
Earlier in the afternoon, the President par-
ticipated in a wreathlaying ceremony at the
Independence Monument.
That evening, President Carter and Presi-
dent López Portillo attended a performance of
the Ballet Folklorico at the Palacio de Bellas
Artes.
Reorganization of Foreign
Assistance Programs
Announcement of the Administration Proposal.
February 15, 1979
The White House announced today
that President Carter will propose to the
Congress a far-reaching reorganization of
U.S. foreign assistance programs, the first
such restructuring since AID was estab-
lished in 1961. It is designed to improve
the cost-effectiveness of U.S. assistance to
developing nations.
The reorganization would consolidate
policy direction of development agencies
and responsibilities in a new International
Development Cooperation Administra-
tion (IDCA). The IDCA Administrator
would report both to the President and
the Secretary of State, and would serve as
the principal development adviser to
each. The new Administration would be a
small agency charged with coordinating,
providing policy guidance, and evaluating
the development activities of:
-The Agency for International De-
velopment, which administers the
U.S. bilateral foreign assistance
program;
-The Overseas Private Investment
Corporation, which insures and guar-
antees U.S. private investments in
developing countries;
-The proposed new Institute For
Technological Cooperation, which
will support research and technologi-
cal innovation to reduce obstacles to
economic development.
The agency will also have the following
responsibilities:
-To ensure that development goals
are considered in executive branch
decisionmaking on trade, technology,
and other economic policy issues af-
fecting the less developed nations.
-To participate in the selection of
U.S. Executive Directors of Multi-
lateral Development Banks (World
Bank, Inter-American Development
Bank, Asian Development Bank, and
African Development Fund) and ad-
vise these Executive Directors on
proposed projects and programs.
-To assume lead responsibility for
U.S. budget support for policy advice
to those international organizations
and programs whose purpose
primarily developmental (U.N. De-
velopment Program; UNICEF;
Organization of American States
Technical Assistance Funds; U.N.
Capital Development Fund; U.N.
Educational and Training Program
for Southern Africa; U.N./Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO)
World Food Program; FAO Post
Harvest Funds; and U.N. Disaster
Relief Organization).
is
279
