Jan. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
civil service system, emergency prepared-
ness and disaster relief programs, civil
rights enforcement, and the pension plan
insurance system in order to make them
more responsive and effective.
In 1979 I will resubmit my proposal to
establish a Department of Education and
propose further reorganization and con-
solidation in economic development as-
sistance, natural resources management,
and surface transportation.
For the second year, my budget reflects
detailed, Government-wide, zero-base
budgeting. Agency programs were ex-
plicitly ranked by priority, and programs
were ranked across agencies, in a new in-
teragency, zero-base budgeting process.
For the first time, the budget reflects
the 3-year budget planning system I have
instituted to gain better control of the
longer-range effects and direction of Gov-
ernment policies.
In this budget I am proposing a new
system to control the growth of Federal
credit activities, particularly federally-
guaranteed credit.
Other important steps will be taken to
improve the way the Government operates
and the way it affects the private sector.
To increase the efficiency of the private
sector, the administration will eliminate
unnecessary regulation where possible,
and will minimize the redtape involved in
necessary environmental and safety reg-
ulation. Further efforts will be made to
reduce excessive paper work. State and
local governments, private institutions,
and citizens will benefit from simplified
conditions for receiving Federal assist-
ance. In particular, a number of programs
have been consolidated to simplify the
grant system, and more will be proposed
in the future. The Government's own
management will be improved through
more effective cash management, applica-
tion of the Civil Service Reform Act, and
use of new offices of Inspectors General to
identify waste and search out fraud and
corruption.
Preparing this budget reminds me once
more of the overwhelming demands upon
the Federal budget and of the limits on
our resources.
I believe that we must firmly limit what
the Government taxes and spends. We
must balance public and private needs.
We must set priorities more carefully. We
must change some old priorities and estab-
lish new ones. We must defer some of our
demands if we are to meet adequately to-
day's most critical needs.
These principles have guided my ac-
tions in shaping this budget and they will
continue to do so in the future:
—the budget must be kept within the
bounds of what is appropriate in to-
day's economic circumstances;
-the Government has no resources of
its own, its only resources are those
it collects from the taxpayer;
Government action must be limited
to those areas where its intervention
is more likely to solve problems than
to compound them; and,
-we have an obligation to manage
with excellence and to maintain
proper priorities within the $532 bil-
lion proposed in this budget.
I know that the Congress shares these
beliefs. You, as well as the executive
branch, are sensitive to the American peo-
ple's concerns about the scope of Gov-
ernment, the burdens of taxes, the needs
of our citizens, and the efficiency of public
management. Indeed, the Congress in the
last few years has taken important steps-
in particular, through the establishment
of the congressional budget process-to
100
