Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 16
has also made a great difference here in
Ixtlilco el Grande. Your government has
helped, but it is really the great efforts of
the people of Ixtlilco el Grande that have
made this program a success.
What you are doing here meets basic
human needs, and my country admires
that achievement.
Again, I want to thank you-our new
friends—for your hospitality and your
kindness and your consideration. I will
never forget this day. ¡Viva Mexico!
¡Viva Ixtlilco el Grande!
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
3:30 p.m. to Mexican dignitaries and town
residents gathered for the luncheon. He
spoke in Spanish, and the translation of
his remarks, as printed above, was prepared in
advance of delivery.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Dr. Armando Leon Bejarano, Gover-
nor of Morelos, Secretary of Foreign Relations
Santiago Roel, Secretary of Agriculture Fran-
cisco Merino Rabago, and Mayor Batuel
Flores of Ixtlilco el Grande.
Following his tour of the town, the President
returned to Mexico City.
Earlier in the day, President Carter met
with President López Portillo at his residence,
Los Pinos.
Mexico City, Mexico
Toasts at the Dinner Honoring President López
Portillo. February 16, 1979
PRESIDENT CARTER. President López Por-
tillo, my good friend Carmen,¹ on my left,
friends from North America and also from
Mexico:
We have been blessed by three concerts,
those two, plus the 2-hour contest be-
tween Bernstein and López Portillo-
[laughter]—as to who could remember—
and I don't know a different word for
"sing"-the songs from Latin America in
Spanish. [Laughter]
I would like to say just a very few
words, because Leonard Bernstein has
asked me to keep my toasts brief.
[Laughter]
Mr. President, the relationship between
our two countries is one of the most com-
plex and one of the most intimate in all
the world.
The border between our two countries
is 2,000 miles long-3,000 kilometers-
one of the longest undefended borders on
Earth.
I'm committed to working with you,
Mr. President, to create a framework of a
relationship between our two peoples
that's based
on the principles of
understanding, balance,
cooperation.
and mutual
We have much work to do in resolving
specific interrelationships between our
countries. But perhaps the greatest chal-
lenge that we face is to adopt attitudes to-
ward each other that are based not on the
past, but on the realities of the present and
the needs of the future.
Mr. President, I've thought carefully
about your remarks yesterday, and I
would like to respond with the same
degree of frankness and of friendship.
The people of the United States are
fair and decent people in their relation-
We are very delighted to have you here ships with each other and in dealing with
with us as our guests tonight.
You have been blessed this evening with
two beautiful concerts, the one that just
concluded, and the remarkable perform-
ance by Leonard Bernstein and the beau-
tiful musicians from Mexico City.
¹ Mrs. López Portillo.
people of other nations. We always try to
negotiate with others in a spirit of candor
and friendship.
We always believe it's best to recognize
honest differences, to assess problems
realistically and without fear or suspicion,
and to work in harmony with our friends
281
