Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
crimination simply by writing the promise
of justice into the laws of our land. We
must and we will fulfill that promise, not
just through administering the law but
through vigorous affirmative action pro-
grams in all elements of government.
President Lyndon Johnson put it very
well in the last public speech he made
when he was no longer President. And he
said, "To be black in a white society is
not to stand on level and equal ground.
While the races may stand side by side,
whites stand on history's mountain, and
blacks stand in history's hollows."
The only way to overcome unequal his-
tory, which leaves discrimination when
the laws are equal, is to promote and de-
fend and enforce the equal opportunity for
all disadvantaged Americans in this land.
And that, again, is what we will do.
But we must and we will do more,
much more. It's not enough to have a right
to sit at a lunch counter if you can't afford
to buy a meal. And a ghetto looks the
same, even when you're sitting in the
front end of a bus.
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s dream lives
among us today. But too many individual
dreams have died. In rat-ridden slums
and decaying homes and rotting neigh-
borhoods, dreams are dying. There are
still hundreds of thousands of young
people, many of them minority youth, in
our country who have never had a chance
to hold a decent job. They learn in our
streets, not in our schools. And they learn
about drugs and alcohol and crime and
not about religion or medicine or mathe-
matics or law. We cannot permit another
generation of Americans to grow up with
no hope.
In the last 2 years, we have been able
to add more jobs in this country than any
other time in the history of our Nation.
But we've still got a long way to go. And
I'm proud that we joined together,
Coretta King, I, the Members of the Con-
gress, Senator Talmadge, Elliott Levitas,
and many others, last year, and wrote the
promise of full employment into the laws
of our land by passing the Humphrey-
Hawkins bill.
We have begun to put our people back
to work, but we must do more. We must
stop the inflation that's robbing the poor
and those who live on a small, fixed in-
come and the aged who are retired and
the young people who are still struggling
economically to find a future that will
make them happy and fulfill their expec-
tations and their potential.
We are blessed in our country with a
strong economy, but I want to make it
stronger. I want to build an economy so
fair and equitable, so creative, so vital, so
free, that every able American can have
pride and dignity and self-respect that
comes from an honest job, doing honest
work, with constant growth in that per-
son's life.
For the first time now, we are also ex-
panding to minority-owned businesses a
fair share of the benefits of our great free
enterprise system, and that progress will
continue.
We must and we will continue to pro-
vide every child in America a chance to
learn and to flower and to grow with the
best education we can provide. Last year,
we added to the Federal education budget
about $12 billion, more than had ever
been added before, because we know that
what the Negro College Fund brochures
say is right: "A mind, a human mind, is
a terrible thing to waste." And that's why
in a budget that will fight inflation, I
have preserved and will fight for new
support, increased support to educate dis-
advantaged children in our Nation, for
Headstart, for the handicapped, and for
the struggling college student that wants
to realize his potential.
Dr. Benjamin Mays reminds me often
that in a time of need, this Nation's his-
30
