Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MARCH 25, 1979
Held in Dallas, Texas
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, President
Wasilewski. Dr. Stevens, Mayor Folsom,
officers and members of the National As-
sociation of Broadcasters, friends:
This afternoon, instead of giving a long
speech, I thought I would make just a few
brief remarks and then turn the rest of
the time over to you for questions.
I think it's only fair for a change that
an elected official offer the broadcasting
industry equal time. [Laughter]
It's hard for me to believe that less
than 60 years ago, our country was served
by only three full-time radio stations, or
that only 30 years ago, television was a
fledgling pioneer which most people ex-
pected to fail.
Today, you bind America together
with instant communications. You shape
our culture, our language, our perception
of ourselves, and our understanding of
the entire world.
What you see and say and show is real-
ity for millions of Americans. They may
never visit Jerusalem in Israel, or Cairo
in Egypt, never set foot on the Moon,
never even go to Washington, D.C., or
come here to Texas. But the people of
our country know what these places look
like, and they participate in important
events because of the communications
you provide.
When I grew up, we had no electricity
on our farm or in our home. And I re-
member vividly sitting outdoors at night
with my family gathered around a bat-
tery-powered radio, hooked to the battery
in my father's car, listening to the news
or Glenn Miller or a political convention
in some distant city. Broadcasting in those
days opened up new worlds to us, just as
it has done for millions of other people.
All over the world, broadcasting is
helping to break down barriers of time
and distance, of misunderstanding and
mistrust, of hatred, that have separated
and divided the world's people one from
another. I wonder whether the people of
Israel and Egypt would have taken that
final step towards peace and reconcilia-
tion had they not been able to see the
faces of each other on television or heard
the voices of each other on radio, when
there was a prospect for peace and they
saw within their own hearts, through the
broadcast medium, that others in a coun-
try that was completely distant and alien
also were willing to take a chance on peace
and an end to war.
And tomorrow, broadcasting will bring
to the entire world a truly historic sight:
Prime Minister Menahem Begin and
President Anwar Sadat signing a treaty
of peace.
REGULATORY REFORM
I believe the public interest can best be
served by a broadcasting industry which
is healthy, independent, and diverse. And
I will also continue to support vigorously
opportunities for minority ownership and
a strong public broadcasting system free
from political control.
I applaud the hard work and the lead-
ership of your chairman, Don Thurston,
on behalf of the NAB minority ownership
fund. My administration will continue to
work with the FCC and the Congress to
encourage diversity and independence in
your industry, instead of Government
paperwork and controls.
As broadcasters, you have a special sen-
sitivity both to the benefits and to the
burdens of Government regulation.
482
