Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 3
similar in principle to the United States
estate tax convention with the Nether-
lands, which was signed at Washington
on July 15, 1969, and entered into force
in 1971, and to the United States model
estate and gift tax convention published
by the Department of the Treasury in
1977.
The general principle underlying the
Convention is to grant to the country of
domicile the right to tax estates and trans-
fers on a worldwide basis. The Conven-
tion also permits a credit for tax paid to
the other country in which certain prop-
erty was taxed on the basis of its location.
The Convention would provide rules for
resolving the issue of domicile.
The Convention would enter into force
on the thirty-first day after instruments of
ratification are exchanged and would
have effect in the United States with re-
spect to estates of individuals dying and
transfers taking effect after that date.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Con-
vention and give advice and consent to
its ratification.
The White House,
May 3, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Federal Programs To Improve
Management and Combat
Waste and Fraud
Memorandum From the President.
May 3, 1979
Memorandum for the Attorney General,
the Director, Office of Management and
Budget, the Director, Office of Personnel
Management
Subject: Improving Management and
Combating Fraud and Waste in Federal
Programs
Since the beginning of my Adminis-
tration I have emphasized the high prior-
ity I place on improving the operations
of Federal agencies. Implementation of
the Civil Service Reform Act and the In-
spector General Act provides an oppor-
tunity to strengthen our efforts to improve
agency management practices and man-
age the resources of the government well,
free of waste, fraud, and inefficiency. I
want to seize this opportunity.
In recent months I have asked each
of you to assume specific responsibilities
which include:
⚫ the Director of OMB providing di-
rection and assistance in implement-
ing the Inspector General legislation
and overseeing government-wide ef-
forts to combat fraud, waste, and
mismanagement in program opera-
tions;
⚫ the Attorney General assuring that
the activities of Inspectors General
and similar officers are coordinated
with other investigative and prose-
cutorial activities; and
⚫ the Director of OPM working with
the Attorney General and the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to improve the
training of investigative and audit
staffs throughout the Executive
Branch.
I believe we should now launch a man-
agement improvement program that
builds on Civil Service reform and on our
other ongoing efforts to improve both
management practices and program per-
formance across the entire government.
At the same time we should pursue a co-
ordinated anti-fraud and waste campaign
that focuses on implementing the Inspec-
tor General program. While these two
efforts should be organizationally sepa-
779
