Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 17
country may be the most difficult of all.
Victory here will demand both determi-
nation and sensitivity. We all know that
the final economic struggle will not be
won tomorrow, even after 361 years since
the first slaves came to our free country.
But I believe that we can bring about the
wisdom of history and the will of our time,
and that once again we shall overcome,
because in the long run, Americans are
proudest of our Nation's progress toward
world peace, but of social justice and a
fair and an open and an equitable eco-
nomic order.
Those are the goals of my administra-
tion and of this family gathered here
today, to celebrate and to join with the
unanimity of the nine Justices who spoke
so clearly 25 years ago.
If you
look around this reception, you'll
see many of the 166 black Presidential ap-
pointments-appointees that I've been
privileged to make. And there are also
about the same number of black secretar-
ial appointees here today. This is an un-
precedented achievement, but we still
have a long way to go together.
I'd like to announce today that we'll
continue this process. I will nominate, for
instance, Nat Jones, general counsel—
general counsel
[applause]-who's general counsel of the
NAACP, to serve as a Federal judge in
the sixth circuit of our judicial system.
And we are trying to continue the proc-
ess of letting qualified and motivated
black leaders serve in policymaking
bodies, in addition to the judiciary and the
executive branch of Government, the in-
dependent regulatory agencies. Marcus
Alexis will be appointed as a new member
of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
These men and others the women
who've been appointed and others—are
making history today. But many of
you
were making history, I know, long before
Brown did. Some of you have been born
since then.
Let's remember the words of the
Court 25 years ago and let it join us to-
gether again, and I quote these are the
words of Chief Justice Warren-"We
come then to the question presented,
does segregation of children in public
schools, solely on the basis of race, deprive
children of the minority group of equal
education opportunities?"
And the Court then said, as the world
waited, "We believe that it does."
By the same principle, would not poor
quality in education also deprive a child of
equal opportunity to enter the mainstream
of the American economy? All of us are
working together in the Government be-
cause we believe that such deprivation
does exist, and we are here to see that all
American children will have the equal
opportunity for quality education.
Is it not true that racial discrimina-
tion in housing also deprives our children
of equal opportunity? We're joined here
today because we believe that it does, and
we are committed to equal opportunity in
housing.
Finally, do not all practices of exclusion
by race from employment or advance-
ment also result in depriving our citizens
of their rights to equal opportunities? We
are all here today because we know that
that deprivation still exists and it does pre-
vent equality of opportunity in
Nation.
We are in this Government to see that
there will be equal opportunity for all
people in every aspect of American life.
We will not be pushed back. We will not
be turned away. We will fight to see that
no one is left outside, that equality of op-
portunity and justice will prevail in our
country, the land of the free.
Thank you very much.
885
