May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
TION Director the authority to direct the
Peace Corps. The attached order dele-
gates that authority to the Peace Corps
Director.
The order requires the Peace Corps
Director to consult with the Director of
ACTION and to coordinate Peace Corps
activities with those of ACTION. It pro-
vides that the Director of ACTION will
be responsible for the general direction of
all ACTION functions which jointly
serve ACTION's domestic volunteer com-
ponents and the Peace Corps and for ad-
vising the Peace Corps Director to ensure
the carrying out of the functions assigned
to the Peace Corps Director. The order
also incorporates those provisions of Ex-
ecutive Order 11603 which gave AC-
TION and its Director the responsibility
for coordinating Federal voluntary AC-
TION activities. The order does not alter
the existing relationship between the
Peace Corps and other overseas programs
of the United States Government, as set
out in the Secretary of State's issuance of
March 29, 1978, to the Chiefs of Mission.
The Directors of ACTION and the
Peace Corps will agree within 30 days
upon a plan implementing the changes
required by the order. That plan and the
resulting reorganization are to be devel-
oped and carried out by the Directors of
ACTION and the Peace Corps accord-
ing to the following principles:
• ACTION shall continue to be the
principal agency within the Federal Gov-
ernment for administering volunteer serv-
ice programs. The Director of ACTION
shall be responsible for the coordination
tablishing and controlling a separate
Peace Corps budget, subject only to AC-
TION policy guidance regarding coor-
dination with domestic programs.
• The Director of Peace Corps shall di-
rect and control the operations of the
Peace Corps and such support functions
as are necessary to carry out the responsi-
bilities delegated by the Executive order.
The Director of ACTION shall direct
and control support functions which con-
tinue jointly to serve ACTION domestic
volunteer components and Peace Corps.
Decisions concerning the allocation of
support functions are to be made jointly
by the Peace Corps and ACTION Direc-
tors.
Those support functions which
should in the interests of economy, effi-
ciency, and good management be carried
out jointly, or by shared personnel, shall
continue to be so carried out.
• Consistent with my August 11, 1977,
memorandum, any transfers of functions
or personnel from ACTION to the Peace
Corps shall be carried out in a manner
which minimizes disruption of programs
and at the same time minimizes hardship
to employees.
The Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget shall review the imple-
mentation agreement reached by the
Peace Corps and ACTION Directors and
shall sign such determination orders as
may be necessary.
of programs under the Domestic Volun- A. Philip Randolph
teer Service Act of 1973, the Peace Corps
Act, and other Federal acts authorizing
volunteer service programs.
• The Director of the Peace Corps shall
have budgetary authority for the Peace
Corps, to include responsibility for es-
JIMMY CARTER
Statement on the Death of the Civil Rights
Leader. May 17, 1979
It can be said of few individuals in our
time that they helped transform the face
of the American Nation. A. Philip Ran-
882
