Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
What are their needs?-the same as
ours a few years ago: more food, more
food production, homes, roads, seaport fa-
cilities, airport facilities, telecommunica-
tions, power, water-the things that
American genius and American business
is so easily able to provide on a profitable
basis.
I and all the members of my Cabinet,
Secretary of Commerce Kreps here in
front of me, will be eager to cooperate
with you. The good will of the people of
the United States now reaches out to en-
compass the people of Egypt in the most
heartfelt, sincere, and intense way. And I
want to be sure that that good will is ex-
emplified in tangible benefits for the qual-
ity of life of the people of Egypt, whom I
also have come to love.
It's a time for us to explore those new
horizons. I wanted to come tonight to add
my personal voice in this effort to realize
the enormous, mutual benefits that can
come from this new and increased interest
and investment in a great and a rich and
a growing and expanding, a dynamic land.
And now it is my good duty to intro-
duce a man who has come to love me and
whom I have come to love as a brother.
I have the greatest possible personal affec-
tion and admiration for him. He's a man
of unmatched political courage.
It certainly has required no courage on
my part to participate as a mediator be-
tween Israel and Egypt, but President Sa-
dat on a daily basis has shown not only
great political courage but physical cour-
age as well.
He's a man of great intelligence, in-
stantly able to comprehend the most com-
plicated diplomatic nuances and bring
order out of them when that would serve
his own people. He's a man who's sensi-
tive about the needs of those whom he
serves. He's a man whose word is his bond.
I have never once had him tell me that
this is the position of Egypt and then sub-
sequently, under the most intense pressure
and when the temptations must have been
real and genuine and strong, had him de-
viate one iota from what he pledged to do.
And I would almost stake my own repu-
tation in guaranteeing you that that
would be the attitude of himself and
Prime Minister Khalil as they work with
you in the future.
He's a man who's convinced that the
future will bring great spiritual, moral,
political, and economic riches to his own
people, and he's willing to give his life for
those goals. He's a man worthy of admira-
tion by all who know him and who know
of him.
And now, I would like to introduce to
you a friend of mine, a man whom I in-
troduced almost a year ago and would
like to introduce now as the world's fore-
most peacemaker, President Anwar al-
Sadat.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:21 p.m. in the
Hall of Flags at the headquarters of the Cham-
ber of Commerce of the United States. Frank
W. Considine is chairman of the Egypt-U.S.
Business Council, the unit of the Chamber of
Commerce which hosted the dinner for Presi-
dent Sadat, and Dr. Richard L. Lesher is presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce.
Following the remarks of President Carter
and President Sadat, a panel discussion was
held. Participants in the panel included Presi-
dent Sadat, Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil,
Deputy Speaker of the People's Assembly Ali
al-Sayed, Minister of Planning Abdel-Meguid,
Minister of Finance Ali Loutfi, Mr. Considine,
and Dr. Lesher.
On the same day, the White House an-
nounced that Vice President Walter F. Mondale
would attend a luncheon hosted by the Israel-
U.S. Business Council in honor of Prime Minis-
ter Menahem Begin at the Plaza Hotel in New
York City on March 28.
548
