Jan. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
for economic justice in addition to civil
rights, as we witnessed the poor people's
campaign and his final effort in Memphis.
Among his stated goals was a job for
everyone willing to work. Now, even with
the Humphrey-Hawkins bill on the books,
such as it is, it now seems likely that un-
employment next year is bound to creep
upward again as the economy slows down.
My question is, aside from the allow-
ances in the anti-inflation program,
should not there be a greater emphasis on
retaining the job-creating measures in
the 1980 budget, at least at the current
level, if you accept the caucus' premise
that unemployment in the black com-
munity is already in a crisis state?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think our rec-
ord so far on employment, unemploy-
ment, has been very good. In the last 2
years, we've added a net increase of about
7 million jobs in our country and have
cut down the unemployment rate by
more than 25 percent.
Between the 1978 and 1979 fiscal year
budgets, we added about $4 billion to
specific programs for the poor. And be-
tween this year and next year, the new
budget, we'll add about that much more,
a little more than $4 billion in increased
programs for the poor.
In addition, we've tried to concentrate
on job opportunities for minority groups,
not just in public service employment,
which is temporary and transient at best,
but stable, permanent jobs, primarily in
the private sector. And we've had espe-
cially good support from the Congress so
far in providing these job opportunities in
minority-owned businesses.
And, of course, for the 1980 fiscal year
budget, which has not yet been revealed,
I can tell you that we'll have another
substantial increase in the allocation of
public funds for this purpose. Even in
the general areas of bank investments of
Federal funds, we've increased those in
black and other minority-owned banks.
We have allocated large portions of our
total purchases for the Federal Govern-
ment to minority-owned businesses. And
in the $4 billion public works program,
between 10 and 15 percent of that total
allocation of contracts has gone to mi-
nority-owned businesses-I think about
3,500 black-owned businesses have bene-
fited from that.
We are still dedicated to carrying out
the purposes espoused by Dr. King, and
also we were very eager to help in the
passage of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill.
I might say one other thing just in
passing. It's equally important to poor
people and to minorities not to have their
earnings and what they own sapped away
by rapidly rising inflation. So, I wouldn't
want the anti-inflation program to be
characterized as being against poor
people. Those who suffer most from
rampant inflation are those who have
very low incomes and those who are re-
tired or otherwise have a limited income
and can't move from one job to another.
So, I think a proper balancing of anti-
inflation efforts, to which we are dedi-
cated, with an increase in job opportuni-
ties, to which we are dedicated, is the
best approach.
MR. AGURS. Our next question will
come from Ms. Allen.
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
MS. ALLEN. Mr. President, Vicki Allen
from the National Black Network. Does
your administration plan to back the bill
that will create a national holiday for the
late Dr. Martin Luther King?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. This is in the
Democratic National Party platform, and
we would very much-I would like to
sign a bill, passed by the Congress, to
have this done.
34
