Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 21
When I was running for President, our
Federal deficit was $66 billion. If the
budget I presented to the Congress is ap-
proved and I expect it will be in its
totality; with some deviations, of course,
but its general total thrust will be ap-
proved-we will have cut the deficit more
than $36 billion, about a 55-percent re-
duction.
In addition to that, we will have re-
duced the amount of the American gross
national product that is collected and
spent by the Federal Government down
to about 21 percent, the lowest percent-
age in more than 7 years. And we've now
got the trend going downward instead of
upward.
I think it's important to point out that
we've had a broad approach to this very
difficult question. We've established vol-
untary wage and price standards. The
response from business has been over-
whelmingly good. The response from
labor is increasingly favorable and sup-
portive. I think it's understandable and
predictable that labor support is going
to come after an identifiable success in
establishing prices and in establishing
government policy. But together we have
been and are making progress.
There are some limits to what the Fed-
eral Government can do. As a business-
man myself, as an engineer, in my gen-
eral philosophy I'm inclined to let the
free enterprise system stay free. I don't
think the Federal Government ought to
try to go in and control business-em-
ployers and employees. And that's a self-
imposed limit that I don't think is coun-
terproductive.
In addition, obviously, we cannot con-
trol the weather. And when there is a dif-
ficult crop season, food prices are going
to go up. And that's what's occurred in
the past. I hope we have a good crop this
year. We are trying to stabilize farm in-
come, make it more predictable, put more
control of their own future in the hands
of farmers, increase exports. But we can't
control the weather, and food prices and
many others in our domestic scene are
not controllable by the Federal Govern-
ment.
We have no control over the policies
of other nations, who quite often deter-
mine or affect the price of energy or the
price of other commodities. We can use
our influence in a beneficial way, in a
proper way, and we do so. But we have
no control over them.
We do, however, have control over our
own actions and our own decisions, and
that's where you can be of great help to
me. I think it's important to point out
that the Congress has some decisions to
make.
Real wage insurance is a simple con-
cept, a new concept, an innovative con-
cept that would help make it easier for
workers to restrain their wage demands in
the face of past history and present experi-
ence with very rapid, inflationary in-
creases. But if they agree to comply
with our wage guidelines or standards,
then if, because of the actions of
other employees or other factors, the
inflation rate should go up more, then
their income tax payments would be low-
ered to make sure they don't suffer be-
cause they are unselfish and others are
selfish.
We hope to have this legislation clear
the Ways and Means Committee in the
near future, and I believe it's accurate
to say that the more the Members of Con-
gress have studied the basic principle and
the details of our proposal, the more prog-
ress has been made and the more support
evolves. Many of our key labor unions
who were originally cool toward the idea
or in opposition have now expressed their
support for it.
307
