Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 11
I thank you, Mr. President, and Mr.
Prime Minister, for your gracious and
your kind and your wise words. For both
Rosalynn and for me, I want to express
to President Navon and Mrs. Navon ap-
preciation for the personal hospitality
they've shown us.
We know that we are among friends
within this room. Indeed, I have a sense
that in many ways we are all one family.
As in a family, the relationships between
us are frank and sometimes very lively.
But also like family members, we recog-
nize that the bonds between our nations
and our people are more than just strong
for now. They are both strong and
permanent.
We in the United States will stand by
Israel, and we will never waver in our
admiration for you or in our support for
you for a strong and secure and a free
State of Israel.
We realize that our own security is in-
timately tied with yours. There are bonds
of blood between us, bonds of history,
bonds of culture, bonds of religious be-
lief. Perhaps most important of all are
the enduring values which we share, the
values for which my Nation was formed
and exists, the values for which your na-
tion was formed and exists—a belief in
individual liberty, a common commit-
ment to representative democracy, a com-
mon vision of human brotherhood, the
conviction that there is no higher pursuit
than that of peace with justice, not only
among our own kin and our own kind,
but we share this commitment with like
men and women throughout the world.
We are now engaged together in a com-
mon effort, to achieve a real peace, a com-
prehensive peace in the Middle East, a
peace that would enable the people of
Israel and all Middle Eastern people to
live in security, to live in prosperity, and
to develop to their full potential.
We are now in sight of an important
initial phase of that great objective. The
events of the past 16 months, beginning
with President Sadat's visit to Jerusalem
and Prime Minister Begin's immediate re-
sponse,
have engendered that great hope.
More progress has been made in the last
16 months than in all the previous three
decades of bloodshed.
I myself, as President of the United
States of America, have spent literally
hundreds of hours in detailed negotiations
trying to realize the peace which I have
just described briefly.
We are not looking for just a peace doc-
ument signed by two nations grudgingly.
We are looking for a document of peace
signed in a spirit of mutual trust, mutual
friendship, mutual commitment, mutual
understanding, mutual realization of
common purpose, that will open the ave-
nue in the future to an easy interrelation-
ship between neighbors who are going to
be permanent neighbors, either in a spirit
of animosity and hatred and bloodshed,
or in a spirit of cooperation and good will
and progress.
We love Israel, but we are not jealous.
We want you to have many other friends.
That's our common hope and our com-
mon prayer. There have been disappoint-
ments and frustrations, some still remain.
But the progress that has been made
would not have been possible without Is-
rael's great leader, Prime Minister Me-
nahem Begin.
He's a man of courage, of integrity, of
utter and selfless dedication. He and his
colleagues have been tough negotiators.
They know what is at stake for Israel. And
I know they want the best agreement for
Israel.
This concern is based on horrible his-
torical fact, actions which we saw memo-
rialized this morning, that brought horror
to a world and which must not ever be
423
