June 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I might point out
that this increase in price that we've ex-
perienced has been under so-called Gov-
ernment controls, and the slow, carefully
monitored, phased out Government con-
trols, I think, will help to alleviate the
problem over the long run. We'll still
have a problem; it'll help with it.
Obviously, the price of energy is some-
thing that I cannot control. We can do
our best to alleviate the problem.
We have been asked by the OPEC na-
tions, who have been the cause of the
great increase in prices, to cut back on
waste and consumption. Our European
allies look at Americans using twice as
much oil per person as they do, with the
same standard of living, and
say, "Please
cut back on waste and on the consumption
of oil."
I'll be meeting with the leaders of six
major nations, democratic nations, in
Tokyo, the last of this month, and that
will be one of the high, important points
on the agenda. How can the consuming
nations reduce our demand for imported
I would assume that you find that
encouraging.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do find it en-
couraging, but also I think it illustrates
vividly that the two are tied together. As
long as we have excessive demand for a
given level of supply of energy, it creates
enormous increase in prices, and those
prices for oil and for other sources of en-
ergy wind up increasing prices for almost
every product that we use. So, success-
fully addressing the energy question will
take us a great step down the road to suc-
cessfully solving the chronic inflation
problem.
MR. DANCY. Mr. President, thank you
very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, John.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:35 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. It was
taped for broadcast on the NBC television net-
work on June 3.
The transcript of the interview was released
on June 2.
oil in return for which the OPEC nations Indianapolis, Indiana
would agree to stabilize supply and also
to stabilize prices? This has to be a multi-
national approach. It's one of the greatest
responsibilities on my shoulders, as a
leader of a great nation, and also on the
shoulders of others who represent the ma-
jor consuming nations.
Remarks at a Reception Prior to the
Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner. June 2, 1979
We've not yet successfully addressed it.
We have to be courageous and tenacious,
we have to tell the people the truth, the
people have to believe the truth, and we
have to work together. There is no magic
answer to a very difficult question.
MR. DANCY. Finally, the poll does show
that there is a rising awareness of the en-
ergy problem. When people were asked
about it, they now place it number two
behind inflation as one of their concerns.
THE PRESIDENT. Birch Bayh, come on up.
SENATOR BAYH. You know how proud
we are to have the President of the United
States right here in Indiana.
THE PRESIDENT. That's the shortest
speech I've ever heard Birch Bayh make.
And I'm going to make one almost as
short, because you're the key people who
have helped to hold the Democratic Party
and its principles strong in Indiana.
Hearing about this event tonight has
been a very thrilling thing for me. It's the
biggest event you've ever had. I think it's
a good, accurate indication of where the
Democratic Party stands today, and it's a
988
