Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
dents, the 1970's have been a period of
rapid growth and development. Income
levels have risen and large numbers of
better jobs have been created in rural com-
munities across the Nation. Rates of popu-
lation and employment growth for rural
areas have been substantially greater than
for urban areas causing problems of un-
planned rapid growth in some areas but
also reversing decades of rural out-migra-
tion and economic stagnation. Neverthe-
less, rural Americans still experience a
disproportionate concentration of pressing
human problems:
• two-thirds of all homes lacking com-
plete plumbing are in rural areas;
⚫ rural infant mortality rates are 10 per-
cent higher than urban ones;
• 70 percent of the rural poor and half
of the rural elderly have no automobile,
causing great hardship because of the dis-
tances to travel to get access to basic
health care, jobs, and other social
services;
⚫ while only a quarter of all Americans
live in rural areas, 40 percent of the Na-
tion's poor live there.
For too long the small town mayor, the
rural county official and the individual
rural American have been frustrated by a
maze of Federal grant applications, re-
quirements, eligibility standards, audits
and deadlines which have made it vir-
tually impossible to address these rural
problems effectively.
For too many years, money and time
has been wasted. We are moving to ad-
dress this chronic problem. In the last
year, White House Rural Development
initiatives have resulted in:
a commitment to build 300 rural pri-
mary health clinics to serve 1.3 million
Americans who lacked access to care;
• major streamlining of the rural water
and sewer grant process through which
five agencies distribute $2.5 billion in Fed-
eral funds each year. The new process
permits a single application, single audit,
single funding source and single point of
Federal contact-at a savings to local
government of several hundred million
dollars each year along with a reduction
in processing time of as much as 15
months; and
• specially targeted rural job training
programs for rural disadvantaged in the
water and sewer and health support fields.
This effort to address rural problems
will continue and be expanded in 1979,
addressing the problems of rural transpor-
tation, housing, and economic develop-
ment among others. In addition, during
the year I plan to articulate a set of overall
rural development principles and goals
which will guide the actions of my Ad-
ministration. These principles will pro-
vide focus, direction and priority to the
myriad of now separate Federal actions
and policies, so that we can more effec-
tively work to:
• overcome the problems of rural iso-
lation;
promote economic development;
• meet basic human needs;
protect the quality of rural life;
• assure equity in the administration
of Federal programs for which rural
Americans are eligible; and
build a more effective partnership
among Federal, State and local govern-
ments and the private sector in meet-
ing locally defined rural development
priorities.
Furthermore, several other Administra-
tion initiatives will have an impact on the
conditions in rural America. We will make
certain that the rural perspective is con-
sidered as initiatives are developed in such
areas as welfare reform and a national
health plan.
154
