Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sis, and it's one of the things that makes
being President both different from a
Governor, in some respects, but also ex-
ceptionally challenging. And I really wel-
come the opportunity for you now to be
an enhanced, much more important part-
ner with me in pursuing these goals-
and others that I don't have a chance to
mention tonight-in months ahead.
I hope that as you plan trips on your
own to promote trade or the sale of
your
own products overseas, that you won't
hesitate to come to Washington to meet
with Secretary Vance or myself or Dr.
Brzezinski or Fritz Mondale or others
that we would get to help you, working
with Ambassador Carter, who's been des-
ignated to be your liaison, and prepare
yourselves very thoroughly. And if you
have questions, don't restrict them just
to trade matters, but try to learn about
the military interrelationships, political
interrelationships, the human interrela-
tionships, social interrelationships, re-
ligious interrelationships that might deal
with the particular country you visit.
I think, in that way, our country can be
even stronger and more beneficially influ-
ential than it has been in the past. You'll
certainly help to make my job easier, and
that's the reason I invited
you here
tonight.
Before I give a very brief toast, I'll an-
swer maybe two questions if anybody has
them, and just on any of the foreign af-
fairs matters that I described.
Yes, Jim?
GOVERNOR THOMPSON. Mr. President,
on Sunday you talked about developing
trade with the People's Republic of
China, and I asked about the possibility
of credit relationships. And you men-
tioned the possibility of most-favored-
nation status as one of the ways by which
the Government would extend credit.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. It struck me afterwards, when I was
thinking about it, that perhaps the exten-
sion of most-favored-nation status to
China occurs-poses a political problem
with regards to the Soviet Union-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. You're very dis-
cerning.
GOVERNOR THOMPSON. -their atti-
tudes toward human rights. Am I mak-
ing too much of the necessity for govern-
mental credit relationships with China, or
are you going to run into that problem?
And, if so, how are you going to resolve
it, given their current attitude towards
human rights?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the ex-
tension of credit is one thing that can be
handled on a strictly private lending basis.
We don't need to grant credits to China
or to the Soviet Union directly, although
that is done. But the most-favored-na-
tions legislation would permit the reduc-
tion of trade barriers and the charging of
tariffs. It means that whatever trade re-
lationships we have with Great Britain,
for instance, or Germany or France or Ja-
pan, we would also have to grant that
same trade relationship with the Soviet
Union or China.
The Jackson-Vanik amendment to the
trade bill that was passed 2 or 3 years ago
prevented our granting most-favored-na-
tions treatment to a nation like the Soviet
Union, for instance, or Romania or, per-
haps, Hungary or others in the Eastern
bloc if they had restrictions on the out-
migration of citizens. This was designed
primarily because of the restraints that
the Soviet Union had on the outmigra-
tion of Jewish citizens who wanted to
come here or to Israel or to some other
place. In the last 6 months, the Soviet
Union has permitted an outmigration of
Jews in excess of 40,000 per year, which
is right at the highest rate of outmigra-
358
