Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
expenditures, if we reform Federal reg-
ulation of surface transportation. I will
send to Congress shortly a Surface Trans-
portation Reform Message dealing with
the rail, inter-city bus, and trucking
industries.
In 1978 I used my authority as Chief
Executive to improve the management of
the Federal regulatory process. I issued
Executive Order 12044, setting standards
to ensure that each Executive Branch
regulatory agency facilitates public partic-
ipation and avoids needless costs. A regu-
latory analysis program was established
under an inter-agency Regulatory Anal-
ysis Review Group to help ensure that
major new regulations are as cost-effec-
tive as possible. The Executive Order also
established procedures for all Executive
Branch agencies to conduct sunset reviews
to reevaluate outdated regulations and re-
move them from the books wherever war-
ranted. Finally, I created a Regulatory
Council composed of the Executive
Branch regulatory agencies, with volun-
tary participation by independent agen-
cies, to develop a calendar of all major
Federal regulations to be issued or pro-
posed in 1979. The Nation's first Regula-
tory Calendar will be published next
month and will be used to eliminate
duplication, overlap, and inconsistent
practices.
This year I will propose to Congress a
number of legislative actions that can be
taken to improve the regulatory process.
They will include improvements in
specific regulatory programs, as well as a
Regulatory Reform Act so that no regula-
tion can be issued unless it is genuinely
required, and unless it gets the job done
with maximum efficiency and minimum
paperwork, costs, and other burdens.
The quality of regulations can also be
improved by providing opportunities for
all interested parties to participate in
regulatory proceedings. Public involve-
ment should be enhanced by providing
financial assistance to those whose partic-
ipation is limited by their economic cir-
cumstances. While many agencies have
inherent authority to fund participation,
we will seek legislation to specifically
authorize these programs.
While I will propose a wide-ranging
legislative program, I will continue to op-
pose the legislative veto. This approach is
unconstitutional; it increases uncertainty
and delay; and it deflects attention from
the real solutions.
None of our actions in this area will be
taken at the expense of my deep personal
commitment to protect health and safety
in the environment, the workplace, the
highway, and consumer products; and to
prevent deception and unfairness to con-
sumers. My regulatory reform program
will help make needed programs work
better, cost less, and gain support among
all sectors of our society.
Civil Service and Pay Reform
Enactment of the Civil Service Reform
Act of 1978 by the 95th Congress repre-
sented one of the finest examples of coop-
eration between the Legislative and Ex-
ecutive Branches in recent times. That
effort showed a determination to respond
to the clear public desire to improve the
management of the Federal bureaucracy.
Implementation of the Reform Act is well
under way. The Office of Personnel Man-
agement, the Merit System Protection
Board, and the Federal Labor Relations
Authority authorized by the Act have
been established. In addition, the heads
of the Federal departments and agencies
have moved promptly to implement the
new personnel procedures that will permit
a better motivated and more effective civil
service.
However, other improvements in man-
agement of the government's work force
128
