Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
all segments of American society, in all
areas of the country.
I am committed to improving access to
justice by ensuring that every person in-
volved in a legal controversy has a readily
available forum in which that controversy
can be resolved speedily, fairly, and at
reasonable cost. To achieve this goal, we
must do two things. First, we must de-
velop new means for handling disputes
that do not necessarily require full court
resolution. Second, we must provide the
courts with sufficient resources and im-
proved procedures so that they can func-
tion fairly and effectively in those cases
that must be brought before them.
I know that the Congress shares my
concerns and is equally committed to tak-
ing effective remedial action. Last year
the Congress made an excellent beginning
when it created 152 new Federal judge-
ships and carefully reviewed a number of
other legislative proposals designed to im-
prove the administration of justice. But
unless we improve the system of justice
itself, we may find that the additional
judges have been swallowed up by out-
moded procedures and by an ever-rising
volume of cases. We must take prompt
and effective steps to eliminate the re-
maining obstacles to efficiency in the jus-
tice system, and to increase access to Fed-
eral courts by those with Federal claims.
Five of the specific measures by which
we hope to accomplish these ends have
previously been proposed, in whole or
part, by my Administration, in the 95th
Congress, dealing with arbitration, United
States magistrates, the diversity of citizen-
ship jurisdiction of the Federal courts, the
Supreme Court's obligatory jurisdiction,
and minor dispute resolution. Both before
and during the last legislative session, each
of these proposals received a great deal
of careful Congressional thought and at-
tention. They are introduced again, some
with modifications discussed in the last
Congress. Each is now ripe for favorable
action.
The arbitration proposal would pro-
vide an innovative means for resolving
speedily, fairly, and at reduced cost cer-
tain types of civil cases in which the main
dispute is over the amount of money that
one person owes to another. This legisla-
tion is modeled on court-annexed arbi-
tration plans that have proved successful
in several States, including Ohio, Pennsyl-
vania, and New York. It would allow Fed-
eral district courts to adopt a procedure
requiring that tort and contract cases in-
volving less than $100,000 be submitted to
arbitration. This approach has been tested
since early last year in three Federal
courts and the experiences so far have
been quite promising. Both litigants and
the courts are benefiting from the proce-
dure. Cases going to arbitration are being
resolved faster than they otherwise could
be and at significantly less expense to the
parties. It is time that these benefits
were extended to litigants in all Federal
trial courts.
The second major element of our com-
prehensive civil justice program is a bill
to enlarge the civil and criminal jurisdic-
tion of Federal magistrates. These judi-
cial officers, who are appointed by the dis-
trict courts, constitute a potential resource
of great value. If magistrates were given
broader authority to decide civil cases and
to handle less serious criminal matters, as
we have proposed, the capacity of the
Federal courts would be substantially in-
creased. The result, especially in districts
which currently have large case backlogs,
would be speedier and less costly disposi-
tions for the litigants.
The third measure that we regard as
essential to improving the civil justice
system would curtail the exercise of di-
versity of citizenship jurisdiction in the
343
