Mar. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
gin and my other friends in the National
Wildlife Federation:
I don't know of any award that I could
get that would mean more to me or be
more in keeping with my lifetime love of
the out-of-doors and the quality of our
environment.
As you know, I grew up as a farmboy
in the woods and fields and swamps of
Georgia, and an important element of my
life then, in the Navy, as Governor, as
President, has been my love of the out-of-
doors and the quality of life of American
people.
As a hunter and a fisherman, as a
canoeist, as a hiker, camper, lately as a
cross-country skier, and in my other
moments of diversion and enjoyment,
there's no place that I would rather be
than in the beautiful out-of-doors of our
country.
I want to thank you for this award. For
a long time in Government, the quality
of our environment was either ignored or
taken for granted. But in recent years, all
of us have become increasingly concerned
about how Americans will live now and in
future generations, with the pressure of
industrial development a major element
in Americans lives.
The Wildlife Federation is a group of
practical, dedicated, courageous, knowl-
edgeable men and women who are com-
mitted to ensuring that the environment
will stay in a high or improved quality
and that Americans can continue to live a
life of high quality.
We have had some accomplishments in
the last 2 years, with your help, some no-
table accomplishments. But we have a
long way to go. We cannot afford to take
for granted any element of threat to
America's out-of-doors or to the environ-
ment in which we live.
We still have not permanently resolved
the question of the Alaska lands. My ad-
ministrative action will stand until the
Congress passes superior legislation. And
if a threat is made to the standard that
we have already established for the
Alaskan lands, then I intend to use the
full resources and authority of me, as
President, to protect that beautiful coun-
try. We want to be fair to the people who
live in Alaska. We want to develop our
energy resources. But at the same time,
these two desires to protect the quality of
Alaska and to see it grow appropriately
are not incompatible, in my opinion.
I have proposed to the Congress, or will
shortly, the establishment of a depart-
ment of natural resources, to bring into
one coherent form an effort to use and to
preserve the quality of our country. And
this is not going to be an easy legislative
effort. I need the help and support of the
National Wildlife Federation as we em-
bark on this new, major step toward real-
izing the goals that have held together
your own federation.
I meet with Tom Kimball, represent-
ing your group, and with another very
good group of environmentalists at least
every 6 months. We sit around this table
in the Cabinet Room, and we discuss the
far-reaching aspects of the many decisions
that a President has to make. These deci-
sions that affect your and my goals are
not just restrained to so-called environ-
mental law; they affect almost every de-
cision made here in Washington. And I
know that with your continued support
and interest and advice and counsel and,
sometimes, criticisms when I don't meet
your very high standards in every respect,
that we can continue to make our part-
nership effective in preserving the beauty
444
