Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I might close by saying this will save an
awful lot of money-in the next 5 years,
$53 billion; in the very stringent 1980
fiscal year budget, $1.4 billion.
And I might point out that this does
not create any new agencies. It does not
create any additional, costly reporting
whatsoever. It's phased in in a very care-
ful way by someone, your President, who
is deeply committed to the principles of
the American free enterprise system.
The first step is completely voluntary.
Any hospital which voluntarily complies
with the very moderate guidelines is not
covered. Any hospital covered by a State
program is not covered by any future Fed-
eral action. Only if both these steps are
avoided does the Federal program come
into effect.
So, I think you can see that it's carefully
considered. It's been improved substan-
tially over what we originally introduced
last year, because we've learned a lot and
we've not had a closed mind about it.
We've listened to hospital owners, admin-
istrators, medical doctors, patient groups,
and others.
I'm very proud that you would come
here. It shows your interest. And I hope
that your action after this meeting will
make your trip here worthwhile. I believe
we can win. And it'll be a great victory
not only for you and for me but for our
whole country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:03 p.m. to a
group of civic and community leaders assembled
in the East Room at the White House.
Employee-Management Relations
in the Foreign Service
Executive Order 12128. April 4, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, in order to
permit a representative of the Federal
Labor Relations Authority to participate
in labor-relations decisions affecting For-
eign Service employees, it is hereby or-
dered as follows:
1-101. Section 5(a) of Executive Order
No. 11636 is amended to read as follows:
"(a) There is hereby established, as a
Committee of the Board, an Employee-
Management Relations Commission com-
posed of three senior level representatives,
one designated by each of the following:
the Secretary of Labor, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, and
the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
The representative designated by the Fed-
eral Labor Relations Authority shall be
the Chairman of the Commission.".
1-102. In Section 2-101 (b) of Execu-
tive Order No. 12107, the reference to
Executive Order No. 11636 is deleted.
1-103. Section 2(a) of Executive Or-
der No. 11636 is amended to read as
follows:
"(b) "Foreign affairs agency" means
the Department of State, the Interna-
tional Communication Agency, the
Agency for International Development,
and their successor agencies.".
The White House,
April 4, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:52 a.m., April 5, 1979]
National Maritime Day, 1979
Proclamation 4653. April 5, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The influence and the importance of
the American Merchant Marine extend
606
