May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
visit in late June just before the Tokyo
Summit. President and Mrs. Carter ac-
cepted with pleasure.
SECURITY RELATIONS
2. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter reaffirmed that the friendly and co-
operative relationship between the
United States and Japan, including the
Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Secu-
rity between Japan and the United States
of America, has been and will remain the
cornerstone of peace and stability in Asia.
The security relationship between the two
countries has never been so strong and
mutually advantageous as at present. This
is exemplified by such significant recent
developments as the adoption last year
of the Guidelines for Japan-U.S. Defense
Cooperation under the Security Treaty,
increased procurement by Japan of de-
fense equipment from the United States
which will contribute to the increase of
Japan's self-defense capability, and Japa-
nese initiatives to increase financial sup-
port for the stationing of United States
forces in Japan. The President stated that
in coming years the United States will
maintain and improve the quality of its
present military capabilities in East Asia.
The Prime Minister stated that Japan will
continue its efforts to improve the quality
of its self-defense capabilities, while main-
taining effective working security ar-
rangements with the United States as the
foundation of its defense policy.
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
3. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter agreed that the United States and
Japan share many political, economic and
other interests in Asia and other parts of
the world. Cooperation and consultation
between the two countries concerning is-
sues in these areas have grown over the
years, become closer than ever in recent
months, and will deepen further in the
1980's.
4. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter agreed that the recent developments
in relations between Japan and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China and the establish-
ment of U.S.-PRC diplomatic relations
are major contributions to long-term sta-
bility in Asia. Both the United States and
Japan seek a constructive relationship
with China and will pursue this course in
harmony with one another. The growth
of such relations with China will hamper
neither the United States nor Japan from
continuing to develop good relations with
other countries.
5. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter noted that the maintenance of bal-
anced, cooperative relations with the So-
viet Union will continue to be important
to both the United States and Japan. The
President stated that the United States is
working to complete a SALT II agree-
ment with a view to increasing strategic
stability and security, and the Prime
Minister stated that Japan supports this
effort. Each side stated that it will con-
tinue to seek development of friendly and
mutually beneficial relations with the So-
viet Union.
6. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter reaffirmed that the maintenance of
peace and stability on the Korean Penin-
sula is important for peace and security in
East Asia, including Japan. The United
States is firmly committed to the security
of the Republic of Korea. Its policy to-
ward future ground force withdrawals
from Korea will be developed in a man-
ner consistent with the maintenance of
peace and stability on the Peninsula. The
United States and Japan will cooperate to
reduce tension on the Peninsula and will
continue efforts to foster an international
environment conducive to this purpose.
764
