Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
inal code which passed the Senate in the
last session can serve as a basis for progress
this year.
Hatch Act Reform
We will continue to support efforts to
reform the Hatch Act so that Federal em-
ployees in non-sensitive positions will have
the right to participate in off-the-job po-
litical activities while preventing any on-
the-job political abuse.
Hunger
We share a growing concern with other
Nations and their people over the serious
problem of world hunger. While our gov-
ernment and the governments of other
Nations and international organizations
are working to assure the basic right to
food, the problems of hunger and malnu-
trition are a daily fact of life for millions
of people throughout the world. In order
to make our own programs more effective
and to examine additional efforts that
might be undertaken, I have established
the Presidential Commission on World
Hunger, under the leadership of Ambas-
sador Sol Linowitz, to recommend realis-
tic solutions which we and other Nations
might undertake in a prompt and efficient
manner. The Commission will report to
me this year and will then be involved in
the implementation of its recommenda-
tions. The Administration will be working
closely with Congress on the Commission's
recommendation.
Holocaust Commission
Last year I established a Holocaust
Commission to recommend to me how our
government might officially recognize, for
the first time, the tragedy of the Holo-
caust. The Commission's work is well un-
derway, and I will receive its report this
year. I expect to work together with Con-
gress in developing a suitable memorial to
the millions who died in the Holocaust.
PRESERVING AND DEVELOPING NATURAL
RESOURCES
My highest legislation priority during
the 95th Congress was enactment of our
first national energy plan. The dedication
of members of Congress made that
many
goal a reality. My Administration is com-
mitted to using that legislation as the
foundation for further efforts to reduce
our dependence on foreign oil; to increase
our ability to develop domestic energy
sources; and to conserve wasted energy.
Our energy and other development
goals can and will be reconciled with the
Administration's resolve to clean the Na-
tion's air and water and to preserve our
most precious natural resources. We will
continue to further the protection of our
environment.
We will continue to develop our fertile
agricultural land. The Administration is
committed to helping our Nation's farm-
ers continue to achieve record yields and
exports.
Energy
The Administration remains committed
to meeting our future energy needs. Build-
ing upon the framework of the National
Energy Act, signed last November, we will
be addressing key issues such as further
developing and commercializing solar and
renewable energy resources, making better
use of our coal reserves and other abun-
dant energy resources, continuing our em-
phasis on using energy more efficiently,
and improving the manner in which we
produce and use conventional sources of
energy such as oil, natural gas, and ura-
nium. To minimize the impacts of poten-
tial supply disruptions, we will continue
the storage of oil in the Strategic Pe-
troleum Reserve, and will be submitting
147
