Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 14
ciprocal respect and dignity in our deal-
ings.
Mr. President, we receive you within
the framework of this spirit. We hope that
in our future and, for us, very important
talks, it is this spirit that will prevail.
This is what our people expect from us
in fulfilling our responsibility. We wel-
come you, sir, and we hope your sojourn
in Mexico will be a happy one.
[At this point, President Carter responded to
President López Portillo's remarks in Spanish.
He then translated his remarks into English as
follows.]
President Carter. And now I would
like to say in my own language, for the
benefit of the people of my country, that
we are very delighted and honored to
come again to the great country of
Mexico, to increase my own understand-
ing of the Mexican people and to enjoy
an official visit with my friend, President
López Portillo.
countries, in a spirit of peace, friendship,
and mutual respect.
We live in a time of great change, dra-
matic and emotional change in Mexico,
in the United States, and in the problems
and opportunities we face together. We
have a great deal to accomplish.
My wife and I, the entire party from
the United States come here very pleased
at a new opportunity to turn to your
beautiful country to reinspire ourselves,
to strengthen even further the friendship
that binds us together with you, Mr. Pres-
ident, your wonderful family, and the
people of this great country.
I cannot imagine a more appropriate
day for our own reunion and to express
the feelings that the people of my country
have toward yours.
Happy St. Valentine's Day! Long live
Mexico!
Thank you very much.
My wife Rosalynn and I have come to
Mexico many times-first when I was a
young naval officer, and later on a 3-week
visit when we traveled through this great
country trying to make ourselves under-
stood in Spanish and to learn more about
the impressive culture and history of
Mexico. Also, I came here to visit for a
promotion of trade when I was Governor
of Georgia. But I've never had a welcome Mexico City, Mexico
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:20 a.m. at
Licenciado Benito Juarez International Air-
port. President López Portillo spoke in Spanish,
and his remarks were translated by an inter-
preter.
Following the ceremony, President Carter
proceeded to the Palacio Nacional for a meet-
ing with President López Portillo.
like this.
I come here now to reunite with my
friend President López Portillo to discuss
very important issues between Mexico and
the United States. It's very important
to strengthen the fundamental relation-
ships between our two countries.
The basis for our discussions, of course,
is a sincere recognition of some very im-
portant problems that require solutions,
and also an appreciation of the common
objectives and purposes and the great op-
portunities that we have between our two
Toasts at the Luncheon Honoring President
Carter. February 14, 1979
PRESIDENT LÓPEZ PORTILLO. Mr. Pres-
ident of the United States of America,
James Carter, Mrs. Carter, ladies and
gentlemen:
It has been 2 years now since we met
for the first time. Since then, a great deal
of water has flowed under the bridges of
the Rio Grande. A great deal has also
happened within our countries and be-
273
