Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
This report will be observed and read
by people throughout the world. Leaders,
already, of the Scandinavian countries,
Germany, France, Great Britain, Eng-
land, have asked for full access to this
report once it's conducted. This report
will not only apply to the Three Mile
Island plant; it will assess all the inter-
relationships that go among nongovern-
ment or government entities in design,
building, operating, supervising nuclear
powerplants to enhance safety to the ut-
most. And they will make this report to
the public at the end of 6 months.
I might add one other thing: Their
deliberations, their hearings will also be
conducted in public so that they can be
reported accurately to the American peo-
ple as the talks go on.
I instructed John Kemeny this morn-
ing that if in this 6-month period they
detect any change that might be imple-
mented immediately that would enhance
the safety of the existing or being-designed
nuclear plants, to let me and the public
know it without delay so they wouldn't
wait 6 months to make a beneficial sug-
gestion.
I believe this is something that's long
overdue. Although the Three Mile Is-
land incident was a very serious threat
and it caused us great consternation and
concern, there may be a gold or silver lin-
ing to this cloud, because we may learn
from it the limits of nuclear power and
how to enhance the safety of nuclear
power in the future.
That's a good question, and I thank
you for it.
MIDDLE EAST PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Hello, Mr. President. My name is
Vickie Hinesly, and I'm from York,
Maine. And I'd like to welcome you from
the people of Maine.
First, I'd like to congratulate you on
your peace treaty with the Middle East.
First, I'd like to ask you, now that we
have a partial peace with the Middle
East, what are your plans to secure peace
in the rest of the Middle East and to se-
cure the flow of oil through the U.S.?
THE PRESIDENT. Good. Yesterday, as
you may have noticed in the news, I ap-
pointed Robert Strauss to be our new ne-
gotiator and talked to both Prime Min-
ister Begin and to President Sadat on the
phone yesterday afternoon. Their new
relationship has been very exciting to me
since the peace treaty was signed. And I
can tell you in complete confidence if you
won't relay it to anyone else—[laughter]—
that sometimes those two men were not
completely compatible with one another.
[Laughter]
Q. I'll bet.
THE PRESIDENT. Since the peace treaty
was signed, I honestly believe that they
have learned to know and to like and to
respect one another. President Sadat yes-
terday said, "Prime Minister Begin," he
said, "that man has really changed," he
said, "changed for the better." And he
said, "We are now talking to each other
on the phone, not just when a crisis de-
velops but on a routine basis whenever a
question arises that concerns our two
countries."
Next month, almost exactly a month
from now, the first part of the Sinai will
be returned fom Israel to Egypt-El Arish.
They will met there together. They will
fly together to Beersheba and will appear
before the student body at the Ben Gurion
University and then will open direct
flights between Israel and Egypt for the
first time in anyone's memory. I'm very
thankful for that.
At this time, however, the other neigh-
bors of Israel are trying to create every
possible obstacle to the carrying out of
the peace treaty terms. I don't want to
criticize them, although I wish they would
703
