Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
What we want is predictability, conserva-
tion, new sources of energy, and closer
consultation and cooperation between our
countries. And these are some of the ideas
that I will be exploring first with Prime
Minister Ohira and then with the other
leaders of the nations who will be at the
economic summit.
MR. HIDAKA. You said joint proposal
with Prime Minister Ohira?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. HIDAKA. You have all the makeup,
concrete proposal, or you are in planning
session? Can you elaborate on that a little
before your coming to our country, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have obvi-
ously explored many of these ideas in
preparation for the economic summit. But
I'm sure that he and I will make them
more firm and more concrete during the
2 or 3 days immediately before the sum-
mit conference. And I will look forward
to learning from him as a great leader,
and I'm sure that the Japanese leaders
will want to know the American position
also before the economic summit com-
mences. But all the nations involved in
this summit will be sharing these pro-
posals and decisions, and I believe that
the Tokyo meeting will go down in his-
tory as the first multinational conference
at which the energy question has been ex-
plored so deeply. It's long overdue. This is
a wonderful opportunity for us all.
MR. HIDAKA. Any kind of the binding
of the proposal for the conference-I
mean, just in binding-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, obviously, no na-
tion can impose its will on the other. But
we have already made a decision during
1979 to reduce our dependence on im-
ported oil by 2 million barrels per day,
all of us nations put together. And we will
then be exploring in Tokyo how to extend
this conservation effort to 1980 and to
subsequent years and, most importantly,
how we can cooperate with each other in
building up the supplies of alternative
sources of energy in addition to the fossil
fuels.
MR. HORI. What about nuclear energy?
THE PRESIDENT. Our country derives
about 12 percent of all electricity from
atomic power. And we will obviously
have to rely upon atomic power in the
future years as well. In nuclear power and
in the use of coal, we obviously will want
to increase the safety of both sources of
energy and also to reduce any damage to
the quality of air and water.
So, as we explore additional sources of
energy-nuclear, coal, solar-we will
want to have more efficiency, more safety,
and a cleaner environment.
U.S.-JAPANESE RELATIONS
MR. HORI. Next, Mr. President, I would
like to ask your opinion about the rela-
tionship between the United States and
Japan-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. HORI.-
-particularly in the time
of economic problems.
THE PRESIDENT. Never in the history
of the world have two nations had such
massive economic relations as the United
States and Japan, separated by an ocean;
we're not contiguous one to another. We
look upon the Pacific Ocean not as an
obstacle to trade, but as a tremendous
highway to let us transfer goods back and
forth.
Because of the enormous trade that we
have between us, obviously, on occasion,
some problems do arise, because we're
both highly technological nations, we
have advanced science, we have hard-
working people, we have innovations, and
sometimes we sell the same products and
we compete with one another. But in a
democracy, when people are free, as is
1109
