Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
President Kennedy, building on the ef-
forts of Presidents Truman and Eisen-
hower, signed the first agreement with the
Soviet Union in 1963 to stop the poison-
ous testing of nuclear explosives in the
atmosphere.
In 1968, 5 years later, under President
Johnson, the United States and the Soviet
Union joined other nations throughout
the world in signing the Non-Proliferation
Treaty, an important step in preventing
the spread of nuclear explosives to other
nations.
In 1972, under President Nixon, the
SALT I agreement placed the first agreed
limits on the number of offensive weapons,
and the antiballistic missile treaty, the
ABM treaty, made an enduring contribu-
tion to our own security. President Ford
continued in negotiations at Helsinki and
at Vladivostok.
Each negotiation builds on the accom-
plishments of the last. Each agreement
provides a foundation for further progress
toward a more stable nuclear relationship.
Three Presidents have now spent more
than 6 years negotiating the next step in
this process-SALT II. We have all
nego-
tiated carefully and deliberately. Every
step of the way, we've worked with our
military leaders and other experts, and
we've sought the advice and counsel of
the Members of Congress.
An overwhelming majority of the
American people recognize the need for
SALT II. Our people want and our
people expect continued, step-by-step
progress toward bringing nuclear weapons
under control.
Americans will support a reasoned in-
crease in our defense effort, but we do not
want a wholly unnecessary return to the
cold war and an all-out arms race, with
its vastly greater risks and costs. Through
strength, we want world peace.
Let me turn to the second question--
how is SALT II related to our overall de-
fense strategy?
The strategic forces of the United States
and the Soviet Union today are essential-
ly equivalent. They have larger and more
numerous land-based missiles. We have a
larger number of warheads and, as you
know, significant technological and geo-
graphical advantages.
Each side has the will and the means to
prevent the other from achieving superior-
ity. Neither side is in a position to exploit
its nuclear weapons for political purposes,
nor to use strategic weapons without fac-
ing almost certain suicide.
What causes us concern is not the cur-
rent balance but the momentum of the
Soviet strategic buildup. Over the past
decade, the Soviets have steadily increased
their real defense spending, year by year,
while our own defense spending over that
decade has had a net decrease.
In areas not limited by SALT I, they
have launched ambitious programs to
strengthen their strategic forces. At some
future point, the Soviet Union could
achieve a strategic advantage unless we
alter these trends. That is exactly what I
want to do with the support of the
American people and the bipartisan sup-
port of Congress.
We must move on two fronts at the
same time. First, within mutually ac-
cepted limits, we must modernize our own
strategic forces. Along with the strength-
ening of NATO, that is a central purpose
of the increased defense budget that I've
submitted to Congress-improvements
which are necessary even in a time of fiscal
restraint. And second, we must place more
stringent limits on the arms race than are
presently imposed by SALT I. That is the
purpose of the SALT II treaty.
The defense budget I've submitted will
ensure that our nuclear force continues to
be essentially equivalent to that of the
Soviet Union.
695
