May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
discussions. They recognized that such
discussions will focus more on overall
trade and current account trends than on
specific actions to shape these trends;
these actions are the national responsi-
bility of each government.
12. The President and the Prime Min-
ister stressed the very strong economic in-
terests which link the United States and
Japan. More than ever before, the two
countries' welfare and futures are inter-
twined. Joint action to establish a new
and stronger basis for economic cooper-
ation will enhance the well-being of their
peoples and promote widening trade. It
will make it possible to remove conten-
tious bilateral economic issues from the
forefront of their relations and to mount
cooperative efforts to resolve problems
common to their societies, while ensuring
a sustained, mutually productive relation-
ship among their peoples.
13. For these reasons, the President and
the Prime Minister agreed on a common
approach, which will contribute to a sta-
ble pattern of international payments.
They recognized that the 1978 current
account surplus of Japan and the 1978
current account deficit of the United
States were not appropriate in existing in-
ternational circumstances. Recent actions
by both governments, together with ear-
lier changes in exchange rates, have led to
a significant reduction in their payments
imbalances during the last few months.
They agreed that appropriate action
should be taken to ensure progress, and
to sustain it.
14. To this end, the Prime Minister af-
firmed that it is the policy of Japan to
continue:
-to encourage a shift to greater re-
liance on rising domestic demand to
sustain Japan's economic growth,
and
-to open Japan's markets to foreign
goods, particularly manufactured
goods.
15. In following these policies, it is the
objective of Japan to promote a contin-
ued reduction in its current account sur-
plus, until a position consistent with a
balanced and sustainable pattern of inter-
national trade and payments has been
achieved.
16. The United States will pursue a
broad range of policies to reduce the U.S.
rate of inflation, to restrain oil imports,
and to promote U.S. exports. In following
these policies, it is the objective of the
United States to promote a continued re-
duction in its current account deficit, un-
til a position consistent with a balanced
and sustainable pattern of international
trade and payments has been achieved.
17. Accomplishment of these goals will
require several years. The present U.S.-
Japan subcabinet group, composed of of-
ficials from both governments, will
examine developments and results at pe-
riodic intervals.
18. A small group of distinguished per-
sons drawn from private life will also be
established, and will submit to the Presi-
dent and the Prime Minister recommen-
dations concerning actions that the group
considers would help to maintain a
healthy bilateral economic relationship
between the United States and Japan.
19. In reaching this understanding
about economic relations between the
United States and Japan, the President
and the Prime Minister further noted
that:
-Free and expanding trade is neces-
sary for the development of the world
economy; successful conclusion of the To-
kyo Round of Multilateral Trade Nego-
tiations is a significant step forward. It is
essential to continue to reject protection-
ism, and to proceed with domestic meas-
766
