Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 18
share with us the dynamism and the
strength and the sensitivity and commit-
ment of his own life again with us.
Thank you very much, Bishop Sheen.
It even boosts my spirits when he refers
to me as a "fellow sinner." [Laughter]
I listened with great care to him this
morning as he talked about the liberty,
the love, the duties, responsibilities, the
constraints that bind us, as believers in
God, and that offer us a guide to the
future.
Last year was a year of turmoil. I
noticed one public opinion poll that asked
news reporters and American citizens
what were the three most interesting news
events of the year. All three had some reli-
gious connotation. One was a story of
great tragedy-almost disgrace for the
world of believers-where hundreds of
people, simple people, searching for an
elusive element of truth at Jonestown,
perished because of misguided leadership.
That was the top story of the year.
Another story in this last year demon-
strated a great change in leadership, as
a Cardinal from Poland, outside Rome,
behind the Iron Curtain, became the
leader of a great Christian faith.
And the third most important story to
the people of our country was the Camp
David discussions between myself, Presi-
dent Sadat, and Prime Minister Begin.
We stayed there 13 days. And the first day
we agreed, almost as an outpouring of
mutual commitment and concern, that
we would pray within Camp David and
that we would call on the entire world
to join us in a common prayer for peace.
And we called upon the very same con-
gressional and other leaders who put this
breakfast together to coordinate that
effort.
For several days, that was the only
thing on which we did agree. [Laughter]
And we made great progress because of
those prayers. But peace is still elusive, and
I hope that out of this breakfast can come
a reconfirmation that all of you will con-
tinue to use your influence to revitalize
that prayer
for peace in the Middle East
and throughout the world.
I would guess that one of the great
news stories of 1979 will be the impact
around the Persian Gulf, in the Middle
East, of religious fervor and the searching
for some compatibility between a mod-
ern, rapidly changing, technological world
on the one hand, and an inclination on
the part of devout religious leaders to
cling to stability and security predicated
on past social and personal habits.
So, as you can well see, in various ways,
even in a modern world when we con-
sider it to be highly secular, the great
events that move the people here and in
other nations are intimately related to
religion.
Our Nation requires by law that the
church and the state must be separated.
The church cannot dominate our govern-
ment. Our government cannot dominate
nor influence religion. But there is no way
for a human being to separate in one's
own heart and mind those inevitable cor-
relations-responsibilities of a secular life,
even in government, on the one hand,
responsibilities to God on the other. They
combine to form what a person is, what
a person thinks, what a person hopes to
be. And in international events, no mat-
ter how we try to order or separate reli-
gious trends, changes, hungers, thirsts,
there is no way to sever that from public
events.
In Africa, South America, Indonesia,
many other nations where a crisis has not
reached the tornado stage, those under-
currents of religious people searching for
compatibility with the modern world, a
changing world, are intense and of pro-
found significance to everyone in this
room.
59
