Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 30
States patent law when it was signed by
President George Washington on April 10,
1790.
With the knowledge that the patent
system contributes significantly to tech-
nological progress for the benefit of man-
kind, the United States since then has
continually and actively maintained a na-
tional patent system even in times of war
and rebellion.
This incentive provided inventors has
prompted millions of our people to apply
great effort and valuable resources, often
persevering in the face of seemingly in-
surmountable odds, to create, perfect and
bring to the marketplace many inventions
which have made our labors more pro-
ductive and which have contributed to
our health and welfare.
The economic and technological pre-
eminence which our Nation has known
for many years and enjoys today is in
large part due to the efforts of our in-
ventors. This preeminence can be main-
tained by giving encouragement to their
future efforts.
In honor of the important role played
by inventors in promoting progress in the
useful arts and in recognition of the in-
valuable contribution of inventors to the
welfare of our people, the 95th Congress,
by House Joint Resolution 685, which I
signed into law on October 14, 1978
(Public Law 95-463), designated Febru-
ary 11, 1979, as "National Inventors'
Day."
February 11, 1979, is especially signifi-
cant for celebration as National Inventors'
Day because it is the anniversary of the
birth of Thomas Alva Edison who one
hundred years ago perfected and patented
the first practical incandescent lamp, an
invention which as we all know dramati-
cally changed the way of life all over the
world.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby call upon and urge the people
of the United States to honor all inventors
by joining me in observing February 11,
1979, National Inventors' Day, with ap-
propriate ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirtieth day of
January, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
5:01 p.m., January 30, 1979]
Thomas Edison and
the Centennial of Light
Message of the President. January 30, 1979
This year marks the one hundredth
anniversary of Thomas Alva Edison's in-
vention of the incandescent lamp. More
than any other invention, the light bulb
ushered in the Age of Electricity. When
Edison had perfected it, he knew he was
ready to bring electric lighting into the
streets, homes, factories and offices of
America. And he did.
In recognition of this historic feat, a
series of events throughout 1979 will be
held across the country to honor Edison's
inventive genius. These events will offer
our people many chances to review and
reflect on the numerous important inven-
tions that came from the mind and hands
of this unique American.
But Thomas Edison was more than an
inventor. He was a true innovator. He
pioneered the first industrial research
laboratory. He created the industries and
institutions to bring his inventions to the
people. He brought about change, op-
portunity and progress for all mankind.
197
