Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
fiscal year 1979 for Turkey, and for other
purposes", and urge its prompt enact-
ment. The bill authorizes appropriations
of $100,000,000 in assistance for Turkey
under the Economic Support Fund.
Turkey's economic situation continues
to deteriorate, and its foreign exchange
shortage is critical. The Government of
Turkey has begun taking steps necessary
to restore economic equilibrium, and is
considering others. Even with a major
stabilization effort, however, significant
improvement in the Turkish balance of
payments will take time. Without substan-
tial official assistance in 1979, Turkey
would be unable to obtain imports neces-
sary to meet the basic needs of the Turk-
ish economy. This in turn would aggra-
vate serious domestic political and social
problems and could ultimately affect Tur-
key's stability and its Western orientation.
In January, governments friendly to
Turkey agreed to organize a multilateral
emergency assistance effort, subject to sat-
isfactory Turkish government measures of
economic stabilization and reform. As that
effort has taken shape, it has become clear
that for it to succeed additional assist-
ance will be required from the United
States and other countries.
An additional contribution by the
United States of $100 million from the
Economic Support Fund and substantial
increases from other major donors will
give the multilateral effort the momentum
necessary for success. We have been in
touch with other governments to urge
them to increase their contributions on
the basis of equitable burdensharing.
In accordance with the requirements of
section 620C (d) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961, as amended, I hereby certify
that the furnishing of the security assist-
ance for Turkey proposed in this bill will
be consistent with the principles set forth
in section 620C(b) of that Act.
In this regard, it remains the firm policy
of the United States to support the resolu-
tion of all differences among countries in
the region peacefully, to encourage all
parties to avoid provocative actions, and
to oppose any attempt to resolve disputes
through force or threat of force. With re-
gard to the Cyprus problem, the United
States continues to support fully efforts,
especially those of the United Nations, to
bring about prompt, peaceful settlement
on Cyprus, including the withdrawal of
Turkish military forces from the island.
The United States continues to support
the maintenance of the ceasefire on Cy-
prus pending achievement of a negotiated
solution. The assistance to be furnished to
Turkey under this bill will help create the
stability and security that are important
underpinnings to progress toward these
goals.
I strongly urge early passage of the en-
closed legislation.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
APRIL 10, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. One statement about energy, and
then I'll answer questions.
ENERGY
First of all, we must move more ag-
gressively to utilize the vast coal reserves
in our country. In addition to the three
agencies that regulate coal, which I men-
tioned in my speech to the Nation earlier
this week, I've asked Governor Jay Rocke-
648
