Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 16
son, will stop in Cairo on their return
from the Middle East to review with
President Anwar Sadat their talks in
Saudi Arabia and Jordan.
The delegation will arrive in Cairo
from Amman Sunday evening and is ex-
pected to depart Monday morning.
Deputy Secretary Christopher will pro-
ceed to Europe from Cairo where he will
brief European allies. The remainder of
the group will return to the United States.
Details of Deputy Secretary Christopher's
schedule will be announced later.
National Transportation
Safety Board
Nomination of Patricia A. Goldman To Be a
Member. March 16, 1979
The President today announced that
he has nominated Patricia A. Goldman,
of Washington, D.C., to be a member of
the National Transportation Safety Board
for a term expiring December 31, 1983.
Goldman was born March 22, 1924, in
Newton, N.J. She received a B.A. in eco-
nomics from Goucher College in 1964.
From 1964 to 1965, Goldman was a re-
search assistant to the Joint Economic
Committee. She was legislative assistant
to the Ad Hoc Subcommittee on the War
on Poverty of the House Education and
Labor Committee in 1965 and 1966.
In 1966 Goldman was a research con-
sultant to the U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce, and from 1967 to 1971, she was
director of their manpower and poverty
programs. In 1971 and 1972 she was leg-
islative counsel to the National League
of Cities and the U.S. Conference of
Mayors. Since 1972 she has been execu-
tive director of the Wednesday Group
of the U.S. House of Representatives.
Goldman is a lecturer at the Brookings
Institution for senior government execu-
tives and a visiting professor with the
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship
Program. She is chair of the Republican
Women's Task Force of the National
Women's Political Caucus.
Board for International Food
and Agricultural Development
Appointment of Rebecca R. Polland as a
Member. March 16, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Rebecca R. Polland, of
Philadelphia, Pa., as a member of the
Board for International Food and Agri-
cultural Development for a term of 3
years.
Polland, 57, is an assistant professor
of political science at Rutgers University's
Camden College of Arts and Sciences.
She has served as a consultant to the
Administrator of USDA's Food and Nutri-
tion Service, and has been a delegate to
the World Food Conference in Rome and
the White House Conference on Food,
Nutrition, and Health.
Committee for Purchase From
the Blind and Other
Severely Handicapped
Appointment of Dale R. Babione as a Member.
March 16, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Dale R. Babione as a
member of the Committee for Purchase
from the Blind and Other Severely Handi-
capped. Babione is Assistant Administra-
tor for Acquisition Policy at the General
Services Administration.
437
