Feb. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
otherwise, the North might have won the
war [laughter]-and because of the ele-
phants, President Lincoln might even
have become a Republican. [Laughter]
I want to say that we have enjoyed this
visit. And since I've been in office, I've
tried to continue the goal of our Nation
to establish very close and friendly rela-
tionships with the people of Asia.
We've been commenting lately that for
the first time, certainly in my memory, we
now have a close friendship, personally
and officially, with the great nations of
Asia-with India, Japan, China, as well
as the rapidly growing economic organi-
zation known as the ASEAN countries.
Thailand is certainly one of those leaders.
But when you travel down the coast of
Asia, the Western Pacific, Eastern Asia,
we have growing friendships with that ex-
tremely important region.
We've recently concluded a new base
agreement with the Philippines, and I
think that the recent visit of Vice Premier
Deng Xiaoping has been, perhaps, one of
the most notable occurrences, certainly in
my term as President. And the far-reach-
ing historical effects of that change in re-
lationships may, perhaps, be the most im-
portant development, historically speak-
ing, during my own term in office.
And Prime Minister Kriangsak very
early saw the advantages of this new re-
lationship and expressed his public ap-
proval of this change which can help to
provide increased opportunities for sta-
bility and peace throughout Eastern
Asia.
At the same time, as the Prime Min-
ister and I discussed today, we still retain
our friendship, our allegiance, our trade,
our cultural relationships with the people
of Taiwan, and we believe that the secu-
rity of Taiwan has not at all been weak-
ened and the prospects for their future
peace and security may even have been
enhanced.
We have strengthened our ties with
Australia, New Zealand. So, I believe that
in that region of the world, we have been
making excellent progress.
I have benefited greatly from the sound
advice and counsel of Prime Minister
Kriangsak, both before he came here and
obviously during this visit. He's a man
who represents the political leadership of
a great nation and a people who have
long looked upon our country as intimate
friends.
During the Korean war, under the aus-
pices of the United Nations, the people of
Thailand fought with us, and then Major
Kriangsak was a bloodbrother, defend-
this is still looked upon by him as one
ing freedom alongside Americans. And
of the most notable experiences of his life.
We have come to value the principles
that have been exemplified, without in-
terruption, among the people of Thai-
land a country dedicated to peace, a
country dedicated to personal freedom, a
country dedicated to the extension of their
own beneficial influence among their
neighboring nations, a nation that has
never tried to dominate others and which
has always been using its influence, again,
to help preserve the independence of
peo-
ples and countries throughout the world.
Even during the time European co-
lonialism was extended almost entirely
throughout the Asian world, there was
one nation that stayed free, and that was
the people of Thailand. This shows a
strength founded not on overwhelming
military might, but on wisdom, justice,
and the principles on which our own Na-
tion was founded.
We are honored because we have found
so much in common with the people of
Thailand. And the security relationships,
the political relationships, the economic
226
