Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
States took an important step last March
with the adoption of the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Act. For the first time in our
history we established comprehensive
legislation covering international coopera-
tion in the nuclear field and the export of
nuclear-related materials. To build on
that promising beginning throughout
beginning throughout
1979, we need progress in the following
areas, both nuclear and non-nuclear:
• The International Nuclear Fuel
Cycle Evaluation (INFCE), a 53-nation
effort, can help us develop a new interna-
tional nuclear fuel consensus that will
adequately balance energy needs with
non-proliferation concerns. We continue
to believe that better alternatives exist to
the commercialization of dangerous
breeder reactors and we will cooperate as
fully as possible with other countries in
exploring those alternatives.
• We will seek more substantial prog-
ress in the problem of managing nuclear
waste and in attracting greater interna-
tional support for the acceptance of nu-
clear safeguards. I ask the Senate to ratify
the treaty on the IAEA Voluntary Safe-
guards Offer which will provide concrete
proof of our belief that international safe-
guards do not interfere with the success-
ful development and operation of com-
mercial nuclear power.
• I will call for early Senate ratifica-
tion of Protocol I of the Treaty of
Tlatelolco, which will contribute to the
lessening of nuclear dangers for our Latin
American neighbors; the U.S. and Cuba
are now the only countries in our Hemi-
sphere which have not yet ratified that
Treaty.
Regional Conflict and Tension
Curbing the means of war cannot in
itself remove the threat of war. For that,
we must seek to resolve conflicts, ease ten-
sion and build trust. The urgency of this
task and its importance to the United
States and the world is nowhere more
clear than in the Middle East. Though
there has been great progress, the goal of
a just and lasting settlement in that
troubled part of the world still eludes us.
No one who has looked at Middle East
history can harbor any illusion about the
difficulties ahead. Yet we have made great
strides toward a final peace agreement
between the two principal adversaries in
the Middle East. The differences which
they have overcome far outweigh the is-
sues which still divide them. Israeli and
Egyptian commitment to peace will pro-
vide an indispensable step toward peace
between Israel and all its neighbors and
foster the stability and orderly change we
favor for the entire Middle East region.
Peace will permit us to strengthen our ties
with the Arab states in the region and
enhance our relationship with Israel, a
relationship which will always be special
to us.
In 1979 I will count on the continued
collaboration of the 96th Congress on be-
half of our efforts to gain and maintain
peace throughout the region. The support
of the Congress and the American people
for a purposeful role in that region is par-
ticularly important in light of the tumul-
tuous events taking place in Iran. Since
the end of the Second World War, the
United States has maintained a close re-
lationship with Iran and it has a vital in-
terest in Iran's independence and integ-
rity. The people of Iran should shape their
own future without foreign interference.
That is the policy of the government of
the United States and we expect it to be
the policy of all of Iran's neighbors.
Africa
Congressional support for peace, stabil-
ity, and orderly change are essential in
other tense regions, as well.
159
