June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
existence as of the date of signature of the
Treaty functionally related observable
differences which indicate that they can-
not perform the mission of a heavy
bomber.
Third Common Understanding. The des-
ignations by the United States of America
and by the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-
publics for heavy bombers referred to in
subparagraph 3(a) of Article II of the
Treaty correspond in the following
manner:
Heavy bombers of the types desig-
nated by the United States of America
as the B-52 and the B-1 are known to
Heavy bombers of the type desig-
nated by the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics as the Tupolev-95 are known
to the United States of America as
heavy bombers of the Bear type; and
Second Common Understanding. If a
launcher has been developed and tested
for launching an ICBM or an SLBM
equipped with MIRVs, all launchers of
that type, except for ICBM and SLBM
test and training launchers, shall be in-
cluded in the corresponding aggregate
numbers provided for in Article V of the
Treaty, pursuant to the provisions of Ar-
ticle VI of the Treaty.
Second Agreed Statement. ICBMs and
SLBMs equipped with MIRVs are
ICBMS and SLBMs of the types which
have been flight-tested with two or more
independently targetable reentry vehicles,
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics regardless of whether or not they have
by the same designations;
also been flight-tested with a single re-
entry vehicle or with multiple reentry
vehicles which are not independently tar-
getable. As of the date of signature of the
Treaty, such ICBMs and SLBMs are: for
the United States of America, Minute-
man III ICBMs, Poseidon C-3 SLBMs,
and Trident C-4 SLBMs; and for the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, RS-
16, RS-18, RS-20 ICBMs and RSM-50
SLBMs.
Heavy bombers of the type desig-
nated by the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics as
as the Myasishchev are
known to the United States of America
as heavy bombers of the Bison type.
To Paragraph 5 of Article II of the
Treaty
First Agreed Statement. If a launcher has
been developed and tested for launching
an ICBM or an SLBM equipped with
MIRVs, all launchers of that type shall
be considered to have been developed and
tested for launching ICBMs or SLBMs
equipped with MIRVS.
First Common Understanding. If a
launcher contains or launches an ICBM
or an SLBM equipped with MIRVs, that
launcher shall be considered to have been
developed and tested for launching
ICBMs or SLBMS equipped with
MIRVS.
Each Party will notify the other Party
in the Standing Consultative Commission
on a case-by-case basis of the designation
of the one new type of light ICBM, if
equipped with MIRVs, permitted pursu-
ant to paragraph 9 of Article IV of the
Treaty when first flight-tested; of desig-
nations of additional types of SLBMs
equipped with MIRVs when first in-
stalled on a submarine; and of designa-
tions of types of ASBMs equipped with
MIRVS when first flight-tested.
Third Common Understanding. The des-
ignations by the United States of America
and by the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-
publics for ICBMs and SLBMs equipped
with MIRVS correspond in the following
manner:
1062
