Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
He has been associated with Los Alamos
Scientific Laboratory and has served as
Deputy Director of the Defense Atomic
Support Agency. He has received the
Lawrence Memorial Award and the Sec-
retary of Defense's Meritorious Civilian
Service Medal.
Ann Trunk, a Middletown, Pa., house-
wife. Trunk, 44, is the mother of six chil-
dren. She is the former president of the
Middletown Civic Club and has been
active in other local civic organizations.
Her husband is a professor at Pennsyl-
vania State University. He participated in
the community effort after the nuclear
powerplant accident in Middletown by
taking radiation checks in the area.
Loyalty Day, 1979
Proclamation 4657. April 11, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
In our country, loyalty has a deep and
complex meaning. It does not refer to
allegiance to the tenets of an ideological
doctrine nor does it convey a blind faith
in a single leader or political party. A
respect for our flag is part of what we
mean by loyalty, but the concept goes
well beyond a reverence for our national
symbols.
To the citizens of our country, loyalty
means a devotion and a dedication to
our democratic traditions of liberty and
justice. It is an acknowledgement of our
responsibilities and duties as citizens to
nurture and preserve those freedoms. It
also conveys a respect for our fellow citi-
zens who have fought, and sometimes
died, to establish and protect our country
and our ideals.
To encourage the people of the United
States to reflect on our democratic heri-
tage and institutions, the Congress, by a
joint resolution approved July 18, 1958
(72 Stat. 369) has designated May 1 of
every year as Loyalty Day, and has re-
quested the President to issue a procla-
mation inviting the people of the United
States to observe that day with appro-
priate observances.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of
America, call upon all Americans to ob-
serve Tuesday, May 1, 1979, as Loyalty
Day. I also ask the appropriate officials
of the Government and all citizens to
display the flag of the United States on
all Government buildings and other fit-
ting places.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
April, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:45 a.m., April 12, 1979]
Multilateral Trade Negotiations
Agreements
Statement by the President. April 12, 1979
The United States today has entered
into international agreements that will
bring a new order to the world trading
system.
Trade negotiators representing 41 na-
tions, accounting for more than 90 per-
cent of world trade, have agreed in
Geneva on the final, substantive results
of the Tokyo Round of international trade
662
