Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in our Nation if and when in the future
we need it. We do not need it now.
So, I think the answers will come
quickly, they're long overdue.
MS. PEEK. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:20 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Linda
K. Peek is Special Assistant in the Office of
Media Liaison.
The transcript of the interview was released
on April 28.
National Association for Equal
Opportunity in Higher Education
Remarks at the Association's Annual Dinner.
April 28, 1979
If I could think of one group which is
most responsible for the transformation of
the United States of America from a rac-
ist and segregation society to a free and
integrated society, I would say it's this
group whom I'm addressing right now.
The black colleges of our country and
the black churches of our country several
years ago, several decades ago, several
generations ago, stood firmly and coura-
geously and innovatively for what was
right and decent. It was not an easy thing
for you to do nor for your predecessors to
do. But you have indeed transformed our
country, and I thank you for it, because
one of the consequences of these changes
that I have just described is that I, as a
southerner and an ex-Governor of Geor-
gia, was made a viable candidate. And I
would not be here as President tonight
if it had not been for you.
As you know, I have been on many of
your campuses as a candidate and since
I've been President. And when I couldn't
come, I sent some of my best representa-
tives-recently, for instance, to Tuskegee;
my mother has been there as a visitor, the
Vice President's been there as a visitor.
And as Wade Wilson¹ knows, I'll be
speaking at Cheyney State for graduation
exercises shortly if the invitation is still
good. [Laughter] I will try to behave my-
self the next 30 days, Wade, so I can—
[laughter]———
I know you've been here almost 3 days,
and I know how important your visit to
Washington is to you and to me and to
the people of our country. My own com-
mitment is not just to make the President
and the Vice President and the special
members of the White House staff avail-
able to you to help when you are in trou-
ble, nor to provide a constant, easy ave-
nue of communication and consultation,
advice, counsel, and criticism even when
you're not in trouble, in time when crises
do not exist, but I want to be sure that
every single agency of the Federal Gov-
ernment is tuned to your needs and to
your hopes and aspirations and desires
and to the dreams of your students and
the parents who love them.
I pledge to you that whenever there is
a problem which I myself can address or
the leaders in my Cabinet who have met
with you can address, that I'm available
to you personally, and so is Vice President
Mondale, and so are all the members of
my
staff.
My major disappointment is that I will
not be here to hear Judge Higginboth-
am's address. And I know how he is ad-
mired by all of you. We have made every
effort, through his leadership and others
like him, through your honoree tonight,
Mary Berry,2 and others like her, to open
up the councils of government in posi-
¹ President, Cheyney State College.
2 Assistant Secretary for Education, Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare.
742
