Feb. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We are establishing at the Federal Gov-
ernment level prudent purchasing proce-
dures. We intend to make the best and
most efficient purchases we can. And one
obvious measure of a good place to buy is
among those companies that are prudent
in establishing price policies. And I would
hope that this would be one example that
you might emulate at the local and State
level.
Waste, fraud, corruption is being
rooted out with the utmost of my own
personal ability and those who work with
me. There's no place for it in govern-
ment. We have been guilty in the past of
some betrayals of public trust. We are now
establishing Inspectors General offices in
the major agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment, and they will be dedicated to con-
stantly exhibiting any betrayal of the pub-
lic trust and setting an example so this
might be prevented, not just detected after
it happens.
In addition to that, we are trying to re-
duce the adverse effect of Federal regula-
tions, paperwork, both on local and State
governments, and also in the private sec-
tor. And over a longer period of time, we
are exploring every possibility to increase
the productivity of the American working
men and women.
Well, I think you can see that none of
these efforts that I've described to you will
be simple or easy to achieve, and no single
one of them, even if successful, could
guarantee that we could control inflation.
If there was ever an issue on which our
system of federalism will be tested and in
which our system of federalism can be
productive if welded together, this is it.
Everything I've described to you at the
Federal level can be almost directly used
as a pattern for local and State govern-
ment decisions. And in addition to that,
because of the wide diversity of circum-
stances that prevail in your own commu-
nity or State, you can be much more in-
novative even than we can here in Wash-
ington. And I would hope that through
your own insight and your probing minds
and the special local circumstances, that
you might uncover other ways in which
we can help to control rampant inflation.
I might say that there have been some
allegations made that controlling inflation
works against the interests of the poor,
the unemployed, the elderly, who are
most dependent on government services.
This is exactly contrary to the facts. The
people who are the worst sufferers when
inflation is uncontrolled are those who
live on a fixed income or on a very low
income or who are not well educated or
who can't provide their families with
mobility to move from one community to
another or shift from one job to another
to find better opportunities.
Those very people who are most vul-
nerable and who need government serv-
ices are the ones who suffer most when
inflation is not controlled. Quite often,
they are not organized, they are not artic-
and they need to be protected.
ulate, they are not politically influential,
Let me say in closing that there are
going to be a lot of pressures on you and
on me from different special interest
groups, some benevolent in nature, some
selfish in nature. "Take action to control
inflation among others. Don't touch us."
Those pressures are already building up
on the Congress. And it would be much
easier for us here in Washington to act
forcefully and aggressively and consist-
ently if we felt sure that we were acting
in harmony with you, in partnership with
you, and that there was a constant sup-
308
