Jan. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping of
the People's Republic of China
New Year's Message From the President.
January 1, 1979
On this New Year's Day, I welcome the
establishment of full diplomatic relations
between the United States of America and
the People's Republic of China.
New tasks now await us. The new Sino-
American relationship offers great poten-
tial benefit to the welfare of our peoples,
to the promotion of peace and prosperity
Secretary of the Department of the Prime
Minister and Cabinet. Vice President
Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance,
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs Zbigniew Brzezinski, and
other U.S. officials also were present.
In the context of the close U.S.-
Australian friendship and alliance, Presi-
dent Carter and Prime Minister Fraser
discussed a broad range of gobal and
regional topics of importance to Australia
and the United States, including develop-
ments in Iran and the Middle East, the
of the Asia-Pacific region, and to stability need for cooperation among the developed
throughout the world.
The American people and I person-
ally-look forward to your forthcoming
visit to the United States. In Washington,
we can talk seriously with each other
about both global and bilateral matters.
Together, we can seize the opportunity
your visit affords us to foster a construc-
tive and enduring relationship between
our two peoples. To that end, Mrs. Carter
joins me in wishing you and Madame Cho
Lin a Happy New Year, and we look for-
ward to greeting you in the United States.
Meeting With Prime Minister
J. Malcolm Fraser of Australia
White House Statement. January 2, 1979
President Carter met with the Prime
Minister of Australia, the Right Honor-
able J. Malcolm Fraser, in the Cabinet
Room at the White House at 11 a.m.,
Tuesday, January 2, 1979, for an hour.
Prime Minister Fraser was accompanied
by Australian Foreign Minister Andrew
Peacock, Ambassador to the United States
Alan Renouf, and Mr. Geoffrey Yeend,
nations to combat inflation and restore
economic health and stability throughout
the world, and the recent United States
decision to normalize relations with the
People's Republic of China.
Following the meeting with the Presi-
dent, Secretary of State Vance hosted a
luncheon for Prime Minister Fraser and
his party at the State Department.
Office of Personnel Management;
Merit Systems Protection Board
Recess Appointment of Members.
January 2, 1979
The President today announced four
recess appointments to positions created
by the civil service reorganization plan,
effective January 1, 1979. They are:
ALAN K. CAMPBELL, previously Chairman of
the Civil Service Commission, is appointed
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment;
JULE M. SUGARMAN, previously Vice Chair-
man of the Civil Service Commission, is ap-
pointed Deputy Director of the Office of
Personnel Management;
RUTH T. PROKOP, previously General Counsel
of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, is appointed as Chairman of
the Merit Systems Protection Board; and
2
