Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 26
The lower tier taxable volume will not
include marginal well production nor
production that is released beginning on
January 1, 1980 in order to finance in-
vestment in tertiary recovery. However,
this production is included in the upper
tier taxable volume. The lower tier tax-
able volume also will not include produc-
tion from wells that would be considered
to be stripper wells had controls continued
beyond October 1981. However, this pro-
duction is included in the market incen-
tive tier taxable volume.
Upper tier. The windfall profits tax
will apply to all upper tier oil beginning
on January 1, 1980. The taxable volume
of upper tier oil includes all upper tier
oil except oil subject to tax at the lower
tier level. Under the Department of
Energy decontrol schedule, beginning on
January 1, 1980, the upper tier oil price
reaches the world price on October 1,
1981. For purposes of the tax, the con-
trolled base price of upper tier oil is the
price at which upper tier oil would be
controlled if the Department of Energy
decontrol schedule had not been imple-
mented. This constructive upper tier con-
trolled base price will be adjusted for in-
flation (as measured by the GNP defla-
tor) by the Secretary of the Treasury in
the same manner as the controlled price is
currently adjusted for inflation under De-
partment of Energy regulations.
The tax at the upper tier level is com-
puted by applying the 50 percent rate to
the upper tier taxable volume, multiplied
by the difference between the price at
which upper tier oil is sold and its con-
trolled base price.
As in the case of lower tier oil which is
now selling below its controlled price,
upper tier oil will be taxed only on the
difference between its controlled base
price and the price at which it is sold.
The constructive upper tier base price
will increase in monthly increments be-
ginning in November 1986 so that over
a 50-month period the difference between
the upper tier controlled base price and
the market incentive price (see below)
will disappear. Consequently, at the end
of the 50-month period, the upper tier tax
base will be phased out. The Secretary of
the Treasury will prescribe by regulations
the applicable monthly increments.
The upper tier tax base will not include
new production or incremental tertiary
production.
Market incentive tier. The market in-
centive tier tax will be based on the differ-
ence between the price at which the
uncontrolled oil is sold and the market in-
centive base price. The market incentive
base price for the fourth quarter of 1979 is
$16.00 per barrel. This base price will be
adjusted for domestic inflation (as
measured by the GNP deflator) and de-
termined by the Secretary of the Treasury
on a quarterly basis.
The taxable volume of the market in-
centive tier includes all uncontrolled oil
except any oil subject to tax in the lower
or upper tier taxable volume and Alaska
North Slope oil. The tax at the market
incentive tier is computed by applying the
50 percent rate to the taxable volume,
multiplied by the difference between the
price at which the oil is sold and the
market incentive base price.
4. Application of Other Tax Provisions
depletion, gross income is reduced by the
For purposes of computing percentage
amount subject to the 50 percent windfall
profits tax.
5. Revenue Effect
The gross windfall profits tax will
equal $0.4 billion in fiscal year 1980, $1.8
billion in fiscal year 1981, and $3.0 billion
in fiscal year 1982. The net windfall
profits tax (after reduction for income tax
725
