Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I think we need alternatives to nuclear
power, and I'm very excited by develop-
ments in solar power and electrical gen-
erating stations in Earth orbit. It sounds
a little off-the-wall, I know.
The more I read though, the more pos-
sible I think it has become. Yet I heard
nothing out of Washington on the sub-
ject. What is the administration's ap-
proach to aerospace industry?
THE PRESIDENT. I spoke earlier this
week to the National Academy of Sci-
ences. Two of the four things that I dis-
cussed with them were energy and space.
The next step for us in space is the
space shuttle, where we will begin to cap-
italize on more than $100 billion of in-
vestment, primarily in space exploration.
These shuttle vehicles will begin to fly
shortly, and we will lease space on them,
first of all, to agencies of the Federal Gov-
ernment for defense, intelligence, and for
research and for other means, astronomy
and so forth.
We'll also lease space to private indus-
try for the evolution of new kinds of tech-
nologies such as you've described, and we
will also make some space on our space
shuttles available to foreign countries.
As you know, these vehicles, like air-
planes, will be launched into space, will
fly around the Earth as long as they de-
sire, and then will come back into the at-
mosphere and land like an airplane. It
will be a very efficient way to make space
use routine, rather than a great adventure
every time one is launched.
I think following that period of re-
search and development of the science of
collecting energy and its transmission
would come a move toward the kind of
energy evolution that you've described.
The photovoltaic cell technique has
been that which made possible the space
flights already. And this so far is very ex-
pensive for the actual production of
power. And I would say a major oppor-
tunity for us in the next 10 or 20 years
would be to make the production of power
directly from the sunlight through the
photovoltaic cells feasible. I think that
would be a prerequisite for us to do that
on Earth before we could do it effectively
in space.
So, I'd say the space shuttle advanced
research in space, by private, U.S. Gov-
ernment, foreign government entities, and
the development of the photovoltaic cells
would be the precursors to the accumula-
tion of Sun's rays in space, their trans-
mission to Earth as energy.
Not even one more? One more quick
question, and then our time's up.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. Good afternoon, President Carter.
I'm Scott Nason from Portsmouth, New
Hampshire. I worked on the Seabrook nu-
clear power construction project. I was
wondering if you've ever had the oppor-
tunity to actually see a project of this
magnitude while in its construction stage?
Also, due to the recent unfortunate events,
morale throughout this industry is low.
What do you feel should be done about it?
THE PRESIDENT. To answer your first
question, yes, I have seen a major atomic
powerplant in the construction phase.
While I was Governor, one was completed
there in the southwestern part of the State,
and I was there, more than once, while it
was being constructed. Also, I was in-
volved in the early stages of the develop-
ment of atomic power for propulsion of
submarines, as I described earlier.
I think the low morale that exists not
only in the designers, builders, operators
of atomic powerplants, but those who live
around them and who fear for their own
safety, will all be aided by a frank, honest,
competent report to the American people
about the status of nuclear power,
and its
712
