June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
PHILIP F. FRENCH, of Indianapolis, assistant
executive vice president of the Indiana Farm
Bureau, responsible for petroleum, crops,
livestock and poultry, and farm and building
supplies operations. He is also on the board
of directors of CF Industries, Inc., a producer
of nitrogen, phosphate, and potash fertilizers
owned by 19 regional cooperatives.
SERGE GRATCH, of Birmingham, Mich., director
of the Chemical Sciences Laboratory for the
Ford Motor Co.
C. FRED JONES, of Auburndale, Fla., a farmer,
cattleman, and citrus grower, and a mem-
ber of the Florida House of Representatives,
where he is chairman of the transportation
committee.
SHARON L. PETERSON, of Winifred, Mont.,
secretary treasurer of her family's farm and
ranch feedlot and trucking business. She is
Montana legislative chairman and central
Montana area spokeswoman for Women
Involved in Farm Economics, and a found-
ing member of the National Gasohol Com-
mission, a citizens group gathering informa-
tion on alcohol fuels.
THEODORE A. SCHWARTZ, of Livingston, N.J.,
an attorney specializing in environmental
law, formerly deputy attorney general of New
Jersey, in which capacity he represented all
State agencies that had jurisdiction over
health and environmental matters.
United Food and Commercial
Workers International Union
Remarks at the Union's Founding Convention.
June 7, 1979
President Bill Wynn, United Food and
Commercial Workers:
I want to thank you for that introduc-
tion and also that reception. I've always
known that Bill Wynn was a man of great
vision, but I never knew before that he
was such an accurate analyst of recent
history, and I thank you very much.
[Laughter]
I'm honored in several ways to be in-
troduced by one of the most decent, effec-
tive, and respected labor leaders in Amer-
ica, your president and my friend, Bill
Wynn; to be able to join your secretary-
treasurer, Sam Talarico, the members of
the executive board, and the first dele-
gates to the newest and now the largest
union in the AFL-CIO, the United Food
and Commercial Workers Union.
I'm honored to be with one of the most
committed and the most caring men
who've ever served on a President's Cabi-
net, Ray Marshall; and to be with the
president emeritus of the Amalgamated
Meatcutters, one of the fine leaders of the
American labor movement, a man that I
revere and respect, Paddy Gorman; and
with a friend of yours and mine—who,
coincidentally, joined me and my wife
last night for supper at the White House
with his wife-a great labor leader in
America, Lane Kirkland.
I understand this is your inaugural
convention. When I heard you were hav-
ing an inauguration, I came right over.
[Laughter] I had to walk all the way. As
a matter of fact, I walk a lot these days.
They've taken my parking place away,
too. [Laughter]
I just left Fritz Mondale, who's meet-
ing with the six New England Governors
about the energy question. As I left, Fritz
said, "Did you hear that Bill Wynn has
endorsed you for reelection?" And I said,
"Yes. And did you also hear that Bill
Wynn has appointed 50 vice presidents in
this new union?" And Fritz said, "Well,
nobody's perfect, Mr. President."
[Laughter]
I'm going to make kind of a different
speech to you this afternoon, relatively
brief, from my heart, as President of our
great country. This historic merger of
two unions, each with such a proud his-
tory, is a notable achievement not just
for the labor movement itself but for our
country. When this great new organiza-
tion of working people speaks out for so-
1008
