Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
sider possible diversion of revenues or
traffic from other carriers.
-Requires the ICC to make a final
decision on entry applications within 90
days.
-Grants the application of any fit,
willing and able carrier to enter a point
which an authorized carrier does not
serve, or which a railroad has abandoned.
EXEMPTIONS FROM ICC REGULATION
From the start, major farm organiza-
tions opposed Federal economic regula-
tion of the trucking industry. Farmers be-
lieved regulation would raise prices and
limit the operating flexibility needed for
distribution of agricultural products,
many of which are perishable. Congress
responded in 1935 by granting an exemp-
tion from ICC regulation for unprocessed
agricultural commodities.
The agricultural exemption has served
our Nation's farmers and consumers well.
The exemption is too restrictive, however,
and should be expanded. For example:
-raisins are exempt, if they are coated
with honey, cinnamon, or sugar but
not if they are coated with chocolate;
-wood chips for making wood pulp
are not exempt, but wood cut into
short crosswise lengths for firewood
(not sawed lengthwise) are;
-frozen dinners are exempt, unless
they are frozen chicken or seafood
dinners;
-crab shells are exempt, but oyster
shells are not;
-an owner-operator has stated, "I
carry all the ingredients to the can-
nery to make the soup, but I cannot
carry the canned soup back."
These narrow restrictions have resulted
in significantly more empty backhauls for
exempt truckers than for regulated
truckers. The transportation costs for
food, and hence food prices to consumers,
are consequently higher.
The bill I propose expands the agri-
cultural exemption to include livestock;
agricultural, horticultural or aquacultural
commodities; food and any edible prod-
ucts; and farm implements and supplies,
including seed, fertilizer, and chemicals.
These provisions will allow better utili-
zation of trucks and fewer empty back-
hauls. The result will be better trucking
services and, most important, lower rates
for farmers and lower food prices for
consumers.
The bill also gives the ICC authority
to grant exemptions from regulation, and
expands the authority of agricultural co-
operatives to haul regulated commodities
for non-farmers.
CONTRACT CARRIERS AND FREIGHT
FORWARDERS
CONTRACT CARRIERS
Contract carriers are ICC-regulated
carriers who give specialized service to a
limited number of shippers. They differ
from common carriers in that they do not
hold themselves out as serving the general
public.
Although regulation of contract car-
riers has been less severe, this segment of
the industry has been subject to two ma-
jor restrictions: (1) they have been
prohibited from applying for common
carrier authority; and (2) they have been
prohibited from entering into contracts
to serve more than eight shippers. This
second restriction has been particularly
harmful to small shippers because con-
tract carriers naturally arrange to serve
only the eight largest shippers they can
find.
Although the ICC has recently decided
to reverse these two restrictions, their de-
cision is being challenged in the courts
1121
