Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
2. ensure that, at the request of the
Secretary of Commerce and the Federal
Cochairman of the Appalachian Regional
Commission, the annual investment pro-
grams and policy recommendations re-
ceive a coordinated high-level analysis
and review by relevant federal depart-
ments and agencies.
FEDERAL COCHAIRMEN
In addition to the responsibilities de-
fined in existing statutes, regulations and
Executive Orders, the Federal Cochair-
men of the Appalachian and Title V
Regional Commissions, with the concur-
rence of the affected commission (s), shall
become members of each Federal Re-
gional Council which serves all or any
portion of his/her region. It is my inten-
tion to further amend Executive Order
11647 to this effect.
Each Title V Federal Chairman,
working with the regional commission, is
directed to:
1. assist the regional commission to
participate in the regional growth policy
process;
2. present the commission's multi-year
regional development plan, annual invest-
ment program and growth policy recom-
mendations to the Secretary of Com-
merce;
3. involve Federal departments and
agencies in the activities of the commis-
sions, as appropriate; and
4. participate in the consultative mech-
anism described under Secretary of Com-
merce directives, # 3 above on page 3.
FEDERAL REGIONAL COUNCILS
The Federal Regional Councils are di-
rected to work with the Secretary of
Commerce and the Interagency Coordi-
nating Council to provide continuing liai-
son with regional commissions.
JIMMY CARTER
Permanent American Cemetery
in the Republic of Panama
Executive Order 12115. January 19, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and the laws of
the United States of America, including
Section 10 of the Act of March 4, 1923
(42 Stat. 1509), as amended (36 U.S.C.
132), and to implement the intent of the
United States Senate (124 Cong. Rec.
S 3857 of March 16, 1978) as set forth by
Reservations (1) and (3) to the Resolu-
tion of Ratification of the Treaty Con-
cerning the Permanent Neutrality and
Operation of the Panama Canal, it is
hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. The Secretary of State shall
take all appropriate steps to complete,
prior to the date of entry into force of the
Treaty Concerning the Permanent Neu-
trality and Operation of the Panama
Canal, hereinafter referred to as the Neu-
trality Treaty, the negotiations which
have begun with the Republic of Panama
for an agreement under which the United
States of America would, upon the date
of entry into force of such agreement and
thereafter, administer as a permanent
American cemetery such part of Corozal
Cemetery as encompasses the remains of
citizens of the United States of America.
1-102. Subject to the conclusion of the
agreement referred to in Section 1-101 of
this Order, the American Battle Monu-
ments Commission shall administer that
part of Corozal Cemetery which encom-
passes the remains of citizens of the
81
