Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
dons. There is no such provision in exist-
ing law.
SAFETY
Reforms in safety enforcement are nec-
essary because present levels of safety are
unsatisfactory, and because authority to
monitor safety practices and to sanction
safety violations should be strengthened.
These provisions are distinct from the eco-
nomic reforms and are not made necessary
by them.
The bill I propose places new emphasis
on the existing fitness test which guaran-
tees that all new entrants into the industry
are safe. It also consolidates the safety
authority in the Department of Trans-
portation, and gives the Secretary of
Transportation broader and more effec-
tive authority to deal with safety
violations.
These reform proposals for the trucking
industry, together with airline deregula-
tion and my recently proposed rail re-
forms, fundamentally reshape Federal
regulatory policies toward the transpor-
tation industries. These new policies rec-
ognize that our national interest in a more
productive, fuel-efficient and responsive
transportation system can be best achieved
with less Federal regulation and more re-
liance on private initiative.
The White House,
June 21, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Vice President's Trip to the
People's Republic of China
Statement by the President. June 21, 1979
At the invitation of the Government of
the People's Republic of China, Vice
President Walter F. Mondale will make
an official visit to the People's Republic
of China in August 1979.
The Vice President will be visiting the
P.R.C. as my personal representative to
continue the important process of high-
level consultations on both bilateral and
multilateral issues of major importance to
the United States and the People's Re-
public of China. His visit will also permit
a review of the broad range of significant
developments in U.S.-P.R.C. relations
that have taken place since normalization
of relations on January 1, 1979.
Panama Canal Treaties
Statement on House of Representatives
Approval of Legislation To Implement
the Treaties. June 21, 1979
The House of Representatives today
passed vital legislation providing for our
management and defense of the Panama
Canal. I deeply appreciate both the cour-
age of all those Members who recognized
the national interests by voting for this
legislation and the effective leadership of
Jim Wright, Jack Murphy, John Brade-
mas, David Bowen, and the statesmanship
of Ed Derwinski, who shepherded the bill
to passage.
Improvements in the bill are still
needed to make certain that the legislation
is fully consistent with our commitments
under the Panama Canal Treaty. We will
be seeking those improvements as the leg-
islative process continues. I am looking
forward to early Senate action and a quick
conference that will ensure our ability to
maintain and defend the canal.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at 3:05 p.m. to reporters assembled
in the Briefing Room at the White House.
Also included in the press release is a ques-
tion-and-answer session with reporters.
1125
