Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 10
Giza, Egypt
Remarks of President Carter and President
Sadat Following a Meeting. March 10, 1979
PRESIDENT CARTER. President Sadat and
I have a few words to say about this visit.
First of all, on behalf of the American peo-
ple and myself personally, I want to ex-
press my deep thanks to President Sadat
and to the people of Egypt for a welcome
that has been exhilarating to me and
which I will never forget.
We have had hours of discussion about
the issue of peace. It's obvious to me that
the Egyptian people, from their tremen-
dous outpouring of welcome to me and to
President Sadat, genuinely want peace.
It's equally obvious to me that Presi-
dent Sadat and the people of Egypt and
Israel are determined to carry out all the
provisions, all the agreements made at
Camp David, not only for peace between
Israel and Egypt but for a full and com-
prehensive peace involving the realiza-
tion of the rights of those who have suf-
fered so long, and a step-by-step progres-
sion toward peace between Israel and all
her neighbors.
We have resolved some difficult issues
here. Difficult issues still remain to be re-
solved.
I will leave here this afternoon, going to
Israel to meet with Prime Minister Begin
and the officials of the Israeli Government.
I'm hopeful that the differences which
still remain can be resolved.
Thank you very much.
op-
PRESIDENT SADAT. Let me seize this
portunity to express really how happy
my people and me were to receive
President Carter, for whom we hold great
esteem and great love, the man who has
really, through his patience, perseverance,
morale, and principles, has already
achieved more than 59 percent of the
whole problem, one of the most compli-
cated problems in the whole world.
We are happy to receive President
Carter and Mrs. Carter, and we are
happy also to ask them to convey to our
friends, the American people, who sup-
ported my initiative wholeheartedly—we
ask him to convey to them our gratitude.
And in this precise moment, I prefer to
say only that we had a very fruitful talk.
Exactly as President Carter stated, we
have overcome some of the difficulties.
Some other issues are to be settled.
And in the name of the Egyptian peo-
ple, my name, and my wife's name, we
wish to President Carter and Mrs. Carter
all the best wishes and fulfillment and
achievement in his visit to Israel.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke to reporters at 4:35
p.m. on the terrace at Mena House, the hotel
where he and President Sadat held their meet-
ing.
Following the exchange, the two Presidents
toured the Pyramids and the Sphinx and then
went to Cairo International Airport for the
departure ceremony.
Tel Aviv, Israel
Remarks of President Yitzhak Navon and
President Carter at the Welcoming Ceremony.
March 10, 1979
PRESIDENT NAVON. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, shalom and welcome to
Israel.
In the name of the people of Israel, it
is a great pleasure and privilege, together
with my wife, to greet you and the dis-
tinguished officials who have come with
you, with all our hearts in sincere friend-
ship and profound appreciation.
We cherish these feelings towards you
personally and also as a representative of
415
