Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 14
National Museum
Services Board
Nomination of Two Members.
February 13, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate for reappointment two cur-
rent members of the National Museum
Services Board for terms expiring Decem-
ber 6, 1983. They are:
DOUGLAS DILLON, president of the Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art in New York City, and
NEIL HARRIS, a professor of history at the
University of Chicago, specializing in art and
cultural history.
Adolph Dubs
Statement on the Death of the U.S.
Ambassador to Afghanistan.
February 14, 1979
I am shocked and saddened by the mur-
der of Ambassador Adolph Dubs in Kabul
this morning. The act of brutality which
took his life has deprived our Nation of
one of its most able public servants.
Throughout his distinguished career in
the Foreign Service, Ambassador Dubs
took on difficult and challenging jobs, per-
forming them with exemplary dedication
and skill. He died as he lived in the serv-
ice of his country—and the manner of his
death redoubles our dedication to the
struggle against the kind of senseless
violence which took his life. My thoughts
and prayers are with the family of Am-
bassador Dubs.
NOTE: Ambassador Dubs was kidnaped in
Kabul by terrorists on the morning of February
14, and was subsequently killed during an at-
tempt by Afghan police to free him from his
captors.
Department of Defense
Nomination of Robert B. Pirie, Jr., To Be an
Assistant Secretary. February 14, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Robert B. Pirie, Jr., as
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Man-
power, Reserve Affairs and Logistics. He
would replace John P. White, whom the
President has nominated as Deputy
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget.
Pirie, of Bethesda, Md., was born Sep-
tember 10, 1933, in San Diego, Calif. He
received a B.S. from the U.S. Naval
Academy in 1955 and an M.A. from Ox-
ford University in 1963.
Pirie served in the U.S. Navy from 1955
to 1975, where he served on several nu-
clear submarines, as a staff analyst in the
Naval Forces Division of the Office of the
Secretary of Defense, as commanding of-
ficer of the U.S.S. Skipjack, as senior staff
assistant to the Director of the National
Security Council's Net Assessment Group,
and as Deputy Director of Net Assessment
in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
From 1975 to 1977, Pirie was deputy
assistant director for national security of
the Congressional Budget Office. Since
1977 he has been Deputy Assistant Secre-
tary of Defense for Manpower, Reserve
Affairs and Logistics.
Federal Regional Councils
Designation of Chairpersons for the 10
Federal Regions. February 14, 1979
The President has designated 10 per-
sons to serve as Chairpersons of the Fed-
eral Regional Councils in 10 Federal
regions. The Chairpersons are selected
269
