Feb. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
PURPOSE OF REORGANIZATION
The purpose of this reorganization is to
manage more effectively U.S. develop-
ment activities by making a single U.S.
official responsible for formulating over-
all development policy, and for overseeing
the numerous programs intended to im-
plement that policy.
BACKGROUND
The reorganization was decided upon
by the President after considerable con-
sultation with interested members of Con-
gress, and is consistent with the objectives
of a bill submitted last year by the late
Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.
METHOD OF REORGANIZATION
The reorganization will be implemented
through a combination of reorganization
plan (to be submitted to Congress in ac-
cordance with the reorganization au-
thority enacted in 1977), legislation, Ex-
ecutive order, and administrative action.
These steps will begin during the next
several weeks.
Ixtlilco el Grande, Mexico
Text of Remarks at the Town Square.
February 15, 1979
Governor and Mrs. Bejarano, Secretary
Roel, Secretary Merino, Mayor Flores,
and all my new friends of Ixtlilco el
Grande:
Rosalynn and I are very happy to be
here with all of you today. You have been
so kind and warm and considerate that we
do not feel like strangers at all, but as if
we were at home in our own village.
I know that during the past week it
has been difficult for you to prepare for
our visit. You have welcomed the people
from my staff who came here to work
with you in making preparations. I thank
you.
I have had a busy and interesting visit
here today. You showed me some of the
finest tomatoes and onions and corn and
cantaloupes and watermelons and rice
that I have ever seen. And you showed me
your peanuts. As you know, I have been
a peanut farmer for much longer than I
have been a President-and the peanuts
of Ixtlilco el Grande look just as good as
the ones on my own farm.
Cuco Sanchez and his family demon-
strated the irrigation pump and explained
to us how it benefits everyone in the vil-
lage. At the school, we met Professor
Sanchez and Maestra Vergara and some
of the boys and girls who are so important
to the future of Ixtlilco el Grande and to
Mexico.
And what a delicious meal. We love the
cooks.
Rosalynn and I are very fond of Mexi-
can food. At the White House, in Wash-
ington, we have a Mexican meal every
week, but the dishes you have served us
today are the best I have ever had. I hope
you will give Rosalynn the recipes.
Everything I have seen here has im-
pressed me very deeply. Through the Pro-
for Integrated Rural Economic De-
gram
velopment, you are building a better life
for yourselves and your
children.
I know how much progress like this
can mean. Rosalynn and I come from the
small farming community of Plains, in the
State of Georgia, which is not even half
as big as Ixtlilco el Grande. When I was
a boy our village had no electricity and
no irrigation, and our facilities for educa-
tion and health care and for marketing
our crops were very poor. It made a great
difference in our lives when we began to
have these things, and I can see that it
280
