June 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
American people. But I think by seeing
the leadership and the sponsors of your
legislation here today, that it means that
we can no longer afford the purity of our
position at the expense of our aged and
our youngsters, and we're looking forward
in the Subcommittee on Health in Ways
and Means in getting this before our com-
mittee as soon as possible.
And I personally am pleased that my
colleague on that subcommittee, Jim
Corman, that has a constituency of his
own, will be joining with me in the spon-
sorship of the bill.
THE PRESIDENT. Now Congressman
Harley Staggers, the chairman of the
commerce committee in the House.
REPRESENTATIVE STAGGERS. Mr. Presi-
dent, my colleagues, ladies and gentle-
men:
I'm happy to be here on this really mo-
mentous occasion, and to congratulate
you, Mr. President, for having the cour-
age to bring forth a bill now, because it's
been, as you said, proposed back in Harry
Truman's time. And each President since
that time has talked about it. This is the
first instrument that I've seen that a Pres-
ident has brought to the Hill. And I con-
gratulate you on your vision and your
courage for doing it.
And I would say that in this bill is
something that I've believed in and talked
so much about, is the fact of prevention
of disease. I've said that so many times
we wait until somebody gets sick, and
then we want to get the cure. Let's try
to keep them, as you do in this bill, try to
keep them from getting sick.
I think prevention is the greatest thing
that we've missed all down through the
centuries, instead of healing. We need
healing, this is true; people are bound to
get sick. And this is an instrument of heal-
ing and of mercy to the people of the
land, and I congratulate you again.
THE PRESIDENT. I think you know that
in both the House and Senate, there is a
duality or more of responsibility for
health care. The commerce committee
and the Ways and Means Committee in
the House will be the instrumental ones
in actually getting legislation passed. In
the Senate, of course, the Finance Com-
mittee and the health care committee will
have the same responsibility.
We are fortunate to have Senator Rus-
sell Long here, who will be holding hear-
ings very shortly. He can outline his exact
schedule for you. But I think the fact
that we have a broad range of support,
as exhibited here on the platform with
me, is a good indication that we mean
business. We intend to have the health
care plan passed and implemented for
the benefit of the American people after
so many decades of delay.
I'd like to ask Senator Russell Long to
comment, if you will.
SENATOR LONG. Thank you, Mr. Pres-
ident.
It was my privilege to be the commit-
tee chairman and the Senate floor man-
ager for the last big breakthrough in the
health area. I refer to the bill that gave
us Medicare and Medicaid. I applaud
the President for the breakthrough
that is implicit in what he has done here
in providing leadership from the White
House to move us a very long stride for-
ward in better health legislation.
We on the Finance Committee will
study the President's recommendations.
We'll add some of our own. We'll try to
take the best that he has to offer and the
best that we can offer and bring the Sen-
ate a bill.
He's familiar with my views, and I think
I'm familiar with the President's views. I
would hope that we can join together in
bringing better health care to the people
even more rapidly than the President has
1026
