Mar. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We meet to resume together the sacred
work of building peace.
It's an honor for me and my wife to be
reunited with you, Mr. President, and your
wife, and with our many other friends
with whom we've worked so diligently in
recent months.
It's a pleasure to be with you this time
in Cairo. We bring with us the respect and
the good wishes for President Sadat and
for the people of Egypt from the tens of
millions of people who live in the United
States of America.
I've come to the Middle East to ad-
vance the cause of peace between Egypt
and Israel. A treaty between these two
great nations would be a beginning, not
an end. It would bring us much closer to
the broader goal we seek a real peace, a
comprehensive peace, a peace that would
reflect the legitimate needs of all those
who have suffered so deeply during the
last 30 years of conflict, enmity, and war.
It would also be the beginning of a new
chapter in the long history of Egypt, one
in which the energies of all Egyptians can
at last be turned in full force to the human
task of building a future of dignity and
hope.
I know from experience how deeply
President Sadat wants that kind of future.
In my many hours of conversation with
him, I've learned to respect him as a man
of great courage with a passion for peace.
He has spoken eloquently, but more im-
portantly, he has acted boldly and
decisively.
In his electrifying trip to Jerusalem in
November of 1977, President Sadat fully
committed himself to the goal of a just
and lasting peace. That was also our goal
at Camp David, where President Sadat,
Prime Minister Begin, and I agreed on a
framework for a comprehensive peace and
on the outlines of a treaty between Egypt
and Israel. And that remains the goal of
the talks that will continue today.
Our hope is to achieve an agreement
which is honorable, just, and which pro-
vides security for each of the negotiating
parties. But above all, our purpose is to
achieve a peace that will last.
If the promise of peace is to be fully
realized for the people of Israel and Egypt,
then others must be encouraged to join
the process of resolving differences
through negotiations and accommoda-
tions.
The United States will work with any
and all parties who are committed to
these principles of genuine peace and
security. As the relations among us grow
stronger, we can all work more effectively
to bring stability to the Middle East re-
gion as a whole.
President Sadat has written, and I
quote, "No problem should ever be re-
garded as insuperable." In recent months,
we've overcome many problems that once
seemed insurmountable. I pray that, with
God's help, we may remove the remain-
ing obstacles to the conclusion of a peace
treaty between Egypt and Israel and con-
tinue the negotiations with great deter-
mination on other issues, in accordance
with the Camp David agreements.
The most important condition for suc-
cess has already been met-the sincere
conviction on both sides that peace is
preferable to war, that differences can
better be settled by the exercise of reason
than by the spilling of blood.
The people of Egypt have spilled much
blood. And in the eyes of the women, in
particular, on the streets and in the bal-
conies in the last few minutes, we've seen
a desire and a hunger and a prayer that
their sons and their husbands would never
again have to suffer in a cause of combat
and war.
406
