Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 7
It's important, in my opinion, for our
own Nation and the rest of the world to
know the importance that the President
of the United States and his family and
friends attach to black music, because in
many ways, the feelings of our own black
citizens throughout the history of our
country has been accurately expressed in
the music. And it presents a kind of his-
tory of our Nation when you go back and
see the evolution of black music. It's
meant a lot to me as a young boy and a
young man and adult in Georgia.
I won't make the other States feel in-
ferior by naming all the black musicians
that have come out of Georgia. I'll be nice
to you this afternoon. But I think that
it's accurate to say that in many ways, the
deep feelings of pain and suffering, of
alienation and a sense of being an out-
cast in one's own community, in one's
own nation, a sense of hope and a sense
of unity, a sense of deep religious faith,
a sense of vision, sense of beauty has been
expressed very deeply and in forceful
terms in black music not only for me,
from the South, but for all Americans,
both black and white.
And it's obvious that this has not been
limited to the United States of America.
There's been a transcendent effect of
black music that has never paid any at-
tention to international borders. I think
black music is a way to tie the black
people of our country to their own ances-
tors and to tie the United States to other
nations of the world. It's been an avenue
for understanding and friendship that has
been effective when politicians could not
succeed.
In many ways, you've expressed the
hopes of our country-life, even when
slavery was characteristic of black people,
liberty and a struggle for it, when it
seemed to escape generation after genera-
tion of struggling people. And no one can
doubt that black music has always exem-
plified the pursuit of happiness.
So, in many ways I think that you have
not only mirrored and described what
was happening in our country, but you
have presented a guide in times of despair
and failure to what our country ought to
be.
We are very deeply grateful tonight to
have performers who in a very brief way
can show the progress of black music dur-
ing this historical time that I have just
mentioned. There would be no possible
way to choose enough different black
musicians to give a total picture of what
is meant by what you represent.
Sunday afternoon I went to a memorial
service for A. Philip Randolph. I sat there
and listened to Leontyne Price sing
"The Lord's Prayer." When she ap-
approached the end of the song and hit a
very high note, I said, "This is impossible
for a human being to do.” And then she
raised about a half an octave and hit an-
other note and cold chills went down my
spine. And then she hit the final note and
tears burst out of my eyes and flowed
down my face; and I was not the only
one. And although she hadn't quite fin-
ished the song, because she had to say
"Amen," the entire audience, hundreds
of people, broke out into simultaneous ap-
plause just one type of music that is
performed superbly.
And tonight we have four great artists.
I'm not going to describe to you their
biographies, because it's in your program.
But we'll have Sara Jordan Powell, Chuck
Berry, my long-time friend Billy Eckstine,
Evelyn "Champagne" King, and Andrae
Crouch to perform for us.
And I've learned one thing about black
music, and that is that people who talk
before the performance are not appre-
ciated nearly so much as the performance
itself. So, I'm ready now to join the audi-
1015
