Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 24
The President's Export Council also in-
cludes:
-three Members of the Senate, ap-
pointed by the President of the Senate.
They are Senators Jacob Javits, Harrison
A. Williams, Jr., and Adlai E. Stevenson.
--three Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives, appointed by the Speaker.
They are Representatives Dan Rosten-
kowski, Thomas S. Foley, and Bill
Alexander.
-the Department heads, or their rep-
resentatives, of the Department of State,
Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce, Labor,
the Office of the Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations, and the Export-
Import Bank of the United States.
President's Export Council
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Chairman
and Members. May 24, 1979
This morning I've spent probably 2 or
3 hours dealing with economic problems
that face our Nation, primarily based upon
international economic circumstances. I
doubt if many Americans recognize the
rapidly increasing importance of exports
to the United States.
Just a few years ago we were almost
independent of foreign trade, except for
a few rare metals or other items which
we were required to either import or to
produce ourselves under very difficult cir-
cumstances. But that situation has
changed dramatically. We've become
much more heavily dependent upon im-
ports. And we have seen, in a very
bene-
ficial way, a substantial portion of Ameri-
can productivity oriented toward the ex-
porting of American products.
One out of every eight jobs in our coun-
try is now devoted to the manufacture and
transportation of items to be exported.
One out of every four acres of farmland
in our country is now devoted to the pro-
duction of food and fiber which will be
exported. So, this is a very important de-
velopment in the history of our Nation,
economically speaking, and the trend that
I've just described so briefly is accelerat-
ing.
The challenge is going to be even
greater in the future; and, commensu-
rately, the opportunities are going to be
even greater in the future.
This Export Council is a major step
in the right direction. Under the chair-
manship of Reg Jones, helped ably by
Paul Hall, Seafarers Union, and with the
broad representation, including Gover-
nor Busbee and distinguished members of
both governments at all levels and the
private industry, labor and business, con-
sumers, I think I'll have an excellent ave-
nue to make sure that we speak with a co-
herent voice and that plans are made pro-
ductively for our country.
The Export Council can explain to in-
here in our country and overseas, the
terested private citizens and others, both
policies of our Government, what we are
trying to accomplish. At the same time,
they will be a counsel for me, to give me
advice and to let the Congress and all
members of my own administration know
how we can do a better job as we face this
tremendous challenge in the future.
We've made some progress. This time
last year, this time 8 or 9 months ago, the
constant headline—almost every day, and
I flinched when I read it-was that the
American dollar was under attack when
there was a problem with the Mideast or
OPEC oil or a disturbance in Lebanon or
when the Japanese trade agreements were
in doubt, immediately the dollar went
down. Every time gold went up, the dol-
lar went down. Every time anything hap-
pened, the dollar went down. And I think
that because we took strong action, the
943
