Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 7
to us these past 40 years, and no other
nation's intentions and values do we hold
in such high esteem.
We hope that this visit, together with
Vice President Mondale's visit to Thai-
land in May of last year, will underscore
to our people and to the rest of the world
the determination of Thailand and the
United States to continue to cooperate for
peace and stability in Asia.
I and my colleagues wish to express our
deepest thanks to you and Mrs. Carter
and, through you, to all American people,
for your hospitality, graciousness, and
thoughtfulness for Thailand.
This is a very special occasion and we
want to say simply how pleased my col-
leagues and I are.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you
to join me in a toast: To the President of
the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:30 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Mrs.
Khunying Virat Chomanan, the wife of the
Prime Minister.
National Commission on the
International Year
of the Child, 1979
Appointment of Maria B. Cerda as a Member.
February 7, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Maria B. Cerda, of Chicago,
Ill., as a member of the National Com-
mission on the International Year of the
Child, 1979.
Cerda, 44, is executive director of the
Latino Institute in Chicago. She was a
founding member of Aspira of Illinois and
a member of the planning committee for
the Conference of Puerto Ricans.
Small Business Conference
Commission
Appointment of Six Members.
February 7, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of six persons as members of
the Small Business Conference Commis-
sion. They are:
ERNEST M. CAMACHO, of Montebello, Calif.,
an associate and consultant for Financial
Kinetics Corp., a firm dealing with financial
planning techniques;
TOM CHAN, of Chicago, president and chief
executive officer of Chinese Noodle Co. and
Chinese Trading Co. and other Chicago
firms dealing with food preparation and
restaurant supplies;
SHELDON B. LUBAR, of Milwaukee, president
of Lubar & Co., an investment, management,
and advisory company, and a former As-
sistant Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment for Housing Production and
Mortgage Credit;
LOUISE H. SAUNDERS, of Edina, Minn., a Min-
neapolis attorney and chairman of the board
and president of Charlie's Cafe Exception-
ale, Inc., a restaurant which employs over
160 persons;
DALE SIGHTS, of Robards, Ky., chairman and
chief executive officer of Ohio Valley Na-
tional Bank, formerly president of Sani-
Clean Services, a family-owned business
serving the textile rental industry;
A. MACEO WALKER, SR., of Memphis, Tenn.,
chairman of the board of Universal Life In-
surance Co. and president of Memphis
Mortgage Guaranty Co.
Visit of Prime Minister Kriangsak
of Thailand
Joint Press Statement. February 7, 1979
At the invitation of the President of the
United States of America and Mrs. Car-
ter, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom
of Thailand Kriangsak Chomanan and
229
