Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Q. It surely is.
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, the Fed-
eral Government doesn't license news-
papers and assign a certain spectrum to
them within which they can operate. And
for me to say that I would want to remove
all regulation of the Federal Government
in assigning frequencies or issuing li-
censes to the broadcasting industry would
not be I mean, I would have to say no.
But as far as interference in the content
of news programs, as far as honoring the
principles of the first amendment, obvi-
ously I would say yes. I can't answer your
question any better than that, because it
has such far-reaching ramifications.
But there are so many wide differences
between the newspaper industry and the
broadcasting industry-spectrum is just
one example that I can't say that I
would give the same identical freedom to
the broadcasting industry as newspapers.
But I think we'll have less restraints on
your industry when I go out of office by
far than existed when I came into office.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Wade
Hargrove. I'm general counsel for the
North Carolina Association of Broadcast-
ers. Despite your commendable efforts to
control inflation and not unduly burden
the country with wage and price controls,
none of these efforts, or in fact the efforts
of your recent predecessors, really seemed
to have worked. Where do we go from
here?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's too early to
say that the efforts have not worked. I
think it's going to take 3 months or so, still,
before the full impact of what we have
tried to do with voluntary wage and price
guidelines can be accurately assessed.
I can tell you without any fear of con-
tradiction, for instance, that in the last 2
or 3 months, wage settlements throughout
this country have averaged well within
the guidelines that we've established. Also,
we have monitored very closely the For-
tune 500 businesses, the 500 largest busi-
nesses in our country. As far as we know,
there have been none of those large com-
panies that have violated the price stand-
ards.
Now we're expanding the coverage to
the medium-sized and smaller companies,
many of whom have not even felt that the
voluntary guidelines apply to them. We
will identify in the very near future four
or five companies which have indeed vio-
lated the guidelines. They have a 10-day
appeal period during which they can
prove that they have complied. If they
don't prove that, then we'll identify them.
Any company so identified will have their
names made public, so that the general
populace, the consumers, can take action
accordingly.
In addition, because of prudent pur-
chasing practices, we will terminate or
sharply reduce any Federal purchases
from those companies involved. In addi-
tion, we will greatly beef up, within the
next few weeks, the number of personnel
who are monitoring these companies to
make sure we have a broader base on
which to predicate our future decisions.
I might say that some of those larger
companies, within the guidelines which
were deliberately somewhat flexible, have
utilized the guidelines to their own ad-
vantage. That was predictable. We were
not surprised at that. They took advantage
of every loophole in the guidelines them-
selves. Now, with 2 or 3 months' experi-
ence which we have, we will tighten up
those original issued guidelines to make
them conform more stringently.
I'd like to add one other thing: Many
of the inflationary pressures that are now
486
