Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and discuss some international problems
with President López Portillo. And he re-
ported that they agreed that the proposed
"tortilla curtain" fence was a bad idea.
And is the administration going to go
ahead with that fence?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, the
fence has existed for years. And the recent
And the recent
proposals to repair it, I think, were ex-
cessive and aggravating, and I called a
halt to that immediately.
One of the obvious items that will be on
the agenda for discussion between me and
President López Portillo will be border
problems, including the undocumented
aliens who come into our country. The
long-range solution, obviously, is a better
economic prospect for employment and
for prosperity in Mexico, which I think is
inevitable now. The good administration
there and the discovery of higher quality
natural resources will contribute to that.
But we certainly don't want to do any-
thing to aggravate the good relations be-
tween ourselves and Mexico. And I think,
as I said earlier, the plans for the repair
of that fence were unnecessarily aggravat-
ing, ill-advised, and I called a halt to
them.
ARMS SALES TO CHINA
Q. Mr. President, in regard to Mr.
Brezhnev's warning to the West against
sale of sophisticated arms to China, as I
understand it, the U.S. is not planning to
make any such sales. West Germany says
it will sell only to its allies, but the atti-
tude is very different in Paris and Lon-
don. The question is, what is the U.S.
attitude toward sale of such weapons by
its allies, and secondly, what, if anything,
are we doing in support of that attitude?
THE PRESIDENT. We have responded
very clearly to President Brezhnev, who
contacted me directly about these sales.
We will not sell weapons to either China
or Russia.
Secondly, our allies are independent,
sovereign nations, and they would resent
any intrusion by us into their weapons
sales policies. We have a very clear under-
standing among ourselves, particularly
Germany, Great Britain, France, and the
United States. We discussed this in some
depth at Guadeloupe. Our publicly ex-
pressed and privately expressed advice to
the other nations is that the sale of any
weapons should be constricted to defen-
sive weapons—and of course, President
Giscard d'Estaing, Prime Minister Cal-
laghan, Chancellor Schmidt would decide
with their advisers on what is or is not a
defensive weapons sale.
The Soviets need not be concerned
about this, in my opinion. They've ex-
pressed their opinion to the foreign lead-
ers as well as to myself. And I think my
response was basically cast in the posture
of reassurance to the Soviets. We certainly
have no intention to sell weapons to the
Soviet Union or China.
The technologically advanced equip-
ment, computers and so forth, would have
to be assessed on the basis of each individ-
ual item and whether it could contribute
in a substantial way to enhancement of
the military capabilities of both the Soviet
Union and China. And, in general, we
will apply the same restraints of that kind
of sale to both countries.
MEXICAN ENERGY SUPPLIES
Q. Mr. President, getting back to your
trip to Mexico, you said, of course, that
the
purpose of your trip was not to go
down there and negotiate about oil and
gas prices. But is Secretary Schlesinger
scheduled to make the trip with you, or
could you say at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe so. I
haven't discussed it with him. My present
plans are not to take the Cabinet mem-
bers along, except perhaps the Secretary
184
