Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 12
tected against devastating medical costs,
and millions more can lose the protection
they now have because of unemployment
or the death of a working spouse.
This National Health Plan will protect
every American from the serious finan-
cial burden caused by major illness and
injury. All employers will provide cata-
strophic coverage for full-time employees
and their families, with subsidies to ease
the burden on small businesses. No fam-
ily will be required to pay more than
$2500 for medical expenses in a single
year. Americans who are not covered else-
where can obtain affordable catastrophic
coverage from a special Federal program.
Under this special program, no one will
be denied coverage because he or she is
labelled a "bad medical risk."
EXPANDED BENEFITS FOR THE ELDERLY
The cost of health care falls most
cruelly on America's older citizens who,
with reduced incomes, have the highest
medical expenses. Because Medicare
places limits on hospital days and places
no ceiling on out-of-pocket expenses, seri-
ous illness threatens senior citizens with
loss of their homes and their life savings.
Under the National Health Plan, the
elderly will have unlimited hospital
coverage and will be required to pay no
more than $1250 for medical expenses in
a single year.
Today, the elderly also face heavy
financial burdens because physicians in-
creasingly charge more than the Medicare
fee. Under the National Health Plan,
physicians would be prohibited from
charging elderly patients more than the
allowable fee.
IMPROVED PROGRAM FOR THE POOR
The National Health Plan also pro-
vides expanded benefits for the poor. The
Plan will extend comprehensive cover-
age-full physician, hospital and related
services to all Americans with incomes
below 55% of poverty ($4200 for a
family of four). In addition, persons with
incomes above 55% of poverty will be
able to "spend-down" into comprehensive
coverage if their medical expenses in a
given year reduce their income to the eli-
gibility level. A family of four with an in-
come of $4500, for example, will be
covered after $300 of medical expenses.
Under these provisions, 15.7 million poor
people, including 1.2 million elderly, will
receive comprehensive coverage for the
first time.
Today the existence of 53 separate
State and territorial Medicaid programs
impedes efficient management. Under
the National Health Plan, the adminis-
tration of programs for the poor and the
elderly will be significantly upgraded by
the creation of a single new Federal pro-
gram-Healthcare. Healthcare will im-
prove claims processing, reduce error
facilitate detection of fraud and abuse.
rates in eligibility determination, and
HEALTH SERVICES FOR MOTHERS AND
INFANTS
Prevention is the best way to eliminate
the suffering and cost of illness, and one
of the most effective preventive health
measures we can take is to assure health
care for expectant mothers and infants.
We have been far too slow to learn this
lesson. Our infant mortality rates are
higher than those of eleven other nations.
This inexcusable record can and will be
corrected.
Under the National Health Plan, em-
ployers will provide employees and their
families with coverage for prenatal care,
delivery, and infant care to age one, with-
out any cost-sharing. A high priority in
1029
