May 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
namic group they've ever taken through
the White House. I asked them if you
were trying to take the paintings off the
wall and so forth. They said, "No, they're
just interested in everything, and they
really are eager."
I'm very glad to welcome here the
senior citizens who are participating in
the seventh year of the legislative intern
program. This is, I think, vivid proof
that you don't have to have a massive
Federal bureaucracy to have an excellent
program. And I'm very proud that you
would come and let me share in your ex-
perience here in learning about our Fed-
eral Government at first hand.
I know you've had thorough briefings
on many of the things that apply directly
to the retired people of our Nation con-
cerning social security. I know you've
learned that this Congress quite coura-
geously in the last 2 years has protected
the integrity of the social security system.
When I was campaigning for President in
1976, I don't think I ever had a meeting
with a group that I didn't get a question,
"What are we going to do about social
security, because it's facing bankruptcy?"
It's no longer facing bankruptcy. It's
sound. And I hope that you'll express
your appreciation to the Members of Con-
gress who did take this politically coura-
geous step. It's not always easy, as you
know, to increase taxes on those who are
working in our country. But we saw the
necessity for bringing social security back
to a sound financial condition.
I think it's important to point out, too,
that although inflation is a problem for
us all, we have, from the Government
perspective, made that portion of your
income, in effect, inflation-proof. And
your July checks, as you well know, will
encompass an increase that would ac-
commodate inflation having been meas-
ured in the month of June.
I wish that all aspects of inflation could
be alleviated. You can help me a great
deal when you go back to your home,
when have influence on the prepara-
you
tion of the policies of senior citizens
groups. I hope that you'll remember that
the most singly important step that the
Congress can take this year on inflation
is to pass hospital cost containment.
Many of you may feel that since Medi-
caid and Medicare takes care of many of
the hospital bills, that this is all you need.
But that's not true at all, because the
extraordinary increase in hospital costs,
about twice as rapid an increase as the
general inflation rate, doubling every 5
years, not only prevents our moving into
a more comprehensive health program,
because of the extraordinary costs, we
have got to control costs before we can
have a full-time
full-time program.
But I'd like to point out to you that
everything you buy in this Nation is af-
fected by the impact of rapidly increasing
health care costs. I won't take much time,
but let me give you one example.
If any of you buy an automobile this
year or next year, the cost of health care
for automobile employees, those who
make the automobiles, is greater in your
automobile cost than the cost of all the
steel that goes into the automobile. So,
you are paying in everything you buy for
these extraordinary increases in health
care, much above what it ought to be.
In the States like Connecticut, for in-
stance, and others that have imposed hos-
pital cost containment, everyone has bene-
fited. Those who go to the hospital as
patients, the owners of hospitals, the gen-
eral public has benefited, and, of course,
your money goes in, if you pay taxes, to
finance the unwarranted, excessively high
cost of hospital care. I need your help
on that.
You've gotten briefings on transporta-
tion; you've gotten briefings on consumer
affairs from Esther Peterson. You've got-
838
