Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
of the special investigator that illegalities
were present.
BALANCED BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, you brought up the
matter of cutting Federal expenses as a
means of controlling inflation.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. This fits into quite a bit of activity
in this area over quite a number of
months, going back to Proposition 13 in
California, efforts to amend the Constitu-
tion to get a balanced budget.
and what is the American Government
doing on this subject? Would you give
us some information?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. At Guadeloupe,
the decision was made by all four of the
leaders there that Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt and his government would take
the leadership in trying to approach the
Turkish economic problem from a multi-
national basis. We have cooperated with
Chancellor Schmidt. We've also advo-
cated to the Congress just recently that
a total increase above and beyond our
loans and grants of about $150 million
would be added to our budget request.
I wonder if I could ask you if, given
your campaign pledge to balance the
budget before your first term ends,
whether you will, in fact, next January, haps, other countries would more than
submit a balanced budget?
THE PRESIDENT. My hope is to do so.
Obviously, you can't predict what eco-
nomic circumstances will be. We have cut
down the budget deficit that I inherited
by more than half, I think better than 55
percent. And there's a growing inclina-
tion, not only on the part of the American
people but also the Congress, to cooper-
ate in my efforts to balance the budget.
So, that is my intention. But I can't pre-
dict all economic circumstances to guar-
antee it to the American people.
It would be a very attractive accom-
plishment politically. It would be com-
pletely compatible with my own eco-
nomic and political philosophy. And it's a
goal that I aspire to achieve.
ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE TO TURKEY
Q. Mr. President, 3 months have
passed since the Guadeloupe summit,
where you and the Western leaders made
a pledge for an urgent economic aid to
Turkey.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Where does the matter stand now,
We anticipate that Germany and, per-
match this allocation of our own aid to
Turkey. We don't yet know what the out-
come will be. We will certainly discuss
this again at the Tokyo economic summit
when we arrive there in June. And the
Congress will make a decision on this
matter unilaterally in our own country.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
Q. Mr. President, by decontrolling do-
mestic oil prices without your hoped-for
excess profits tax, and seemingly a lot of
opposition to it in Congress and else-
where, aren't you taking a heck of a
chance on the good will of the oil com-
panies and their desire to supply the Na-
tion with oil, as opposed to making more
and more money? And why should they
be more inclined to do that now and to
invest in exploration and development
now than they were when they reaped
their first windfall back in the early
seventies?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not depending
on the oil companies to get the windfall
profits tax passed. My prediction is that
they will not support this tax. [Laughter]
But I believe that the tax will pass.
653
