May 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
including per diem in lieu of subsistence
(5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703).
1-4. General Provisions.
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive Order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act which are appli-
cable to the Committee, except that of
reporting annually to the Congress, shall
be performed by the Secretary of Labor
in accordance with guidelines and proce-
dures established by the Administrator of
General Services.
1-402. The Interdepartmental Task
Force (created by Section 6 of Executive
Order No. 12050) is continued.
1-403. The Committee shall conclude
its work and shall make a final report to
the President by December 31, 1980, at
which time it shall terminate.
1-404. Executive Order No. 12050, ex-
cept for Section 6, and Executive Order
No. 12057, are revoked.
The White House,
May 9, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:20 a.m., May 10, 1979]
President's Advisory Committee
for Women
Appointment of Chair, Vice-Chairs, and Four
Members. May 9, 1979
The President today announced that
Lynda Johnson Robb will chair the Presi-
dent's Advisory Committee for Women,
and he announced that he will appoint
four new members, who will join members
who previously served on the National
Advisory Committee for Women. Mar-
jorie Bell Chambers and Elizabeth Koontz
will serve as Vice-Chairs of the Com-
mittee.
The President today signed an Execu-
tive order which reestablishes the National
Advisory Committee for Women as the
President's Advisory Committee for
Women. The order also limits the number
of members on the Committee to 30, and
extends its work to December 31, 1980.
The President's Advisory Committee for
Women will work to carry out the Presi-
dent's mandate to promote equality for
women in the cultural, social, economic,
and political life of this country.
The President's choice of Lynda John-
son Robb to chair the Committee empha-
sizes the importance he places on women's
right to choose freely among playing the
role of wife and mother, combining work
in the home with work outside, and pur-
suing a career outside the home.
Robb is a homemaker with three chil-
dren, who is also actively involved in civic
affairs and her business interests. The
President feels that she can bring to the
Committee greater understanding of the
concerns of women who have chosen the
role of homemaker, and that she can pro-
vide these women with greater perspective
on the effects of women's issues on their
lives.
Robb, 35, is a homemaker in McLean,
Va., and the mother of three daughters
aged 10, 8, and 10 months. She is a con-
tributing editor to Ladies Home Journal,
and was on the staff of McCall's magazine
from 1966 to 1968. She is vice president
of the L.B.J. Co. and of Northern Vir-
ginia Broadcasting, and is on the board
of directors of station KLBJ in Texas. She
is a director of the L.B.J. Family Founda-
tion and serves on the National Advisory
Board of Reading is Fundamental. She
has worked actively for passage of the
equal rights amendment in Virginia and
attended the National Women's Confer-
ence in Houston. A 1966 graduate of the
University of Texas, Robb is the daughter
of former President Lyndon Baines John-
826
