Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
build up to some 3,000 strategic systems
by 1985. With SALT II, we will both be
limited to 2,250 such weapons.
This new arms control agreement will,
obviously, serve our national interests. It
will reduce the dangerous levels of stra-
tegic arms and restrain the development
of future weapons. It will help to main-
tain our relative strength compared to the
Soviets. It will avert a costly, risky, and
pointless buildup of missile launchers and
bombers-at the end of which both sides
would be even less secure.
Let me turn now to the third of the four
questions-how can we know whether the
Soviets are living up to their obligations
under this SALT agreement?
No objective-no objective—has com-
manded more energy and attention in our
negotiations. We have insisted that the
SALT II agreement be made verifiable.
We are confident that no significant vio-
lation of the treaty could take place with-
out the United States detecting it.
Our confidence in the verifiability of
their agreement derives from the size and
the nature of activities we must monitor
and the many effective and sophisticated
intelligence collection systems which we in
America possess.
For example, nuclear submarines take
several years to construct and assemble.
Missile silos and their supporting equip-
ment are large and quite visible. Inter-
continental bombers are built at a few
plants, and they need major airfields. Our
photo-reconnaissance satellites survey the
entire Soviet Union on a regular basis,
and they give us high confidence that we
will be able to count accurately the num-
bers of all these systems.
But our independent verification capa-
bilities are not limited only to observing
these large-scale activities. We can deter-
mine not only how many systems there
are, but what they can do. Our photo-
graphic satellites and other systems enable
us to follow technological developments in
Soviet strategic forces with great accuracy.
There is no question that any cheating
which might affect our national security
would be discovered in time for us to re-
spond fully.
For many years, we have monitored
Soviet strategic forces and Soviet compli-
ance with the SALT agreements with a
high degree of confidence. The overall
capability remains. It was certainly not
lost with our observation stations in Iran,
which was only one of many intelligence
sources that we use to follow Soviet stra-
tegic activities. We are concerned with
that loss, but we must keep it in perspec-
tive.
This monitoring capability relates
principally to the portion of the new
agreement dealing with the moderniza-
tion limits on ICBM's and to only a por-
tion of such modernization restraints.
The sensitive intelligence techniques
obviously cannot be disclosed in public,
but the bottom line is that if there is an
effort to cheat on the SALT agreement,
including the limits on modernizing
ICBM's, we will detect it, and we will do
so in time fully to protect our security.
And we must also keep in mind that
quite apart from SALT limits, our security
is affected by the extent of our informa-
tion about Soviet strategic forces. With
this SALT II treaty, that vital informa-
tion will be much more accessible to us.
The agreement specifically forbids, for
the first time, interference with the systems
used for monitoring compliance and pro-
hibits any deliberate concealment that
would impede verification. Any such con-
cealment activity would itself be detect-
able, and a violation of this part of the
agreement would be so serious as to give
us grounds to cancel the treaty itself.
As I have said many times, the stakes
are too high to rely on trust, or even on
the Soviets' rational inclination to act in
697
