June 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
(3) The authority to make changes
in the quantitative restrictions provided
for in this proclamation, as set forth in
the Annex to this proclamation, is hereby
delegated to the Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations.
(4) This proclamation shall be effec-
tive as to those articles entered, or with-
drawn from warehouse, for consumption
on or after June 14, 1979, and before
the close of February 13, 1980, unless
the period of its effectiveness is earlier
expressly modified or terminated.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twelfth day of
June in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred and seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:55 p.m., June 12, 1979]
NOTE: The annex is printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of June 14, 1979.
Commission on Presidential
Scholars
Appointment of Three Members.
June 12, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of three persons as members
of the Commission on Presidential Schol-
ars. They are:
REBECCA BARN HILL HUNDLEY, of Thomas-
ville, N.C., a former claims manager and
assistant secretary of the Occidental Life
Insurance Co. of North Carolina in Raleigh.
She is active in civic affairs and serves on
the North Carolina State Judicial Standards
Commission and the State Banking Laws
Study Commission.
JOANNE RAJOPPI, of Springfield, N.J., a free-
lance writer, editor of the New Jersey Car-
penters Funds' publication, and former
newspaper writer. She is active in local poli-
tics and serves as Union County freeholder
vice chairperson.
CECILE C. WARONKER, of Atlanta, Ga., a
teacher of remedial mathematics and read-
ing in the Atlanta public school system.
Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations
Appointment of Two Members.
June 12, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of two persons as members
of the Advisory Commission on Inter-
governmental Relations for 2-year terms.
They are:
JOHN DALTON, Governor of Virginia, to re-
place Otis Bowen, Governor of Indiana,
whose term on the Commission has ex-
pired;
LEO MCCARTHY, speaker of the California
State Assembly, to replace Martin Sabo,
who has retired as a State legislator.
Hazardous Waste Disposal
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting Proposed
Legislation. June 13, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
Today I am transmitting legislation to
address some of the most significant en-
vironmental and public health problems
facing our Nation. The problems which
the legislation is designed to address are
extremely serious. Recent months have
focused public attention on a series of past
improper hazardous waste disposal inci-
dents such as the tragedy of Love Canal,
New York. This case clearly demon-
strates the unacceptable costs of improper
1034
