Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
This year, we've begun to equip our
submarines with new, more powerful, and
longer range Trident I missiles. Next year,
the first of our new, even more secure Tri-
dent submarines will be going to sea, and
we are working on a more powerful and
accurate Trident II missile for these
submarines.
Our cruise missile program will greatly
enhance the effectiveness of our long-
range bomber force. These missiles will be
able to penetrate any air defense system
which the Soviet Union could build in the
foreseeable future.
We are substantially improving the ac-
curacy and the power of our land-based
Minuteman missiles. But in the coming
decade, missiles of this type, based in fixed
silos, will become increasingly vulnerable
to surprise attack. The Soviets have three-
quarters of their warheads in such fixed-
based missiles, compared to only one-quar-
ter of ours. Nevertheless, this is a very
serious problem, and we must deal with it
effectively and sensibly.
The Defense Department now has un-
der consideration a number of options for
responding to this problem, including
making some of our own ICBM's mobile.
I might add-and this is very important—
that the options which we are evaluating
would be far more costly-and we would
have far less confidence of their effective-
ness in the absence of SALT II limits,
for without these limits on the number of
Soviet warheads, the Soviet Union could
counter any effort we made simply by
greatly increasing the number of warheads
on their missiles.
Let me emphasize that the SALT II
agreement preserves adequate flexibility
for the United States in this important
area.
Our strategic forces must be able to sur-
vive any attack and to counterattack mili-
tary and civilian targets in the aggressor
nation. And the aggressor nation must
know that we have the ability and the will
to exercise this option if they should attack
us. We have had this capacity—which is
the essence of deterrence-in the past; we
have it today; and SALT II, plus the de-
fense programs that I've described, will
ensure that we have it for the future.
The SALT II agreement will slow the
growth of Soviet arms and limit the stra-
tegic competition, and by helping to de-
fine future threats that we might face,
SALT II will make our defense planning
much more effective.
Under the agreement, the two sides will
be limited to equal numbers of strategic
launchers for the first time, ending the
substantial Soviet numerical advantage
which was permitted in the currently ef-
fective SALT I treaty.
To reach these new and lower levels,
the Soviets will have to reduce their over-
all number of strategic delivery systems by
10 percent more than 250 Soviet missile
launchers or bombers will have to be dis-
mantled. Naturally, the Soviets will
choose to phase out their older systems,
but these systems are still formidable.
The missiles, for instance, to be torn
down are comparable in age and payload
to our Minuteman II missiles and to our
Polaris missiles, presently deployed. Under
the agreement, they will not be permitted
to replace these dismantled systems with
modern ones. Our own operational forces
have been kept somewhat below the per-
mitted ceiling. Thus, under the agree-
ment, we could increase our force level,
if necessary.
SALT II will also impose the first lim-
ited but important restraints on the race
to build new systems and to improve exist-
ing ones—the so-called qualitative arms
race.
In short, SALT II places serious limits
on what the Soviets might do in the ab-
sence of such an agreement. For example,
without SALT II, the Soviet Union could
696
