Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 25
becoming obvious in our country exist
worldwide. Neither I, as President, nor
any other head of state nor any govern-
ment has control over the price, for in-
stance, that exists worldwide for things
like copper, aluminum, oil.
Beef is in short supply throughout the
world. Our present import quota, for in-
stance-we are having a difficult time
even meeting the quota, whereas, 8 or 9
months ago, every time I talked to anyone
from Costa Rica or New Zealand or Aus-
tralia, what they wanted was a higher beef
quota. Now they can't even meet the
quota that they have for us.
So, many food items, many commodity
items, energy, are at a high price all over
the world.
Domestically, it's very difficult to lay the
blame on anyone for an increase in lumber
prices. No single company arbitrarily
says, "I'm going to increase my price for
lumber or other building materials-wall-
board, for instance, or insulation ma-
terials."
We have sustained in the last couple of
years a very high level of home construc-
tion, about 2.2 million homes per year.
And because of the demand for houses,
we're just short on supply. I'm not par-
ticularly concerned about the high profit
margins that were revealed last quarter,
because we need to have a reinvestment of
those profits back in higher productivity,
increased jobs, to meet some of the short
supply demands.
We're now very near maximum capac-
ity in some of our industries. So, I think
it's too early to say that we ought to aban-
don this program because we do have bad
CPI index figures this week.
I am not considering-no one in my
administration dares to propose to me and
never has proposed that we have manda-
tory price and wage controls. But I am
determined to do the best I can, within
the broad guidelines established, to get
industry and labor to comply with con-
trolling wage and prices. And I'm going
to do my part as President.
I'm working toward a balanced budget.
We've already cut down the deficit that
existed when I ran for President, which
was $66 billion, to considerably less than
$30 billion next year.
I'm working on a balanced budget. So,
I'm going to do all I can to bring in the
kind of demonstrated achievement that
would inspire the American consumer,
business, and labor to cooperate with me.
And I'd like to remind all of you here that
as you established your own prices for ad-
vertisement or for other things that you
market, that you help to join in a partner-
ship to bring control of inflation.
But I'm not about to abandon a very
tough posture on controlling wages and
prices on a voluntary basis, and I believe
that we can and will succeed.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE TREATY
Q. Mr. President, Bill Sims, Wycom
Corporation, Laramie, Wyoming. First of
all, forgive me, sir, before my question, if
you could leave a little piece of paper with
your name on it at the podium, a big fan
of yours would love to have it. [Laughter]
My question, sir: With sometimes con-
flicting reports coming from the Middle
East almost daily, how can the American
public be sure that the agreement you
will sign this week is not just window
dressing? Sir, does this agreement really
have meaningful significance to the
world?
THE PRESIDENT. I think perhaps a hun-
dred years from now, 50 years from now,
what occurs tomorrow may be the most
487
