Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 5
1974, shipment of oil was embargoed, and
the price quadrupled almost overnight. In
the last few months, the upheaval in Iran
again cut world supplies of oil, and the
OPEC cartel prices leaped up again.
These shocks have sent us stern warn-
ings about energy, but our Nation has not
yet responded to these warnings. Our na-
tional strength is dangerously dependent
on a thin line of oil tankers stretching
half-way around the Earth, originating in
the Middle East and around the Persian
Gulf, one of the most unstable regions in
the world.
The National Energy Plan, which I
proposed in April 1977, was the first major
effort to deal with all these problems.
Then, for 18 long months, Congress de-
bated, and special interests struggled for
advantage. Some of my original proposals
were enacted, and the benefits are already
obvious. But proposals dealing with oil
were not adopted, and we have now lost
precious time that we could not afford.
With new legal authority, I am now
able to act without delay.
There is no single answer. We must
produce more. We must conserve more.
And now we must join together in a great
national effort to use American technology
to give us energy security in the years
ahead.
The most effective action we can take
to encourage both conservation and pro-
duction here at home is to stop rewarding
those who import foreign oil and to stop
encouraging waste by holding the price of
American oil down far below its replace-
ment or its true value.
This is a painful step, and I'll give it to
you straight: Each of us will have to use
less oil and pay more for it. But this is a
necessary step, and I want you to under-
stand it fully.
Excessive Federal Government controls
must end. Phased decontrol will grad-
ually increase the price of petroleum
products. In the short run, it will add a
small amount to our rate of inflation, but
that is the cost we must pay to reduce our
dependence on the foreign oil cartel.
In the longer run, the actions I'm an-
nouncing tonight will help us to fight in-
flation. Other nations will join and sup-
port us as we cut down our use of oil and
increase our own production of energy.
The foreign oil cartel will then find it
harder to raise their prices. The dollar will
grow stronger, and the prices we pay for
many imported goods will be less. This
will strengthen our economy and reduce
inflation in future years.
But decontrol could also further inflate
the already enormous profits of oil com-
panies. As I've said, part of this excessive
new profit will be totally unearned-what
is called a "windfall" profit. That's why
we must have a new windfall profits tax
to recover the unearned billions of dollars
and to ensure that you, the American
people, are treated fairly.
I want to emphasize that this windfall
profits tax is not a tax on the American
people. It is purely and simply a tax on
the new profits of the oil producers which
they will receive but not earn.
Even with the windfall profits tax in
place, our oil producers will get sub-
stantial new income-enough to provide
plenty of incentive for increased domestic
production. I will demand that they use
their new income to develop energy for
America, and not to buy such things as
department stores and hotels, as some have
done in the past.
Congressional leaders who share my
belief that a windfall profits tax is neces-
sary warn me that we face two very real
threats to these proposals.
First, as surely as the Sun will rise to-
morrow, the oil companies can be ex-
pected to fight to keep the profits which
611
