Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 31
tions system of the PRC. The PRC in-
tends, under suitable conditions, to pur-
chase a U.S. satellite broadcasting and
communications system, including the as-
sociated ground receiving and distribu-
tion equipment. The space portion of the
system will be launched by NASA and
placed in geostationary orbit by a U.S.
contractor, with continued operation to
be carried out by China; and
2. The intended purchase, under suit-
able conditions, by the PRC of a U.S.
ground station capable of receiving earth
resources information from the NASA
Landsat remote sensing satellites, includ-
ing the Landsat now under development.
It was also agreed that, through fur-
ther discussions and correspondence, both
sides would develop the details of the
understanding described above and con-
sider other fields of civil space cooperation
which could be of mutual interest and
benefit.
Mr. Press and Vice Premier Fang
signed the letters of understanding at the cere-
mony in the East Room at the White House
prior to the signing of the science and technol-
ogy agreement by the President and the Vice
Premier.
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
of China
Accord Implementing Cooperation in
High Energy Physics Under the
Agreement on Science and Technology.
January 31, 1979
IMPLEMENTING ACCORD BETWEEN THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
STATE SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL
COMMISSION OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUB-
LIC OF CHINA ON COOPERATION IN THE
FIELD OF HIGH ENERGY PHYSICS
The Department of Energy of the
United States of America and the State
Scientific and Technological Commission
of the People's Republic of China (here-
inafter referred to as the Parties), for the
purpose of promoting cooperation and
collaboration in the field of high energy
physics subject to the Agreement Between
the Government of the United States of
America and the Government of the Peo-
ple's Republic of China on Cooperation in
Science and Technology, signed in Wash-
ington, D.C. on January 31, 1979, have
agreed as follows:
ARTICLE 1
The objective of this Accord is to fur-
ther the energy programs of the Parties
by establishing a framework for coopera-
tion in the field of high energy physics,
including theoretical and experimental re-
search, accelerator design and construc-
tion techniques; and related technology
areas as may be mutually agreed.
ARTICLE 2
Cooperation under this Accord may in-
clude the following forms:
1. Exchange and provision of informa-
tion on scientific and technical develop-
ments, activities, and practices;
2. Research and development activities
in the form of experiments, tests, and
other technical collaborative activities;
3. Exchange of scientists, engineers,
and other specialists; including visits by
specialist teams or individuals to the fa-
cilities of the other Party, and exchange
of personnel for training purposes;
4. Exchange and provision of samples,
materials, instruments, and components
for testing and evaluation;
5. Such other forms of cooperation as
are mutually agreed.
ARTICLE 3
Specific undertakings, obligations and
conditions with respect to the conduct of
205
