Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 17
for controlling inflation. The basic argu-
ment was roughly between $32 billion as
a goal for the deficit versus $30 billion,
and I finally decided to choose the most
stringent figure.
We will, by the way, exceed that goal
by about $1 billion. This budget, when
it's examined in its entirety over this com-
ing weekend, for revelation on Monday,
the 22d, I think will be seen by any fair
person as meeting the legitimate needs of
those who are most dependent on govern-
ment, on meeting the defense needs of
our country, on being well-balanced, on
being fair, and contributing greatly to
controlling inflation.
I think it's important that the Govern-
ment set an example. We can't ask busi-
ness, labor, and private Americans to
make any sort of sacrifice in controlling
inflation if the Federal Government
doesn't set an example. And if I have to
err on one side or the other, I would be
more likely to set a stringent example
than I would to have the allegation made
that we were not sincere about controlling
inflation.
I might add one other thing. There's
an erroneous premise that exists in this
country that to control inflation hurts
poor people. The ones who suffer most in
our Nation from rampant inflation are
those who have fixed incomes that can't
be changed, those who are unemployed,
those who are poor, or those who can't
move from one job to another, looking
for a better life as circumstances change.
So, I think to control inflation is the best
thing that I can do for those with rela-
tively low incomes and who are most de-
pendent on government.
So, a combination of those two, con-
trolling inflation and having a fair budget,
is a very good goal, and I'm just glad
that we were able to make it.
CIGARETTE SMOKING AND TOBACCO PRICE
SUPPORTS
Q. Mr. President, in a speech last
August 5, in Wilson, North Carolina, you
spoke of making the smoking of tobacco
even more safe than it now is. This past
week the Surgeon General's department
came out with a report saying that smok-
ing of tobacco is not safe at all and, in
fact, is positively hazardous to health. Will
you continue to support Federal price sup-
ports for tobacco, and why?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I intend to con-
tinue to support those Federal price
supports.
I think it's a completely legitimate ac-
tion for the Government to point out the
dangers of smoking, and I don't have any
way to dispute the arguments, one side
or the other, derived from scientific ex-
aminations, experiments, and from medi-
cal analyses. I think it's important that
people know the dangers of smoking. Be-
cause of these revelations in the past with
the first Surgeon General's report and,
hopefully, to be escalated with the recent
revelations of dangers of smoking, those
who do smoke cigarettes now have safer
cigarettes to smoke with less nicotine and
less tar. And I think the progress that has
been made has been derived primarily
from that purpose. There's been some
slight reduction in the cigarette consump-
tion per capita in our country.
So, I do intend to continue the program
for stabilizing tobacco prices for the
farmers who depend upon that for an in-
come. But, at the same time, I have no
criticism-in fact, I support the role of
the health authorities in our Nation who
point out the dangers of smoking.
DOMESTIC OIL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, given your concern
over inflation, which you've reemphasized
55
