Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 25
conviction and courage and vision, who
has really led the Democratic Party, and
one in which we can be proud.
And I want you to know that I feel that
I speak for the majority of the group of
the people here, as well as the majority
of the group of people in America, that we
want Jimmy Carter as our President again
in 1980.
Mr. President, in World War II, I
never saw controls bring about more of
anything that we needed, and I simply
support your theory of decontrol today,
but we need some help in explaining that
to the American people. Please give us
that answer.
The President. Thank you.
Well, you know, this is one of the-
that's one of the best questions I've ever
had, by the way. [Laughter] You know,
I've sweated over this energy thing in the
face of repetitive disappointments. We
put forward a COET tax last year, you
remember, a crude oil equalization tax
that would have decontrolled oil, brought
in to the Government a substantial
amount of money-and we couldn't get
it out of the Senate committee.
Now we've got a good package. Decon-
trol will be phased in over 28 months,
slow, steady, and controllable. We can
watch what goes on. We'll tax the oil com-
panies heavily-and I don't care if the
Congress makes it a little bit heavier-
as the price of oil goes up, either because of
OPEC or because of decontrol here, with
a windfall profits tax. That profits tax is
not a sure thing. It seems like a sure thing
now. The day after I made my announce-
ment, everybody said it didn't have a
chance in the world to pass; now, every-
body says it's going to pass whether we
work or not. It's not.
Out of that windfall profits tax, which
will grow year by year, we will create an
energy security fund. That energy security
fund will be a very important element of
dealing with the energy question. It will
go, first of all, to help the very poor
families, who cannot afford the rapidly
increasing, inevitable prices of energy.
Secondly, it'll go to help us with mass
transit, because a lot of people either don't
have automobiles or, as is the case right
now in California, for instance, people
are beginning to see that it's better for
them to go to and from a fixed destina-
tion, like a work place, on public trans-
portation. That'll be a great boost.
And the third thing is to have a sub-
stantial amount of money growing every
year for research and development, to let
us have new sources of energy, like solar
power, like liquefaction and gasification
of coal, like geothermal power, the very
things that all of you want. And it will
leave the oil companies about 29 cents out
of each dollar to put back into the explo-
ration in the United States for increased
supplies of oil and gas. To me it's a bal-
anced program.
The Congress is wasting its time now
passing resolutions
passing resolutions about, "Are we or
are we not going to decontrol?" That
serves to cloud the issue so much on the
windfall profits tax that it puts it in
danger. And I hope that the Democrats
and Republicans, the President and the
Congress, all of you, and the American
citizens will join in together and say,
"Let's pass this package once and for all."
I would hate to see it fail. But it's going
to require a concerted effort by all those
who are interested in the future of our
country. There is not a single vote, I guar-
antee you, in the energy question.
I have made many mistakes in my life.
One of the worst mistakes I made was the
evening in April of 1977 when I told the
American public we've never had a com-
prehensive energy policy. When I propose
this energy policy and fight for it, I said,
to about 40 million people, my public
opinion poll is going to go down 15 points.
953
