Jan. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The California Debris Commission was
formed in 1893 to protect navigable rivers
by preventing deposits of debris from
mining operations, natural erosion, or
other causes.
National Council on
Educational Research
Nomination of Helen S. Astin To Be a
Member. January 15, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Helen S. Astin, of Los An-
geles, Calif., to be a member of the Na-
tional Council on Educational Research.
Astin, 47, is professor of higher edu-
cation and head of the higher education
program at the University of California
at Los Angeles and vice president of the
Higher Education Research Institute. She
has also served as director of research
and education for the University Re-
search Corp. in Washington, and as re-
search associate for the Bureau of Social
Science Research. Her primary research
interests are in the fields of educational
and career development, with special em-
phases on women, adults, disadvantaged
students, and the relationships between
education and work.
Mississippi River Commission
Nomination of Two Members.
January 15, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate two persons to be members
of the Mississippi River Commission. They
are:
Maj. Gen. Louis W. Prentiss, Jr., Corps
of Engineers. Prentiss, 51, is Deputy Chief
of Staff, Engineer, for the United States
Army Europe and Seventh Army. He was
previously Division Engineer for the U.S.
Army Engineer Division in Europe.
Maj. Gen. Richard L. Harris, Corps of
Engineers. Harris, 50, is Division Engineer
with the U.S. Army Engineer Division,
North Central, based in Chicago. He was
previously Commanding General of the
U.S. Army Training Center at Fort
Leonard Wood, Mo.
National Institute of
Building Sciences
Nomination of Six Members of the Board of
Directors. January 15, 1979
The President today announced six
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Board of Directors of the
National Institute of Building Sciences.
They are:
GUY O. MABRY, vice president of the in-
sulation operations division of Owens-Corn-
ing Fiberglass Corp. in Toledo, Ohio;
LEONARD MILLER, of Miami Beach, Fla., co-
owner of Pasadena Homes, Inc., and a direc-
tor of the National Association of Home
Builders;
JOHN P. MILLHONE, director of the Minnesota
Energy Agency;
JOSEPH H. NEWMAN, of West Orange, N.J.,
senior vice president of Tishman Construc-
tion and Research Co.;
BLANCA CEDEÑO, a member of the board of
directors of the New York City Housing
Authority, formerly director of the office of
community affairs for that authority;
LOIS A. CRAIG, of Boston, Mass., a former
director of the Federal Architecture Project,
now on a design project fellowship to write
about the relationship between public design
and changing ideas of public life.
The National Institute of Building
Sciences was created in 1974 to develop
and encourage the adoption of perform-
ance criteria for building components.
The Institute provides technical advice
44
