May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Federal Labor Relations
Authority
Nomination of Leon B. Applewhaite To Be a
Member. May 4, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Leon B. Applewhaite, of
can Arbitration Association, the New Jer-
sey State Board of Mediation, the New
York County Lawyers Association, the
Harlem Lawyers Association, and the In-
dustrial Relations Research Association.
New York City, to be a member of the The President's Export Council
Federal Labor Relations Authority. This
is a new position.
Applewhaite is currently an assistant
professor at the State University of New
York.
He was born September 4, 1927, in
Brooklyn, N.Y. He received a B.A. degree
from New York University, a J.D. degree
from Brooklyn Law School, and an
LL.M. degree from Brooklyn Graduate
Law School. He served in the U.S. Army
from 1952 to 1954.
From 1955 to 1959, he served as a
claims authorizer for the U.S. Social Se-
curity Administration, and from 1959 to
1963, he was legal secretary to Justice
Francis E. Rivers. He served as a member
of the New York State Commission for
Human Rights in 1963 and 1964, and
from 1964 to 1967, he was a labor arbi-
trator and mediator for the New York
State Board of Mediation.
From 1968 to 1979, he served as chief
regional mediator for the New York State
Public Employment Relations Board.
During that time he also served as an ar-
bitrator for the public and private sectors
in a number of national labor cases.
From 1971 to the present, he has served
as a part-time adjunct professor at Cor-
nell University I.L.R. School and Labor
College of the State University of New
York, Hofstra University, and Pace Uni-
versity. He became assistant professor of
the State University of New York at
Farmingdale earlier this year.
Applewhaite is a member of the Ameri-
Executive Order 12131. May 4, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in or-
der to expand the membership of the
President's Export Council, in accord
with the provisions of the Federal Advi-
sory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I),
it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-1. Establishment and Membership.
1-101. There is established the Pres-
ident's Export Council.
1-102. The membership of the Council
shall be as follows:
(a) The heads of the following Exec-
utive agencies or their representatives:
(1) Department of State.
(2) Department of the Treasury.
(3) Department of Agriculture.
(4) Department of Commerce.
(5) Department of Labor.
(6) Office of the Special Representa-
tive for Trade Negotiations.
(7) Export-Import Bank of the United
States.
(b) Three members of the United
States Senate, designated by the Presi-
dent of the Senate, and three members
of the United States House of Represent-
atives designated by the Speaker of the
House.
(c) Not to exceed 28 citizens appointed
by the President. These individuals shall
be selected from those who are not full-
time Federal officers or employees. They
784
