Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
today I think we have a momentous step
forward, because 3 years ago, we did say
that we could save 75 million barrels of
oil a year and 12,000 lives. Now, 3 years
later, we have saved 40,000 lives and over
a quarter of a million barrels of oil by
that program.
What we can accomplish here in en-
ergy savings alone can be tremendous.
With that aspect of this bill of your own
that I'm addressing myself to today
and Senator Kennedy and I are intro-
ducing today, with Senators Packwood
and Magnuson's cosponsorship, the truck
safety act, which will be a complement
to this—we're grateful for what you have
included in this bill on truck safety.
I think the promise for the future can
be just as great. We slaughter more people
on the highway just through unsafe trucks
today as we did at any time in the Viet-
nam war: 17,500 fatalities caused by
trucks and buses nationally last year;
deaths caused by heavy trucks, over 26,000
pounds, are up 53 percent since 1975,
over 5,000 deaths. Truckdriving is one of
the most hazardous occupations in Amer-
ica today. Truckdriver fatalities: up 41
percent since 1975, over a thousand
slaughtered every single year.
If there isn't universal support by
truckers and Teamsters for the regulatory
tion and you, Mr. President, for your
leadership in this area.
Thank you.
SECRETARY
OF
TRANSPORTATION
ADAMS. Mr. President, Members of the
Congress:
This represents many years of effort by
many people, and, Mr. President, we are
proud to have participated with you in
developing it, in a course of almost 2 years
of having come into the administration,
people from every walk of life, including
truckers, shippers, consumers, and those
who are most involved in trying to see
that we have a reasonable type of truck
regulation in the United States and that
we save energy, that we do away with
these unnecessary backhauls and we mod-
ernize a system that has needed work on
it for over 20 years.
I'm pleased we've all been able to be
a part of this effort. And we are looking
forward to going to Capitol Hill and pass-
ing legislation that will truly make this
an energy-efficient, noninflationary indus-
try.
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
aspects of this, there is in truck safety. Trucking Industry Deregulation
They both stand united in supporting this
legislation. Forty-two percent of 26,000
trucks inspected by Federal spotchecks
were declared imminently hazardous and
ordered immediately off the road, mainly
because of faulty brakes. Heavy trucks
caused 11 percent of fatal accidents, yet
make up only 1 percent of vehicles.
Ninety-seven percent, however, of all
deaths caused by truck-car accidents are
to occupants of cars. They are the ones
that ought to support this legislation vig-
orously, and I commend your administra-
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. June 21, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today transmitting to the Con-
gress legislation to reduce substantially
Federal economic regulation over the
trucking industry.
The trucking industry today is subject
to perhaps more complex, detailed, and
burdensome Federal regulation than any
other industry in our Nation.
1117
