Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
country. I think it will make us much
better able to prepare our own Nation's
policies in consonance with our friends
and allies who will be visited by the Vice
President.
So, I want to thank all of you for being
willing to come and meet with the Vice
President this morning. I think his trip
and the impact of it will be very benefi-
cial for our own country, and I hope it
will be equally pleasing and helpful to the
nations that he will visit.
I think it will be good for you to either
report from your own observations or, per-
haps, after consultation with some of the
American journalists who've covered the
White House for many years, the degree
of authority that Vice President Mondale
enjoys as compared to his predecessors.
He's a partner with me. He participates
in all of the major decisions of our coun-
try-in defense and political affairs, eco-
nomic and military affairs-and comes to
the countries that you represent with ab-
solute authority to speak for our country's
Government.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
9:30 a.m. in the Roosevelt Room at the White
House, following the Vice President's interview
with the journalists. Vice President Mondale
began his trip on April 11.
United States Trade Mission to
Egypt and Israel
Announcement of the Mission. April 10, 1979
The President has asked Special Trade
Representative Robert Strauss to lead a
U.S. trade mission to Egypt and Israel
from April 16 to April 20.
In meetings with trade, business, and
labor officials of both countries, the U.S.
delegation will explore ways to carry out
the President's commitment to increased
U.S. trade and investment in both Egypt
and Israel.
The group will include Members of
Congress and representatives of U.S.
agencies, as well as industry and labor
leaders. They will leave Washington for
Cairo on April 16 and will spend April 17
and 18 in Egypt and April 19 and 20 in
Israel.
Taiwan Relations Act
Statement on Signing H.R. 2479 Into Law.
April 10, 1979
I am today signing into law H.R. 2479,
the Taiwan Relations Act. This legisla-
tion will enable the American people and
the people on Taiwan to maintain com-
mercial, cultural, and other relations with-
out official Government representation
and without diplomatic relations.
The act contains all of the authority
that I requested in order to enable us to
maintain such unofficial relations with the
people on Taiwan. It authorizes the
American Institute in Taiwan, a non-
governmental entity incorporated under
the laws of the District of Columbia, to
conduct these relations. Similarly, the
people on Taiwan will conduct relations
through a nongovernmental organization,
the Coordination Council for North
American Affairs.
The act is consistent with the under-
standings we reached in normalizing re-
lations with the Government of the Peo-
ple's Republic of China. It reflects our
recognition of that Government as the
sole legal government of China. Having
normalized relations with China in the
spirit of the Shanghai communique, I look
forward in the coming years to a deepen-
640
