May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
grams designed to assist States and local
governments in achieving more efficient
use of energy. Two State conservation
planning programs were separately estab-
lished by the Energy Policy and Conserva-
tion Act enacted in late 1975 and the
Energy Conservation and Production Act
adopted in 1976. With enactment of the
National Energy Act (NEA), still other
responsibilities must be assumed by States
and local governments although Federal
funding for some NEA programs is not
provided.
Experience strongly suggests that these
programs could be made more effective if
they, as well as other State energy-related
initiatives, were carried out as part of an
overall State energy plan. The effective-
ness of these programs could be increased
by assisting States in establishing a mech-
anism for their integration at the State
level.
This legislation addresses the concerns
which Governors, local officials and others
have raised regarding the need for better
coordination in energy activities carried
on at every level of government. Much
more can be done if State and local energy
agencies, working in partnership with the
Federal government, are permitted to seek
their own solutions to their energy
problems.
The bill I am transmitting contains the
following principal features:
1. State energy plan. Participation in
the State energy plan program under
EMPA would be voluntary. A participat-
ing State would receive an initial grant for
planning activities in addition to assist-
ance it receives to continue activities un-
der existing Federal energy programs
pending approval of the State energy
plan. After the Secretary has approved the
plan, these programs would be managed
and monitored by the State according to
the requirements and objectives of the
State energy plan. The plan would pro-
vide a framework in which a State, work-
ing with local governments, would de-
velop and implement its own strategies
and programs.
2. Energy emergency planning. EMPA
would provide support for State energy
emergency planning. Some of the activi-
ties included in such planning are State
plans for set-aside of petroleum products
and other energy supplies, allocation of
fuels in short supply during a period of
supply disruption, monitoring of supply
and consumption, and developing and im-
plementing other emergency energy meas-
ures which are responsive to State needs.
3. Special energy projects. EMPA
would authorize the Secretary of Energy
to make grants to local governments and
Indian tribes to develop and implement
special energy projects. This feature of
the bill would provide the flexibility neces-
sary to support innovative projects which
may not qualify under existing categori-
cal programs but which are nevertheless
worthy of Federal support. Projects hav-
ing national applicability are given prefer-
ence under this program.
4. Funding for programs not now
funded. No Federal assistance to States
is provided for some energy functions, in-
cluding renewable resource development
and removal of technical, economic and
institutional barriers to energy production.
EMPA would help fill these financial gaps.
5. Coordination of Federal energy as-
sistance. EMPA would permit States to
consolidate applications for assistance pro-
grams administered by the Department of
Energy and would provide States flexi-
bility in the use of administration funds
under such programs.
I believe that to meet our national en-
ergy requirements requires concerted ac-
tion with all levels of government working
in partnership. Enactment of this bill
896
