Jan. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
They are:
K. LEMOYNE BILLINGS, president of the Park
Foundation, a trustee of the Robert F. Ken-
nedy Memorial, and a member of this Board
from 1960 to 1972;
FRANCES H. BREATHITT, of Hopkinsville, Ky.,
active in civic affairs, wife of former Ken-
tucky Governor Edward T. Breathitt;
MARSHALL B. COYNE, builder and owner of the
Madison Hotel in Washington, D.C., and a
number of other buildings;
MARJORIE M. LAWSON, a Washington, D.C.,
attorney and former associate judge of the
D.C. Juvenile Court; now chairman of the
board and president of WYCB, the first com-
mercial broadcaster in the Washington area
under minority ownership;
LOIS M. RIBICOFF, of Hartford, Conn., active
in civic and community affairs, the wife of
Senator Abraham Ribicoff;
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT, JR., former Under
Secretary of Commerce and the first Chair-
man of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, now active in civic affairs and
chairman of the board of Fiat-Roosevelt
Motors.
Federal Labor Relations
Authority
Recess Appointment of Two Members.
January 11, 1979
The President today announced the
recess appointments of two persons as
members of the Federal Labor Relations
Authority, created under civil service
reorganization. They are:
Henry B. Frazier III, of Alexandria, Va.
Frazier, 44, has been Executive Director
of the Federal Labor Relations Council
management work with the Department
of the Army.
Ronald W. Haughton, of Grosse Pointe
Farms, Mich., who will also be designated
Chairman of the Authority. Haughton, 62,
is codirector of the Institute of Labor and
Industrial Relations of the University of
Michigan and Wayne State University.
He is also vice president for urban affairs
and professor of management at Wayne
State University. He has served as an arbi-
trator for many labor disputes and is a
member of numerous arbitration and
mediation professional associations.
United States Postal Service
Recess Appointment of William J. Sullivan
as a Governor. January 12, 1979
The President today announced the
recess appointment of William J. Sulli-
van, of Bangor, Maine, to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service for a
term expiring December 8, 1984.
Sullivan, 47, has been vice chancellor
for administration at the University of
Maine since 1976. From 1964 to 1976, he
was with the Post Office Department and
Postal Service, serving as Staff Assistant
to the Postmaster General; Assistant Staff
Director of the President's Commission
on Postal Organization; Director of Plan-
ning for the Postal Service from 1968 to
1971; Postmaster-District Manager of the
U.S. Postal Service in Cleveland, Ohio,
from 1971 to 1973; and Western Regional
Postmaster General from 1973 to 1976.
Sullivan holds an MBA from Harvard
(the agency replaced by this Authority) University Graduate School of Business
since 1973. He joined the Council as Chief
of the Program Division in 1970 and then
served as Deputy Executive Director. He
had previously spent 11 years in personnel
Administration and has attended the
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and
International Affairs at Princeton Uni-
versity.
24
