Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 23
when it was difficult for black athletic
ability to be adequately recognized. There
were no professional black baseball players
in the American and National Leagues;
professional teams excluded our own citi-
zens. But a young man who possibly didn't
even realize the superb nature of his own
capabilities went to the Olympics and per-
formed in a way that I don't believe has
ever been equaled since.
Jesse Owens is a collegiate track star.
He was the first athlete to win four gold
medals in one Olympiad. He's a native
of Alabama. And since this superb
achievement, he has continued in his own.
dedicated but modest way to inspire
others to reach for greatness.
And I thank you for what you did for
us in 1936, and what you've done for us
every year since, and what you will do
for us in the future, Jesse Owens. Thank
you very much.
Now I'd like to ask Mr. Roy Wilkins
to stand, please. If you feel like it, Roy,
please stay standing.
I've been really pleased today at how
strong and vigorous and healthy he
looks much better than the last time I
saw him, so he's being well taken care of.
On occasion in our country there lives
a person whose life is one of decency, ded-
ication, honesty, modesty, and superb
achievement, who, because of his own in-
ner convictions, in a quiet fashion, can or-
ganize, inspire, and lead others. Roy
Wilkins, as you know, is a long-time ex-
ecutive secretary of the NAACP. He's
been prominent in civil rights activities
since the earliest days of a viable move-
ment.
In times of discouragement and de-
spair, he never lost his commitment nor
his dedication nor his confidence that the
right could ultimately prevail in a so-
ciety of free men and women. And it's an
honor for me, as President, to recognize
again a man who's being honored by you
in the field of civil rights, which has
touched the life of every person here.
Roy Wilkins, on behalf of the people of
our country, I thank you and I congratu-
late you.
Let me say in closing I know it's an
honor to come to the White House. It's
certainly an honor for a President to serve
here. But in my opinion, today in a special
way the White House has been honored.
Many thousands of people throughout
our country have performed great service
as black Americans to those who've looked
to
you for leadership and to others who
share with you the privileges of citizenship
in the greatest nation on Earth. You have
helped to write history, and you've proven
that the strength of the human spirit can
achieve excellence, even in the face of
extraordinary obstacles. You have a living
legacy that exists in your own physical
lifetime, and you have a legacy that will
succeed all of us who are here today. And
I want you to know that your lives have
been a model already to many others.
This is a day of privilege for us to share
with you this occasion. And it's a day of
inspiration to have these potentially un-
sung heroes recognized, in many instances
perhaps a little bit late, but the correction
of this mistake by the action of the Na-
tional Caucus on Black Aged has been a
very well chosen decision. And my wife,
Rosalynn, and I, all those who serve in our
Government are pleased that we could
be a part of such a wonderful and inspi-
rational occasion.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:45 p.m. on
the State Floor of the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Aaron Henry,
chairman of the National Caucus on the Black
Aged.
323
