Jan. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
American and other exporters to bid for Tokyo Round is concluded. These agree-
sales to foreign governments.
• An agreement on licensing will reduce
the extent to which unnecessary or unduly
ments will provide for a fairer interna-
tional sharing of the burdens in interna-
tional wheat trade, and will encourage
consultations and cooperation on interna-
complicated import licensing require- tional trade in coarse grains, meat, and
ments impede trade.
• An agreement on customs valuation
will encourage more uniform methods of
appraising imports for the purpose of ap-
plying import duties.
• An agreement on commercial coun-
terfeiting will promote cooperation and
uniform approaches for this growing trade
problem.
• An agreement on aircraft will provide
a basis for fairer trade in this important
U.S. export sector.
Agreements to improve the interna-
tional trading framework will tighten the
handling of international trade disputes,
respond to needs of developing countries
in a fair and balanced manner, modernize
the international rules applicable to trade
measures taken in response to balance-of-
payments emergencies, and provide a
basis for examining the existing interna-
tional rules on export and import re-
straints, while currently strengthening
those rules through improvements in the
dispute-settlement procedures.
Several other agreements on tariff and
non-tariff matters have been negotiated
in response to specific requests that were
made by the United States or other coun-
tries. These agreements are described in
the attachments.
In addition, members of the Adminis-
tration will be consulting with the Con-
gress about the implementation of several
agreements on agricultural trade that we
intend to enter into at about the time the
certain dairy products. The agricultural
agreements are also expected to improve
the application of accepted international
trading rules to agricultural trade.
In accordance with procedures speci-
fied in the Trade Act, the United States
will not enter into the agreements out-
lined above for the next 90 calendar days.
After the agreements have been signed,
they will be submitted for Congressional
approval, together with whatever legis-
lation and administrative actions may be
needed to implement the agreements in
the United States. The agreements will
not take effect with respect to the United
States, and will have no domestic legal
force, until the Congress has specifically
approved them and enacted any appro-
priate implementing legislation.
During Congressional consideration of
these agreements, we will also supply in-
formation on the related negotiations to
reduce, harmonize, or eliminate tariff
barriers, and on the recent establishment
of an International Steel Agreement in
the Organization for Economic Coopera-
tion and Development.
The success of the Tokyo Round and
its implementation will be the product of
a good working relationship among the
Congress, the Administration, and the
American public. Through these agree-
ments and their domestic implementation,
we can construct trade policies and insti-
tutions that advance our national interest
and enhance the prosperity of our people.
6
