Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 2, 1979
Strategic Arms Limitation
White House Statement. February 24, 1979
The President expects that a verifiable
agreement on strategic arms limitations
which protects American strategic inter-
ests can be negotiated and will be ratified.
The President's position is that this
agreement will be submitted for Senate
ratification as a treaty. If the Soviet
Union, in the absence of a SALT treaty,
were to engage in a significant arms build-
up, the President would, of course, match
it appropriately. By the same token, it is
the President's intention not to escalate
the arms race unilaterally in the absence
of a treaty if comparable and verifiable
restraint is shown by the Soviet Union.
Egyptian-Israeli Peace
Negotiations
Remarks Following a Meeting With Egyptian
Prime Minister Mustafa Khalil and Israeli
Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan.
February 25, 1979
I have a statement to read, which has
been drafted jointly by the Prime Minis-
ter of Egypt and the Foreign Minister of
Israel, and it is expressed from my own
point of view.
During the past week, I, as President,
have kept in close touch with the negotia-
tions at Camp David, and Secretary
Vance, Prime Minister Khalil, and For-
eign Minister Dayan have now given me
a firsthand report on their talks.
In light of the developments in the
talks at Camp David this past week, we
are discussing with the two governments
the possibility of moving these negotia-
tions to the head-of-government level
later this week. Prime Minister Begin
would then represent Israel, and Prime
Minister Khalil, who has been authorized
by President Sadat to conclude the nego-
tiations on behalf of Egypt, would repre-
sent Egypt.
I would be going to Camp David with
Prime Minister Begin and Prime Minister
Khalil, accompanied by Secretary Vance.
Prime Minister Khalil is leaving this
afternoon for Cairo for consultations.
Foreign Minister Dayan is returning to
Israel this evening to report to the Prime
Minister and to the Cabinet.
I am prepared to spare no effort in
achieving the peace settlement foreseen
in the Camp David accords reached last
329
