Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
Each of the provisions of this proposed
reorganization would accomplish one or
more of the purposes set forth in Section
901(a) of Title 5 of the United States
Code. The appointment and compensa-
tion of the Federal Inspector is in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Alaska
Natural Gas Transportation Act of 1976,
and the Reorganization Act of 1977. The
provisions for appointment and pay in
this Plan are necessary by reason of a re-
organization made by the Plan. The rate
of compensation is comparable to rates
for similar positions within the Executive
Branch. This reorganization will result
in a reduction in the cost of construction
for the pipeline system and ultimately in
savings to American consumers. A small
increase in cost to the Federal govern-
ment will result from the creation of the
Office of the Federal Inspector. The Plan
requires that the Office and the position
of Federal Inspector will be abolished
upon the first anniversary date after the
pipeline becomes operational.
The White House,
April 2, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 1 OF 1979
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and House of Representatives in
Congress assembled, April 2, 1979, pursuant
to the provisions of Chapter 9 of Title 5 of
the United States Code.
OFFICE OF THE FEDERAL INSPECTOR FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF THE ALASKA NAT-
URAL GAS TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
PART I. OFFICE OF THE FEDERAL
INSPECTOR AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS
SECTION 101. Establishment of the Of-
fice of Federal Inspector for the Alaska
Natural Gas Transportation System
(a) There is hereby established as an
independent establishment in the execu-
tive branch, the Office of the Federal In-
spector for the Alaska Natural Gas Trans-
portation System (the "Office").
(b) The Office shall be headed by a
Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural
Gas Transportation System (the "Federal
Inspector") who shall be appointed by the
President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, and shall be com-
pensated at the rate now or hereafter pre-
scribed by law for Level III of the Execu-
tive Schedule, and who shall serve at the
pleasure of the President.
(c) Each Federal agency having statu-
tory responsibilities over any aspect of the
Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Sys-
tem shall appoint an Agency Authorized
Officer to represent that authority on all
matters pertaining to pre-construction,
construction, and initial operation of the
system.
SEC. 102. Transfer of Functions to the
Federal Inspector
Subject to the provisions of Section 201,
202, and 203 of this Plan, all functions
insofar as they relate to enforcement of
Federal statutes or regulations and to en-
forcement of terms, conditions, and stip-
ulations of grants, certificates, permits and
other authorizations issued by Federal
agencies with respect to pre-construction,
construction, and initial operation of an
"approved transportation system" for
transport of Canadian natural gas and
"Alaskan natural gas," as such terms are
defined in the Alaska Natural Gas Trans-
portation Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 719 et
seq.), hereinafter called the "Act", are
hereby transferred to the Federal Inspec-
tor. This transfer shall vest in the Federal
Inspector exclusive responsibility for en-
forcement of all Federal statutes relevant
in any manner to pre-construction, con-
struction, and initial operation. With re-
spect to each of the statutory authorities
593
