Feb. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
year. The other two partners in these
negotiations share this determination.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:45 p.m. to
reporters assembled on the South Lawn of the
White House.
Prior to his meeting with Prime Minister
Khalil and Foreign Minister Dayan, the Presi-
dent met at the White House with Secretary
of State Cyrus R. Vance and Zbigniew Brzezin-
ski, Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs.
National Governors' Association
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the Committee on Inter-
national Trade and Foreign Relations.
February 25, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Last September, in a
meeting of a few Governors, including the
chairman, Julian Carroll, at the White
House, we discussed very briefly the pos-
sibility of having a new National Gover-
nors' Association committee established to
promote international trade.
As a former Governor of a Southeastern
State, I probably devoted 25 percent of
my time to either recruiting investments in
Georgia from other States in the Nation
and also from overseas, or trying to sell
Georgia products to foreign countries. I
visited, I think, 10 different nations when
I was Governor to promote international
trade. And we established trade offices in
different places around the world in a very
aggressive fashion.
After I became President, I could see
with much more clarity not only the eco-
nomic advantages of this effort but the
political advantages as well, because a
basis of friendship, commerce, common
visitors, negotiations among even non-
governmental leaders is one of the sound-
est possible bases on which permanent po-
litical alliances can be maintained and
peace and harmony can be enhanced
throughout the world.
Typically, my own expectations as they
related to the National Governors' Asso-
ciation have been far exceeded by accom-
plishments. I had no idea a few months
ago that we would be sitting in a room
like this, with a packed audience, 30 or 35
Governors intensely studying the possibili-
ties for the enhancement of international
trade. I want to congratulate the chair-
man of the National Governors' Associa-
tion, also my good friend, George Busbee,
the chairman of this new committee. I
think its potential is almost unlimited.
There's no question in my mind that
relatively speaking, as a percentage of
budget allocations, as a percentage of time
invested, many States, perhaps almost all
the States, do a far better job of promot-
ing international trade than does the Fed-
eral Government. I think this is to be ex-
pected, because I cannot possibly devote
25 percent of my total time as President
just to promoting international commerce
itself. But there's no doubt in my mind
either that working as new partners now,
we can greatly enhance the ability of both
Governors and a President to lead our
respective Governments toward reaching
a common goal.
There is a great advantage, in my opin-
ion, in having 50 Governors directly in-
volved through this committee and in-
dividually in this effort. Because of the
diversity of interests of the States them-
selves, each one of the States is so differ-
ent-different employment needs, differ-
ent products evolved, different investment
potential, different environment, different
attitude that you all can be, in effect, 50
experiment stations for determining how
the Nation's thrust can be oriented to help
in this very important realm of national
interest.
We have a difficult assignment in con-
trolling inflation in our Nation, in trying
330
