Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 5
for Congress to forget about the idea that
there is some way around the hard fact
that we must use less energy and pay more
for it and pass the proposals now before
them.
It is time for responsible national lead-
ers in the Congress and elsewhere to for-
get about extending controls or taking
away my power to begin phased decon-
trol. Those proposals will never pass. They
offer no solution to the problems faced by
people here in southern California, and
they are a waste of time and a distraction
from the real task we face.
There are simply no easy answers-no
answers that do not involve higher costs
for energy and using less energy. That is
the truth. To imply otherwise, to waste
more valuable time looking for a painless
way out can have only one result: more
weekends like this here in southern Cali-
fornia-and all over the country.
NOTE: The statement was released in Los
Angeles, Calif.
Los Angeles, California
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for La
Placita de Dolores de Los Angeles.
May 5, 1979
Thank you, Mayor Tom Bradley. Distin-
guished guests and friends, distinguished
Foreign Minister of the Republic of Mex-
ico, Mr. Roel:
I would like to say a few words in
Spanish, if you will bend your ear very
closely to understand my southern
accent.
[At this point, the President spoke in Spanish.
He then translated his remarks as follows.]
I can also speak some English.
And I'm very proud to be here to ded-
icate this Placita de Dolores in Los An-
geles. This is the birthplace of this great
city, which has the largest Spanish-speak-
ing population in the United States. This
plaza will provide a permanent resting
place for the replica of the Bell of Dolores,
the original of which hangs in the Capitol
Building in Mexico City. As you know,
this replica was presented to this city, Los
Angeles, by President Gustavo Diaz Or-
daz of Mexico 11 years ago.
This plaza will also give the Hispanic
community-indeed all the people of Los
Angeles a gathering place, a place for
exhibits by artists and craftsmen, a place
for celebrations, and a place for festivals.
And I'm delighted that this project,
funded partially by a Federal grant, will
also provide employment within the com-
munity.
Projects such as this-which meet pub-
lic needs, enhance historic places, and
create needed jobs-and they show what
the Federal Government can do to help
revitalize our cities, working in harmony
with local officials and private citizens.
As we dedicate this plaza, it's good to
remember the village priest, Father Mi-
guel Hidalgo y Castilla, who rang the par-
ish church bell, the original Bell of Do-
lores, to summon patriots to fight for
independence. The freedom and inde-
pendence that Mexico and the United
States now enjoy are ours because mil-
lions of our people throughout the years
have had the courage to do what was
necessary, no matter what the odds might
have been against their sometimes lonely
efforts.
Freedom is never permanently ours,
despite the noble sacrifices of past gener-
ations. We must daily rewin the fight
against injustice and prejudice and ignor-
ance, and against those in power who be-
lieve that they know better than the
people what is best.
Many have died heroically that we may
stand here on this beautiful day and cele-
809
