Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 26
have not prospered and grown for more
than two hundred years by worshipping
the status quo. In building our Nation
and confronting the many tasks which
history has assigned us, we have found
change to be our natural element.
We should approach the task of build-
ing a new Foundation for a world of
change with the confidence of a Nation
whose strengths are unmatched. Our mili-
tary forces are strong and growing
stronger. Our technological and indus-
trial capacities are unsurpassed. Our al-
lies are strong and reliable. Our way of
life, and what we stand for as a Nation,
continue to have magnetic international
appeal.
I do not pretend that change comes
without cost. I do not pretend that it
comes without pain. Neither the visionary
men of the 18th Century who founded our
Republic, nor the citizens of conscience
who opposed slavery in the 19th, nor the
men and women of the 20th who led us
successfully through two world wars
looked upon change as easy. They did,
however, look upon it as inevitable.
So it was in the beginning of our coun-
try, so it has been through all the stages
of our history. The future has always
brought Americans to a higher level of
national achievement as long as we were
willing to invest the time and the energy
and the imagination toward shaping that
future ourselves.
As we begin a new year, I repledge my
Administration to time, energy, and
imagination essential to build a new Foun-
dation for a world of peace, prosperity
and human justice. Together, America's
Congress, its people, and its President can-
not only master the many challenges of
change, but make them a part of our Na-
tion's purpose in the world. In so doing,
we can bring America closer to that "more
perfect union" of Jefferson's dream in a
wider and more secure global community
congenial to our values, interests and
ideals.
The White House,
January 25, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Committee for Purchase
From the Blind and
Other Severely Handicapped
Appointment of Brig. Gen. Nathaniel R.
Thompson, Jr., as a Member.
January 25, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Brig. Gen. Nathaniel R.
Thompson, Jr., as a member of the Com-
mittee for Purchase From the Blind and
Other Severely Handicapped.
Thompson is Director of Transporta-
tion, Energy and Troop Support in the
Logistics, Department of the Army.
Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Zhao
Zhongxiang of Central TV, People's
Republic of China. January 25, 1979
MR. ZHAO. Mr. President, first of all, we
would like to express our appreciation for
giving us this opportunity to have this
interview.
THE PRESIDENT. It's a great honor and
privilege for me to have a chance to talk
to the millions of Chinese people who are
once again our very important, very close
friends.
MR. ZHAO. Mr. President, you have
made positive contributions to the normal-
163
