June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Trucking Industry Deregulation
Remarks Announcing Proposed Legislation.
June 21, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. The importance of this
announcement is vividly demonstrated by
those who have assembled here to initiate
a major objective in the Congress.
When I ran for President, I promised
to work vigorously to lift the heavy hand
of Government regulation from the Amer-
ican free enterprise economy whenever
possible and whenever consistent with the
national interests and whenever consist-
ent with the best interests of the Ameri-
can people.
Today I am proposing legislation that
will reduce the redtape and the excess
regulations that have strangled and strait-
jacketed the trucking industry of America
for the last 40 years.
Unnecessary and sometimes absolutely
nonsensical regulations issued by the Fed-
eral Government concerning the trucking
industry of our country are costing Amer-
ican consumers billions of dollars every
year in higher transportation costs and on
almost every food item and manufactured
item and raw material that we use.
There is a gross waste of energy, a dup-
lication of effort, a high degree of ineffi-
ciency in one of the most crucial industries
of our country. Too many trucks are rat-
tling back and forth empty on the road
today, burning up precious diesel fuel
because the ICC rules prohibit two-way
hauling. Some trucking firms can deliver
all the ingredients necessary to make soup
to a factory, but are forbidden from haul-
ing soup away from the factory.
Other rules defy human imagination.
Some truckers can haul milk; they can't
haul butter. They can haul cream; they
can't haul cheese. Others can transport
paint in 2-gallon cans; they can't haul
paint in 5-gallon cans. Some truckers are
allowed to haul bananas; they can't haul
pineapple. They can haul pineapple and
bananas if they are mixed. [Laughter]
Our highways are filled with truckers
driving miles out of their way, because the
ICC requires for them to follow specific
routes that defy rhyme or reason. One
trucking firm, for instance, must go from
Denver to Albuquerque by way of Salt
Lake City, an unnecessary detour of 300
miles.
The ICC regulations strangle competi-
tion. Trucking companies are allowed to
meet together in secret to set rates, a prac-
tice that would be absolutely illegal price-
fixing in almost any other business.
It's difficult, if not impossible, for new
trucking firms to enter the industry. This
is one reason why minorities own less than
1 percent of all interstate moving com-
panies. ICC requirements also short-
change small towns and small cities by
forbidding truckers to make intermediate
stops along their assigned routes, even
though they pass through the small town
in question.
Restrictions like these are symbols of
Government regulations gone wild. They
do not make economic sense. They waste
millions of gallons of fuel. They breed a
climate of disrespect for the law. They ex-
clude Americans from entering one of
the country's most important major
industries.
Today I'm sending to the Congress the
Trucking Competition and Safety Act of
1979, which will end all the abuses that
I've described to you and at long last bring
sensible Federal regulation to the trucking
industry.
This bill will immediately remove all
certificate restrictions on two-way trips
and intermediate stops. It will gradually
remove all other route restrictions by the
year 1983. It will end price-fixing. It will
encourage price competition, the forma-
1114
