May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Protection Board. All these appointments
are for terms expiring on the date of the
annual meeting in 1980.
To replace Prokop, the President has
appointed Henry A. Hubschman. Hubsch-
man is an attorney with the Washington
firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Kampelman. He is a former consultant
and executive assistant to HUD Secretary
Patricia Harris. Hubschman, 31, resides
in Washington, D.C.
The four members reappointed today
are:
MARVIN S. GILMAN, of Wilmington, Del.,
executive vice president of Leon N. Weiner &
Associates and an associate professor of urban
affairs and public policy at the University
of Delaware;
JOHN G. HEIMANN, Comptroller of the Cur-
rency;
RAYMOND H. LAPIN, president and chairman
of the board of R. H. Lapin Co. of San
Francisco, a mortgage finance firm;
JOHN D. THOMPSON, president and treasurer
of Vijon Realty Co. in Washington, D.C.,
and president of the National Association of
Real Estate Brokers, Inc., which represents
black realtors.
National Advisory Council on
Indian Education
Appointment of John C. Rouillard as a
Member. May 23, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of John C. Rouillard, of La
Mesa, Calif., to be a member of the Na-
tional Advisory Council on Indian Edu-
cation for a term expiring September 29,
1981.
Rouillard is chairman of the depart-
ment of American Indian studies at San
Diego State University. He is a member
of the Santee Sioux and a former high
school teacher.
National Cable Television
Association
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
by Satellite to the Annual Convention in Las
Vegas, Nevada. May 23, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Bob. It's a
real pleasure to join your meeting in Las
Vegas this morning. In fact, I regret not
being able to enjoy the city with you, es-
pecially as I'm sure that some of you who
are riding a better streak at the casinos
than I am in the Congress. There are con-
solations for you, of course. For one thing,
the odds are obviously better where you
are than they are with me in the Con-
gress. For another, I can be sure that for
every one of you who loses, I may gain a
bigger supporter for my proposed im-
provements in the welfare system.
NATIONAL GOALS
However, even though I'm not able to
take the day off to relax with you there,
we have more serious risks to face to-
gether. Thanks to our cable and satellite
technology, I'm able to meet with you
here in the Map Room of the White
House.
Best of all, I can do more than just
speak to you. We can have a discussion to-
gether, something that cable televison can
help make possible more often in the
future throughout America, because our
democracy is based on the premise that
no matter how controversial and complex
an issue may be, in the long run public dis-
cussion and debate will lead us to better
decisions. That is what the founders of this
Nation believed themselves 200 years ago.
That's exactly how they hammered out
the United States Constitution. They got
together and they argued until they
agreed.
Their example was never more impor-
tant. Today we are at the same time a
932
