Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
eliminate terrorism and murder as an ele-
ment of their effort. The best way to
change their attitude—that is, Jordan,
Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, and others-is to
demonstrate in the coming negotiations
that the legitimate rights of the Palestin-
ian people will be honored and that the
terms of the Camp David agreement will
indeed be carried out.
We have a good relationship with al-
most all the countries that produce and
sell us oil. We have maintained that firm
relationship. One thing that I would like
to do, however, in addition to keeping
that friendship with them, is to develop
more independence by increasing the pro-
duction of American oil and by shifting
to things like I've already described: in-
creased use of coal, increased use of
small dams, increased use of wood, and
also conservation.
So, I would say the Mideast peace ne-
gotiation is on track. I've been very
pleased since the treaty was signed. We
have a good relationship with the oil-
supplying nations, but we want to become
less and less dependent on them in the
future.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, I'm Mary Keenan, a
city councilman in the city of Portsmouth.
I ask my question for the mothers of
America. I want you to know how con-
cerned we are with inflation. It's attack-
ing the American family. Young people
are no longer able to buy homes of their
own. They are no longer able to choose
to stay home and raise the next generation.
Can you tell me what your administra-
tion is doing to reverse this situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll do the best I can.
I can say that I'm at least as concerned
about it as you are. It's ever-present on
my mind. It's one of the biggest responsi-
bilities on my shoulders and one of the
most difficult questions to answer.
The first thing that we can do, I as a
President, is to set an example with the
Federal Government policies.
When I was running for President and
was in New Hampshire and Portsmouth
last, our Federal deficit was $66 billion.
The Federal deficit that I have proposed
to the Congress is much less than $30 bil-
lion for next time. We've cut it more than
half. We have tried to maintain, through
available money supplies, an adequate
ability for people to buy homes, in spite
of the high inflation.
In 1977 and 1978, we have averaged
more than 2 million new homes being
built in our country. And the level of
home building is being maintained fairly
high. I know that part of this is that young
people see future prices of homes even
higher. And if they can borrow the money,
even at a high interest rate, they think,
perhaps correctly, that it's a good invest-
ment.
Inflation also must be controlled by
voluntary work of consumers by careful
shopping, by voluntary aid of our econ-
omy by business and labor leaders, and
also in many instances by local and State
government officials. We are trying to cut
down waste in government. And some-
times when we try to tighten up on the
budget to some degree, there are outcries
from very dedicated, very fine special
interest groups.
established by business be lower than the
We've asked that every price increase
average of the previous 2 years and that
the wage settlements also be restrained.
So far, we've had excellent response. I
think the early indications now are that
these policies are working. But a lot of
momentum was built in that's now show-
ing up.
We had two things over which-three
things that I'll mention, over which we
had no control, that we could not predict.
704
