May 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
National Energy Plan
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Second Plan. May 7, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Con-
gress the second National Energy Plan as
required by Section 801 of the Depart-
ment of Energy Organization Act (Pub-
lic Law 95-91).
The First National Energy Plan, which
I sent to the Congress two years ago, was
the first comprehensive effort to deal with
the broad scope of the Nation's energy
problems. The resulting National Energy
Act, passed last autumn, acted on a num-
ber of my proposals, and will have an im-
portant and lasting role in preparing for
the Nation's energy future.
But much remains to be done. And we
must now deal jointly with a number of
issues which have matured since April
1977.
As I said in my April 5th energy mes-
sage, our Nation's energy problems are
real. They are serious. And they are get-
ting worse. Every American will have to
help solve those problems. But it is up to
us-the Congress and the Executive
Branch-to provide the leadership.
We must now build on the foundation
of the National Energy Act. In my April
5th energy address, I laid out a program
for action in five areas.
First, in accordance with the Energy
Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, I
have announced a program to phase out
controls on domestic crude oil prices by
September 30, 1981. Oil should be priced
at its true replacement value if we are
to stop subsidizing imports, increase U.S.
oil production, reduce demand, and en-
courage the development and use of new
energy sources.
Second, the increased revenues from
decontrol must not unduly or unjustly en-
rich oil producers at the expense of con-
sumers. For this reason, I have proposed
a tax on the windfall profits due to de-
control. Proceeds from the tax would be
used to establish an Energy Security Trust
Fund, which would be available, in part,
to assist those low-income Americans who
can least afford higher energy prices.
Third, we must provide additional em-
phasis on conservation and on the devel-
opment of new domestic energy sources
and technologies. The Energy Security
Trust Fund will also provide funds for
energy saving mass transit and for tax
incentives and accelerated research and
demonstration of new energy technolo-
gies.
Fourth, we must find ways to expedi-
tiously develop and use our energy re-
sources, while protecting and enhancing
the quality of the environment. The
length and complexity of many Federal,
State, and local permitting procedures,
however, has created needless complexity
and increased time and cost, without im-
proving the protection to the public or
the environment. We must remove the
needless red tape which is tying up many
needed energy projects. I have signed an
Executive Order to expedite Federal de-
cision-making for certain energy projects,
which are deemed to be in the National
interest.
Fifth, we must provide international
leadership to deal with the crisis before
us today. The members of the Interna-
tional Energy Agency have joined in a
common commitment to reduce energy
consumption in response to current short-
ages. The United States has provided
leadership in gaining this commitment. I
will assure the United States does its part
to meet that commitment.
The energy program I announced on
April 5th puts the country in a strong po-
816
