June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
preciation to the leaders in Congress,
whom I've named, along with many
others who have been instrumental in
bringing us this far.
And I would like to ask all those orga-
nizations represented here this afternoon,
speaking for millions of Americans who
will be benefited, not to rest with the in-
troduction of this legislation. The issue
will be in doubt. But if we work together,
remember the best interests of our country
and the best interests of Americans who
look to us for leadership and fairness, and
who believe in the free enterprise system
of our country, this legislation will pass.
I'd like now to call on Senator Kennedy
to make some remarks, after which Sen-
ator Howard Cannon will comment.
SENATOR KENNEDY. Thank you very
much, Mr. President.
I want to congratulate President Carter
and the administration for the prepara-
tion of this legislation. Just a little over 8
months ago, Mr. President, as you re-
minded all of us, we met here in the White
House when you signed your airline de-
regulation bill, and that has made such a
difference to consumers and to the battles
of inflation, which this country is con-
cerned about, under the leadership of
Howard Cannon and the other Members
which you've identified.
This legislation, as the President has
mentioned, makes sense from an inflation
point of view, saving consumers and busi-
ness men and women $5 billion, makes
sense from an energy point of view-more
than 20 percent of the trucks that travel
on the roads of this country travel empty.
It makes sense from a regulatory reform
point of view. Just about half of the truck-
ing industry is deregulated and works and
functions effectively for consumers as well
as for truckers and shippers. And it makes
sense for all Americans, for the American
consumer.
I look forward to working with the
President, my colleagues in the Congress,
and particularly Senator Cannon and the
members of the Commerce Committee in
getting early action on this legislation.
SENATOR CANNON. Mr. President, the
Commerce Committee has actively been
concerned about Federal regulation for a
number of years: airlines, air freight, rail-
roads, communications, maritime, motor
carriers. We've not avoided controversy in
these particular areas. The trucking hear-
ings are well under way in our committee.
We've already heard from a number of
very responsible witnesses expressing con-
cerns. We held hearings in March. We
held a hearing on the household moving
industry this week. We have two more
next week on general trucking and more
to follow this summer, both in Washing-
ton and other parts of the country.
Next week we'll be hearing from Secre-
tary Adams, Senator Kennedy, Repre-
sentative Fenwick, Chairman O'Neal,ยน
and others. As a comprehensive legislative
proposal, this bill will be very useful to our
committee in the inquiry that is now well
under way.
I can assure you and all of the people
here that the committee's consideration of
this legislation will be thorough and fair,
and we look forward to working with you
in developing a good comprehensive leg-
islative program.
Thank you.
SENATOR PERCY. Mr. President, it's an
honor to be with you.
When I first introduced the 55-mile-
per-hour speed limit, the first bill that was
put in on that, it was about as popular in
southern Illinois and Western States as
my bill that charged Senators parking fees
for the Senate garage. [Laughter] But
ยน A. Daniel O'Neal, Chairman of the Inter-
state Commerce Commission.
1116
