Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 24
more accidents are caused from faulty
vehicles that Oklahoma has the safety
inspection law. And there's a bill in the
House to cancel it. And I also wondered
why the Federal Government doesn't do
something about the safety inspection
laws.
THE PRESIDENT. The safety inspection
laws are left up to the States to administer.
And the inspection procedure is com-
pletely handled by the States, and I think
that's the way it ought to be.
The Federal Government, in 1973 or
1974, when we had another energy short-
age, passed laws through the Congress,
signed by the President, which I am sworn
to carry out on my
out on my oath.
One provision of that law is that if any
State does not comply with the nationwide
requirement on the 55-mile-per-hour
speed limit, that all transportation funds
will be withheld from that State. If any
State should change its speed limit from
55 up to 65, those funds will be lost.
That's a State option to take. One of
the houses in your legislature has already
done so. I realize that. But if the other
house should change the speed limit up-
ward and the Governor should sign the
law and make it effective, then I think
Oklahoma should realize that under the
United States law, that I'm required to
uphold, those funds will be withheld.
I think that the law should be enforced.
I think the speed limit of 55 should be
maintained. I don't want to mislead
you
about it. I know you apparently disagree.
But if the speed limit is changed, Okla-
homa is going to lose the money. I hope
they don't change the law.
Q. Do we really save that much in
energy?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it saves a con-
siderable amount in energy, and I also
think it saves a considerable number of
lives to have the 55-mile-per-hour speed
limit. That's my own opinion.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry, but our time
has run out. Let me say this in closing: I
think all of you see the breadth of interest
of the people of Elk City in international
affairs, nationwide problems, and local
matters of interest. This is part of our
American system.
I've had townhall meetings now in
many places, in Pennsylvania, Massachu-
setts, in Oregon, in Mississippi, in Po-
land-Warsaw, Poland, in West Berlin in
Germany, in São Paulo, Brazil.* And I
think it's one of the best ways possible for
me to learn what your interests and your
concerns are.
I feel close to you. You've made me feel
that I have come home. And you'll never
know how much it means to me to have a
sense that, occupying the highest political
office, perhaps, in the world, I'm still an
average American, part of your family,
living in the greatest nation on Earth,
standing before the flag which still inspires
me every time I see it. You've inspired me,
and I thank you from the bottom of my
heart.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:32 p.m. in the
Elk City High School gymnasium.
Following the town meeting, the President
met with members of the executive committee
of the Oklahoma Democratic Party in a room at
the high school. He then spent the night at the
home of Mrs. Paul R. Wade, mother of Elk
City Mayor Larry Wade.
*NOTE: The President has held townhall
meetings in the following locations: Clinton,
Mass., Yazoo City, Miss., Bangor, Maine, Nas-
hua, N.H., Spokane, Wash., West Berlin, Fed-
eral Republic of Germany, and Aliquippa, Pa.
[Printed in the transcript.]
481
