Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 22
health research; and expanded health-re-
lated services such as nutrition programs
for low-income mothers and children.
I am again proposing legislation to
contain the exorbitant nationwide rise in
hospital costs. The 320% rise in these
costs in the past 10 years has been a major
has been a major
inflationary force and an unacceptable
drain on family incomes. The Congress
must act on this problem.
Curbs on hospital costs will benefit State
and local budgets and those of private
citizens as well as the Federal budget.
They will strike directly at inflation in a
sector where price increases have been
chronically high.
The budget recommends a number of
changes in the social security system to
streamline it and eliminate unnecessary
benefit payments. They will reduce the fu-
ture costs of this largest of all Federal
programs—and, ultimately, hold down the
taxes imposed on workers and employers.
I will consider future social security tax
reductions in conjunction with these
savings.
In the past 2 years, total employment in
the U.S. has increased by 7.4 million jobs.
This is an average rate of 4.1% per year,
one of the most rapid expansions in our
history. The proportion of our civilian
population employed is higher, at almost
60%, than it has ever been before. But
despite these gains, unemployment, parti-
cularly among the disadvantaged and
minorities, remains too high.
Continued high structural unemploy-
ment in an inflationary economy requires
a redirection of our efforts. Programs tar-
geted to employ the truly disadvantaged
are continued at their current high levels
as established by this administration. More
general employment programs, not di-
rected specifically to those most in need,
must be reduced to reflect improvements
in the economy and our need to establish
priorities. Our youth employment and
CETA programs reflect my continued
strong commitment to fight unemploy-
ment of the needy. The employment tax
credit enacted last year is encouraging the
private sector to provide increased em-
ployment opportunities for the disadvan-
taged, primarily youth. This incentive will
be reinforced by a private sector employ-
ment initiative, for which I am requesting
a $400 million supplemental appropria-
tion for 1979.
This budget also provides strong sup-
port for economic development programs,
and again proposes a National Develop-
ment Bank to help fund these efforts. The
budget provides for a 36% increase in as-
sistance to minority business enterprises.
Finally, I believe that the Federal Gov-
ernment must lead the way in investing in
the Nation's future. This budget, there-
fore, continues my policy of providing real
growth in Federal support of basic re-
search. This support amounts to a rela-
tively small part of the total budget-$4.6
billion in 1980-but it is vital to the fu-
ture of our Nation. The knowledge
created through basic research holds the
potential for breakthroughs to the solu-
tion of problems we face or may face in
such critical areas as agriculture, health,
environment, energy, defense, and the
overall productivity of our economy.
Higher productivity gains in the future,
moreover, will make an important contri-
bution to reducing inflation.
Meeting the essential needs of the Na-
tion, while restraining growth in overall
spending, makes efficient management not
just desirable, but essential.
In 1977 I proposed-and the Congress
approved—a Cabinet-level Department
of Energy, a streamlined Executive Office
of the President, and a consolidation of
our international information activities.
In 1978 I proposed-and the Congress
approved-reorganizations of the Federal
99
