May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
full-time employees, unless it is obvious
that employees themselves will be pro-
tected and also that the Government will
benefit by reduced cost for a given level
of service.
If you have any information that would
indicate that we have made a mistake in
that respect, I wish you'd give it to me.
I'll be glad to have it. And I'll discuss this
with the Office of Management and
Budget and also with Secretary of De-
fense Harold Brown and make sure that
this does not ever occur anymore. And
I'll read these papers myself, and thank
you very much.
MR. CAMPBELL. I'll just add, if I might,
Mr. President, that under the new guide-
lines that OMB has put out, which will go
into effect May 30, any activity which
currently is being done by the Govern-
ment, there is a bias in favor of calculat-
ing the costs by giving a 10-percent ad-
vantage to continuing it in the Federal
Government.
In addition to that, there are employee
protections in situations where there is
contracting out-I don't mean to suggest
for a moment there aren't problems;
there are indeed problems, and they're
very human problems. But I can assure
you that both the agency and the Office
of Personnel Management do everything
possible to protect the rights of employees
and to go a step beyond that and do
everything possible to find them employ-
ment elsewhere in the system.
MR. CRIBBINS. May I add something,
sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Please do.
MR. CRIBBINS. I am in the Pentagon,
and I do quite a lot of work with con-
tracting. Every one of these contracts are
treated very specifically on a case-by-case
basis. And all of the very things that Mr.
Campbell is talking about are consid-
ered-personal rights, environmental im-
pact, impact on a low-cost area or an area
that's in trouble economically. And there
are occasions when we go on contract to
find out that maybe it wasn't the very best
case, as Mr. McDuffie's. But I would say
that that was rather an exception. In gen-
eral, I would say the programs are being
very well monitored, from where I sit.
THE PRESIDENT. My impression has
been, maybe from a biased point of view,
that we are much more cautious now with
the new regulations that, Alan, you de-
scribed, than was the case 3 or 4 years
ago-
MR. CRIBBINS. That's correct, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. -about protecting
employees' rights.
MR. CRIBBINS. That is correct; much
more so.
MR. CAMPBELL. Who's next?
CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST LAW
MR. CRIBBINS. I would like to try once
more, while I have the floor. You men-
tioned the word "ethics." And I would
solicit your support for this, and I know
that you
have given some support to it. I
think that the new conflict-of-interest
[law]ยน was needed. There wasn't any
doubt about it. The perception was com-
ing over that some people didn't care.
But now I think maybe the pendulum has
swung a bit far, and we are beginning to
lose some really top-level people because
of overly restrictive conflict-of-interest reg-
ulations.
And I would suggest, sir, that I am con-
cerned that in the future-and, inciden-
tally, I don't have that kind of future, so
I'm not personally concerned-but in the
future that we may deny ourselves some
very good people, because these folk will
be afraid that the very things they will
do in government will preclude their fol-
1 Printed in the transcript.
922
