Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
weight, or the throw-weight, of
the missile;
(b) the type of propellant (that is,
liquid or solid) of any of its stages.
First Common Understanding. As used in
the First Agreed Statement to paragraph
9 of Article IV of the Treaty, the term
"different," referring to the length, the
diameter, the launch-weight, and the
throw-weight, of the missile, means a dif-
ference in excess of five percent.
Second Agreed Statement. Every ICBM
of the one new type of light ICBM per-
mitted to each Party pursuant to para-
graph 9 of Article IV of the Treaty shall
have the same number of stages and the
same type of propellant (that is, liquid
or solid) of each stage as the first ICBM
of the one new type of light ICBM
launched by that Party. In addition, after
the twenty-fifth launch of an ICBM of
that type, or after the last launch before
deployment begins of ICBMs of that type,
whichever occurs earlier, ICBMs of the
one new type of light ICBM permitted
to that Party shall not be different in any
one or more of the following respects:
the length, the largest diameter, the
launch-weight, or the throw-weight, of
the missile.
A Party which launches ICBMs of the
one new type of light ICBM permitted
pursuant to paragraph 9 of Article IV of
the Treaty shall promptly notify the other
Party of the date of the first launch and
of the date of either the twenty-fifth or the
last launch before deployment begins of
ICBMs of that type, whichever occurs
earlier.
Second Common Understanding. As used
in the Second Agreed Statement to para-
graph 9 of Article IV of the Treaty, the
term "different," referring to the length,
the diameter, the launch-weight, and the
throw-weight, of the missile, means a
difference in excess of five percent from
the value established for each of the above
parameters as of the twenty-fifth launch
or as of the last launch before deployment
begins, whichever occurs earlier. The
values demonstrated in each of the above
parameters during the last twelve of the
twenty-five launches or during the last
twelve launches before deployment begins,
whichever twelve launches occur earlier,
shall not vary by more than ten percent
from any other of the corresponding
values demonstrated during those twelve
launches.
Third Common Understanding. The limi-
tations with respect to launch-weight and
throw-weight, provided for in the First
Agreed Statement and the First Common
Understanding to paragraph 9 of Article
IV of the Treaty, do not preclude the
flight-testing or the deployment of ICBMs
with fewer reentry vehicles, or fewer
penetration aids, or both, than the maxi-
mum number of reentry vehicles and the
maximum number of penetration aids
with which ICBMs of that type have been
flight-tested as of May 1, 1979, even if
this results in a decrease in launch-weight
or in throw-weight in excess of five per-
cent.
In addition to the aforementioned
cases, those limitations do not preclude a
decrease in launch-weight or in throw-
weight in excess of five percent, in the case
of the flight-testing or the deployment of
ICBMS with a lesser quantity of propel-
lant, including the propellant of a self-
contained dispensing mechanism or other
appropriate device, than the maximum
quantity of propellant, including the pro-
pellant of a self-contained dispensing
mechanism or other appropriate device,
with which ICBMs of that type have
been flight-tested as of May 1, 1979, pro-
vided that such an ICBM is at the same
time flight-tested or deployed with fewer
1067
