Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
country benefit from the sale of U.S. Sav-
ings Bonds. Today Americans own over
$80 billion worth of these securities. These
holdings constitute nearly one-fifth of the
publicly-held portion of the Federal debt,
helping to protect the value of the dollar
and stabilize our nation's economy.
As the heads of Departments and Agen-
cies who make up the Interagency Sav-
ings Bonds Committee, you have the spe-
cial responsibility of offering and promot-
ing the Payroll Savings Plan to each and
every Federal employee. I know you
will
carry out this responsibility with your
usual diligence and attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Development and Military
Assistance Programs in
Afghanistan
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. February 22, 1979
The President has decided to severely
reduce our development assistance pro-
gram in Afghanistan below levels pro-
jected for the fiscal years 1979 and 1980.
The President has also decided to termi-
nate a military training program that
was in the planning stages. These deci-
sions have been taken in the light of an
ongoing review of our relations with
Afghanistan and the policies with that
government. Only small developmental
assistance programs that are already
under way and that address the needs of
the least privileged sectors of Afghan so-
ciety will continue.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at 11:40 a.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
Foreign Policy Conference for
Editors and Broadcasters
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session.
February 22, 1979
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
THE PRESIDENT. Before I take your ques-
tions this afternoon, I'd like to give you
some of my own thoughts about the uses
of American power in a changing and
sometimes turbulent world. Recent
events, particularly in Iran and Southeast
Asia, have touched off a national debate
about what America's role should be in
dealing with turbulence, and in trying to
guide inevitable change.
We've been going through debates like
this ever since our first President served,
George Washington, whose birthday this
happens to be.
Looking back over the last several
years, particularly the last 2 years, I've
been struck by the increasing complexity,
however, of international affairs. I'm en-
couraged by what I judge to be a willing-
ness on behalf of the American people to
attempt to understand complex issues, not
to oversimplify them, and to support
policies and decisions that basically and
openly address these complex issues re-
sponsibly and realistically.
Of course, there has never been any
change in America's determination or our
willingness to maintain a strong military
capability, or to promote the economic
health and vitality of our country, or to
deal with and enhance the political and
moral strength of our Nation. Those com-
mitments have always been constant and
unswerving. But we must also see issues
that are complex very clearly. And we
must devise intelligent and thoughtful re-
sponses to them.
Neither of the two events that have
been so newsworthy the last few weeks-
310
