Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
to integrate that program more effectively
into our employment and training system.
My Administration will also implement
the CETA amendments, which establish
practices and procedures to improve the
quality of programs, provide better man-
agement and prevent fraud and abuse.
MAKING GOVERNMENT MORE EFFICIENT
AND EFFECTIVE
The American people are demanding
a Federal government which is effective
and efficient. For the past two years,
I
have worked toward that goal by reor-
ganizing and reforming the government's
operation and by uncovering and remov-
ing fraud, waste and abuse. Real progress
has been made. But the government is
still not operating as competently as I
want or the American people deserve. In
1979, we must build on the base of the
last two years to provide our people with
the type of government they deserve. Your
help in this effort is essential. We have
already begun to build a new foundation
of government efficiency and we will do
more in the year ahead.
Reorganization
We have begun to reorganize the gov-
ernment through the creation of a Cabi-
net-level Department of Energy and the
changes resulting from the six reorganiza-
tion plans approved by Congress over the
past two years. Those plans helped to re-
shape and improve the operation of the
Executive Office of the President, the in-
ternational cultural and communications
agencies, emergency preparedness agen-
cies, the equal employment opportunity
enforcement agencies, the Civil Service
Commission, and the administration of
the Employee Retirement Income Secu-
rity Act.
I will again propose to the Congress
that a Cabinet-level Department of Edu-
cation be created. This will be a very high
priority of this Administration. Education
issues deserve far more attention and more
accountable management than they can
receive in a department as large and com-
plex as HEW. The department would
provide a Cabinet-level official devoting
full-time attention to education and re-
porting directly to me. It will also enable
the Federal government to be a more
States, localities, and private institutions
responsive and reliable partner with
which have primary responsibility for
education.
I will also be proposing to Congress
reorganization plans involving economic
development and the management of our
natural resources development, and will
intensively study possible reorganizations
in the areas of surface transportation, the
Selective Service system and the Alaska
natural gas pipeline. The natural re-
sources and economic development re-
organizations involve areas where overlap,
duplication and unclear authority have
hamstrung our efforts. Reorganization
here can save money and people. We will
be consulting closely with Congress over
the next several weeks before submitting
these reorganization plans.
Regulatory Reform
Last year we took major steps toward
reform of the Federal regulatory system,
ranging from improved regulation writ-
ing to saving hundreds of millions of
dollars through improved cash manage-
ment techniques. The dramatic reductions
in airline prices that occurred when Con-
gress joined with us to lift the heavy hand
of Federal regulation illustrate the ad-
vantages of letting the competitive mar-
ket, rather than government, control in-
dustry performance. The public will bene-
fit similarly through improved service, in-
creased competition, and lower Federal
127
