Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 14
other to the point of nullifying its own
sovereign will, reducing the scope of its
international activities, or losing its self-
respect.
All this requires thoroughgoing anal-
ysis; we must not sacrifice what is im-
portant for the sake of what is urgent nor
neglect international and continuing
needs in favor of local and transitory in-
terests. Thus, we must keep a firm grasp
on matters of basic importance in devis-
ing solutions to our immediate problems.
Today, the United States is readjusting
its power and influence in an irrational
world that refuses to take rights and ob-
ligations into account in its pursual of its
interests and outbreaks of violence, a
world in which Manichaean political
structures impede development and make
underdevelopment even more distressing.
Meanwhile, supranational economic hege-
monies-devoid of any sense of social re-
sponsibility and recognizing no country as
their own-are dividing up the world
among themselves and winning out over
sovereign nations.
And today, in this same world and for
the first time in its history, Mexico, be-
cause of a nonrenewable resource and the
financial self-determination it provides,
has been given the opportunity of becom-
ing the free, secure, and just nation en-
visaged by its great leaders of the past,
a nation ruled by the principles of a revo-
lution that has evolved into a government
and determined to live in peace nurtured
by respect for the rights of others—a sim-
ple maxim, perhaps, but a valid one.
Mexico has thus suddenly found itself
the center of American attention-atten-
tion that is a surprising mixture of inter-
est, disdain, and fear, much like the re-
curring vague fears you yourselves inspire
in certain areas of our national subcon-
scious.
You and I, Mr. President, have the
task of dealing with the problem, of ra-
tionalizing realities and prejudices, and
fulfilling our responsibility to our nations
by keeping insensitivity, ambition, fear, or
self-seeking manipulation of illusions from
casting a shadow on a relationship
founded on friendship or eliminating any
possibility of understanding.
Let us seek only lasting solutions-good
faith and fair play-nothing that would
make us lose the respect of our children.
Multilateral relations, economic order,
trade and prices, demography, finance,
currency, drugs, energy sources-land,
sea, air, or gas-migratory labor, or hu-
man rights and all their associated ques-
tions constitute agendas that call for vary-
ing degrees of attention. What must not
vary are the principles on which our re-
lations are based, and the most funda-
mental of these is treating others as we
ourselves would like to be treated. That is
a canon that holds true for both men and
nations, the test of our good will and the
measure of our deeds.
It is with such good will that, within
the context of that relationship, I want
to assume my temporary responsibility for
the permanent destiny of my people,
which, like you, I have sworn to serve and
have no right to endanger. I am certain
that you feel the same way, and in token
of this, let us join in a toast as we hope to
join our wills.
I thank you.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Mr. President,
Mrs. López Portillo, distinguished guests
who've come here both from the great na-
tion of Mexico and from the United
States:
President López Portillo and I have, in
the short time together on this visit, found
that we have many things in common. We
both represent great nations; we both
275
