Mar. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
peace negotiations will be fulfilled to their
complete degree.
And we can help to alleviate some of
these concerns. And if problems do arise
that we cannot presently anticipate, we'll
be full partners in trying to address those
problems when they become evident.
MR. SHILON. Can you foresee realisti-
cally that Syria, Jordan, and the Pales-
tinians, encouraged by Saudi Arabia, will
cooperate with the continuation of the
peace process?
THE PRESIDENT. I think this is a very
good possibility in the future. But there's
going to be a transition period when they
try to posture and threaten and see if they
can weaken the ties of friendship and
peace between Israel and Egypt.
I think they'll be unsuccessful in trying
to destroy the peace process when it be-
comes evident that the advantages of
peace directly improve the quality of life
of the Israelis and the Egyptians. In my
opinion, the large number of Jordanians
who also presently want peace will be-
come much more vocal, and perhaps King
Hussein and the other Arab leaders will
say, “Well, this is a good thing for me and
my people as well.” I think that could very
well happen in the future.
MR. SHILON. Mr. President, during the
past year, you mentioned several times the
right of the Palestinians to participate in
their own determination of their own
future.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. SHILON. This participation is now
defined as self-rule or autonomy. Could
the following steps, after establishing the
self-rule, lead to an independent Pales-
tinian state?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we drafted this
language, the Palestinians' right to par-
ticipate in the determination of their own
future, very carefully. It's been adopted
by both Israel and Egypt as a basis for
the Camp David agreements. And, of
course, that's incorporated within the
peace treaties themselves. Also, the
principles expressed in United Nations
Resolutions 242 and 338 are part of the
Camp David agreements, and also this
treaty.
It's not up to the United States to de-
cide the ultimate status of the West Bank
or the Gaza area. This is the reason for
the future negotiations, in which not only
the Palestinians but also the Jordanians
and the Egyptians will negotiate.
So, I don't want to say what the ulti-
mate status or who has sovereignty might
be. The first step, to define what is—to
use Prime Minister Begin's word—full
autonomy, will be difficult enough with-
out my trying to decide here what deci-
sion might be reached 5 years in the fu-
ture on the permanent status.
MR. SHILON. Can you define the exact
American attitude these days towards the
PLO?
THE PRESIDENT. Our attitude these
days is the same as it has been for a long
time. The PLO have not been willing to
recognize the applicability of United Na-
tions Resolution 242, and the PLO have
not been willing to accept the right of
Israel to exist. Until the PLO is willing to
do these things, we will not deal with the
PLO.
MR. SHILON. Mr. President, are you
actually suggesting a defense treaty be-
tween Israel and the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We've never sug-
gested this. But there will be a memo-
randum of understanding that will exist
between Israel and the United States for
the first time. It will be fairly far-reaching,
and it's exactly what we want and exactly
what Israel wants as well.
We've never had any sort of proposals
on either side that there be an actual de-
fense treaty between our two countries. I
454
