Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
tion of new trucking firms, and other
forms of competitive behavior. It will im-
prove service to our small communities. It
will strengthen the Department of Trans-
portation's ability to improve truck safety
on our Nation's highways. And it will help
all Americans in the battle against infla-
tion by reducing the cost of shipping
throughout the United States, which
touches almost every single item that
Americans use.
Soon I will send to the Congress pro-
posals which will ensure that consumers
receive increased protection in the house-
hold goods moving industry.
my
The best anti-inflation medicine, in
opinion, is real competition under the
American free enterprise system. Airline
deregulation has already saved American
travelers over $22 billion in reduced air
fares. Air travel has increased; the profits
of the American airline companies has
also increased. According to the Council
on Wage and Price Stability, this trucking
deregulation bill will save American con-
sumers $5 billion.
America's free economy has provided
the greatest material blessing to us of any
nation on Earth. I'm determined to bring
common sense, equity, and efficiency to
the entire regulatory process, so that the
strength of our economy can be realized
and the public good can be served and
protected. These proposals are a major
step toward that goal.
Who is for this legislation? There are
organizations represented here which
indicate an answer to that question: farm
families who produce grain, cattle, other
livestock; processors of food; retail mer-
chants; small business leaders; consumers;
manufacturers; independent business peo-
ple; representatives of State government,
city government, county government;
those who are interested in improved
highway safety; those who are interested
in the conservation of energy; those who
are interested in controlling inflation.
Those are some of the people who are for
this legislation.
Who's against it? Some truckers who
now have a noncompetitive advantage
and who want to perpetuate a Gov-
ernment bureaucracy to protect such
interests.
Many Members of the Congress have
played a major role in pursuing the con-
cept of deregulation for many years quite
effectively. The House Members, as you
may know, are now involved in a very im-
portant series of votes and debates on the
Panama implementation legislation. But
I would like to mention Chairman Bizz
Johnson, who cannot be here now because
of that vote, but who was instrumental in
passing, insofar as the House is concerned,
the airline deregulation bill; Chairman
Jim Howard, head of the Subcommittee
on Highway Transportation, who will be
holding hearings on this
this legislation
throughout the country and who's pledged
to me personally a fair hearing on this
legislation; Senator Howard Cannon, who
is here, chairman of the Senate Commerce
Committee-he was one of the leaders in
putting forward the airline deregulation
bill through the Senate last year-Senator
Charles Percy, who drafted the trucking
safety bill, extracts from which have been
incorporated in this new 1979 legislation;
and Senator Ted Kennedy, who has been
in the forefront of all phases of regulatory
reform in a very effective way for many
years. He will be sponsoring this legisla-
tion, working closely with the other men
that I have mentioned here. He was the
first to suggest a comprehensive approach
to trucking deregulation.
I consider this legislation to be one of
the most important proposals that I have
ever made to the Congress, and I want to
express again this afternoon my deep ap-
1115
