Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
stance, and of course, they don't have the
ability to trade with their normal neigh-
bors. And I would hope that if we could
ever get a peace treaty signed and open
the borders and have diplomatic relations
and exchange of ambassadors and student
exchange and tourism and mutual trade
and us and other nations help them de-
velop water resources, mine different min-
erals like potash and so forth, the common
use of the Suez Canal, common defense
exchanges, that this would make it per-
manent. And we are that close to it.
The remaining differences on the peace
treaty are absolutely insignificant. It's just
disgusting, almost, to feel that we're that
close and can't quite get it, but the feel-
ings are deep and the sense of doubt and
trust, on occasions, are just missing.
I've overanswered your question. I
don't want to answer any more questions.
It's an intriguing sort of thing, and I hope
that over a period of months that you
will become more and more involved in
sharing with me some of the things that I
described so briefly tonight.
In closing, I would like to propose a
toast to the Governors of the States, to
our great Nation, and to the people that
you and I both represent, and to the
United States of America.
Thank you.
GOVERNOR CARROLL. Mr. President,
Mrs. Carter, again the Governors of
America have come for your hospitality,
and we particularly appreciate your inti-
mate knowledge of the foreign affairs of
the world.
One must be impressed by a President
that can stand and speak so intimately
about the problems of foreign affairs
around the world. And I know that I
speak for all of the Governors tonight, as
well as your fellow Americans, that give
you our prayers and our blessings as you
begin to further negotiate the differences
between Egypt and Israel. And we will
leave Washington tomorrow with a deep
prayer on our hearts that your efforts will
be successful.
We commend you for your excellent
leadership. And you, probably, in being
so candid as you are, are correct. I'm
not sure that all the American people fully
appreciate the difficulty of your task, one
that you can really not be a winner in,
because no negotiator is ever a winner.
But no matter whether or not the effort is
finally totally successful, your leadership
has contributed substantially to world
peace. And the Governors are pleased to
be your partner in that effort.
As we said on Sunday afternoon, be-
cause of your leadership we have initiated
a committee on international trade and
foreign affairs. And it was our pleasure re-
cently to host Vice Premier Deng, when
he and other members of his delegation
from the People's Republic of China were
here. And our hearts were warmed like
yours in finding that the people of China
and the people of the United States had
so much in common, knowing their inter-
est in exchanging technology, in educa-
tion, and certainly, in goods and services.
The Governors of America appreciate
the partnership which we enjoy with the
executive branch. Obviously, we have
some differences. But no Governor, re-
gardless of his particular political per-
suasion, would deny that we continue to
negotiate to find common ground. And
through our communication we have
found common ground, because we begin
to understand the burdens and responsi-
bilities of each other.
We feel that our meeting, concluded
this afternoon, has probably been one of
361
