Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
This should be part of a national health
plan.
Mental Health
Based upon last year's recommenda-
tions of the President's Commission on
Mental Health, I will be proposing com-
prehensive mental health legislation this
year along with a Mental Health Message.
A new Community Mental Health Sys-
tem will make new efforts to link mental
health, health, and social services for the
chronically mentally ill to enable them
to live successfully in the community and
will provide new community mental
health services. We will emphasize efforts
to provide improved recognition and
treatment of mental health problems in
the general health care system. In addi-
tion, we will increase support for mental
health research to restore our mental
health research capacity, which the Com-
mission found had seriously eroded over
the past decade.
The First Lady has helped spearhead
the Administration's efforts to sensitize
the Nation to the problems in the mental
health area. She will continue to work di-
rectly with me to implement the perti-
nent recommendations of the Commis-
sion.
Drug Abuse
In continuing our efforts to combat
drug abuse, my Administration will rely
on those programs and initiatives which
have proven to be successful in the past
year and which serve as building blocks
for future programs. Today, in the United
States, there are 110,000 fewer heroin
addicts than there were in 1975; 1,000
fewer Americans died of heroin overdoses
in the twelve-month period ending June
30, 1978 than in the previous twelve
months. Seizures of illegal drugs are at
their highest level ever. Improved co-
ordination and cooperation among Fed-
eral agencies have resulted in a more
effective drug program without major
budget increases. But much remains to be
done and the situation remains serious.
In 1979 we will look more to the be-
havior of the individual who turns to
drugs, will stress financial investigations
as a means of prosecuting those indi-
viduals responsible for the drug traffic,
and will rely heavily on enlisting foreign
cooperation in the overall drug program.
These efforts should further our success
in controlling drug abuse both in the
United States and abroad.
Drug Regulation Reform
My Administration will continue to
work with the Congress to overhaul our
current drug regulation laws in order to
assure that consumers have prompt ac-
cess to safe and effective drugs.
Food and Nutrition
Last year, we worked with the Congress
to enact the Child Nutrition Amend-
ments, which revamped many of our food
programs and greatly expanded the Sup-
plemental Food Program for Women, In-
fants and Children. This year I will pro-
pose further legislation to strengthen these
and other food programs by: improving
the targeting of school meal programs for
the needy; instituting an error sanction
scheme to encourage States to reduce
costly Food Stamp errors; and eliminating
the cap on food stamp expenditures.
These reforms will insure that additional
nutrition resources are targeted to those
truly in need.
Worker Health and Safety
We will continue to fully enforce laws
protecting worker health and safety in a
sensible and efficient manner. There will
be further efforts to eliminate frivolous
135
