Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
ples of all states to determine their future
without outside interference.
Recognizing that an armed world con-
flict can and must be avoided, the sides
believe that at the present time there is
no more important and urgent task for
mankind than ending the arms race and
preventing war. They expressed their in-
tention to make every effort to attain that
goal. To that end, they also recognized
the value of consultation between them-
selves and with other governments, at the
United Nations and elsewhere, in order to
prevent and eliminate conflict in various
regions of the world.
The sides note with satisfaction the
growing practice of contacts between
government officials of the USA and the
USSR in the course of which key ques-
tions of US-Soviet relations and pressing
international issues are discussed. The
process of developing useful ties between
the US Congress and the Supreme Soviet
of the USSR and of exchanges between
non-governmental organizations is con-
tinuing.
The talks again confirmed the specific
significance of personal meetings between
the leaders of the USA and the USSR in
resolving the basic questions in the rela-
tions between the two states. In principle,
it has been agreed that such meetings will
be held in the future on a regular basis,
with the understanding that the specific
timing will be determined by mutual
agreement.
Agreement has also been reached on
broadening the practice of consultations
and exchanges of opinion between repre-
sentatives of the sides on other levels.
II. LIMITATIONS OF NUCLEAR AND
CONVENTIONAL ARMS
The two sides reaffirmed their deep
conviction that special importance should
be attached to the problems of the preven-
tion of nuclear war and to curbing the
competition in strategic arms. Both sides
recognized that nuclear war would be a
disaster for all mankind. Each stated that
it is not striving and will not strive for
military superiority, since that can only
result in dangerous instability, generating
higher levels of armaments with no bene-
fit to the security of either side.
Recognizing that the USA and the
USSR have a special responsibility to re-
duce the risk of nuclear war and contrib-
ute to world peace, President Carter and
President Brezhnev committed themselves
to take major steps to limit nuclear weap-
ons with the objective of ultimately elimi-
nating them, and to complete successfully
other arms limitation and disarmament
negotiations.
SALT. In the course of the meeting,
President Carter and President Brezhnev
confirmed and signed the Treaty Between
the USA and the USSR on the Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Arms, the Protocol
thereto, the Joint Statement of Principles
and Basic Guidelines for Subsequent
Negotiations on the Limitation of Stra-
tegic Arms and the document entitled
Agreed Statements and Common Under-
standings Regarding the Treaty Between
the USA and USSR on the Limitation of
Strategic Offensive Arms.
At the same time, the sides again
stressed the great significance of the
Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic
Missile Systems and strict compliance
with its provisions and of other agree-
ments previously concluded between them
in the field of strategic arms limitation
and reducing the danger of nuclear war.
Both sides express their deep satisfac-
tion with the process of the negotiations
on strategic arms limitations and the fact
that their persistent efforts for many years
to conclude a new treaty have been
crowned with success. This treaty sets
1083
