Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 1
one's own immediate peer group; because
it's not a matter of mutual condemnation
when we strive for a higher standard of
justice, because a human being has a
higher standard that might be reached
than justice. A human being can reach a
degree of commitment and equality and
friendship and ultimately justice, but a
human being can also reach love, a genu-
ine desire to sacrifice for others, and to
represent in the purest possible form
God's ultimate law on which secular law
is almost always based.
We are all striving together to contrib-
ute as best we can to improve our system,
because we love our country and we've
seen the results of challenge in the past,
even challenge to the law as it existed, to
change it for the better.
I have a unique responsibility, almost in
the history of our country, with the excep-
tion, perhaps, of the first Presidents, to
choose and to nominate to the Senate
about one-third of the total Federal
judges in our country. The Attorney Gen-
eral, I, Members of the Senate, advisory
commissions, many of you in the ABA are
trying to perform this duty well, because
it can shape the quality of justice in our
country for many years to come.
First of all, I'm concerned about the
quality, the wisdom, the knowledge, the
training, the experience, the sensitivity of
people whom I nominate. And with that
commitment unshaken, I am also con-
cerned about equity of opportunity and a
representative group of Federal judges.
It's time for women to be adequately
represented, those who speak Spanish,
and the black. And for a Senator or for a
selection committee of the most distin-
guished citizens to choose district judges
to say, “Well, I cannot find a qualified
black, because there are none who serve
in the State court system, or there are
none who have had 20 years' experience
in a distinguished law firm," this in itself
is a reason to perpetuate a travesty of
justice, because basing present discrimina-
tion on past discrimination is obviously
not right.
I might err on a few occasions in ap-
pointing a woman or a black to the Fed-
eral court who doesn't prove to be as
efficient or as effective as they might have
been, because they've not been given the
opportunity in the past to prove them-
selves or to get experience as a white Cau-
casian has. But I'll do the best I can to
avoid that mistake, because my own ex-
perience in politics—and I know yours
in the judicial system, the justice system-
has been that when a person is finally
given an opportunity, he or she ordinarily
performs very well.
Well, in closing, let me say this:
There's no way to prevent change in the
law. There's no way to prevent changes
in a societal structure, in economics.
There's no way to prevent change in poli-
tics. But change can be for the better if
there's a determination to realize that
goal.
James Madison wrote, as he was ex-
plaining to the American people the es-
sence of our Constitution, that either jus-
tice had to be enthusiastically pursued
or our liberty would be lost. And Thomas
Jefferson said that law, in order to be ef-
fective in its administration, had to be
simple, so that it could be understood by,
as he said, the common man, and it had
to be based not on technicalities, but on
common sense.
We've reaped great benefit from the
wisdom of our Founding Fathers, and I
hope we won't forget the simple lessons
which they taught us, because a modern,
fast-growing, ever-changing, technologi-
cal world is naturally inclined to be ex-
tremely complex. And the deciphering of
the complexities among those who are
759
