Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
to important existing and new interna-
tional markets.
Crop Insurance
The Federal government now operates
several programs to protect farmers from
economic losses associated with crop
failure. The experience of recent years
with these programs has demonstrated
their many serious shortcomings in the
breadth of coverage, the equity of pro-
gram benefits, and the efficiency of pro-
gram administration.
We will propose again a comprehen-
sive, nationwide all-risk insurance reform
bill to the 96th Congress aimed at pro-
viding fairer and more effective protec-
tion for farmers, and at no additional cost
to the taxpayer. Under this proposal, sev-
eral existing disaster assistance programs
would be consolidated into one compre-
hensive, share-the-cost program to ensure
against economic losses resulting from
natural disaster and other uncontrollable
risks.
International Emergency Wheat Reserve
The cornerstone of our domestic food
and agricultural policy is the farmer-
owned grain reserve. In little more than
a year, we have built this into a 1.3 billion
bushel grain reserve-the equivalent of
more than a third of our carry-over stocks
from the past year. These stocks remain
under the ownership of those farmers who
produced them rather than in the hands
of government or international grain
traders. This reserve provides a critical
cushion against shocks in the market
caused by production shortfalls either
here or abroad.
We now need to establish the same sort
of protection for our international food
aid programs. Accordingly, the Adminis-
tration will reintroduce legislation to au-
thorize the establishment and manage-
ment of an international emergency wheat
reserve. This reserve will provide devel-
oping countries assurance that we will be
able to fulfill our food aid commitments.
At the same time, it will protect the do-
mestic economy from further inflationary
pressures during periods of grain short-
ages.
Sugar
In the absence of Congressional passage
of a domestic sugar program in the last
session, the Administration has taken sev-
eral further steps to assure domestic pro-
ducers of a fair return and consumers an
assured supply at stable prices. To under-
score Administration commitment to
achieving ratification of the International
Sugar Agreement, I directed that sugar
imports from countries not party to the
agreement be strictly limited to the levels
permitted under the agreement for 1979.
We have also asked for and received an
extension of the deadline for ratifying the
ISA to June 30, 1979. In addition, at the
end of last year, I issued a proclamation
that provides for a new, more flexible sys-
tem of sugar import fees protecting a
domestic raw sugar price of 15 cents per
pound.
To help stabilize world sugar prices, to
satisfy our international commitments,
and to protect our domestic sugar pro-
ducers, my Administration is committed
to working with the Congress to develop
an effective, non-inflationary domestic
sugar program early in this session, and
to achieve ratification of the International
Sugar Agreement.
Rural Development
Throughout 1978 my Administration
took steps to make existing Federal rural
development programs work better. For
many rural areas, and for most rural resi-
153
