Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 14
time. He called out to courage that many
people did not know they had. He called
upon their endurance and their patience
and their simple goodness. He spoke of
the America that had never been, but he
spoke of the America that we hope in the
future will be.
We have survived as an increasingly
free people now for 200 years, and we will
prevail in the struggle for human rights,
because men and women like Daddy
King, Martin Luther King, Jr., Coretta
King, Andy Young, and all those in the
civil rights movement will never stop
believing in the promise of our democracy,
even in its darkest days. And others like
me have learned from you; together we
will prevail.
We can speak out now as a nation with
one voice on the sensitive issue of human
rights all around the world, because Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr., and the civil rights
movement helped to liberate all Amer-
icans from the chains of official racism
here at home.
Had he not lived, had his voice not been
heard, had his actions not prevailed, it
would now be an embarrassment for the
United States to mention the words "hu-
man rights" in international councils.
Daddy King spoke the truth when he
said, "Too many people think Martin
frees only black people. In truth, he helped
to free all people."
Now the challenge facing all of us to-
day, and particularly government, is to
stay true to the trust placed in America
by the civil rights movement and Martin
Luther King, Jr. He trusted our country.
He trusted our Government. He trusted
our people, even when an objective ob-
server would say in complete truth, there
were times when our Government, its
laws, and many of its people didn't de-
serve to be trusted.
Let no one doubt where I stand. My
administration and I personally stand
with you.
We are committed to civil rights.
We are committed to equal opportunity.
We are committed to equal justice under
the law, and you can depend on it.
As President of the United States, rep-
resenting now 220 million people, I pledge
to you that I will continue to strengthen
and to enforce the civil rights laws of the
land, firmly and without equivocation, not
only the letter of the law but the spirit of
the law as well.
Many of those responsible for enforcing
civil rights laws in our Government today
are people who struggled alongside you
in the battle for civil rights-people like
Eleanor Holmes Norton and Drew Days
and Wade McCree and many others. And
I pledge to you that they not only have
my full support as President, but they
have the encouragement of many
others
who work with me in Government like
John Lewis, who's here, Andy Young, in
the enforcement of equal opportunity.
I might say that Andy was planning
on being here today, but about 2:30 this
morning, the Secretary of State had to call
Andy for a special assignment, and he's
not able to be here. But his spirit is with
us. And Jean, his wife, is here.
In our Government, we will not au-
thorize Federal tax money, your tax
money, to fund or pay for discrimination.
It's difficult to root out, because some-
times it's hard to find, and influential
people benefit from different aspects of
discrimination-in hiring practices, in
promotion of employees, in housing, in
redlining bank loans. But we must do
more than correct these defects. For too
many years we have passed equal rights
laws and administered equal rights laws
from a city where 700,000 Americans are
denied their full right to vote. It's time
to give the people of the District of Co-
lumbia their full voting rights.
But we must, and we will, do more.
We cannot overcome 200 years of dis-
29
