Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, January 5, 1979
Premier Hua Guofeng of the
People's Republic of China
New Year's Message From the President.
January 1, 1979
Today, after a generation of isolation
from each other, the United States of
America and the People's Republic of
China establish full diplomatic relations
between our governments. The cause of
world peace will be served by this historic
act of reconciliation.
The estrangement of our peoples has
sometimes produced misunderstanding,
confrontation and enmity. That era is be-
hind us. We can now establish normal pat-
terns of commerce, and scholarly and cul-
tural exchange. Through common effort,
we can deepen the new ties of friendship
between our peoples, and we can jointly
contribute to the prosperity and stability
of Asia and the Pacific region.
Precisely because our two countries
have different traditions, cultures, and
political and economic systems, we have
much to gain from each other. The
United States prizes the great variety of
opinions and origins among its own citi-
zens. Similarly, the United States desires
a world of diversity in which each nation
is free to make a distinctive contribution to
express the manifold aspirations, cultures,
traditions, and beliefs of mankind.
The American people value the enor-
mous contributions the Chinese people
have made to the achievements of human-
ity. And we welcome the growing involve-
ment of the People's Republic of China
in world affairs. We consider China as a
key force for global peace.
We wish to cooperate closely with the
creative Chinese people on the problems
that confront all people.
Your Excellency, in our country, the
first day of the New Year is a time of
rededication and resolve. In that spirit,
we pledge during the coming years:
-to continue as an enlightened Asian
and Pacific power, determined to
help maintain peace and stability in
the region;
-to enrich the lives of our peoples,
both spiritually and materially,
through expanded trade, tourism,
and student and cultural exchanges,
and cooperation in the sciences, all
on a basis of equality and mutual
benefit; and
-to
-to extend our hands across the Pacific
to you in friendship and peace.
1
