Apr. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
leum reserve, better mass transit, coal and
oil shale development, new incentives for
solar techniques, and other basic and ap-
plied research projects with which many
of you are already intimately acquainted.
The energy security fund faces a dif-
ficult passage through Congress, but we
are making progress because the public
supports our proposals. Many of those who
only a few weeks ago were dedicated to
killing outright the windfall profits tax
have now given up on that fight. But the
battle is far from over. New strategy seems
to be to try to hoodwink the American
people by passing a windfall profits tax
that is in fact a charade—a tax designed
primarily to provide loopholes to the oil
companies so that they will get another $4
or $5 billion, in addition to the $6 billion
in increased revenue that they would get
under decontrol with an honest windfall
profits tax proposal passed.
They will try to pass this charade off
on the American people as a so-called
plowback provision. But it isn't a plow-
back; it is a plowunder and a kickback,
and what is going to be plowed under is
the energy security fund with its aid to
research and its aid to the poor. And
what's going to be kicked back to the oil
companies is the money that would go to
finance these absolutely necessary pro-
grams for the well-being of the future of
our country.
I ask for your support in the battle to
pass an honest windfall profits tax to fi-
nance a real energy security fund for our
Nation, in consonance with the program
that will give greatly increased incentive
and greatly increased profits for the oil
companies to explore and to discover and
to produce additional sources of domestic
oil and natural gas.
And I also call on all of you in the
scientific and engineering communities to
fulfill the trust of the American people by
creating the new energy technologies that
are so vital to the future well-being of our
country.
We need innovation on a broader scale
as well, for new ideas in America are cen-
tral not only to reducing our dependence
on foreign oil but also on our efforts to
control inflation, to improve productivity
of our workers, to protect the environ-
ment, and to ensure the prosperity of the
American people.
We tend to think of the inventiveness of
American industry as a kind of inevitable
birthright, but complacency is the last
thing we can afford. Too many of our in-
dustries in this country have gone stale.
Innovative industries in countries like
Japan and West Germany put too many
of ours to shame. Our competitiveness has
begun to slip.
The American free enterprise system
has always been vigorous enough and able
enough and dedicated enough and well-
supported enough to prevail. I have no
doubt that it still retains those capabilities.
We must nurture an environment in
which the new idea and the fresh ap-
proach are put to use. The Federal Gov-
ernment bears a large share of this respon-
sibility. We must change government
practices that thwart innovation, while
enhancing
enhancing government policies which
encourage the development of new prod-
ucts and new processes.
Last year, I directed the Secretary of
Commerce to begin a major study of in-
dustrial innovation. That study, involv-
ing some 30 Federal departments and
agencies and consultations with industry,
labor, and the universities and the public,
will soon be completed. I look forward to
reviewing the recommendations and to
acting on them, hopefully with your help.
Many of you in this room today are
leaders of American business and industry,
and I call on you to emphasize innovation
680
