Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
which contribute to concentration of
market power, waste energy, restrict entry
and services to smaller and other com-
munities, protect larger carriers at the ex-
pense of smaller carriers, and adversely
affect the long-term maintenance of fair
wages and working conditions.
The policy statement also emphasizes
the need for fairer and more expeditious
regulatory procedures and the need for
more effective safety regulation.
REMOVAL OF CERTIFICATE RESTRICTIONS
ICC certificates today are subject to a
variety of restrictions that control every
aspect of a motor carrier's operations. For
example:
Backhaul Restrictions. Many certifi-
cates award only one-way authority, or
specify that a carrier may haul commodi-
ties to a point, but with "no transporta-
tion for compensation upon return unless
otherwise authorized." As recently as
1975, only half the operating certificates
awarded contained authority to haul
goods on a return trip.
Prohibition on Intermediate Stops.
Many certificates prohibit carriers from
making intermediate stops between au-
thorized points. This prevents carriers
from maximizing their loads, increases
costs, and keeps many towns, especially
smaller ones, from receiving the best pos-
sible service.
Route Restrictions. Most certificates
authorizing the carriage of general com-
modities specify the actual highway the
truck must use.
In addition to restricting operating
flexibility, these restrictions harm service
to small towns. A carrier cannot leave the
highway to serve a town off the beaten
track without violating the law.
Circuitous Routings. In some instances,
carriers are required to take an indirect
route or travel through a designated
"gateway city" to reach their destination.
For example:
-Denver, Colorado and Albuquerque,
New Mexico, are connected to each other
via Interstate 25, a distance of 442 miles.
Garrett Freight Lines is permitted to haul
freight from Denver to Albuquerque—but
only if it goes by way of Salt Lake City, a
distance of 730 miles.
-In 1974, during the height of the
energy crisis, Consolidated Freightways
was denied a request to travel directly be-
tween Minneapolis-St. Paul and Dallas.
The carrier's route authority required it
to travel 37% extra miles on trips between
the two points. Despite the company's de-
sire to eliminate excessive mileage and
save fuel, the ICC denied the request be-
cause the new service would harm carriers
already serving the route.
Circuitous routings, like regulations
which require trucks to travel empty,
waste precious fuel and increase costs and
prices.
Commodity Restrictions. ICC certifi-
cates specify in detail the commodities a
carrier is authorized to haul. These re-
strictions often follow no logical pattern
and serve no apparent purpose. Some
certificates, for example, authorize the
carrier to haul crated, but not uncrated
machinery; or allow paint hauled in 2-
gallon cans, but not paint in 5-gallon cans.
One recent certificate permits a carrier to
haul bananas. The carrier may also haul
pineapples, but only if mixed with loads of
bananas.
In another case, a regulated trucker
whose certificate authorizes him to haul
"foodstuffs" recently wanted to haul beer.
Permission was denied by the ICC.
Although "wine" falls into the category of
"foodstuffs," "beer" does not. If this
trucker persists in his desire to haul beer,
he must go through the burdensome,
costly and time-consuming process of ob-
1119
