Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 7
espouse very strongly and think we ought
to maintain, has been a diplomatic prob-
lem-in dealing with the People's Re-
public of China, the Soviet Union, South
Korea, Argentina, Chile, Brazil, the Phil-
ippines-just been described-and other
countries. I could name a lot of them.
Q. Afghanistan.
THE PRESIDENT.
Afghanistan and
others. I acknowledge that. I think, in
balance, it's one of the best things that we
have ever done since I've been President.
I think for us to raise the banner of being
deeply committed to human rights has
been and has had an enlightening effect
on the rest of the world.
Some of the administrations or the re-
gimes in other nations have been embar-
rassed. But I can assure you—and I don't
think I'm saying this in a gloating way—
that in previous administrations, quite
often-even in very popular administra-
tions-when visits were made to coun-
tries, say, in Latin America just to use an
example, there have been, sometimes,
massive anti-American demonstrations
against. very popular leaders, like Eisen-
hower or Truman or Nixon or Rockefeller
and others.
When we have visited those countries,
the response has been overwhelmingly
favorable and friendly among the people,
even when I drove through the streets of
Rio de Janeiro in the midst of an argu-
ment where human rights and nuclear
power were raised.
I think the people have responded well,
even though the leaders in some coun-
tries have been somewhat embarrassed.
I think it's also reminded the American
people about our own Nation's principles.
And sometimes the arguments with the
totalitarian regime that has several thou-
sands of people imprisoned without trial
and without any charge, those arguments
have made vivid in the minds of Ameri-
cans that we are indeed better, or differ-
ent-I think better-in our basic philos-
ophy than those philosophies espoused in
some other countries.
There has been a substantial shift to-
ward democratization in many of those
nations, partially encouraged by our own
standards on human rights. And there
have been literally tens of thousands of
political prisoners released from within
those countries in the last year and a half
or so because of our human rights
position.
The last point that I would like to
make in this answer is that it's raised the
issue of human rights to a high degree of
intensity. There are very few leaders in
the world, in the 150 countries that now
exist, who don't every day or every week
have to remind ourselves including
me-"to what degree are we violating
basic human rights? To what degree are
we earning the condemnation of the rest
of the world? To what degree are we
arousing the animosity or distrust or dis-
pleasure or disappointment among our
own people because we violate those
rights?"
you would go back 3
I'm very proud of what we've done.
And I think in balance, this posture on
human rights has helped us considerably.
If
years or so and
look at the attitude, for instance, in the
General Assembly of the United Nations
every fall when it convened, where our
Nation was the butt of every joke and the
target of every attack mounted by almost
100 nations on Earth, and compare it with
the difference now, the last 2 years, part
of that improvement is because we have
espoused basic human rights.
I think this is particularly true in Africa
where black people now feel they've got a
friend in the United States; they can de-
pend on us.
So, to answer your question, I think
we've got the right policy, and I intend
627
