Jan. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Recognizing the need for all Americans
to help in the battle against cardiovas-
cular disease, the Congress, by joint reso-
lution approved December 30, 1963 (77
Stat. 843; 26 U.S.C. 169b)ยน has requested
the President to issue annually a procla-
mation designating February as American
Heart Month.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the month of Febru-
ary, 1979, as American Heart Month. I
invite the Governors of the States, the
appropriate officials of all other areas sub-
ject to the jurisdiction of the United
States and the American people to join
with me in reaffirming our commitment
to the search for new ways to prevent,
detect and control cardiovascular disease
in all its forms.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this tenth day of Janu-
ary, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred seventy-nine, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:59 p.m., January 10, 1979]
Anniversary of the Birth of
Martin Luther King, Jr.
Message of the President.
January 11, 1979
January 15, 1979, marks the fiftieth
anniversary of the birth of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. Let us make it an occa-
sion of national rebirth by rededicating
ourselves to the principles for which he
lived and by reaffirming our determina-
ยน EDITOR'S NOTE: The correct citation is
(77 Stat. 843; 36 U.S.C. 169b).
tion to reach the goals for which he strug-
gled and died.
Dr. King taught us the peaceful way to
bring down human barriers and to build
up human opportunities. In a very short
time he showed us the power of love to
change men's hearts and to overcome
differences that decades of conflict could
not resolve. In a tense and trying era he
was a symbol of hope and a voice of
reason.
In America and throughout the world
he stands tall among the greatest cham-
pions of human rights. And we are
stronger as a nation and as a world com-
munity because he made us more sensitive
as individuals to the dignity and worth of
others.
United States Fire
Administration
JIMMY CARTER
Nomination of Gordon Vickery To Be
Administrator. January 11, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Gordon Vickery, of Seattle,
Wash., to be Administrator of the United
States Fire Administration.
Vickery, 58, was with the Seattle Fire
Department from 1946 to 1972, begin-
ning as a line firefighter and finally serv-
ing as fire chief for the city of Seattle.
Since 1972 he has been superintendent of
the Seattle Department of Lighting.
Vickery is on the board of directors of
the International Association of Fire
Chiefs. He has received numerous
awards, including the Municipal League
of Seattle Award for Outstanding Public
Official of 1972.
22
