Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 29
our Nation more than a century ago. That
wound has healed.
We come now also to honor the dead of
many other wars. That we must do so is a
tragic reminder that the freedoms we
cherish are constantly under siege. Each
generation is called upon to preserve and
defend our liberties anew, often with their
lives. The fact that their suffering has not
yet bought a permanent peace does not
make their sacrifice in vain. They pre-
served that which we hold most dear so
that we might strive again for what they
sought-a just and honorable peace in
which all people settle their differences
without bloodshed or oppression.
Today America celebrates peace. We
gratefully remember those who gave up
their hopes and lives that we might enjoy
the liberties they loved-on this day and
through all our tomorrows-in peace. We
cannot call them back to give them our
thanks, nor can we raise a monument to
them any more meaningful than the one
they have already left us, a free and peace-
ful America. They have given us a gift
too valuable ever to repay, save by pre-
serving that peace, that liberty, that
that
America.
We have seen how easily the hopes of
peace are dashed. Yet we must keep faith
with those who have gone before, with
those throughout the world who share
our dream, and with the generations yet
unborn whose very existence may depend
upon the success of our efforts.
We earnestly pray that all the people
of the world will join us in our struggle,
so that one day all the earth may share
the blessings of liberty, justice and peace.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Memorial Day, Mon-
day, May 28, 1979, as a day of prayer for
permanent peace, and I designate the
hour beginning in each locality at 11
o'clock in the morning of that day as a
time to unite in prayer.
I urge the press, radio, television, and
all other information media to join in suit-
able observances of this day.
I also call upon the appropriate officials
of all levels of government to fly the flag
at half-staff until noon during Memorial
Day on all buildings, grounds, and naval
vessels throughout the United States and
in all areas under its jurisdiction and con-
trol, and I request the people of the
United States to display the flag at half-
staff from their homes for the same cus-
tomary forenoon period.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:15 p.m., March 29, 1979]
ACTION
Nomination of Richard F. Celeste To Be
Director of the Peace Corps.
March 29, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Richard F. Celeste, of Del-
aware, Ohio, to be Director of the Peace
Corps. He would replace Carolyn Payton,
resigned.
Celeste served as Lieutenant Governor
of Ohio from 1975 until January 1979.
He was the Democratic candidate for
Governor of Ohio in November 1978.
Celeste was born November 11, 1937, in
Lakewood, Ohio. He received a B.A. in
African history from Yale University in
1959. The next year he taught at Yale as
a Carnegie Teaching Fellow, and he then
551
