Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 6
us in Europe.
So, I conclude by thanking President
Giscard again very much, and thank my
colleagues for helping me to get a better
understanding of the world during the
last 48 hours.
PRESIDENT CARTER. First, I'd like to
add my
voice of thanks to Valéry Giscard
d'Estaing, the people of France, and par-
ticularly those of Guadeloupe, who have
made our visit so delightful, enjoyable,
and profitable. Because of the unstruc-
tured agenda and the informality of the
discussions and the almost unprecedented
harmony that exists among us, I have
never attended a conference which was
more beneficial to me, nor more substan-
tive in nature.
One of the dearest and most valuable
assets of the American people, and per-
haps even most of the world, is the close
harmony, the easy communication, and
the common purpose of those peoples who
are represented here by myself, by Chan-
cellor Helmut Schmidt, by President Gis-
card d'Estaing, and by Prime Minister
Callaghan.
Most of our discussions were about re-
gional problems and about global issues,
because the differences which exist among
us bilaterally are very minor and of little
consequence.
We have been determined to strength-
en even further the valuable ties of friend-
ship and cooperation militarily for com-
mon defense and for peace-politically,
culturally, and economically.
Our commitment is to contribute to
global peace. And we have observed with
interest and gratification that in the last
few years, there has been an enhancement
in the normalization of relationships
among the nations of the world. Former
enemies have become friends; potential
enemies have sought to avoid violence by
close consultation and negotiations; and
existing friendships have been strength-
ened.
We're all in agreement that the emer-
gence of the People's Republic of China
toward the outside world, the Western
World, has been one of constructive de-
velopment. And we are all determined to
enhance this development and to assure
that it never becomes an obstacle to dé-
tente, and that it might possibly be used in
the future, we hope, as an avenue of even
strengthening our ties of friendship and
harmony with the people of the Soviet
Union.
We discussed the potential trouble
spots of the world, and we tried to cap-
italize upon the unique opportunity that
one or several of us have to alleviate ten-
sion, to let the people of those regions
find for themselves, with our assistance on
occasion, an avenue toward peace, so that
stability and development of a better qual-
ity of life and enhanced human rights
might be continuing throughout those re-
gions where our influence might be felt.
And finally, I would like to thank these
experienced leaders for their advice and
counsel for me and their constructive sup-
port for the efforts in the SALT negotia-
tions and other important international
measures in which the American people
have taken the lead. This is always of
great benefit to me and to my people.
And I'm deeply grateful for the relation-
ships that we have enjoyed and, I pray,
will continue to enjoy in an enhanced de-
gree in the years to come.
Thank you.
CHANCELLOR SCHMIDT. To speak as
the last in a row of four, it's not so very
easy to add anything new to what my col-
leagues already have said, especially
when, as it is the case, I'm in full agree-
ment with the remarks you already have
heard.
Now I would like-in dealing with the
cordiality, the directness, the cooperative
friendship in which our discussions have
been led-I would like to concede that we
19
