Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Finally, I urge the Congress to give
serious consideration to improving pro-
cedures for litigating class actions, espe-
cially for those cases where the alleged
economic injury is widespread and large
in the aggregate, yet small in its impact on
each individual. The Justice Department
will continue to have my support in work-
ing with Congress to devise class action
procedures which will develop methods
for courts to handle these complex cases
more effectively and at less cost to the tax-
payers and the parties involved.
The members of the Judiciary Commit-
tees of both houses have shown outstand-
ing leadership in developing answers to
the problems facing the justice system. It
is now time for Congress as a whole to
take action so that the American people
will benefit from a more effective civil jus-
tice system.
The White House,
February 27, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
FEBRUARY 27, 1979
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
The President. In my 2 years as Presi-
dent, I've spent more time and invested
more of my own personal effort in the
search for peace in the Middle East than
on any other international problem. That
investment of time and effort was and is
appropriate because of the great im-
portance of peace in that region to our
own country and the vital importance of
a peace agreement between Israel and
Egypt to those two countries.
Some progress was made in the talks
at Camp David last week, 42 days of
talks. I do not share the opinion that the
proposals that we put forward were con-
trary to the Camp David agreements of
last September or that they would make
an Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty meaning-
less.
Based upon the developments of last
week and the recommendations of all the
parties involved, I had hoped to be able
to convene without delay negotiations at
a level which would permit the early con-
clusion of a peace treaty between Israel
and Egypt, as a first step toward a wider
settlement for the entire Middle East.
I regret that such direct negotiations
are not possible at this time. I'm con-
cerned about the impact of this develop-
ment upon the prospects for peace. How-
David-Secretary Vance and all the
ever, it was the belief of all those at Camp
negotiators from Israel and Egypt—that
the conclusion of an Egyptian-Israeli
peace treaty is an urgent necessity. I share
that view completely.
If we allow the prospects for peace
that seemed so bright last September
when we came back from Camp David
to continue to dim and perhaps even to
die, the future, at best, is unpredictable.
If we allow that hope to vanish, then
the judgment of history and of our own
children will of necessity, and rightly, con-
demn us for an absence of concerted
effort.
For that reason, I spoke personally this
afternoon with Prime Minister Begin and
with President Sadat. I've invited Prime
Minister Begin to join me as soon as pos-
sible for a frank discussion of all the issues
involved. I'm hopeful that these talks will
lead to an early resumption of direct nego-
tiations.
Prime Minister Begin has accepted my
invitation. He will be arriving here Thurs-
day evening for discussions with me.
346
