Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
prices of goods produced by U.S. firms
that compete with imported products.
Costs of land and building materials were
driven up by exuberant demands for new
homes, and the rise of mortgage interest
rates added to the costs of buying a home.
At the same time, the cumulative effects
of government legislation and regulation
over recent years gave further impetus to
cost pressures.
A large part of the worsening of infla-
tion last year, however, stemmed from
poor productivity. Over the past decade
or more, the rate of growth in our pro-
ductivity has been slowing. In late 1977
and throughout 1978, the slowdown in
productivity growth reached serious pro-
portions. Last year the productivity of our
economy increased by less than 1 percent.
The reasons for the weakening of
pro-
ductivity growth in our country, especially
its poor performance last year, are com-
plex and are not fully understood. But
the consequences are well known. With
slower productivity growth, our living
standards individually and as a Nation
cannot rise as fast. Slower productivity
growth means that the resources available
for carrying out governmental programs
become scarcer. It means that large in-
creases in wages and other incomes put
greater upward pressure on costs and
prices. If we ignore the realities of slower
productivity growth-if governments con-
tinue to press forward with unabated
claims on resources, and private citizens
continue to demand large gains in money
incomes our inflationary problem will
worsen.
DEALING WITH INFLATION
Inflation injures every person in our
country. It means that paychecks do not
go as far as they once did. It means that
savings accumulated for retirement or for
a child's education become inadequate.
Many poor and elderly persons see prices
they pay for food, shelter, and heat rise
rapidly while their incomes rise slowly
or not at all. These problems are so acute
that they demand an all-out effort to
reduce inflation. Yet rising prices and
costs have additional and very serious ef-
fects on our economy as a whole.
Inflation drives up interest rates. It
undermines the competitiveness of our
industries and the value of our dollar
abroad. Confidence of businesses in the
future is reduced and investment plans
are upset. Consumers' confidence in their
own future is sapped. Sooner or later,
these effects of inflation will undermine
the basis for economic expansion and
make sustained prosperity impossible.
Finally, the corrosive effects of inflation
eat away at the ties that bind us together
as a people. One of the major tasks of a
democratic government is to maintain
conditions in which its citizens have a
sense of command over their own destiny.
During an inflation individuals watch in
frustration as the value of last week's pay
increase or last month's larger social secu-
rity check is steadily eroded over the re-
mainder of the year by a process that is
beyond their individual control. All of us
have to plan for the future when we lend
or borrow, save for a child's education,
change a job, buy a home, or choose a ca-
reer. The future is uncertain enough in
any event, and the outcome of our plans
is never fully within our own control.
When the value of the measuring rod with
which we do our planning-the purchas-
ing power of the dollar-is subject to large
and unpredictable shrinkage, one more
element of command over our own future
slips away. It is small wonder that trust in
government and in social institutions is
simultaneously eroded.
113
