Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 25
in spite of devastating potential conse-
quences because of an absence of an
energy policy, we put one together in 90
days. And I have put more time on energy
than I have SALT, the Mideast, Panama
Canal Treaty, or any other foreign policy
questions all put together.
And in April of 1977, I presented to the
Congress a comprehensive, reasonable
energy proposal. And I have been scorned
and ridiculed by the press or others be-
cause I said this was the moral equivalent
of war and that we actually have a very
serious question. In many ways, I have
been a lonely voice up until this moment.
We've got a serious energy question, not
only in the United States but around the
world.
The Congress passed about 60, 65 per-
cent of all of our energy proposals after
almost 2 years of begging and pleading
and threatening and hard work. They did
not pass one sentence about oil. Now, I
recognize that's a difficult proposition, be-
cause our Nation is not only one of the
largest users and wasters of oil, but we
are also one of the largest producers of
oil. And the producers of oil have a power-
ful lobby, perhaps the most powerful
lobby on Earth. And the Congress has not
acted yet on a single issue that relates to
oil.
Nobody here has forgotten about 1973,
1974 when we had gas lines. The situation
has not improved. We're running now 2
or 3 million barrels a day less oil being
produced than we are consuming on a
worldwide basis, and American produc-
tion of oil has been going down about
percent per year for the last 10 years.
6
It is obvious to anyone that looks at it
that we've got a problem that's serious
now. It's going to get more serious in the
future. We're going to have less oil; we're
going to have to pay more for it. Those
are facts. They are unpleasant facts. And
so far, the American people, whom I do
not want to condemn, and the Congress
of the United States, who I do not want to
condemn, have refused to accept that sim-
ple fact.
We are now using, for instance, in Cal-
ifornia, 7 percent more gasoline than we
used a year ago. And we have less gasoline
to go around. We're trying to plant crops
in Iowa, Nebraska, Illinois, Ohio, and
madly trying to move enough diesel fuel
so the tractors won't stop, trying to build
up reserve supplies of fuel in New Eng-
land to heat homes this fall.
And the Congress has still not given me
the authority that I have asked for. They
rejected, including the Democrats, the
proposals that I have made on ration-
ing-not even willing to give me the au-
thority to hold down waste of illumination
on buildings and on billboards; not giv-
ing me the authority, if the Governors
fail and request it, to reduce the sale of
gasoline 1 day a week; not even willing
to give me the authority to develop a
standby rationing plan, just to develop
one that could not go into effect unless a
crisis existed and the President and the
Congress agreed to put it into effect.
I'm not blaming the Congress, because
the American people have not yet de-
manded this. They think that somehow
or another a miracle is going to occur and
a lot of oil is going to be released from
secret hiding places, and if the Federal
Government and the oil companies would
just quit cheating everybody, the energy
problem is going to blow over. That's not
going to happen.
The Congress has got two proposals
this year on inflation-real wage insur-
ance, to tell the working people, whom
you and I care about, "If you'll agree to
hold down your wage demands and the
inflation rate goes up, we'll give you a tax
reduction so you won't lose by trying to be
951
