Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 5
Office of Management and Budget in
support of authorization or funding re-
quests for those activities in fiscal year
1981 and subsequent years.
(b) An agency shall not submit to the
Council more than one-third of the total
reports, proposals, and plans scheduled
for review in any fiscal year during any
quarter of that fiscal year.
(c) Within 60 days of the submission
by an agency of a report, proposal, or
plan, the Chairman of the Council shall
transmit the results of the impartial tech-
nical review to the appropriate agency
head, including identification of any spe-
cific variations from Council approved
procedures and manuals and the steps
necessary to bring the plan into conform-
ance therewith.
1-106. (a) All agency reports, proposals
and plans submitted to the Council for
review shall include sufficient information
to allow an adequate technical review. In
particular, this information shall include:
(1) Sufficient documentation to allow
a technical review of the analysis by the
agency of the ratio of the benefit to the
cost.
(6) Evidence that the public and State
and local officials have been involved in
the plan formulation process.
(b) If the documents and information
necessary for the review are not initially
submitted, the Chairman may extend the
review period by not more than 30 days.
If the documents and information sub-
mitted do not demonstrate compliance, a
finding detailing the areas of noncompli-
ance will be transmitted to the agency
head.
1-107. Before any agency submits to
the Congress, or to any committee or mem-
ber thereof, a report relating to, or af-
fecting in whole or in part its advance
programs, or the public works and im-
provement projects comprising such pro-
grams, or the results of any plan prepara-
tion for such programs or projects, such
report or plan shall be submitted to the
Office of Management and Budget for ad-
vice as to its relationship to the program
of the President. When such report or
plan is thereafter submitted to the Con-
gress, or to any committee or member
thereof, it shall include a statement of
the advice received from the Office of
(2) Evidence that an adequate evalua- Management and Budget.
tion has been made of reasonable alterna-
tives, including nonstructural ones, for
addressing the water-related problems of
the affected regions and communities.
(3) An explanation of the relationship
of the plan to any approved regional water
resource management plans.
(4) A summary of the consideration
given to water conservation measures and
a listing of those measures incorporated
into the plan.
(5) Evidence that there has been com-
pliance with relevant environmental and
other laws and requirements.
1-108. Agency submissions to the Office
of Management and Budget of the re-
ports, proposals or plans reviewed pur-
suant to this Order shall be accompanied
by a statement of the findings transmitted
to the agency head.
1-109. Executive Order No. 9384 of
October 4, 1943, as amended, is revoked.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
January 4, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:37 p.m., January 5, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was re-
leased on January 5.
9
