Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 17
country, and particularly in this group,
work to achieve those mutual goals which
we share.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA AND
TAIWAN
Q. Mr. President, on your negotiations
with China over normalization of diplo-
matic relations, did you at any point ask
the Chinese to provide a binding, written
pledge that they would not try to seize
Taiwan by force? And if you did request
that, why didn't you get it? And if you
didn't, why didn't you ask for it?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. One of our goals
in the negotiation was to get a public
commitment on the part of China that the
differences with Taiwan would be re-
solved peacefully. This was not possible to
achieve. The final outcome of that was
that we would make a unilateral state-
ment that we expect any differences be-
tween Taiwan and China to be resolved
peacefully, and the agreement was that
the leaders in China would not contradict
that statement.
Since the announcement of normaliza-
tion, Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping and
others have made public comments that
substantiate the statement that I have
made. It's a matter internally for the Chi-
nese to resolve, but I think Mr. Deng has
made several statements saying that it
ought to be resolved peacefully.
We were also insistent upon the fact
that the treaty between us and Taiwan
would not be peremptorily or immedi-
ately canceled or abrogated. The treaty
will be terminated in accordance with its
own provisions, with a 1-year's notice to
Taiwan. The Chinese did not agree with
this originally, but they finally accepted
that fact.
Another insistence that we had, which
was finally agreed to, was that we would
go ahead with normal trade, cultural rela-
tionships with Taiwan and also that exist-
ing treaties other than the defense treaty
would continue in effect.
One point on which we did not agree
with the Chinese was that we will, after
this year, continue to sell defensive weap-
ons to Taiwan to provide for their security
needs. The Chinese leaders do not agree
with this policy, but they understand that
it is our policy and, knowing that, they
went ahead with normalization.
So, there were some differences between
us, but I think this is one of the major
achievements for peace in the world and,
particularly, to cement our relationship
with the nations in the Western Pacific.
And I think we had a very good outcome
for the long negotiations.
THAILAND
Q. Mr. President, next month you are
going to meet, supposedly, with the Prime
Minister of Thailand, who is the head of
a nation that is now threatened by the
Vietnamese. I need to know two things,
if you could. One, what is the U.S. pre-
pared to offer Thailand to ease their con-
cerns about the Vietnamese? Will it be
money, economic aid, military weapons,
or American-piloted aircraft? Number
two, have you personally been in touch
with the leaders of China and the Soviet
Union to see what they plan to do to help
ease the situation?
THE PRESIDENT. We are very inter-
ested in seeing the integrity of Thailand
protected, the borders not endangered or
even threatened by the insurgent troops
from Vietnam in Cambodia. We have
joined in with almost all other nations
of the world in the United Nations in
condemning the intrusion into Cambo-
dia by Vietnamese forces. This obviously
involves the adjacent country of Thai-
land.
53
