Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
April 28
a campaign if I decide to run in the fu-
ture, but because of that reason that I've
described to you.
And there are some others as well. I
think it would strengthen my hand with
the Congress. The lameduck aspect
doesn't concern me at all. And I think
there could be some appropriate consti-
tutional prohibitions against trying to be
a kingmaker and being involved in choos-
ing one's own successor.
This, for instance, applies in Venezu-
ela, where there is a prohibition against
involvement in a succeeding campaign.
So, 6 years would be better, I think.
CONGRESSIONAL TERMS OF OFFICE
Q. Do you feel that should go for the
Hill, too?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm sorry?
Q. For Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think not. I
would personally not want to. The Sen-
ate, obviously, has 6 years. I think it's
good for the House to be constantly cam-
paigning. I think one branch of the Con-
gress ought to be constantly under the
political pressure of maintaining contact
with the people back home. It's onerous
for incumbents, but I think it's good.
NEW ENGLAND ENERGY PRICES
Q. Mr. President, in New Hampshire
the other day, you said that the disparity
of energy prices in New England and the
rest of the country would decrease in the
future. That led to some speculation that
the prices themselves would be less in
New England than they are now. Is that
the impression you intended to leave?
if
THE PRESIDENT. No, I didn't. I think
you read what I said, I was very care-
ful to say that prices would increase in
the future and we had to use less oil. I
eliminated all special taxes on imported
oil. We had already eliminated part of it;
fees, they're called. And I think with a
more ready distribution of oil throughout
our country, that the difference in prices
will be lessened.
We have now a situation where New
England imports about, I think, 80 per-
cent of all the oil they use. And they are
heavily dependent on oil for major power
production, as contrasted with other parts
of the country where they use more coal
and natural gas. I think New England
now uses about 2 percent natural gas.
Georgia, just as a contrasting interest, gets
85 percent of its electricity from coal. Not
only does New England use 80 percent oil,
but they also import 80 percent of all the
oil they use.
So, I think the new energy program,
with increasing supplies coming in from
Canada, with the pipelines that we can
evolve, with increased uses of alternate
energy sources, improved quantities of do-
mestic oil and natural gas, decreased de-
pendence upon imported oil, the use of
forest wood, low-height dams-all this
will help to reduce the wide disparity in
prices of energy paid by New England.
But in general, all of the prices for energy
in our country have gone up and will go
up.
I might point out that all increases that
have taken place now that cause conster-
nation among our people have taken
place under control legislation. And I
think that our new opportunity to create
the energy security fund will let us help
to alleviate these disparities.
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, the economy, as you
have mentioned, is a serious problem.
And by some, the voluntary wage and
price mechanism is seen as less than a
complete success, with the Teamsters
739
