Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 24
and consumer groups and with you in a
national price-monitoring effort.
I've instructed the Council on Wage
and Price Stability to use its legal author-
ity to get regular reports on price in-
creases, all price increases, from firms in
problem industries where prices are going
up too high.
We've already identified several com-
panies which appear to have broken the
guidelines that we've established. We'll be
identifying others in the days ahead.
They'll be given a chance to explain the
purpose or the reason for their high prices.
But I will not hesitate to identify those
companies that violate the price guide-
lines, so that the people of this Nation can
take appropriate action.
An absolutely vital element in the fight
against inflation is to restrain Federal
spending. We cannot tolerate ever-in-
creasing Federal spending. I am com-
mitted to a balanced budget, and that's a
goal I intend to achieve. And I need for
you to help me with it.
In the past 2 years, we've cut the $66
billion deficit that I inherited by more
than half. This year, I've sent the Con-
gress a tight, responsible budget that cuts
the deficit even further. I'm determined
to hold the line on Federal spending this
year, and I hope you'll give me your
support.
And finally, let me say that the problem
of inflation is difficult, frustrating, terribly
complex. It's been with us now for more
than 10 years. But it is not beyond our
power to control.
For 30 years, many believed that the
chance for peace between Israel and
Egypt was beyond our grasp. But on Mon-
day, our Nation will welcome Prime Min-
ister Begin of Israel and President Anwar
Sadat of Egypt to the White House to sign
a treaty of peace. We never thought it
would be possible.
We never thought it would be possible
just a few months ago, but with courage
and determination and cooperation, suc-
cess is now within our grasp. We need that
same kind of daily commitment, deter-
mination, courage, and cooperation to lick
the problems that face our own country-
the problem of inflation. These qualities
have always been part of American life.
And I know the same spirit exists among
you and among other Americans through-
out this great country. I know that we
have the will and the ability to win this
fight together.
And now, I would like to have your
questions, and I'll start with the first
microphone on my left.
QUESTIONS
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE TREATY
Q. Mr. President, I'm Jimmy Dillard,
and I'd like to know, how sound is the
peace treaty, whose foundation is built
with 5 billion inflated American tax
dollars?
THE PRESIDENT. This peace treaty is
a result of 30 years of war and the lessons
which our Nation has learned from it.
We have two notable friends in the Mid-
dle East, among others-Israel and
Egypt. At this moment, they are in a
state of declared war against each other.
Thousands of people in each country have
lost their lives. Our own interests are di-
rectly involved. We will provide part of
the cost of removing the armed forces
from the Sinai Desert. This is a very
expensive proposition.
The Egyptians have five divisions on
the Israeli side of the Suez Canal. The
Israelis have two divisions, two large air-
fields built on Egyptian territory. Israel
is very much in need of economic sta-
bility. Their inflation rate last year, for in-
471
