Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
shall include representatives of business
and industry, agriculture, and labor.
1-103. The President shall designate a
Chairman and a Vice Chairman from
among the members appointed by the
President.
1-104. The Secretary of Commerce,
with the concurrence of the Chairman,
shall appoint an Executive Director.
1-2. Functions.
1-201. The Council shall serve as a na-
tional advisory body on matters relating to
United States export trade, including ad-
vice on the implementation of the Presi-
dent's National Export Policy, which was
announced on September 26, 1978. It
shall, through the Secretary of Commerce,
report to the President on its activities and
on its recommendations for expanding
United States exports.
1-202. The Council should survey and
evaluate the export expansion activities of
the communities represented by the mem-
bership. It should identify and examine
specific problems which business, indus-
trial, and agricultural practices may cause
for export trade, and examine the needs
of business, industry, and agriculture to
expand their efforts. The Council should
recommend specific solutions to these
problems and needs.
1-203. The Council may act as liaison
among the communities represented by
the membership; and, may provide a
forum for those communities on current
and emerging problems and issues in the
field of export expansion. The Council
should encourage the business, industrial,
and agricultural communities to enter new
foreign markets and to expand existing
export programs.
1-204. The Council shall provide ad-
vice on Federal plans and actions that
affect export expansion policies which
have an impact on those communities rep-
resented by the membership.
1–205. The Council may establish, with
the concurrence of the Secretary of Com-
merce, an executive committee and such
other subordinate committees it considers
necessary for the performance of its func-
tions. The Chairman of a subordinate
committee shall be designated, with the
concurrence of the Secretary of Com-
merce, by the Chairman of the Council
from among the membership of the Coun-
cil. Members of subordinate committees
shall be appointed by the Secretary of
Commerce.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. The Secretary of Commerce
shall, to the extent permitted by law, pro-
vide the Council, including its executive
and subordinate committees, with admin-
istrative and staff services, support and
facilities as may be necessary for the effec-
tive performance of its functions.
1-302. Each member of the Council,
including its executive and subordinate
committees, who is not otherwise paid a
salary by the Federal Government, shall
receive no compensation from the United
States by virtue of their service on the
Council, but all members may receive the
transportation and travel expenses, in-
cluding per diem in lieu of subsistence,
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and
5703).
1-4. General Provisions.
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.
I), except that of reporting annually to
the Congress, which are applicable to the
Council, shall be performed by the Secre-
tary of Commerce in accordance with
guidelines and procedures established by
the Administrator of General Services.
785
