Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 22
already effective January 1, 1979 (Execu-
tive Order No. 12106).
1-102. The records, property, personnel
and positions, and unexpended balances
of appropriations or funds, available or
to be made available, which relate to the
functions transferred as provided in this
Order are hereby transferred from the
Department of Labor to the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission.
1-103. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall make such
determinations, issue such Orders, and
take all actions necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the transfers provided in this
Order, including the transfer of funds,
records, property, and personnel.
1-104. This Order shall be effective
July 1, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 22, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:08 a.m., June 25, 1979]
Captive Nations Week, 1979
Proclamation 4666. June 22, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Twenty years ago, by a joint resolution
approved July 17, 1959 (73 Stat. 212),
the Eighty-Sixth Congress authorized and
requested the President to proclaim the
third week in July of each year as Captive
Nations Week.
However greatly the world has changed
in the past generation, our country's
fundamental faith in human freedom re-
mains constant. Americans now, as at all
times in our history, remain steadfast in
our belief that liberty and national inde-
pendence are among the universal birth-
rights of mankind.
Remembering our democratic heritage
and our commitment to human rights,
let us take this occasion to reaffirm our
admiration for all the men and women
around the world who are committed to
the cause of freedom.
And mindful of our own rich and di-
verse heritage, let us express our com-
passion and respect for persons around
the world still seeking the realization of
these ideals in their own lands.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate the week begin-
ning July 15, 1979, as Captive Nations
Week.
I invite the people of the United
States to observe this week with appropri-
ate ceremonies and activities and to re-
affirm their dedication to the ideals which
unite us and serve as inspiration to others.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-second day
of June, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:09 a.m., June 25, 1979]
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items
of general interest announced by the
White House Press Office and not in-
cluded elsewhere in this issue.
1141
