Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, February 2, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
January 26, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me thank
you all for coming to the White House.
Some of you are coming back for a second
visit. This has been one of the most inter-
esting, I think, and productive policies
that we've adopted, is having key news
leaders throughout the Nation come in
every 2 weeks, as a matter of fact, 30 to 40
at the time, to meet primarily with my
staff and key advisers and also to meet
briefly with me.
It's helped us to understand the atti-
tude and the concerns around the Nation.
And I hope it's been helpful in letting the
people of the different communities un-
derstand how our White House operated
and what the key issues were at a par-
ticular moment.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We've addressed the major domestic
issues recently in a fairly complete form
in the presentation of the budget. In addi-
tion to that, we have some key foreign
policy concerns coming up very shortly.
One would be the visit of Vice Premier
Deng, who will arrive here Monday. I'll
spend this weekend at Camp David re-
viewing all the briefing notebooks and get-
ting ready for his visit.
Equally important to me, however, and
to our country will be the forthcoming
visit that I will pay to Mexico. The first
head of state who came to visit me offi-
cially was President López Portillo. And
my wife went to Mexico for his inaugura-
tion, and his wife came to my inaugura-
tion. And both the Vice President and
Secretary of State have been to Mexico
since I've been President to pursue the
wide range of agenda items which are so
crucial to us and to our very key and
friendly neighbor in the south.
I'll be well prepared to spend as much
time as possible with López Portillo on a
broad range of subjects of very great im-
portance to us, not only bilateral issues
but also the growing beneficial influence
of Mexico on regional and international
questions. They've been one of the key
movers, for instance, in trying to control
the arms traffic throughout this hemi-
sphere. They've been a key spokesman for
the developing nations of the world in key
areas. They've been helpful in trying to
resolve the Belize question with Guate-
mala, have been very good advisers for
us as we dealt with Nicaragua and other
181
