Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
provements in their accessibility to many
opportunities those of us who are not dis-
abled take for granted-education oppor-
tunities, employment opportunities, and
greater access to public facilities and serv-
ices. We will make further progress in re-
moving obstacles that impede and dis-
criminate against our disabled commu-
nity. If our Nation is to remove the bar-
riers of discrimination in our society, the
Federal government must serve as a model
in the successful removal of physical and
psychological barriers thrown in the way
of our Nation's disabled. The Section 504
Regulations issued by the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare provide
a basis for the Federal government to lead
the way in ensuring the rights of the hand-
icapped.
Undocumented Aliens
One of the most difficult and sensitive
domestic issues facing the country con-
cerns the Federal government's policy to-
ward undocumented aliens.
I continue to believe that effective but
humane measures need to be devised
which will help relieve the causes and ef-
fects of the presence of large numbers of
undocumented aliens in this country. I
will pursue this issue in my consultations
with the government of Mexico during
my visit there next month and will make
no final decisions until after those con-
sultations.
Martin Luther King, Jr.
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. led this
Nation's effort to provide all its citizens
with civil rights and equal opportunities.
His commitment to human rights, peace
and non-violence stands as a monument
to his humanity and courage. As one of
our Nation's most outstanding leaders, it
is appropriate that his birthday be com-
memorated as a national holiday, and I
will strongly support legislation to achieve
this.
Minority Business
This year we will move vigorously to
implement the strong minority business
legislation enacted by Congress in 1978;
meet my goal of tripling Federal procure-
ment from minority businesses (to a total
of $3 billion); faithfully implementing the
minority set-aside programs of the govern-
ment and improve the operation of the
several programs designed to achieve
equal entrepreneurial opportunity and
vital minority economic development. We
are currently evaluating the adequacy and
organization of current minority business
development programs, with the commit-
ment to taking whatever action, legislative
or administrative, is needed to ensure that
their operation is efficient and effective.
Privacy
Civil Liberties
Government and private institutions
collect increasingly large amounts of per-
sonal data and use them to make many
crucial decisions about individuals. Much
of this information is needed to enforce
laws, deliver benefits, provide credit, and
conduct similar, important services. How-
these interests must be balanced
ever,
against the individual's right to privacy
and against the harm that unfair uses of
information can cause. Individuals should
be able to know what information orga-
nizations collect and maintain about
them; they should be able to correct in-
accurate records; and there should be
limits on the disclosure of particularly
sensitive personal information.
My Administration is developing a
comprehensive privacy policy to address
these concerns. Last year, legislation was
enacted which established restrictions on
145
