Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
an impractical dreamer. He's not some-
one with his head in the clouds, because
he knows that you have to pay the bill
when the Federal Government provides
services.
He has a remarkable, almost unique
honor of serving both on the Appropria-
tions Committee and also on the Budget
Committee. He's a sound fiscal manager.
He's worked hard to make sure that un-
necessary regulations and redtape are
eliminated from the Government process.
He's worked hard to reduce our deficits.
When I came here to campaign in 1976,
our Federal budget deficit was more than
$66 billion. We have slashed it more than
half. Next year, we'll cut it even more.
And we're working now to achieve a bal-
anced Federal budget, without cutting
back on the beneficial services which go
to our people.
David Obey has a special leadership
role, however, that has endeared him to
me. I believe that the strength and power
and influence of the United States must
be maintained to exert our own American
ideals throughout the world in a bene-
ficial and idealistic way, to make us proud.
But we need not do it by interfering mili-
tarily in the internal affairs of other coun-
tries.
We've tried that and we failed. What
David Obey has done that's so important
is to see that the tremendous strength of
our Nation must be maintained-moral
strength, economic strength, political
political
strength, and military strength-but that
our beneficial influence should be exerted
through peaceful means.
He's chairman of the subcommittee on
the Appropriations Committee which is
responsible for allocating very carefully,
very precisely, in a targeted way, Ameri-
can economic assistance to other countries
in such a fashion that they can be made
good customers of ours, can recognize the
advantages of our own free enterprise
system, and can eliminate rather than
cause conflict and war.
This is not an easy thing to do. You
will never know, not having served in
Congress, what a tremendous amount of
political courage it takes to play a leader-
ship role in handling a foreign assistance
bill. But it's a matter of supreme states-
manship, and that's the kind of leader-
ship that you have sent to Washington in
David Obey as a Congressman.
I could go on and on talking about
David Obey. I want to lead a nation that's
committed to some very simple
principles-to peace instead of war, to
exemplify in the highest sense equity, fair-
ness, and justice for all, to keep high our
standard of civil rights or human rights,
and to give our own citizens a better
quality of life.
which I think we are capable of achiev-
Those are notable goals. They are goals
ing. We've got a strong nation, a com-
petent nation, a bold nation. And I hope
that we can continue a superb partner-
ship between the people of this country,
the President who serves in the White
House, and superb leaders in the Con-
gress.
I hope you will continue to support our
Government in a constructive way, recog-
nizing that partnership as the basis for a
democratic society, so that you and I,
Dave Obey, Senator Nelson, others,
can make the greatest nation on Earth
even greater in the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. in
the Newman High School gymnasium. In
his opening remarks, he referred to John C.
White, chairman of the Democratic National
Committee.
571
