Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 7
to the 20th on the question of undoc-
umented workers. This commission will
also be listening to the ideas of Mexican
Americans in this country so that it can
recommend a fair, realistic, and effective
solution.
When I was in Mexico in February,
we made significant progress in every im-
portant area. We have been buying, as
willing customers, about 85 percent of all
the oil exported from Mexico. And the
government-to-government negotiations
on natural gas are going well. The nego-
tiating team met first in Mexico and just
yesterday completed a second round of
negotiations in Washington. Negotiations
are under way on programs in agriculture,
energy research, scientific and technical
cooperation, and increasing trade.
Our concern does not end the question
of citizenship. No matter how concerned
we are, we still have the problem. Unem-
ployment among Hispanic young people
is unacceptably high. The Hispanic
worker, whether part-time or full-time, is
twice as likely as other workers to earn
an income below the poverty line. This
is a problem of opportunity-of education
and training, of bilingual programs that
must meet the real needs of young people
who will have to cope in a society where
the majority speaks a different language.
But this is not a problem of preparation
alone. Education and training, even when
they are equal, traditionally have opened
fewer doors for Hispanics. There's also a
problem of equity, fairness, justice, and
affirmative action, to which I am fully
committed.
I'm committed to breaking down the
discrimination against Hispanic Ameri-
cans wherever it remains in this country.
The record increase in Federal funding
for education, particularly programs for
disadvantaged youngsters to help them
master basic skills, will help to guarantee
that the young people who will enter the
workforce of the future will not be con-
sidering inadequate preparation as a bar-
rier as often as they do today. Our young
people are our most valuable resource.
They cannot wait a generation for slow
change. They need their chance now.
I would like to close by saying a few
more words in Spanish.
[At this point, the President again spoke in
Spanish. He then translated his remarks as
follows.]
President López Portillo told me that
Mexico is still struggling for its independ-
ence. In the 19th century, Mexico won
its political independence. In this century,
Mexico is winning its economic independ-
ence. The freedom and independence of
Mexico is tied to a continuing struggle for
freedom and independence of individual
citizens in the United States, and to quote
the historic words of Benito Juarez,
"Among nations as among men, respect-
ing the rights of others is the way to
peace."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. at
the Los Angeles County Hall of Administra-
tion. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Kenneth Hahn, chairman, and Edmund Edel-
man, supervisor, Los Angeles Board of Super-
visors.
Following his remarks, the President went
to the Biltmore Hotel for a luncheon with the
editorial board of the Los Angeles Times. He
then visited actor John Wayne at the UCLA
Medical Center before returning to Washing-
ton, D.C.
Standby Gasoline
Rationing Plan
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Contingency Plan No. 5. May 7, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Sections 201 (d) (1) and
552 of the Energy Policy and Conserva-
813
