Jan. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the remains of those members of their
own families.
MR. BETTS. If I might follow up, Mr.
President, in reference to the Govern-
ment's effort to notify families, do you
think that an adequate job is being done
to notify families that there could be rela-
tives among this very, very large number
of people who were a part of this very
tragic situation?
The President. Well, I can't say that
it's adequate, but we're doing the best
we can. There's been a great deal of
criticism of the Federal Government, by
many very conservative Americans and
others, for making any attempt to bring
the bodies back to our country. But I felt
at the time I authorized this action by the
Government that it was proper. And
we're doing the best we can to provide
any possible identification information to
the families who are searching for a lost
loved one who may have been in Guyana.
And although it will never be completely
satisfactory, I don't know of anything else
that we can do at this time.
MR. AGURS. Mr. Boone.
BLACK JUDGES
MR. BOONE. I am Ray Boone of the
Afro-American Newspapers, Mr. Presi-
dent. Mr. President, you have promised
that you would name blacks to the Fed-
eral judiciary, which remains almost all
white still today. Could you give us an
idea as to how many blacks you plan to
name to the 152 new Federal judgeships,
and particularly in the South, where
there's only 1 black judge among about
136?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my goal is to
have black judges in Georgia, Florida, the
Carolinas, Mississippi, Alabama, Louisi-
ana-indeed, throughout the country. As
you know, in some parts of the Nation
there are very few blacks who live in
those States and an extremely tiny por-
tion of the total members of the bar. We
are working, though, with every Senator
in the Government to encourage their
submission to me of names selected by
commissions, which include both women
and minority representatives. And I can't
give you an exact number yet, but when-
ever possible we will have a representative
number of blacks, those who speak
Spanish, and women.
One of the problems in the district
judgeships is that the individual Members
of the Senate, in effect, have veto power
over the appointments. In circuit judge-
ships, I have set up my own selection
panels, and I can guarantee you in the
circuit judgeships that you will be well
pleased.
In the district judgeships, when the
Senators have refused to include in their
list of recommended judges those who are
black or other minorities and those who
are women, then we are delaying any ap-
pointments, going back to the Senators
and asking them to enlarge their list.
MR. BOONE. I take it that you are re-
ferring to Senator Byrd of Virginia, who
has disagreed with your position on in-
cluding minorities or blacks on the list
of recommended judges.
THE PRESIDENT. He's one of several,
yes.
MR. BOONE. You said you were work-
ing with all Senators. Does that include
Senator Byrd?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The Attorney
General is working with Senator Byrd
and others to encourage them to expand
their list of recommended nominees to in-
clude both minority representatives and
women, yes.
MR. BOONE. Is he bending?
THE PRESIDENT. You could better get
an answer for that from the Attorney Gen-
eral, who's had conversations with Senator
Byrd. I've not talked to him directly. But
36
