Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 29
nearly 200 years, and what is more, we
fought shoulder to shoulder in the war
against fascism. Though there was a pe-
riod of unpleasantness between us for 30
years, normal relations between China and
the United States have at last been re-
stored, thanks to the joint efforts of our
two governments and peoples. In this re-
spect, President Carter's farsighted deci-
sion played a key role.
Great possibilities lie ahead for devel-
oping amicable cooperation between
China and the United States. In the next
few days, we will be exploring with your
Government leaders and with friends in
all walks of life ways to develop our con-
tacts and cooperation in the political, eco-
nomic, scientific, technological, and cul-
tural fields.
Normalization opens up broad vistas
for developing these contacts and coop-
eration to our mutual benefit. We have
every reason to expect fruitful results.
The significance of normalization ex-
tends far beyond our bilateral relations.
Amicable cooperation between two major
countries, situated on opposite shores of
the Pacific, is undoubtedly an important
factor working for peace in this area and
in the world as a whole. The world today
is far from tranquil. There are not only
threats to peace, but the factors making
for war are visibly growing. The people of
the world have the urgent task of re-
doubling their efforts to maintain world
peace, security, and stability. And our two
countries are duty-bound to work to-
gether and make our due contribution to
that end.
Mr. President, we share the sense of
being on an historic mission. Sino-U.S.
relations have reached a new beginning,
and the world situation is at a new turn-
ing point. China and the United States
are great countries, and the Chinese and
American peoples, two great peoples.
Friendly cooperation between our two
peoples is bound to exert a positive and
far-reaching influence on the way the
world situation evolves.
I sincerely thank you for your welcome.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:12 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House. The Vice
Premier spoke in Chinese, and his remarks were
translated by an interpreter.
Following the ceremony, which was broad-
cast live on radio and television, the President
and the Vice Premier went to the Oval Office
for the first of two separate meetings held dur-
ing the day.
The Cyprus Conflict
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. January 29, 1979
In accordance with the provisions of
Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the
following report on progress made during
the past 60 days toward the conclusion
of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus
problem.
During this reporting period, further
intensive efforts have been made to bring
the two Cypriot communities back to the
negotiating table for serious and sustained
talks under the auspices of Secretary
General Waldheim. The substantive sug-
gestions that the U.S., the U.K. and Can-
ada made available to the two sides and
to the United Nations on November 10
appeared to have stimulated the negotiat-
ing process and were recognized as con-
structive by significant (although not all)
elements in Cyprus, Turkey and Greece.
In the context of recent developments—
especially the new atmosphere created by
the lifting of the arms embargo on Tur-
key, the U.S.-Canadian-U.K. sugges-
tions, the United Nations debates, and a
growing international consensus for a
negotiated settlement-Secretary General
Waldheim submitted to the two Cypriot
parties a draft United Nations formula
191
