Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
tively with conventional technologies.
There will also be efforts to develop wind
technologies for small units suitable for
farm and rural use and for large utility
units.
Biomass conversion holds significant
promise as a major source of renewable
energy over the coming decades. Liquid
and gaseous fuels produced from organic
wastes and crops can displace oil and
natural gas both as direct combustion
fuels and as chemical feedstocks. Some
biomass fuels, such as gasohol, are in use
today. Others, such as liquid fuels from
organic wastes, require additional re-
search and development.
In the coming fiscal year, DOE will
complete construction of the solar power
tower in Barstow, California. Such sys-
tems could potentially displace some oil-
and gas-fired generators. The DOE solar
thermal program is also concentrating on
reducing to near commercial levels the
costs of distributed receiver systems by
1983 and similarly reducing the future
costs of central receiver systems. This pro-
gram supports R&D efforts in advanced
space heating and cooling, photovoltaic
concentration, and high temperature in-
dustrial heat applications.
The oceans are another potential source
of solar energy. We will pursue research
and development efforts directed toward
ocean thermal energy conversion, and
other concepts such as the use of salinity
gradients, waves, and ocean currents.
DOE is working with the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration to
evaluate the concept of a solar power
satellite system (SPS) which would cap-
ture solar energy in space for transmission
to earth. A determination will be made in
January 1981 on whether this system
should proceed to the exploratory research
stage.
DOE will undertake intensified efforts
involving solar energy storage and basic
solar energy research. In the basic re-
search area, emphasis is being placed on
the development of new materials to bet-
ter use or convert the sun's energy, solar
photochemistry (including the possibility
of using electrochemical cells to convert
the energy of sunlight into electricity
and/or fuels) and research on artificial
photosynthesis.
In Fiscal Year 1980 we will begin
building a new 300-acre solar research
facility for the Solar Energy Research
Institute at Golden, Colorado. This insti-
tute, along with four regional solar centers
established across the country, will help
provide a focus for research and develop-
ment activities and will become informa-
tion centers for individuals and firms who
market or install solar equipment.
In addition to DOE's research and de-
velopment activities, several other agen-
cies will continue to support commercial
introduction of solar technologies as they
become available. AID, TVA and the De-
partment of Agriculture now have and
will continue to have significant responsi-
bilities in the demonstration of new solar
and renewable resource systems.
The Domestic Policy Review identified
numerous specific program suggestions,
many
of which I believe can and should
be implemented. Over the course of the
coming weeks, I will be issuing a series of
detailed directives to the appropriate
agencies to implement or consider recom-
mendations in accordance with my in-
structions.
Some of these suggestions involve de-
tailed budget issues which should be taken
up in our normal budget planning proc-
ess. In order to provide much-needed
flexibility to DOE to respond to these-
and other suggestions, I am directing the
1105
