Apr 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
some far greater hardship later on, which
we may not be able to control.
The great difference between the price
of energy in New England and the rest of
the Nation will be reduced, helping to
keep industry and jobs here at home
where they belong.
I know better than many Americans
what a New Hampshire winter is like. I
spent two winters outside in the street. I
know that families in New Hampshire, in
their homes, living on less than $5,000 a
year, have to pay 24 percent of their in-
adequate income for fuel.
That's why the oil companies must not
be allowed to keep the excess and un-
earned profits from the rising price of oil.
This is very important. There is no excuse
for permitting any such massive ripoff.
We must, and we will, have a good wind-
fall profits tax.
Now, you know, as Tom and John and
others have already said, that the oil lobby
is one of the most powerful special inter-
ests in Washington. They feel about the
windfall profits tax about the same way
that Daniel Webster felt about the devil.
The oil lobby already is and will be all
over the tax bill like-as we say in Geor-
gia-like a chicken on a june bug.
But I refuse to believe that the Congress
of the United States will permit these oil
companies, already reaping huge profits,
to become billions of dollars richer at the
expense of the American people.
The money from higher oil prices must
go to solve our serious energy problems.
That is what the fight over windfall profits
is all about.
The oil companies want all the money
for themselves. I want it to go for explora-
tion for new oil, yes, but also to create the
energy security fund.
With this fund, we will give direct fi-
nancial aid to families who are least able
to afford the growing energy costs, and
we will harness American know-how to do
what we should have done years ago-to
develop economical alternatives to oil.
This will finally let us develop power
from the Sun, from the wind, from geo-
thermal energy. Here in New Hampshire,
this means that we will be looking at the
State's oldest sources of power, your
streams and your forests, for energy.
We can develop the energy potential of
New England. New Hampshire will no
longer have to mortgage its future in ex-
change for foreign oil. Small streams and
forests will again help to power New
Hampshire. We'll have a pilot project in
Berlin very soon, using small hydroelectric
powerplants to provide power for the com-
munity. We have three more projects that
we are presently considering just within
New Hampshire.
These are some of the benefits of a ra-
tional, Democratic energy policy. But I
need you to help me with it.
On that night, on that great night in
1976 when I won the New Hampshire
primary, I told you then that as President,
if I was elected, I would repair the dam-
age that has been done to the relationship
between our people and our Govern-
ment.
I have been proud to keep that pact
with the people of New Hampshire. There
are no more government lies, there are
no more enemies lists, there are no more
sellouts to the special interests. Working
together, we have restored integrity and
trust to the American Government.
I used to hear how sick and tired the
people of New Hampshire were of bu-
reaucracy, redtape, and government inef-
ficiency. These complaints had been build-
ing up for a long time, and it took Demo-
crats to do something about them. With
the help of Senator John Durkin and Con-
gressman Norm D'Amours, we have pass-
ed a landmark civil service reform bill.
718
