Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to the Secretary of Energy, and to the
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, and, obviously, to the public at large.
I am here to help you. This is a diverse
group. Each one of you brings to the
Commission a special insight, a special
background, special area of knowledge or
interest. And I think as you get to know
one another, you will mutually assess the
superb quality of the Commission in its
entirety. I have complete confidence in
Chairman Kemeny. He knows that I am
available to help him personally. Every
agency of the Government is eager and
willing to help this Commission do a good
job. So, my confidence in you is complete.
I would say that overriding all of your
responsibilities, the most important is that
when your report is made, that it be of
such quality and of such accuracy, and
this Commission have such a high degree
of integrity that the American people will
trust what you say. If there's any doubt
about the quality of your work, then the
entire report will be of very little value to
me or to the public. I really believe that
it's important that all of you guard very
carefully your own personal, perhaps,
perhaps,
even, offhand remarks, because if
you in-
advertently made an error in a public
statement and it was attributed to a mem-
ber of this Commission and later it was
found to be erroneous, then the integrity
of the whole Commission would be ques-
tionable.
And so, I think it's very important that
you let the deliberations be made public,
but until the final determinations are
made and you know what you're saying,
that you restrain yourself in any sort of ad
lib, individual remarks that might be in-
terpreted by the press as your speaking
for the Commission.
I might say in closing that when you
make your recommendations to me and to
the public, I intend to carry them out
within the bounds of my authority and
responsibility as President. And I intend
to share your recommendations and your
findings with the leaders of other nations
around the world. Your deliberations will
have to be expedited. You have adequate
resources, financial and staff, on which
you can depend. And I need to have your
recommendations within 6 months. I
know this is a very tight schedule, but I
think to delay the report in order to have
it a little more comprehensive or a little
more complete would be a mistake. The
public is eager to hear from you and, of
course, so am I.
If, in the interim period, there is a par-
ticular fact evolved or a particular rec-
ommendation that you discern which
ought to be implemented more expedi-
tiously, I hereby ask the Chairman to
come to me directly and say, "Mr. Presi-
dent, although we are not ready for our
final report, this is something that we
believe should be done immediately in
order to ensure enhanced safety for the
nuclear powerplants now in existence or
those presently being constructed." You
need not wait for the full 6 months before
you make a specific recommendation to
me if you think it is propitious to do it
earlier.
So, to summarize, I've got confidence in
you and so does the public. And your re-
port will be extremely important through-
out the world, and I know that you will
do a superb job. Your acceptance of this
assignment indicates to me that you're
willing to devote the time and effort re-
quired to carry out the responsibilities that
you have assumed.
I'm grateful to you, and you've got a
partner here in the Oval Office who will
be available to help you if any unforeseen
obstacle should arise. I'll help you over-
come that obstacle, and I'll help you make
your working status and environment
within which you perform your duties as
pleasant and as productive as possible.
692
