Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the United States. And I'd like to ask
Dr. Robert Weaver to stand, if you will.
Dr. Weaver has been an innovator.
He's been a credit to our country in every
sense of the word, in every job that's been
assigned to him. He's an economist, an
educator, and a superb public adminis-
trator. He's professor of urban affairs at
Hunter College, a native of Washington,
D.C., former Secretary of the Housing
and Urban Development Department,
and an inspiration to many of us, Dr.
Weaver, who presently serve in the Fed-
eral Government. Thank you very much
for your notable achievements.
Did Mr. Asa Spaulding arrive? Asa,
you had me concerned.
He's being recognized for his achieve-
ments in business. He's a native of North
Carolina. He's president of the North
Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany, and his extensive public service is
exemplified by his willingness to perform
superbly on the board of trustees of How-
ard University. And as all of you know, in
his position of leadership in his own State
and throughout the South, he's been a
strong, active supporter and has added the
financial strength and the prominence of
his own achievements to the success of
many of those who struggled to give black
Americans their long overdue civil rights.
And I want to thank Mr. Spaulding
and congratulate you, Mr. Spaulding, this
afternoon.
Dr. Charles Wesley. Again, a man who
combines the great achievements of a
wonderful intellect in several realms of
life, as an author, historian, educator, as
a presiding elder in the AME Church,
Dr. Wesley has indeed shaped the reali-
zation of Americans of the wonderful
achievement of black citizens whose own
lives' meaning might very well have been
overlooked or ignored. He's a retired
president of Central State University,
Wilberforce, Ohio; he's pastor and pre-
siding elder of the AME Church, and the
author of books on black history; native
of Louisville, Kentucky.
And I thank you, express my admira-
tion and my congratulations to you, Dr.
Charles Wesley.
Mr. James Van Derzee? Just hold your
hand up and we'll applaud.
Mr. Van Derzee represents the fine arts
category. He's the dean emeritus of black
photographers in America. He's a person
who shaped the attitudes and opinions
and aroused the support of deprived,
needy black Americans who lived in Har-
lem. He recorded on film in the most
superlative way the lives of Afro-Ameri-
cans who lived in urban centers, where
life's deprivations are sometimes over-
looked.
He received the American Society of
Magazine Photographers Award for an
exhibit called "Harlem On My Mind" at
the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1969.
I don't think that Mr. Van Derzee would
object to my saying that he's this year 93
years old. He's a native of Massachusetts
and has honored us by his presence. Con-
gratulations to you.
How many of you remember 1936?
[Laughter] I've already been told that
some of you were married in 1936, and
if anyone asked me before this day,
"What do you remember about 1936?",
I would have said that the achievements
of a black American athlete inspired the
world. And I would like to ask Jesse
Owens to stand.
Nineteen hundred and thirty-six was
the year when Hitler was spouting the
philosophy of racial superiority. The
Olympics were being held in Germany,
and it was a time in our own country
322
