Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 16
tiful thing when human beings can com-
municate among themselves with frank-
ness and openly, even if they have differ-
ences as the differences that exist between
our two peoples.
You are very right; it is difficult for us
to live next to the most powerful country
in the world. It must be very difficult for
you also to live next to a poor country
and a developing one.
Things happen, and at times such as
this one, it would be well to remember
what was said by the classics in order to
make an effort to bring harmony to the
world in accordance with the principles
that they advocated. Aristotle said that
after the ideal state of Plato, very objec-
tively and very realistically, he conceived
of a society in which there would be no
men that would be rich enough to buy
other men and men so poor that they
would have to sell themselves.
This, Mr. President, I believe, is the
most serious matter of our times—the fact
that there are men that can buy men and
that there are men that have to sell them-
selves. And this is what happens very
fre-
quently with our poor people that go to
the United States.
I confess, Mr. President, that I am
deeply moved, and I shall try to be more
stable.
But I must reflect upon the fact that we
are living in a world of inequalities—
that almost all political systems have been
capable of denouncing these evils, but we
have not had the capability of taking to
practice the solutions that we have pro-
posed.
And I wish to bring up a matter which
I confess concerns me deeply. What is
happening to the free world? Where has
freedom led us?
And this is a matter that I wish to bring
up and to state as one of the most serious
questions that can be asked of the Mexi-
can revolution. We belong to the world
of free democracies. It is a political system
that would want to bring together liberty
and justice. But, ladies and gentlemen,
many times when we wished to uphold
freedom, we had to sacrifice justice. And
we must ask ourselves, "What have we
done with our freedom?” Other countries,
in order to obtain justice, in turn sacrificed
freedom. No doubt they will have to ask
themselves, "What have we done with
justice?"
We would want to believe that there
would be some kind of an order that could
be established in the world in which it
would be possible to have both values.
And that is why we want to state this, for
me, very serious question: Is it possible
for the human being to be free and at the
same time to be just? Is it possible to con-
ceive of an international order that can
avoid the state of affairs in which a man
would sell himself and another one would
buy another human being? When the
question is asked by a theoretician, it is a
good statement. But when it is asked by a
statesman that has specific functions to
perform, it becomes a tremendous respon-
sibility.
I feel this responsibility. Convinced as I
am of the great values of Western culture,
certain as I am that it is impossible to live
without freedom, there is no other alter-
native left but to make an effort to find
the roads that will lead to justice. And this
can only be found if we conceive of life
among nations as a series of rights and
duties, to find the people responsible with-
out pointing a finger of guilt.
And I believe, Mr. President, that dur-
ing the talks that we had yesterday and
today, I believe that we have made state-
ments and posed questions in such a man-
ner as to feel satisfied. We have simply
proposed those matters. We have simply
brought them up. We have not opened up
283
