Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 16
small business person of our Nation. It's
always been an exciting experience for me
and one that brings honor to the person
who's been chosen, and also to the small
business community, to the White House,
and, I think, to the entire country.
Two-thirds of all the new jobs in our
country originate among small busi-
nesses I think a remarkable tribute to
the spirit and the innovation and the
dynamic commitment to the free enter-
prise system exhibited by you and those
in almost all the States, in Puerto Rico,
Virgin Islands that are represented here.
This is a time, I think, for very careful
assessment of what will happen in the
future with the small businesses of our
Nation. I brought here an almost abhor-
rence or horror of government intrusion
and unjust, unnecessary paperwork, re-
ports, and application forms, government
inspectors, regulations. And since I've
been in this office, I've tried as best I could
to do something about it, all the way from
HEW, which has eliminated more than
300 pages of fine print, regulations that
applied to small businesses, down to
OSHA, of which you may have heard—
[laughter]—which eliminated a thousand
regulations in 1 day. We've been pleased
with the progress made.
And I have introduced this year into
the Congress for their consideration a bill
to deal in a more generic or broad-based
sense to eliminate unnecessary regulations
that are established in our Government by
law.
There's a limit, as you know, to what
can be done through administrative ac-
tion. My business in the past was peanuts.
I sold seed, I planted, harvested, cured,
shelled, sold, and ate-[laughter]-pea-
nuts. And it's almost inconceivable that to
determine through the Food and Drug
Administration what percentage of pea-
nuts ought to be present in peanut butter
would take 12 years of hearings, and the
report includes 100,000 pages of govern-
ment documents. This is an actual fact.
And it's such a ridiculous situation in
gov-
ernment that it's indeed almost unbe-
lievable.
One of the first things that I discussed
with the congressional leaders involved,
and also with Vernon Weaver when he
came here to help me, was to have a small
business conference at the White House.
This is a rare occasion in my life, and in-
deed it's a rare occasion in the life of the
White House, to have a carefully pre-
pared, designated White House Confer-
ence. But I wanted it to be done.
We've already had 57 regional hearings
around the Nation, and many more are
scheduled. We've had more than 20,000
people who attended those hearings
already. They've come to listen to one
another, to compare notes, to give sugges-
tions, and to give criticisms about how the
small business community, individual busi-
nesses, could be made stronger, more
effectively, how competition could be en-
hanced, how customers could be served
better, how products could be evolved and
produced and distributed faster, and how
our free enterprise system could work in a
more enhanced way.
Next January, 1980, we'll collect all of
those data and suggestions and criticisms,
comments, and come together here at the
White House for a very in-depth analysis
of the strengths and the weaknesses and
the potential of the small businesses of
our Nation.
I know that you're already involved in
it—you couldn't be the outstanding small
business person of your State if you were
not-not just selfishly involved in a partic-
ular local business but involved in the free
enterprise system and its improvement in
general. And I hope all of you will partici-
pate in this preparation in a more aggres-
869
