June 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
counteract such practices when they cause
material injury or breach agreed rules.
-An agreement on technical barriers
to trade will require countries to use fair
and open procedures in adopting product
standards.
-An agreement on government pro-
curement will open purchases by all sig-
natory governments to bids from foreign
producers.
-An agreement on customs valuation
will encourage predictable and uniform
practices for appraising imports for the
purpose of assessing import duties.
-An agreement on import licensing
will reduce unnecessary or unduly com-
plicated licensing requirements.
-An agreement on civil aircraft will
provide a basis for fairer trade in this im-
portant U.S. export sector.
-In the agricultural sector, specific
product concessions from our trading
partners and international commodity ar-
rangements will enhance export opportu-
nities. An agreement on a multilateral
agricultural framework will provide a
forum for future consultations on prob-
lems arising in agricultural trade.
-Tariff reductions have been carefully
negotiated in close consultation with
American industry and labor, and will be
phased in over the next eight years.
Agreements on the international trad-
ing framework will accomplish the
following:
-tighten procedures for handling in-
ternational trade disputes,
-respond to the needs of developing
countries in a fair and balanced
manner, while increasing their level
of responsible participation in the
trading system,
-modernize the international rules ap-
plicable to trade measures that can
be taken in response to balance-of-
payments emergencies,
-provide a basis for examining the
existing international rules on export
and import restraints.
The agreements meet the major objec-
tives and directives of the Trade Act of
1974. They provide new opportunities
for U.S. exports. They help fight infla-
tion by assuring access to lower-cost goods
for both U.S. consumers and U.S. indus-
tries. They strengthen our ability to meet
unfair foreign trade practices, and assure
that U.S trade concessions are matched
by reciprocal trade benefits for U.S.
goods.
Throughout the negotiating process,
these talks were conducted with an un-
precedented degree of participation and
advice from Congress, American indus-
trial and agricultural communities, labor,
and consumers alike.
aggressive application and enforcement
Through continued cooperation and
of the provisions of these agreements, we
can ensure a fair and open international
trading system, and usher in a new era of
effective joint efforts by business, labor
and government.
These agreements will make it possible
for us to demonstrate, through vigorous
and peaceful action, that the free enter-
prise system of the United States is the
best economic system in the world now
and in the future. They are also a central
element in my program to stimulate do-
mestic economic growth, to control infla-
tion, and to expand our exports.
Therefore, in the interest of strength-
ening our economy and the international
trading system, I urge immediate ap-
proval and implementation of the Tokyo
Round Agreements by the Congress.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 19, 1979.
1094
