June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the world, including places like southern
Africa or the Middle East.
For instance, I made it clear to Presi-
dent Brezhnev that Cuban military ac-
tivities in Africa, sponsored by or sup-
ported by the Soviet Union, and also the
growing Cuban involvement in the prob-
lems of Central America and the Carib-
bean can only have a negative impact on
U.S.-Soviet relations.
Our strength, our resolve, our determi-
nation, our willingness to protect our own
interests, our willingness to discuss these
problems with others are the best means
by which we can resolve these differences
and alleviate these tests successfully for
our people.
Despite disagreements, our exchange in
Vienna was useful, because it enabled us
to clarify our positions directly to each
other, face-to-face, and, thus, to reduce
the chances of future miscalculations on
both sides.
And, finally, I would like to say to you
that President Brezhnev and I developed
a better sense of each other as leaders and
as men. The responsibility for many deci-
sions involving the very future of the
world rests on me as the leader of this
We look to the future-all of us Ameri-
cans look to the future-with anticipa-
tion and with confidence, not only be-
cause of the vast material powers of our
Nation but because of the power of our
Nation's ideas and ideals and principles.
The ultimate future of the human race
lies not with tyranny, but with freedom;
not with war, but with peace.
With that kind of vision to sustain us,
we must now complete the work of rati-
fying this treaty, a major step in the limi-
tation of nuclear weapons and a major
step toward world peace. And then we
may turn our energies not only to further
progress along that path but also more
urgently to our own domestic agenda in
the knowledge that we have strengthened
the security of a nation which we love
and also strengthened peace for all the
world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:03 p.m. in
the House Chamber at the Capitol. He was
introduced by Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker
of the House of Representatives. The address
was broadcast live on radio and television.
great country, and it's vital that my judg: Multilateral Trade Negotiations
ments be based on as much firsthand
knowledge and experience as possible.
In these conversations, I was careful to
leave no doubt about either my desire
for peace or my determination to defend
the interests of the United States and of
our allies. I believe that together we laid
a foundation on which we can build a
more stable relationship between our two
countries.
We will seek to broaden the areas of
cooperation, and we will compete where
and when we must. We know how deter-
mined the Soviet leaders are to secure
their interests, and we are equally deter-
mined to protect and to advance our own.
Message to the Congress Transmitting Trade
Agreements and Proposed Implementing
Legislation. June 19, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today transmitting to the Con-
gress, pursuant to Section 102 of the
Trade Act of 1974, the texts of the trade
agreements negotiated in the Tokyo
Round of the Multilateral Trade Nego-
tiations and entered into in Geneva on
April 12, 1979.
With these agreements, I am submit-
ting the proposed Trade Agreements Act
of 1979, which will revise domestic law
1092
