Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 23
grams enacted by previous Congresses to
meet these needs as they arise. In addi-
tion, new federal resources will be avail-
able to compensate, retrain, and relocate
workers who are affected by the restruc-
turing of the system.
These regulatory changes alone will not
be enough to fully solve problems of the
rail industry. Revitalizing the railroads
will take a concerted effort by railroad
management and labor, working with
shippers and communities. Only a com-
plete overhaul of the nation's rail system
leading to higher labor productivity and
more efficient use of plant and equipment
may be able to reverse current unfavor-
able trends. The government can assist
in that effort but the most important con-
tribution must be made by the industry
itself.
Without regulatory changes, however,
it is certain that the industry will not be
able to pull out of its long decline. With-
out the changes I am recommending, we
will face a catastrophic series of rail bank-
ruptcies, sharply declining service and
massive federal expenditures.
Unless we act expeditiously the unfor-
tunate pattern we have seen among east-
ern railroads will be repeated on a na-
tional scale. Bankruptcies, followed by
huge federal bailouts will spread to the
Midwest and ultimately throughout the
country. We can act now, while there is
still time to address the crisis in an orderly
way; or we can wait and have events dic-
tate drastic solutions.
All of us-railroads, shippers, commu-
nities, workers and the public-have a
vital interest in solving this rail crisis. I am
confident that we can work together to
solve it. I urge the Congress to act
promptly on this important legislation.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 23, 1979.
The Cyprus Conflict
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. March 23, 1979
To Speaker Tip O'Neill: (To Senator
Frank Church:)
In accordance with the provisions of
Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the
following report on the progress made
during the past sixty days toward the con-
clusion of a negotiated solution of the
Cyprus problem.
During the past two months, as I out-
lined in my report of January 29, the
United Nations has persisted in its active
efforts, to bring about a resumption of the
Cyprus intercommunal negotiations on a
sound and effective basis. The focus of
this effort is to develop a meaningful
agenda acceptable to both Cypriot parties.
The Secretary General's Special Repre-
sentative in Cyprus has held frequent con-
sultations with both sides in Nicosia, elicit-
ing their reactions to each other's com-
ments on the present draft agenda and
seeking their acceptance of compromise
suggestions. These consultations are con-
tinuing on an intensive basis. Meanwhile,
some consideration has also been given to
the possibility of direct consultations in-
volving representatives of the two Cypriot
communities and the Secretary General
this spring.
While we believe that both sides would
welcome meaningful talks, we should not
underestimate the magnitude of the dif-
ferences between them on matters of sub-
stance. The compromises that must be
made if an enduring settlement is to be
achieved will be politically difficult for
both sides.
The Department of State has remained
in close and frequent contact with the
United Nations Secretariat and with the
parties concerned. We have urged both
461
