May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
rate, each of you should assure that they
complement each other.
EXECUTIVE GROUP TO COMBAT FRAUD AND
WASTE IN GOVERNMENT
-improvements in training for audit
and investigative personnel.
• Promoting coordinated allocation
and direction of audit and investigative
resources.
I am establishing an Executive Group traordinary problems or issues relating to
Studying and seeking to resolve ex-
to Combat Fraud and Waste in Govern-
ment to assure effective implementation
of the Inspector General Act of 1978 and
other efforts to combat fraud and waste
in programs of the Federal Government.
The Deputy Attorney General shall serve
as Chairman and the Deputy Director of
the Office of Management and Budget
shall serve as Vice Chairman of the Ex-
ecutive Group. Its membership will con-
sist of the statutory Inspectors General,
the Deputy Director of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management, and the Special
Counsel of the Merit Systems Protection
Board, and representatives of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, Internal Rev-
enue Service, and Postal Inspection Ser-
vice. Other officials should be brought in
to work with the Executive Group as ap-
propriate. The Department of Justice and
the Office of Management and Budget
should provide the necessary staff support.
The responsibilities and functions of
the Executive Group include:
• Providing leadership, and formulat-
ing policy and operational guidance, to
the Inspectors General and other officers
of the Executive Branch in combating
fraud and waste in government programs,
including the development and promo-
tion of:
-programs that prevent and detect
fraud and waste in Federal pro-
grams;
-procedures to assure that investiga-
tions by the Inspectors General and
similar officials are coordinated
with investigative and prosecutorial
activities by law enforcement agen-
cies; and
fraud and waste which are beyond the
capacity or authority of the individual
executive departments or agencies.
for
• Developing recommendations
needed legislation and other actions that
can be taken to reduce fraud and waste
in the Federal Government.
PRESIDENTIAL MANAGEMENT
IMPROVEMENT COUNCIL
I am establishing a Presidential Man-
agement Improvement Council to sup-
port efforts to improve Federal manage-
ment and program performance and to
further the government-wide manage-
ment improvements envisioned in the
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. The
Council shall be co-chaired by the Direc-
tors of the Office of Management and
Budget and the Office of Personnel Man-
agement. Its membership will consist of
representatives from Federal agencies, as
appropriate, and the private sector, in-
cluding corporate executive officers and
foundation and academic leaders. The
Office of Management and Budget and
the Office of Personnel Management
should provide the necessary staff support
for the Council.
The identification of critical manage-
ment problems for consideration by the
Council shall be the joint responsibility of
the Office of Management and Budget
and the Office of Personnel Management,
in consultation with departments and
agencies. In addition, I will ask the Coun-
cil to undertake specific management im-
provement projects from time to time.
I expect the Council to work coopera-
780
