June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Government's response to various energy
shortage problems as they occur.
The President has said repeatedly that
the energy problems facing the Nation
will not be easily alleviated. While the
Nation embarks on initiatives to develop
alternative and increased domestic en-
ergy supplies, the U.S. will continue to be
dependent on imported oil. The Presi-
work closely with the Nation's Governors
and other local elected officials.
Stuart Eizenstat will continue to chair
the Energy Task Force, responsible for the
development of energy policy options for
the President.
Letter to State Governors. June 22, 1979
dent believes it is essential that there be Independent Truckers' Strikes
a governmentwide mechanism charged
with anticipating and responding to the
periodic energy shortages such as the Na-
tion is presently experiencing.
It is clear that gasoline, diesel, and
home heating supplies cannot be man-
aged separately. It is equally clear that
the special problems and needs of Ameri-
can agriculture, the elderly, the poor, in-
dependent truckers, mass transit riders,
and many others cannot be handled sep-
arately from each other. The Depart-
ments of Energy, Agriculture, Justice,
Transportation, the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, and a number of other
key Federal agencies must work in full
cooperation with each other, under Pres-
idential direction. The White House Task
Force will provide the necessary coordi-
nation and direction.
I am writing to summarize for you the
steps I have taken, or am prepared to
take, to assist in assuring that the dis-
ruptions by independent truck operators
in service is brought to an end. In reach-
ing these decisions, my staff has con-
sulted constantly and closely with the
leadership and staff of the National Gov-
ernors' Association and with individual
governors all over the country.
The seriousness of the problem facing
our nation's economy, if these disruptions
continue, cannot be overstated. We must
assure all our citizens that transport of
agricultural and manufactured products
will take place without harrassment, vio-
lence and other illegal acts. None of the
The Task Force's initial agenda will problems faced by the independents can
include the following topics:
-middle distillates and related prob-
lems (truckers, home heating fuel,
agriculture, mass transit, etc.);
-gasoline (shortages, etc.);
-electrical power requirements and
capabilities in major cities this sum-
mer;
—public information efforts to ensure
the public is informed of current and
prospective energy shortage situa-
tions in a timely way.
Because every level of government has
a critical role to play in managing scarce
energy resources, the Task Force will
justify the lawlessness that has occurred
vandalism and murder are senseless crim-
in some parts of the country. Shootings,
inal acts that serve only to undermine
support for the truckers' demands. We
will not tolerate lawbreaking or violations
of individual rights in any form. Although
law enforcement is primarily a state re-
sponsibility, the federal government will
provide every assistance to the states to
help them preserve order. I want to stress
in the strongest possible terms that vio-
lence and lawlessness will not be tolerated
under any circumstances. Murder, van-
dalism and physical intimidation are
1138
