June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the case with Japan and the United
States, we don't conceal problems; we
put them on the table, and we discuss
them openly and we resolve them.
In a totalitarian country, these prob-
lems would never be known, they would
fester like a sore. But between us and
Japan, we address them without fear and
they become highly publicized. But we
should never forget that we have tre-
mendous areas of agreement and tremen-
dous areas of common benefit.
So, compared to the benefits and the
agreements, the problems are very minor.
But the problems are the issues which get
publicized.
I think in Prime Minister Ohira's visit
to Washington in May, we made great
progress in trying to resolve the few dif-
ferences between us, and we'll continue
to make progress on my visit to Japan.
But no one should ever forget how close
we are together and how many agree-
ments we have. And no one should ever
be fearful about our publicly discussing
the problems, because that's the way to
resolve problems between friends.
MR. HIDAKA. Now many Japanese have
been very encouraged by your remarks in
talks with Mr. Ohira. And the people no-
tice an upsurge of protectionism in your
country, but your administration trying to
be nice to us and encouraging us to have
good relationship. Do you have ideas
much farther to develop a good relation-
ship-I mean, what we can do to promote
or to maintain this relationship for both
countries?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Yesterday, I pre-
sented to the Congress of the United
States the results of the so-called Tokyo
Round of discussions, the Multilateral
Trade Negotiations. And I have confi-
dence that the Congress will adopt this
proposal without delay. This is a guaran-
tee that now and in the future years that
protectionist barriers will not be raised
around our country or around Japan and
other nations.
We want to have maximum openness
and freedom of trade, because we can not
only compete with one another success-
fully, but we derive enormous benefits
from one another. I think that the trade
imbalance has been a problem in the past.
There is still some problem there. We buy
much more from Japan than we sell to
you. But I think that we have recognized
this problem. And without disturbing the
economy of either nation, we are address-
ing the problem successfully.
There is still a need for us to continue
to explore ways of increased trade. From
my part of the country, we produce agri-
cultural products-citrus, beef, timber,
plywood, coal-and we export these kinds
of products to Japan, along with many
others. And, of course, we buy great quan-
tities from you as well. But in both cases,
we see our consumers benefiting from a
plentiful supply of goods at low cost. We
have to protect our own industry, as do
you. And this is sometimes creating con-
flict. But those conflicts are being resolved
successfully, and the Tokyo Round of re-
ducing barriers of protectionism is a ma-
jor step forward in the right direction.
U.S. POLICY TOWARDS THE FAR EAST
MR. HORI. U.S. policy, foreign policy,
on the Far East, from my point of view,
has been so practical and flexible since
the end of Vietnam war. For us, therefore,
it's rather difficult to understand what
is the goal of your policy for those in Far
East. And in connection with this, could
you tell me your policy on China?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Our ultimate
goal is peace in the Far East. We share
this goal with Japan. Our second goal is
better relationships among the nations in-
volved our country and all those who
1110
