May 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sugars, Sirups, and Molasses
Imports
Proclamation 4663. May 24, 1979
AMENDMENT OF PROCLAMATION NO. 4610
Regarding thE ALLOCATION of Quo-
TAS ON CERTAIN SUGARS, SIRUPS, AND
MOLASSES
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
1. By Proclamation No. 4610 of No-
vember 30, 1978, I modified Headnote 3
of Subpart A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of the
Tariff Schedule of the United States (19
U.S.C. 1202, hereinafter referred to as
"TSUS"). The proclamation was de-
signed substantially to bring the United
States into conformity with certain provi-
sions of the International Sugar Agree-
ment, 1977, which the United States is
applying provisionally, by allocating a
large portion of the sugar import quota
to certain named countries which at the
time of the issuance of the proclamation
were parties or provisional parties to the
International Sugar Agreement.
2. Taking into account the factors cited
in Proclamation No. 4610, and in order
to enable additional countries which have
become or may decide to become parties
or provisional parties to the International
Sugar Agreement to share currently in the
import quota set aside in Proclamation
No. 4610 for the parties to the Interna-
tional Sugar Agreement, I find it appro-
priate to amend that proclamation by
authorizing the Secretary of State to al-
locate the sugar quota among supplying
countries or areas to the extent necessary
to conform with the provisions of the In-
ternational Sugar Agreement, 1977. I find
that the amendment hereinafter pro-
claimed is in conformity with the Inter-
national Sugar Agreement, 1977, and that
it gives, as provided for in Headnote 2, of
Subpart A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of the
TSUS, due consideration to the interests
in the United States sugar market of
domestic producers and materially af-
fected contracting parties to the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
acting under the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and statutes, includ-
ing section 201 of the Trade Expansion
Act of 1962, and in conformity with
Headnote 2 of Subpart A, Part 10, Sche-
dule 1 of TSUS, do hereby proclaim:
A. The first paragraph of Headnote 3
of Subpart A, Part 10, Schedule 1 of the
TSUS is modified by substituting for the
second sentence of that paragraph the
following:
"This quantity shall be allocated among
supplying countries or areas to the extent
necessary to conform with the provisions
of the International Sugar Agreement,
1977, by the Secretary of State or his
designee, after appropriate consultations
with the Secretary of Agriculture and the
Special Trade Representative. The Secre-
tary of State or his designee shall inform
the Commissioner of Customs of such allo-
cation, which shall be published in the
FEDERAL REGISTER.
B. The provisions of this proclamation
shall become effective with respect to
articles entered, or withdrawn from ware-
house, for consumption on the day follow-
ing the publication in the FEDERAL REG-
ISTER of the first allocation made pur-
suant to this proclamation, except that
articles which were released under the
provisions of section 448 (b) of the Tariff
Act of 1931 (19 U.S.C. 1448(b)) prior
946
