Feb. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Stat. 30, 36 U.S.C. 160; 76 Stat. 69, 36
U.S.C. 166).
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
designate Friday, May 18, 1979, as Na-
tional Defense Transportation Day, and
the week beginning May 13, 1979, as Na-
tional Transportation Week.
I urge the Governors of our States and
other appropriate officials, organizations
concerned with transportation, and the
people of the United States to join with
the Department of Transportation in ob-
serving this day and week.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this ninth day of Feb-
ruary, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:41 a.m., February 12, 1979]
United States-France Convention
on Taxation and Fiscal Evasion
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. February 9, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Conven-
tion between the United States of Amer-
ica and the French Republic for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect
to Taxes on Estates, Inheritances and
Gifts, signed at Washington, November
24, 1978. For the information of the Sen-
ate, I also transmit the report of the De-
partment of State with respect to the
Convention.
The Convention would replace the
estate tax convention between the United
States and France which entered into
force on October 17, 1949.
The Convention is the second such con-
vention negotiated since the Foreign In-
vestors Tax Act of 1966. The first such
convention was signed with the Nether-
lands and entered into force in 1971.
Others are under negotiation.
A principal feature of this Convention
is a rule under which a citizen of one State
residing in the other State is not consid-
pur-
ered domiciled in that other State for
poses of its estate or inheritance tax juris-
diction unless he has lived there for five of
the prior seven years. This provision is
beneficial to U.S. businessmen living in
France.
Another provision exempts, recipro-
cally, stock and debt obligations of port-
folio investors domiciled in the other
State. This provision benefits especially
French portfolio investors in the United
States.
I recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the Con-
vention and advise and consent to its
ratification.
The White House,
February 9, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-France Convention
on Income and Property Taxes
Message to the Senate Transmitting a
Protocol to the Convention.
February 9, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, a Protocol to
the Convention between the United
States of America and the French Repub-
238
