Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 2
good preview of a tremendous victory for
Democrats in 1980, right? [Applause]
I've got a personal note, also. I under-
stand that I'm the first incumbent Presi-
dent ever to speak to the Jefferson-Jack-
son Day banquet in Indiana. And I would
not be an incumbent President had it not
been for many of you, and I want to thank
you for that personal help.
Also, outside the Old South, with Birch
Bayh's help, and many others, Indiana
gave me the largest primary victory of any
State in the Nation, and I thank you for
that as well.
I rode in from the airport with Don
Michael and Patty Evans. I think you
know how lucky you are to have them
heading up the party now. Democrats in
Indiana have always had a majority in
registration. The principles of the Demo-
cratic Party are accurately compatible
with and represent the feeling of the peo-
ple of Indiana. If we can maintain the
spirit and the commitment and the part-
nership and the cooperation and the cour-
age and the willingness to work that has
been demonstrated here tonight, there's
no doubt that the future for the Demo-
cratic Party will be even brighter than it
has been in the past.
I know that everyone here shares my sor-
row but also my appreciation and my
pride in what Marvella Bayh meant not
only to Indiana but to our entire country.
She's an admirable example of true cour-
age.
The last thing is, I need your help with
the ratification of SALT, the SALT
treaty with the Soviet Union; maintain-
ing peace on Earth; dealing successfully
with our energy problem; controlling in-
flation; restoring the confidence of the
American people in our own Govern-
ment; having strong, able farm families;
keeping our people at work—these kinds
of goals, which have exemplified the
Democratic spirit ever since our Nation
was formed, are still ever-present on my
mind.
We've got the greatest nation on Earth.
With your help, we can make it even
greater in the future. That's what I'm de-
termined to do. You help me.
Thank you very much. I'll see you
inside.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:25 p.m. to
dinner guests in Convention Hall C at the
Indianapolis Convention Center. In his re-
marks, he referred to Don Michael, chairman,
and Patty Evans, vice chairman, Indiana Dem-
ocratic Party.
Birch Bayh is the kind of leader who
sets the tone for our Nation's Govern-
ment. He's kind of representing the spirit
of the United States Senate. He's ideal- Indianapolis, Indiana
istic, he's a knowledgeable, competent,
hard-working, and dedicated and effec-
tive United States Senator. And he's con-
stantly exploring for ways in government
to let our Nation accurately mirror the
highest possible ideals which were
dreamed about 200 years ago. He is the
one who explores the cutting edge of new
concepts involving our United States
Constitution.
Remarks at the State Democratic Party's
Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner. June 2, 1979
I'm going to say just a word in the
other larger meeting about Marvella, but
It is good to be back home in Indiana-
and not just because of the kind of weeks
I've had recently in Washington.
[Laughter] It is like coming home for me
because of the many wonderful friends
that we made here during the long cam-
paign, when you gave us a Hoosier wel-
come before the rest of the Nation knew
me or cared about our campaign. You took
989
