June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
First Common Understanding. If a cruise
missile has been flight-tested to a range in
excess of 600 kilometers, it shall be con-
sidered to be a cruise missile capable of a
range in excess of 600 kilometers.
Second Common Understanding. Cruise
missiles not capable of a range in excess
of 600 kilometers shall not be considered
to be of a type capable of a range in excess
of 600 kilometers if they are distinguish-
able on the basis of externally observable
design features from cruise missiles of
types capable of a range in excess of 600
kilometers.
Second Agreed Statement. The range of
which a cruise missile is capable is the
maximum distance which can be covered
by the missile in its standard design mode
flying until fuel exhaustion, determined by
projecting its flight path onto the Earth's
sphere from the point of launch to the
point of impact.
un-
Third Agreed Statement. If an
manned, self-propelled, guided vehicle
which sustains flight through the use of
aerodynamic lift over most of its flight
path has been flight-tested or deployed
for weapon delivery, all vehicles of that
type shall be considered to be weapon-
delivery vehicles.
Third Common Understanding. Un-
manned, self-propelled, guided vehicles
which sustain flight through the use of
aerodynamic lift over most of their flight
path and are not weapon-delivery ve-
hicles, that is, unarmed, pilotless, guided
vehicles, shall not be considered to be
cruise missiles if such vehicles are distin-
guishable from cruise missiles on the basis
of externally observable design features.
Fourth Common Understanding. Neither
Party shall convert unarmed, pilotless,
guided vehicles into cruise missiles capa-
ble of a range in excess of 600 kilometers,
nor shall either Party convert cruise mis-
siles capable of a range in excess of 600
kilometers into unarmed, pilotless, guided
vehicles.
Fifth Common Understanding. Neither
Party has plans during the term of the
Protocol to flight-test from or deploy on
sea-based or land-based launchers un-
armed, pilotless, guided vehicles which
are capable of a range in excess of 600
kilometers. In the future, should a Party
have such plans, that Party will provide
notification thereof to the other Party
well in advance of such flight-testing or
deployment. This Common Understand-
ing does not apply to target drones.
Done at Vienna, on June 18, 1979, in
two copies, each in the English and Rus-
sian languages, both texts being equally
authentic.
For the United States of America
JIMMY CARTER
President of the United States
of America
For the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics
L. BREZHNEV
General Secretary of the CPSU,
Chairman of the Presidium of
the Supreme Soviet of the USSR
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BE-
TWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMER-
ICA AND THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIAL-
IST REPUBLICS REGARDING THE ESTAB-
LISHMENT OF A DATA BASE ON THE
NUMBERS OF STRATEGIC OFFENSIVE
ARMS
For the purposes of the Treaty Between
the United States of America and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms,
the Parties have considered data on num-
bers of strategic offensive arms and agree
that as of November 1, 1978 there existed
1076
