Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 20
I might say that Rosalynn was plan-
ning to be with us this morning. At this
moment, they are having the funeral of
Ambassador Dubs, who was killed in
Afghanistan. But she wanted to send her
personal love to every one of you, and in
addition to my friendship, I extend my
love to you also.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 a.m. in
the Senate Chamber of the State Capitol fol-
lowing the unveiling of his portrait which was
painted by Robert Templeton.
Atlanta, Georgia
Remarks Before a Joint Session of the Georgia
General Assembly. February 20, 1979
Governor Busbee, Lieutenant Governor
Miller, Speaker Tom Murphy, distin-
guished members of the Georgia House
and the Georgia Senate, and my friends
throughout my beloved State of Georgia:
I'm honored to come back to you.
I wish my wife was here with me. She
was planning to come. But at this very
moment, there are being conducted fu-
neral services for a brave and distin-
guished American diplomat, Adolph
Dubs, who gave his life in Afghanistan
in the service of our country.
It's a sobering thing to realize that in
a time of peace and prosperity, that the
toughness of our Nation still is exhibited
almost on a daily basis by the patriotism
and the dedication of those who give their
lives to public service. And I think it's
well for us to remember that our own free-
dom has been dearly purchased even by
the lives of some who have helped to serve
for us and with us.
This capitol is where I have spent some
of the most challenging and exciting and
enjoyable days of my life-rewarding
times. And I can say from the bottom of
my heart that it's good to be home.
I have to admit that as President, at
times in Washington, this seems to be a
haven of rest and companionship as I look
back on my time as Governor of Georgia.
On the way down here, though, I was
looking at the list of committee chairmen
who serve in the house and senate. And at
moments like those, I'm glad I'm Presi-
dent, dealing with the Congress. [Laugh-
ter]
I have very closely read the newspapers
from Georgia, and I notice with gratifica-
tion that the same degree of cooperation,
mutual support, harmony, and friendship
exists among the Governor, Lieutenant
Governor, and the speaker of the house as
existed among the speaker, Lieutenant
Governor Lester Maddox, and myself.
[Laughter]
It's also pleasant for me to see the ease
with which difficult problems, difficult
questions have been dealt since I left the
Governor's office. You've answered ques-
tions that I couldn't answer. For example,
I was never able to deal successfully with
the problem of the local option sales tax.
[Laughter]
Progress is gratifying to see, and I want
to say that because of the great progress
of this General Assembly and the State of
Georgia, that daily you bring a sense of
gratitude and appreciation and pride to
the heart of the President of the United
States.
Many of the problems and the chal-
lenges of National Government are differ-
ent from those of State government, yet
the experience that I gained here and the
lessons that I learned here have proven
very valuable to me during the last 2 years
of my life.
I learned here, for example, that the
legislative process is sometimes slow,
sometimes difficult, sometimes frustrating.
297
