May 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
who look to you for leadership. And I have
come here this morning to congratulate
you on the fine working spirit that we've
enjoyed so far, but to ask you from the
bottom of my heart, as President of our
great country, to help me with this most
important issue which will ever address me
while I occupy this home.
I think it's the best way to preserve our
Nation's security. It's the best way to pre-
serve world peace and give us better lives
in the future as citizens of the greatest na-
tion on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:33 a.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Federal Summer Employment
Program for Youth
Memorandum From the President.
May 10, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Depart-
ments and Agencies
Within a few weeks, schools will close
for the summer and many of our young
people will be seeking summer jobs. To
some the money earned from summer em-
ployment may
affect whether they return
employment, we as Federal managers
along with managers within the private
sector should increase our efforts to pro-
vide productive summer experiences for
young men and women.
I am again asking all of you to continue
your personal support for the Federal
Summer Employment Program for Youth.
Federal programs should be a balanced
effort to employ those who qualify
through successful
through successful competition in the
Summer Employment Examination as
well as through agency merit staffing pro-
cedures. Additionally, we must continue
to support summer employment for needy
youth. To accomplish this objective, I am
again setting a general goal to employ one
needy youth for every 40 regular employ-
ees. We exceeded this goal on a govern-
mentwide basis last summer.
Director Alan K. Campbell and his
staff at the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment will continue to provide leadership
to the Government's Summer Employ-
ment Program.
JIMMY CARTER
Meeting With President Aristides
Royo of Panama
to school in the fall or discontinue their Joint Press Statement. May 10, 1979
education. For others, summer employ-
ment will enable them to help out at home
or to gain experience which may assist
them in making decisions regarding their
future careers.
This year, we are again faced with a
high rate of unemployment among our
youth. Many of you are already partici-
pating in the task force reviewing youth
employment and training programs under
the Vice President's leadership. As one of
several solutions to the problem of un-
President Carter met this morning for
about an hour with Aristides Royo, Pres-
ident of the Republic of Panama, in an
atmosphere of sincere and cordial friend-
ship.
The two Presidents discussed matters
relating to the implementation of the
Panama Canal Treaties which will enter
into force on October 1, 1979. In the
course of the discussion, they expressed
their confidence that the new relationship
836
