Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 18
supportive, because when you arouse the
consciousness of the private world and the
government world to the need to elimi-
nate discrimination, and let minority
women, for instance, join in with those
who are not in the minority category, who
are women, they can be mutually suppor-
tive. I hope that you will help me detect
and root out the last remnants of racial or
sex discrimination within our Govern-
ment and within the private enterprise
system of our country.
So, as I sign this document, I would
like to assume that you will be partners
with me in making sure that the provi-
sions of the document are carried out with
enthusiasm. I don't think you'll find my
directors of agencies to be reluctant. But
I know they would appreciate construc-
tive advice and constructive criticism
from you in how they can do a better job
to make our Nation fairer and our whole
system to be filled with simple justice,
which, for many years, it has lacked.
[At this point, the President signed the Execu-
tive order.]
Now it's time for everybody to go to
work. [Laughter]
Ms. HARVEY. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
This time last year, we welcomed
your renewed personal support for the de-
velopment of a national policy to assist
women entrepreneurs. Today, your signa-
ture on this Executive order confirms your
continuing support and that of your ad-
ministration to this important objective.
This order establishes a landmark ef-
fort to welcome American women into the
mainstream of our business and economic
life.
On behalf of all my colleagues, I con-
firm our strong appreciation to you, to
members of your administration, to our
friends in the Congress, and to our col-
leagues in the private sector who have
given us their sustained support and co-
operation.
Ms. CLOHERTY. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am? [Laugh-
ter]
Ms. CLOHERTY. I know this is a seri-
ous moment, but I want to tell you one
funny thing. I thought you'd like to know
that the taxidriver who brought me here
from the airport asked if you were having
a fashion show at the White House today.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. What did you tell
him?
Ms. CLOHERTY. I told him what was
happening. And he sends his greetings.
[Laughter]
Luckily for all of us, more and more
women are choosing to use their talents in
the private profitmaking sector. And busi-
ness ownership, as you know, is a sub-
stantive undertaking in which negative
sex stereotypes have no place, but accom-
plishments do.
The approach to Government assistance
you have approved today is practical and
realistic. It is a fine starting point for
accelerating this important economic hap-
pening of women moving into the market-
place. In particular, its stress on provid-
ing skills and know-how, not on direct
subsidies, responds to the requirements
both of women entrepreneurs and of busi-
ness. If well done, I think the Govern-
ment effort should more than pay for it-
self in results from successful enterprises.
On behalf of businesswomen, may I
thank you and your smart-that's these
people-smart and dedicated team and
all others in and outside government who
have helped with this effort.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that we
are not doing women a favor today, I
think we're doing our Nation a favor.
889
