Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the risk is great or the costs inordinately
high, such as with many aspects of energy
and transportation. However, we look to
private industry to finance research and
development activities having near-term
commercial payoff. Industry is most sensi-
tive to the marketplace, to the benefits of
competition, and to the commercialization
of new technologies. This view is consist-
ent with that of industrial leaders who
ask the Federal government more for a
climate that fosters innovation, rather
than for direct support of research and
development with commercial potential.
My proposals for applied research and de-
velopment in Fiscal Year 1980 reflect my
overall view of the Federal responsibility.
3. The Federal government supports
basic research to meet broad economic
and social needs. Basic research is a quest
for new knowledge. Research to advance
scientific understanding-in astronomy,
geology, chemistry, the behavioral and so-
cial sciences, and other areas—expresses
our innate curiosity about ourselves and
the universe. But basic research also is the
forerunner of new inventions, advances
in health care, nutrition and agricultural
production, many new products of com-
merce, and new technologies for defense,
space, energy, and environmental protec-
tion.
Although the Federal government has
long accepted its dominant role in basic
research, support declined seriously in the
late 1960s and early 1970s, especially in
mission agencies whose objectives are ulti-
mately dependent on research. I have
sought to reverse these trends, by urging
the Congress to increase funds for basic
research and by redirecting attention to-
ward longer-range needs of the Nation.
I have proposed a 26 percent increase in
basic research in the two years of my Ad-
ministration. This policy is both feasible
and necessary, even as we seek to reduce
our Federal deficit and move towards a
balanced budget. The $4.6 billion re-
quested for basic research in Fiscal Year
1980 in various
various Departments' and
agencies' budgets is essential, and de-
serves the full support of the Congress.
Prudent planning for the future demands
a deliberate and continued commitment
to basic research.
The majority of Federal support for
basic research is in the mission agencies,
with the Departments of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare (National Institutes of
Health), Defense, Energy, and the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion leading the way. Strengthening the
commitment of these agencies to the sup-
port of basic research is a central element
of our science and technology policy. The
National Science Foundation is critical to
balanced support for all scientific and
engineering disciplines. My budget re-
quest this year for the Foundation exceeds
$1 billion. In presenting this request, I
urge that Congress consider the critical
role played by the Foundation. I have in-
structed the Foundation to improve the
instrumentation of our university research
laboratories and to investigate the need
for special programs to support young
scientists.
With the budget for Fiscal Year 1979,
and full approval of my Fiscal Year 1980
requests, we will have made major steps
in restoring the necessary balance and
commitment to our scientific future. I
would ask the Congress, in acting on
agency budgets, to be aware of the inter-
relationships and the importance of each
agency's contribution to a comprehensive,
national program in support of science
and technology.
530
