Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 24
control in our medical system, or are we
destined for socialized medicine?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we're
going towards socialized medicine. But I
think that the Federal Government is
going to continue to play a major role in
medical care for our people. We have re-
duced substantially the number of forms
and reports and requests that have been
required, in the last 12 months.
I was looking at some statistics on the
way here, because I'm going to talk about
that tomorrow when I get to Dallas. HEW
has eliminated 300 different forms that
are used in medical care alone. That's
dealing with Medicaid and Medicare. But
quite often the different Federal agencies,
each one individually in the past, have
required a separate form to be filled out.
We are making some progress with it.
I'm going to submit legislation to Con-
gress this coming week on deregulation
that will restrict substantially the number
of new regulations, forms, and reports
that can be required in the future and put
the responsibility on each one of the
agencies in Government to mandate a
benefit-cost analysis before a new form
can be instituted or a new regulation can
be promulgated.
I might add that it's not all the Federal
Government. We've just had an instance
with Sohio Company. We were very hope-
ful, for instance, that the Sohio Company
would build an oil pipeline across our
country to bring Alaskan oil to the cen-
tral part of the Nation and to the northern
tier of States.
When we investigated the reason why
they withdrew from this project, we found
they had to fill 715 permits. Only 12 of
those were Federal permits; the other 700
were required by the different States
through which that pipeline had to come.
And for that reason, Sohio withdrew
from the project. We are now working to
try to get Sohio, you know, to go back and
build a pipeline to bring oil from the west
coast.
I might say that they completed all the
Federal forms more than a year ago. So,
the States and the Federal Governments
are both at fault. And I would hope that
we can make some continued improve-
ment in the future.
One of the most heavily criticized agen-
cies in Government, before I became Pres-
ident and shortly afterwards, was OSHA.
And in 1 day last year, OSHA eliminated
a thousand of their regulations, I think
without any adverse effect on the health
or safety of American workers.
We are making some progress, but it
is a very difficult thing to do.
PRICE CONTROLS ON BEEF
Q. Mr. President, welcome to the short-
grass country. The cattlemen in this coun-
try can now look back on 5 bad years.
During those years, their land was mort-
gaged and debts increased. Now that cat-
tle prices are high enough to reduce some
of the loans, do you expect to put con-
trols on cattle prices?
THE PRESIDENT. As long as I'm in the
White House serving as your President,
there will never be price controls on beef,
and you can depend on it.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Danny
George, and I'm originally from Butler,
Oklahoma. Before I could get out of the
house today, my little daughter ran over
to me and asked me, "Daddy, where are
you going tonight?" And I said, “Well,
dear, I'm going to see the President of the
United States." And she said, "Oh, goody,
can I go and play with Amy?" [Laugh-
ter] And I told her, I said, "No, dear, not
475
