May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
it's going to have to be a combination of
mandatory controls and voluntary, with
the heavy emphasis on voluntary.
Ms. Thomas [Helen Thomas, United
Press International].
AMERICAN PRISONER IN ISRAEL
Q. Mr. President, you were recently in-
strumental in securing the release of sev-
eral Russian dissidents. In similar terms of
humanity, would you be willing to exert
influence on the Israeli Government to
secure the release of a young American
woman? Her name is Terre Fleener of
San Antonio, and she is wasting away
Israeli jails.ยน
in
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with
the case, but before this day is over, I will
contact the Secretary of State and ask him
to initiate an investigation and seek her
release, if it's considered to be advisable.
PRESIDENT'S CANDIDACY FOR REELECTION
Q. Mr. President, Mark Braun, with
KCCI-TV in Des Moines. Since Iowa
was the State that changed "Jimmy
Who?" to "Jimmy Carter" 3 years
ago-
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. don't you think it would be
appropriate to make your formal an-
nouncement right here that you're going
to run for reelection? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. No. [Laughter]
Q. Any indication one way or the
other?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think it's best
for me, in this time of some excitement
about progress and some concern about
problems, to remain a full-time President.
ยน Terre Fleener was convicted of giving in-
formation on Israeli security arrangements to
members of the Palestine Liberation Organiza-
tion. She was released from prison on June 30,
1979, after serving 20 months of a 5-year
sentence.
It's too early for me to get involved in any
discussion about an upcoming election.
But I will always remember that my
visit as someone pointed out this morn-
ing to, I think, 119 Iowa cities, and my
going on farms at the time land was being
broken, corn was being planted, fertilizer
applied, cultivation, harvest season, when
pigs were being farrowed-I think I got a
picture of our Nation, particularly the
farm community, that stands me in good
stead now. And I also learned about the
plight of American farmers under the
previous administration that has stood
me in good stead in choosing Secretary
Bergland and qualified farmers to run the
department. But I benefited greatly from
my visits to Iowa as a President. But I'll
remain a President for the foreseeable fu-
ture and devote my full time to that job.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
NUCLEAR POWER
Q. Mr. President, we know your posi-
tion on the breeder, the nuclear breeder
reactor.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. But in light of the information that
Secretary Califano presented yesterday on
Capitol Hill, that as many as 10 people
could die of cancer directly because of
the accident at Three Mile Island, have
you begun to rethink your attitude about
the light water reactor? After all, it was
that kind of reactor where this accident
happened.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm deeply concerned
about it and, as you know, have appointed
a special Presidential commission to look
into the causes of the accident, to see what
mistakes may have been made in the de-
sign or operation of the plant, to make
more effective the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission and, also, to make sure that
if we have a repetition at any time of a
similar accident, that there be a better
798
