Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 15
used for the three purposes that I've de-
scribed: to help the very poor families
meet the increased price of energy; to im-
prove our rapid transit system, mass
transit systems; and then to allocate funds
for research and development in the field
of new energy sources.
At first, the following day after I made
my announcement, Senator Jackson, Sen-
ator Kennedy, many others, said that it
was absolutely impossible to have a wind-
fall profits tax passed. Now some of the
same voices say that it's an accomplished
fact, that the windfall profits tax is not
severe enough, and we don't have to worry
about it getting passed in its present form.
I can tell you that my own experience is,
it is not going to be easy to get a windfall
profits tax through the House and Senate
with the degree of severity or stringency
built into my own proposal. My guess is
that the Congress and the House might
pass a little bit more stringent tax bill. My
guess is that when the House and Senate
get through with the legislation, that we
will be very fortunate indeed to get the
windfall profits tax passed in the form that
I advocated.
If the Congress wants to strengthen the
bill, to have a heavier tax burden imposed
on the increase in profits, I would favor it
if I consider it to be fair and equitable. But
it's going to require a lot of support
throughout the Nation from leaders like
you who've come here from all over the
country, a few associated with the oil in-
dustry itself; others, distributors; others,
consumers; others, civic leaders. I need to
have you join in with me in addressing one
of the most serious threats to our Nation in
peacetime that I have seen in my life, be-
cause there is a destruction of the confi-
dence of American people in our future.
I think just facts, demonstration of po-
litical will, and predictability about the
future will go a long way toward alleviat-
ing this problem. And then we can get
people to join in, in a self-sacrificial, pa-
triotic way, so that the adverse impact of
energy shortages will fall very lightly on
the shoulder of any particular American,
if we form a partnership based on mutual
trust, not trying to blame one another, but
to address an issue in a way that has been
used historically in our country under
times of difficulty and trial.
Our proposals are fair, equitable, sim-
ple, and workable. And I'll be doing the
best I can under existing law to deal with
the energy problem, but I do need, in or-
der to address this on a permanent basis,
to have the windfall profits tax passed
and the energy security trust fund
established.
I think this, combined with the legisla-
tion passed last year by Congress on nat-
ural
gas and other elements of the energy
problem, will give us a fairly good package
for me as President, for Governors, local
officials, private citizens, and leaders like
you, to meet the future with confidence.
Our country is so strong and so able and
so secure, that it's almost heartbreaking to
sec some issue like this, which festers like a
cancer, carry on from one month to an-
other, sapping away the basic strength of
our Nation and the confidence that people
ought to have in a governmental and a
free enterprise system.
And I hope that every one of you will
leave this room, having been thoroughly
briefed by the Secretary of Treasury and
by my own staff aide, Stu Eizenstat, and
become not just a quiet supporter of these
proposals if someone asks but to become a
strong and fervently committed Ameri-
can, a leader who joins in with me to meet
a challenge successfully, showing that the
strength and the will of Americans is still
adequate to meet a challenge as we have
so frequently done in the past to make our
Nation so great.
865
