Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 22
turmoil in Iran, the conflict in Southeast
Asia--were of our own making. But both
events place great demands on me as
President and on our ability to define and
to act upon the true interests of the
American people. And there are likely to
be many more events like this in the
future.
As the world becomes more complex,
it's more important than ever before that
we do not oversimplify events abroad. Bad
analysis inevitably leads to bad policy. In-
stead, we need to be aware of the deep
historical forces at work in other coun-
tries. We need to be well informed. The
revolution in Iran, for example, is a
product of Iranian social, political, eco-
nomic, religious factors, all intertwined.
To ignore these realities or fail to under-
stand them would lead us into taking ac-
tions that might be ineffective or irrele-
vant or even dangerous.
But in addition to understanding the
complexity of individual nations, we must
also understand how changes taking place
in those nations can affect the future, both
of that particular region, the entire world,
and especially my responsibility, the
United States of America.
We need to resist two temptations: to
see all change as inevitably against the
interests of the United States, as kind of
a loss for us or a victory for them; or to
imagine that what happens in a country
like Iran will not have consequences for
us and for other regions as well. We need
to see what is happening not in terms of
simplistic colors, black and white, but in
more subtle shades; not as isolated events,
but often as part of sweeping currents that
have broad significance.
At this moment there is turmoil or
change in various countries from one end
of the Indian Ocean to the other; some
turmoil as in Indochina is the product of
age-old enmities, inflamed by rivalries for
influence by conflicting forces. Stability
in some other countries is being shaken by
the processes of modernization, the search
for national significance, or the desire to
fulfill legitimate human hopes and hu-
man aspirations.
For us in the United States, change it-
self is not the enemy. Our concern is two-
fold. We must work to dampen conflict,
to maintain peace, and we must make
clear that it's dangerous for outside pow-
ers to try to exploit for their own selfish
benefits this inevitable turmoil. That kind
of exploitation can damage not only the
integrity and independence of the nations
that happen to be in a transition phase,
but also can damage the effort to build
a more secure and a more peaceful world
for us all.
Let me repeat what I said at Georgia
Tech earlier this week: In the Middle
East, in Southeast Asia, and elsewhere in
the world, we will stand by our friends.
We will honor our commitments, and we
will protect the vital interests of the
United States.
The United States continues to be the
most powerful nation on Earth—militar-
ily, economically, and politically. And I'm
committed to preserving and even en-
hancing that power, not for its own sake,
but for the sake of the values and the
ideals of our Nation. We will make re-
sponsible use of that power where our in-
terests are directly involved or where we
can help to create conditions for peace
and for the independent development of
other nations and for the realization of
the hopes of human beings who live there.
We have forces in readiness, as you
well
know, which we will use if necessary. I
hope that that need will never rise. I am
proud that no member of the Armed
Forces of our country has had to give his
life in combat during my administration.
And I'm determined to do all in my
311
