Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 3
And I'm very grateful to you, President
Carter, for having received me at this
very busy time.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Pierre.
Good luck to you.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:32 p.m. to
reporters assembled on the South Lawn of the
White House.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Trudeau of Canada
Joint Communique. March 3, 1979
ENERGY
During their discussion today over
lunch at the White House, the Prime
Minister and the President discussed the
world energy situation and noted that in-
creased energy self-reliance is a major
objective of both their governments. They
reaffirmed that enhanced bilateral coop-
eration in the field of energy will serve the
interests of both countries. They also
agreed that maximizing the supplies of
domestic energy available to each country
was a common and shared objective.
Recent international events have served
to underline the vulnerability of the USA
and Canada and other oil-consuming
countries to oil supply and pricing dis-
ruptions. The President and the Prime
Minister endorsed the coordinated un-
dertaking of March 2 by the member
countries of the International Energy
Agency to reduce demand for oil on the
world market on an urgent basis in re-
sponse to the current global supply situa-
tion. The Prime Minister noted that Can-
ada is raising its oil production and that
production in the first quarter of 1979
will be some 13 percent above the pre-
vious year, a portion of it being used to
offset domestic shortfalls resulting from
the Iranian situation. The United States
plans to take appropriate action to in-
crease its oil production to offset the world
supply shortfall.
The Prime Minister outlined to the
President the progress already achieved in
Canada toward construction of the
Northern Gas Pipeline. The President af-
firmed his government's strong commit-
ment to the completion of the line, which
will bring Alaskan gas to the lower 48
states and eventually Mackenzie Delta
gas to Canadian markets. He noted that
he is sending a reorganization plan to the
Congress no later than April 1, establish-
ing the Office of the Federal Pipeline In-
spector. He also stated his determination
to ensure that the U.S. regulatory proc-
ess on all aspects of the Northern Gas
Pipeline proceeds as quickly as possible.
The two leaders agreed to seek ways
whereby any additional Canadian gas ex-
ports, should they be authorized, could
facilitate timely construction of the entire
Northern Gas Pipeline.
In order to enhance the already close
and timely cooperation in other bilateral
energy areas, the two leaders agreed to
establish a consultative mechanism at the
sub-cabinet level which would function at
least to the end of 1979. This consultative
mechanism is charged with:
-ensuring that decision-making proc-
esses in each country on the matter of a
delivery system to transport Alaskan crude
oil to the northern tier and other inland
states proceed in a parallel and timely
manner;
-developing options for decision by
each government on a number of opera-
tional issues in bilateral energy relations,
including oil supplies and oil exchanges,
strategic petroleum storage, the utilization
of surplus Canadian refinery capacity,
electricity exchanges, possibilities for liq-
381
