Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
would say
be worthy.
that he or many others would
OIL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, half a dozen OPEC
countries have announced, or are threat-
ening to do so, some kind of oil price
hike in the last couple of weeks. It gives
the impression that the United States is
at their mercy and that we are helpless.
Are we?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no control
over prices that other nations establish
for their products, including oil. This is a
subject that I have addressed as force-
fully as possible, since April of 1977, when
we presented to the Congress a compre-
hensive energy proposal. Our best ap-
proach is to reduce exorbitant waste of
oil and other energy products that pres-
ently exists in our country, to increase
the production of oil and gas and other
energy products within our Nation, and
to use our legitimate influence when it
can be exerted to minimize any increase
in prices. But we cannot control other
nations in this respect.
I might say that we are much better
able now, as a world consuming com-
munity, to deal with these increases than
we were back in 1973 and '4, when the
price was quadrupled overnight with-
out any warning, and before the con-
suming nations were working in harmony
to provide reserves on hand, to increase
exploration and production, which has
since then occurred in the North Sea, in
Mexico, obviously, in Alaska, and other
places.
But we have no control over it. We
deplore it. We would like for them to
hold down the prices as much as possible.
Our best response is to use energy in our
own Nation efficiently, to cut out waste,
and to increase our own production.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, in view of what
you've just said about the energy situa-
tion, why are you uncertain about
whether you will impose the new con-
servation measures as soon as Congress
gives you the authorization? It would
seem that the country might be waiting
for some sort of signal that things are
really serious and that consumers must
cut back.
THE PRESIDENT. If the Iranian produc-
tion is not restored, then we would face a
half-million-barrel-a-day shortage, more
or less, possibly increasing later on to 700,-
000 barrels a day. By the first of next
month, in addition to the request to Con-
gress that I've just put forward, we will
have measures outlined for taking this ac-
tion when it is necessary. As a matter of
fact, we don't want to have stringent re-
straints placed on our economy that might
cause very severe disruptions, high unem-
ployment, and very adverse reactions not
only in our country but throughout the
world.
But with the standby authority, then I
would have the responsibility, as author-
ized by Congress, to take action based
upon the severity of the need.
We have, I think, a matter of judgment
to be made in that respect. But to commit
myself ahead of time to greatly constrain
the American economy when it's not nec-
essary would not be in the best interest of
our country.
IRAN
Q. Mr. President, what is our Govern-
ment doing, if anything, to try and in-
fluence the new Iranian Government to
increase production, keep prices down,
and, generally, how would you describe
351
