Jan. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
League and served as special assistant to
the late Whitney Young, Jr.
In 1975 he became the first elected
chairman of the Council of the District
of Columbia.
Tucker has been active in both local
and national affairs in Washington, serv-
ing as a consultant to the "War on Pov-
erty" program, the Peace Corps, and
President Kennedy's Committee on Ju-
venile Delinquency and Youth Crime. He
is the author of several books and has
held a number of teaching and consult-
ing assignments.
United States Participation in
the United Nations
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. January 18, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send Congress this re-
port of United States Government activi-
ties in the United Nations and its affili-
ated agencies during calendar year 1977.
This 32nd annual report strengthens
my conviction that the United Nations
is of great and growing importance to the
conduct of U.S. foreign relations. We can-
not effectively advance world peace and
our other national interests if we ignore
the potential of this global organization.
Ambassador Andrew Young called the
1977 General Assembly the "most con-
structive session in many years." It was
largely free of the wasteful tactics of con-
frontation that had marred other recent
sessions.
The other organs of the United Na-
tions and the various specialized agencies
also made progress on many of the diffi-
cult issues that humanity faces.
I am proud of the role we played in en-
couraging this constructive atmosphere.
We are committed to resolving problems
through reason and discussion, not con-
frontation.
Our national interests are best served
by such cooperation, and by listening with
respect to the problems of all nations,
large and small. Our delegations paid
particular attention to the views of those
developing nations which make up two-
thirds of the UN's membership and
worked with them to identify points of
common concern.
The interests of America and of many
other UN members coincided in the
search for peace in the Middle East and
southern Africa, the promotion of human
rights, the Panama Canal Treaties, and
economic development to help meet the
basic human needs of more than a billion
of the world's people.
One of my first acts as President was
to invite UN Secretary General Kurt
Waldheim to the White House, and I
have discussed international issues with
him on a number of occasions since
then. During 1977, I was also privileged
to speak at the United Nations twice-
once during March, and again at the
opening of the 32nd General Assembly in
September. Also while in New York, I
took the occasion to sign the two United
Nations human rights covenants which
for many years had lacked U.S. signa-
ture.
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance has
taken extraordinary pains—including di-
rect participation in Security Council and
General Assembly meetings to make the
United Nations an increasingly vital fac-
tor in the conduct of this country's foreign
relations. And Ambassador Young has
worked with great skill and unusual effec-
tiveness in improving our relationship
with the UN and its member states.
Events in the United Nations system
62
