Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 26
Under 20 barrels/day between 2,000 eral government. The tax will be withheld
and 4,000 feet
and paid over by the person having re-
Under 25 barrels/day between 4,000 sponsibility for settling with the various
and 6,000 feet
property interest owners under a division
Under 30 barrels/day between 6,000 order. This is generally the first purchaser.
and 8,000 feet
Under 35 barrels/day below 8,000 feet.
• On January 1, 1980, the base produc-
tion control levels for marginal properties
will be reduced to zero and all current
production will be eligible for the upper
tier price.
Effective June 1, any incremental
new production from wells employing
specified enhanced recovery techniques
(e.g., tertiary recovery), may receive the
world price. Beginning on January 1,
1980, producers who invest in enhanced
recovery projects after June 1 may release
specified volumes of lower tier oil to the
upper tier price in order to finance that
investment.
Beginning on January 1, 1980, the
upper tier oil price will increase in equal
monthly increments until it reaches the
world price on October 1, 1981.
• The Department of Energy has pro-
mulgated a rule under which base pro-
duction control levels for all properties
other than marginal properties will be
permitted to decline lower tier oil at a rate
of 12 percent per month from January 1,
1979 through December 31, 1979. Be-
tween January 1, 1980 and October 1,
1981, the decline rate will equal 3 percent
per month.
TECHNICAL EXPLANATION OF THE
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
1. Imposition of Tax
An excise tax will be imposed at the
wellhead on the owners of property inter-
ests in domestic crude oil (i.e., producers
and royalty owners). The tax will not be
imposed upon royalties paid to the Fed-
The person having responsibility for
withholding and paying over the tax will
deposit the tax semi-monthly with author-
ized depositories. That person will be re-
quired to file quarterly returns setting
forth the amount collected and deposited
for the return period.
Production from the Alaska North
Slope (and any other oil transported
through the TAPS line) is excluded en-
tirely from the tax. This is because the
transportation costs of bringing this oil
to market are high, and the actual price
received at the wellhead by producers of
such oil is significantly below the upper
tier price level.
Since the windfall profits tax is an ex-
cise tax, it is deductible for income tax
purposes.
2. Amount of Tax
One tax is to be imposed at a rate of
50 percent. The tax is to be imposed on
the difference between the price at which
each taxable barrel of oil is sold and its
base price, multiplied by the volume of
oil subject to tax. There are three base
prices: the controlled price of lower tier
oil; the controlled base price of upper tier
oil; and, for the production of unregu-
lated oil, the market incentive price.
3. Oil Subject to Tax
(a) Definitions
The windfall profits tax applies only to
crude oil produced in the United States.
For this purpose, the United States in-
cludes Puerto Rico, all United States pos-
sessions and the Continental Shelf.
The terms "crude oil", "lower tier oil",
"upper tier oil", "stripper well", and
723
