Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
and the challenges and the future of your
State. Congressman Neal Smith and Con-
gressman Tom Harkin, who are personal
friends of mine and superb Representa-
tives of a great State, thank you for being
with us.
I don't want to make a long speech. I've
already spoken to the county officials, and
I just had a 30-minute press conference. I
think I've covered most of the points. But
I would like to ask you as Americans and
as Democrats to help me in the upcoming
crucial battles that will face the United
States Congress.
First of all, there's the ratification of
SALT. When we do conclude the nego-
tiations, which will be very shortly now, I
will then meet with President Brezhnev, if
no unforeseen developments should occur,
and then present to the Senate later on
this year the SALT II treaty for ratifica-
tion. The issue is in doubt, but in my opin-
ion, there could not possibly be a more
important challenge to the American peo-
ple than the continuation of control of
nuclear weapons.
My goal, as you well know, is to elimi-
nate nuclear weapons completely from the
face of the Earth. And I need your help
and your support, and if you let your
your voice
be heard and let all the voices of your
neighbors be heard throughout Iowa, both
Democrat and particularly Republican, I
believe we'll have an excellent chance to
get this treaty ratified. I'm committed to
it. I'm dedicated to it. I don't know of
anything more important to my own ad-
ministration or to the future of our coun-
try than to continue this progress toward
controlling nuclear weapons.
The second thing I want you to help me
with is the consummation of an adequate
national energy policy for our country.
We must save energy. We must be inno-
vative in evolving new domestic supplies
of all kinds. And we need to impose a
windfall profits tax on the oil companies
to give us the funds necessary for the fur-
ther development of solar power and
other advanced technologies that might let
us be energy-independent in the future.
We've had good luck so far in letting
the spirit of America be felt throughout
the world. I think we've reestablished in
other nations the sure knowledge that our
Nation has not abandoned the principles
on which it was founded 200 years ago-
faith in God, freedom, independence,
peace, equality of opportunity, individual
initiative, and a commitment to basic hu-
man rights. These will be the policies of
our Government as long as I'm in the
White House. And we have seen one im-
plementation already, in the signing of the
Mideast peace treaty. It's a first step.
We've got a long way to go. But I hope
you will help me in this respect as well.
And the last thing I want to mention to
you is this: I don't know exactly why, but
I have read the public opinion polls taken
among farmers in Iowa that show a belief
that I and, to a lesser degree, the Secretary
of Agriculture are not sensitive to the
needs of farm families of our country. This
is not the case. Anyone with any memory
at all, or any sound judgment at all, would
recall the situation among farm families
of our Nation when I first began to come
to Iowa and to walk from door to door
and to drive or fly from one town to an-
other. I witnessed the life of the farm
families then. I learned elements of agri-
culture that wasn't a part of my past
existence.
But at that time, as you know, grain
embargoes were a normal part of the farm
community's life. In 1973, 1975, all ex-
ports were terminated. When we finally
made a sale, like to the Soviet Union, we
were embarrassed because the farmers got
cheated and grain dealers got rewarded.
And Dick Clark and John Culver and the
805
