Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 22
We've injected ourselves, I think, in a
well-advised way in trying to resolve dis-
putes among nations that might erupt
into a broader conflict. I have just cov-
ered the part of my effort in the Mideast.
We've tried to bring peace to Cyprus.
We've worked with the British, trying to
resolve the problems in Rhodesia, to give
majority rule, a democratic government
there, to end the racial discrimination
that has existed.
We've worked very closely with four
other major allies-Canada, France,
West Germany, Britain—to bring about
majority rule and independence of Nam-
ibia. And in other areas of the world we've
tried to add our influence whenever we
could in a constructive way to ensure sta-
bility, peace, and the realization of legiti-
mate aspirations of people who are in-
volved.
And the fact that we haven't a crisis,
that we haven't had to go to war, that we
have been successful in maintaining
peace, I think, is an achievement.
But it hasn't required yet, and I hope
never, a demonstration of courage on my
part to call out the Armed Forces or to
participate in an armed attack against
other people.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, Secretary of Defense
Brown has just returned from the Middle
East, and it's reported that Egyptian
President Anwar Sadat, concerned about
the role of the Palestinians in Iran, is in-
terested in becoming the region's police-
man-which is how some newspapers are
describing it-in return for heavy in-
fusions of U.S. weapons. What's the like-
lihood for this?
And, also, Sadat has said that he would
not use the equipment in conflict with
Israel, but how can we be sure that if he's
called upon by his Arab brothers to fight
Israel that he wouldn't use it?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Sadat has
demonstrated in a very dramatic way, and
also a consistent way in the last few years,
his peaceful intentions toward Israel. His
trip to Jerusalem, his participation, suc-
cessfully, in the Camp David negotiations,
I think, is proof of his good intentions to-
ward having peaceful relations with
Israel.
As you probably know, Israel* is a very
powerful element in the Arab world, eco-
nomically; their population is very great;
their military strength is great, compared
to many other countries. And I think they
can be a legitimate stabilizing force. They
now have five divisions or more on the
eastern side of the Suez confronting
Israel. Part of the Camp David accords,
part of the negotiated points that have al-
ready been concluded on the Sinai agree-
ment would call for the withdrawal of
these forces. They would perhaps never
be used. But at least any entity that
threatened to attack another country in
the Mideast would be faced with the
prospect that those Egyptian forces might
very well be used to preserve the peace.
I'm not predicting that this would hap-
pen, but the potential would be there for
Egypt to help to protect relatively de-
fenseless other Arab countries or to pre-
serve peace in the Mideast.
I don't want to try to comment on any
nation being a policeman for the region
nor for the world. I think that's a very
serious mistake.
There obviously have been requests
made by many nations around the world
for military or economic assistance that
is in excess of what our Nation could pro-
vide. That situation might apply to the
*The President meant to say Egypt. [Printed
in the transcript.]
315
