Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
We are a nation that has been able to
struggle with diversity and even deep dis-
appointment and embarrassment, without
permanently damaging the fabric of our
societal structure.
Often it's time for us to stop and take
stock of where we are, what we are, where
we might go in the future. We are a nation
inclined toward open debate, and we're
also a nation which has never been fearful
of exposing our mistakes, our trials, our
tribulations, and our problems.
I think the American press, the Ameri-
can people are inclined, as a matter of
character, to emphasize the differences
which divide us, the reasons for dispute
and debate, to emphasize the problems
that we've not yet solved, the questions
that we have not yet answered.
And because of this, often Americans
fail to remember the vast reservoir of
common purpose, common belief, the
superb achievements and the basic
strength of our country. Often I meet
with labor leaders, business leaders, politi-
cal leaders, representatives of special in-
terest groups-sometimes selfish, some-
times benevolent in nature-in the Oval
Office, in the Cabinet Room, or in larger
groups. And I remind them of all the
things for which we can honestly give
thanks in our country and ask them to
recognize and to strive to overcome diffi-
culties and obstacles, but to do it with a
sense of realization, of innate strength
worthy of our confidence, not to lose the
boldness with which we face the future.
We are a nation that believes in justice,
justice enshrined in an ever-improving
United States Constitution, which started
out as an example for the rest of the
world almost 200 years ago, but which
has constantly been improved because the
people of our country demand more, not
less freedom; more and not less equality
of opportunity.
We're a nation which believes in
strength. We're a nation which believes
even in military strength, but we are also
a nation which believes in investing that
military strength for the cause of peace.
Sometimes we have departed from our
basic principles in the past, and in the
process, we have had a deterioration in
the quality of our social life and our po-
litical life.
In recent years, because of the Vietnam
war, Watergate, CIA revelations, we lost
a great reservoir of trust and natural in-
terrelationship between the people of our
country and our own Government.
One of the major responsibilities of us
Democrats, the last 2 years, has been to
restore that element of trust, with open-
ness of government, the passage of strict
ethics legislation, more direct communi-
cation with the press, restoring the struc-
tural federal system, so that county, city,
State, and Federal officials can work in
harmony and not at odds.
We've been willing for a change to
focus on crises and needs. And I can tell
you that the Congress has had superb
courage in the last 2 years to deal with
inevitably divisive issues, within which
there was no possibility of political gain,
when courageous action was taken, when
courageous votes were cast.
There was no way for a Member of
the Congress to benefit politically by sup-
porting the Panama Canal treaties. But
the Senate, with superb courage, did so,
and identified our Nation as having extra
strength-strength not of a coward and a
bully, but strength of quiet confidence,
so that we can deal with a small nation
equitably and fairly. And it gave our
country a genuine reputation not only in
this hemisphere but throughout the world
as one that genuinely believed in human
rights and didn't just preach human
rights for others.
575
