Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 24
This is where my request comes in.
Some people save many different things
for memories. My mementos fall in a lit-
tle different category. The last person to
fulfill my request was Governor Nigh. I
don't believe he quite remembers. But I
don't want it to get old, but I'll be darned
if I'm going to miss out on the kisses.
Okay?
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine. [Laughter]
[At this point, the President kissed Ms. Mef-
ford.]
This is my favorite place. I'm just on
the verge of promising to come back to
Elk City again.
TAXATION OF MILITARY PERSONNEL
Q. My name is Myra Crawford, and
I'm from Lawton, Oklahoma. And if I
had known all this was going on, I would
have asked you 2 years ago to kiss me in
the back seat of the car when we were
riding together. [Laughter] I got to tell
you just a bit of trivia. I guess my car
has I rode with the President before he
was President, and then his lovely wife
after. And I didn't even ask for a kiss from
either one of them. My goodness, what
did I miss? [Laughter]
Anyway, the one thing I want to ask,
and as I asked you the evening I was
riding with you, about military subsistence
and Category B. I don't know if a lot of
people know what Category B is here. You
do, don't you?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not sure.
Q. Okay. Category B is where people
live off the base and they work on base
and don't pay taxes.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand.
Q. You understand?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, ma'am.
Q. You know, then?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. This is in dire need. Lawton, Okla-
homa, will lose $1.6 million for the school
system, and we cannot survive if we don't
get that money. I wish you would please
look at it again before you turn your head
against it. That's all I ask. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Thank
you, ma'am.
UTILITY BILLS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Willie Rogers.
I'm the State representative for the area
where you're standing.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Q. I would like to know what you plan
to do in order to help the elderly, retired,
disabled, and lower income people with
their utility bills.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know, it's
difficult to answer that question suc-
very
cessfully, because one of the major com-
ponent parts of the utility bill charges is
the price of energy that goes to generate
electricity, primarily.
We have passed legislation that supple-
ments the ability of a family to insulate
homes and to cut down on the waste of
heat and electricity. Also, we have new
legislation just passed last fall that gives
us the right to change the rate structure
for electrical charges, so that if a person is
poor and can use electricity at a time dur-
ing the day when it's most efficient to pro-
duce or when the demand is low, that they
could again have a lower charge for their
utilities.
The other thing that I would add is that
the general allocation of Federal funds for
the poor people has been substantially
improved.
Last year I submitted a budget that's
now in effect during 1979 that increased
total allocation of Federal funds for the
poor by $4.5 billion. And next year, even
though it's a very tight budget for fiscal
479
