June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
thereof, or mobile launchers of
such missiles, which move only in
contact with the ocean floor, the
seabed, or the beds of internal
waters and inland waters, or mis-
siles for such launchers;
(c) systems for placing into Earth
orbit nuclear weapons or any
other kind of weapons of mass
destruction, including fractional
orbital missiles;
(d) mobile
ICBMs;
(e) SLBMs which have a launch-
weight greater or a throw-weight
greater than that of the heaviest,
in terms of either launch-weight
or throw-weight, respectively, of
the light ICBMs deployed by
either Party as of the date of sig-
nature of this Treaty, or launchers
of such SLBMs; or
launchers of heavy
(f) ASBMS which have a launch-
weight greater or a throw-weight
greater than that of the heaviest,
in terms of either launch-weight
or throw-weight, respectively, of
the light ICBMs deployed by
either Party as of the date of sig-
nature of this Treaty.
be in excess of the aggregate numbers
provided for in this Treaty as well as
strategic offensive arms prohibited by this
Treaty shall be dismantled or destroyed
under procedures to be agreed upon in
the Standing Consultative Commission.
2. Dismantling or destruction of stra-
tegic offensive arms which would be in
excess of the aggregate number provided
for in paragraph 1 of Article III shall be-
gin on the date of the entry into force
of this Treaty and shall be completed
within the following periods from that
date: four months for ICBM launchers;
six months for SLBM launchers; and
three months for heavy bombers.
3. Dismantling or destruction of stra-
tegic offensive arms which would be in
excess of the aggregate number provided
for in paragraph 2 of Article III shall be
initiated no later than January 1, 1981,
shall be carried out throughout the ensu-
ing twelve-month period, and shall be
completed no later than December 31,
1981.
4. Dismantling or destruction of stra-
tegic offensive arms prohibited by this
Treaty shall be completed within the
shortest possible agreed period of time,
but not later than six months after the
2. Each Party undertakes not to flight-
test from aircraft cruise missiles capable entry into force of this Treaty.
of a range in excess of 600 kilometers
which are equipped with multiple inde-
pendently targetable warheads and not
to deploy such cruise missiles on aircraft.
ARTICLE X
Subject to the provisions of this Treaty,
modernization and replacement of stra-
tegic offensive arms may be carried out.
ARTICLE XI
1. Strategic offensive arms which would
ARTICLE XII
In order to ensure the viability and ef-
fectiveness of this Treaty, each Party un-
dertakes not to circumvent the provisions
of this Treaty, through any other state or
states, or in any other manner.
ARTICLE XIII
Each Party undertakes not to assume
any international obligations which would
conflict with this Treaty.
1056
