Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ership imposes many responsibilities on
us, on me as President, and on you, other
leaders who shape opinion and the char-
acter of our country.
But our noblest duty is to use our
strength to serve our highest interest-
the building of a secure, stable, and a
peaceful world. We perform that duty in
the spirit proclaimed by John F. Kennedy
in 1963, the year he died. "Confident and
unafraid," he said, "we labor on—not to-
ward a strategy of annihilation, but to-
ward a strategy of peace."
In our relations with the Soviet Union,
the possibility of mutual annihilation
makes a strategy of peace the only ra-
tional choice for both sides.
Because our values are so different, it is
clear that the United States of America
and the Soviet Union will be in compe-
tition as far ahead as we can imagine or
see. Yet we have a common interest in
survival, and we share a common recog-
nition that our survival depends, in a real
sense, on each other. The very competi-
tion between us makes it imperative that
we bring under control its most danger-
ous aspect-the nuclear arms race. That's
why the strategic arms limitation talks
are so very important. This effort by two
great nations to limit vital security forces
is unique in human history; none have
ever done this before.
As the Congress and the American
people consider the SALT treaty, which is
now nearly complete, the debate will cen-
ter around four basic questions: Why do
we need SALT? How is the treaty related
to our overall defense strategy? Can Soviet
Today, we and the Soviet Union, with
sharply different world outlooks and in-
terests, both have the ominous destructive
power literally to destroy each other as a
functioning society, killing tens of millions
of people in the process. And common
sense tells us as it tells the Soviet Un-
ion-that we must work to make our com-
petition less dangerous, less burdensome,
and less likely to bring the ultimate hor-
ror of nuclear war.
Indeed, the entire world has a vital
interest in whether or not we control the
strategic arms race. We have consulted
closely with our allies, who count on us
not only to maintain strong military forces
to offset Soviet military power but also,
and equally important, to manage suc-
cessfully a stable East-West relationship.
SALT is at the heart of both these crucial
efforts. That's why the leaders of France
and Great Britain, Germany, England,
Canada, and other nations have voiced
their full support for the emerging treaty.
Some nations which have so far held
back from building their own nuclear
weapons and at least a dozen other na-
tions on Earth now have that capability—
will be strongly influenced in their deci-
sion by whether the two nuclear super
powers will restrain our weapons. Rejec-
tion of the new strategic arms limitation
treaty would seriously undermine the ef-
fort to control proliferation of these deadly
weapons. And nothing-nothing-would
more surely damage our other critical
efforts in arms control-from a ban on all
nuclear testing to the prevention of
dangerous satellite warfare in space; from
compliance be verified? How does the equalizing NATO and Warsaw Pact
treaty relate to Soviet activities which
challenge us and challenge our interests?
Let me address each question in turn.
First, why do we need a strategic arms
limitation treaty? We need it because it
will contribute to a more peaceful world—
and to our own national security.
forces to restraining the spread of sophisti-
cated conventional weapons on Earth.
Every President since the dawn of the
nuclear age has pursued the effort to bring
nuclear arms under control. And this must
be a continuing process.
694
