Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 15
proach. And the Congress considered this
legislation for 18 months, finally passed
about 60 to 65 percent of what I had
advocated, did not pass anything concern-
ing oil.
Many of the Members of Congress
who've served 25 or 30 years told me that
that was the worst session of Congress
they had ever served in and that the en-
ergy legislation was the most complicated
and difficult that they thought the Nation
had ever addressed in its 200-year history.
The situation is not going to get any
better. My guess is that it will get worse.
We're going to have less oil in the future
on a worldwide basis compared to de-
mand, and the price is going to continue
to increase. That means the American
people are going to have to use less to
meet a given need, and they're going to
have to pay more for it.
This is not an attractive statement to
make, because people ordinarily look to
political leaders for the expression of
words of a panacea, the resolution of a
difficult problem with a simple or simplis-
tic answers, and the alleviation of prob-
lems, at least a promise of alleviation of
problems.
Those hopeful and pleasant political
dreams are not going to come true. We've
not had adequate support from Congress,
and the American people still refuse to
face the inevitable prospect of energy
shortages, even the most well-meaning
and patriotic Americans-still looking for
a scapegoat.
Many believe that there is no energy
shortage and there's not going to be an
energy shortage, that the problem is that
the Federal Government in some way is
in collusion with the oil companies, that
artificial shortages are being contrived in
order to drive up prices and that if prices
could get high enough, all of a sudden
there would be enough energy for every-
one. That's obviously a false analysis or
premise. So, what do we do about it?
The Congress in 1975 mandated that
then-President Ford and his successors
would evolve a gasoline rationing plan.
Nobody but a political fool would advo-
cate the implementation of gasoline ra-
tioning in this country on a voluntary
basis. But I was mandated by law to
present to the Congress a gasoline ration-
ing plan as a standby. I don't have the
authority to develop a gasoline rationing
plan. It takes a lot of money. It would
require some Federal employees to evolve
a gasoline rationing plan with coupons,
regulations, and all that go with it. But
we presented to the Congress an outline
of a plan to be developed, a process that
would ordinarily require about 8 or 9
months.
After that time, if an emergency should
arise, then the President and the Con-
gress would both have to agree that the
rationing plan would be put into effect.
Even under those circumstances, the Con-
gress refused to give me the authority to
develop a standby gasoline rationing
plan-I thought a remarkable demon-
stration of political timidity.
We have now tried to assess on a con-
tinuing basis what can be done. Obviously,
the most inexpensive and effective means
of dealing with the energy crisis is to
eliminate waste of energy. For a given
level of income, per capita income, the
American public consumes about twice
as much energy as, say, a resident of
Germany, most European countries. We
have an enormous amount of waste.
In the last 2 years, there has been a
substantial improvement in the efficiency
of energy consumption within the corpo-
rate world because of the pressures of
savings and the profit motive which is
an integral part of our Nation's societal
863
