Feb. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
continuation of negotiations between the
individual States in response to the visits
and the trade that had been already
established?
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to see
those efforts escalated. I might say that I
believe that in this particular realm of
trade, we are benefiting in both ways. I
don't see any deleterious effect on our
trade with Taiwan from our new normal
relations with the People's Republic of
China. And it opens up enormous new
possibilities, as you well know, Art, for
new trade and enhanced trade with
China, mainland, itself.
As a matter of fact, after Japan nor-
malized relations with the People's Re-
public of China several years ago, their
trade with that great country exploded
into tens of billions of dollars of presently
existing contracts, more than $10 billion.
At the same time, they established the
same relationship with Taiwan that we
have now proposed the Congress approve.
And under those circumstances, their
trade with Taiwan has more than tripled,
almost quadrupled just in the last few
years. So, I think we'll have a continua-
tion or even an expansion of our trade
with Taiwan and a greatly magnified, new
opportunity for trade with the People's
Republic of China.
I would hope that when Secretary
Kreps returns from her trip to the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, that she could
relay, through George Busbee, to all of
you her assessment of the advisability of
your making individual trips with trade
missions to the People's Republic. I think
this would be very good for your State.
It would certainly be very good for our
country, and it would, in addition, let the
Chinese people understand us better and
vice versa. I think through your own ini-
tiative and exploration of possibilities you
can uncover opportunities that we could
never hope to uncover, even with the best
organized and most enthusiastic effort
from the Federal Government itself.
GOVERNOR LINK. You see, we've had a
standing invitation even prior to the rec-
ognition of mainland China, and they in-
dicated they hoped it would continue.
And I was interested in knowing what
the attitude-
THE PRESIDENT. I think you ought to
accept the invitation.
Maybe one more question.
GOVERNOR BUSBEE. Mr. President, be-
fore you depart, the chairman of the Na-
tional Governors' Association, Governor
Carroll of Kentucky, wanted to make a
statement.
GOVERNOR CARROLL. Mr. President, on
behalf of the Governors, I want to say
thank you for your suggestion. This com-
mittee would not be sitting here today
were it not for this personal suggestion of
the President of the United States, and I
think the Governors should be grateful to
him for his suggestion.
It was made at the White House while
we were having lunch one day. And I said
to him, "Well, Mr. President, if you're
serious, would you mind writing a letter
and asking us to do it." And he was that
serious. He wrote the letter and suggested
that it be done, and indeed the National
Governors' Association executive com-
mittee then created this standing commit-
tee. And you see how enthusiastic the Gov-
ernors are responding to it.
And indeed, we believe that it's going to
create improved international relations
from a resource that has never been uti-
lized before by the Federal Government,
and that's the resource of its own States.
And we compliment you for it; we thank
you for it and look forward to helping
you. And as a Governor who's got all
kinds of coal, I'm looking for some of
those countries that are now burning oil
that could burn coal and let us have their
oil. [Laughter]
334
