Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
stance, was more than 50 percent. We
will help them bear the costs for these
peacetime changes. The cost will run a
little more than a billion dollars a year for
3 or 4 years for both nations combined.
Our Nation can well afford it. It's an ex-
cellent investment, and I believe the
American people are strongly in support
of this very modest cost for peace, when
the cost of war, even to our own Nation,
to our own taxpayers, would be much,
much greater.
I believe it's a very good investment.
REINSTATEMENT OF THE DRAFT
Q. Mr. President, my name is Danny
Vinyard, and I'm a senior at Oklahoma
State University. I have a lot of questions
I'd like to ask you, but what I'd really
like to know is whether or not you think
it's fair to reinstate the draft and ran-
domly make young males sacrifice for the
whole society, or would you be in favor
of increasing salaries so that the military
could be remanned on a voluntary basis?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I have
the authority at this moment to require
registration for the draft. But to induct
young people into the Armed Forces
would have to require an act of Congress.
I don't see any present need to do it, but
it is being considered, and we'll make a
final decision later on.
If we ever find this to be necessary, I
would certainly want to institute some
different draft procedures. I don't think
in the future, for instance, that just be-
cause a young person is in college and
probably comes from a more wealthy fam-
ily, that they ought to be excluded from
the same treatment as the poorer young
men who have to struggle.
We have now provided, with the help
of the Congress and my own predecessors
in the White House, I think very reason-
able salary levels and very high training
and good career opportunities for those
who volunteer.
We are meeting the needs of our Armed
Forces with the present volunteer arrange-
ment. Some of our Reserve units are short
of volunteers, and I would like to appeal
tonight to all those who listen to my voice
to consider the Armed Forces as a career
and, certainly, to volunteer to help with
the Reserve forces. But at the present
time, we don't need to reinstitute the
draft.
PRESIDENT'S RELIGIOUS BELIEFS; EQUAL
RIGHTS AMENDMENT
Q. Mr. President, my name is Jim
Fowler, and I feel it's an honor to be here
this evening, and I welcome you to Elk
City.
My question is a three-point question,
if I may ask one. First, I know that you're
a man of religious principles and endeav-
ors, and I've seen much written in the
papers and such. And I know that you're
attending church tomorrow. But I'd like
to hear you state with your own mouth
that
you are a believer of Jesus Christ and
you accept him as your Lord and Savior.
And the second point is, I'd like to know,
as leader of this country, how much time
that you spend in prayer and study as far
as the direction of this country. And the
third point, Mr. President, I ask in all due
respect: I would like to know by what
scriptural basis you and Mrs. Carter sup-
port the ERA by scripture?
THE PRESIDENT. All right.
I am a believer in Jesus Christ and a
born-again Christian. I do worship regu-
larly. I spend a lot of my own time in
prayer. Every evening, my wife and I have
472
