Apr. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
planning for implementation of the Pan-
ama Canal treaties, which go into effect
October 1, 1979, as well as other bilateral
and multilateral issues. President Royo
will arrive in Washington after complet-
ing state visits to the United Kingdom,
France, Spain, and Italy.
Dr. Royo, who was Panama's chief
treaty negotiator, will be in the United
States for the first time since his inaugu-
ration last October 11. The two heads of
state are expected to talk about measures
designed to assure a smooth transition
period when the treaties take effect and
will discuss generally the efforts of both
countries to assure the fulfillment of both
the letter and the spirit of the accords.
With less than 6 months to go before
treaty day, cooperation between the rep-
resentatives of the United States and
Panama has been excellent, although
much work remains to be done, includ-
ing passage of implementing legislation
by the United States Congress.
Days of Remembrance of Victims
of the Holocaust
Remarks at a Commemorative Ceremony.
April 24, 1979
I am honored and also grave and
solemn as I participate in this ceremony
during Days of Remembrance for Victims
of the Holocaust.
Just 5 weeks ago, during my trip to
Israel, I visited again Yad Vashem—the
Memorial to the Six Million. I walked
slowly through the Hall of Names. And
like literally millions before me, I grieved
as I looked at book after book, row after
row, each recording the name of a man
or woman, a little boy or a little girl,
each one a victim of the Holocaust. I
vowed then-as people all over the world
are doing this week-to reaffirm our un-
shakable commitment that such an event
will never recur on this Earth again.
A philosopher has written that lan-
guage itself breaks down when one tries
to speak about the Holocaust and its
meaning. Our words pale before the
frightening spectacle of human evil which
was unleashed on the world and before
the awesomeness of the suffering in-
volved; the sheer weight of its numbers:
11 million innocent victims exterminated,
6 million of them Jews.
Although words do pale, yet we must
speak. We must strive to understand. We
must teach the lessons of the Holocaust.
And most of all, we ourselves must re-
member. We must learn not only about
the vulnerability of life but of the value
of human life. We must remember the
terrible price paid for bigotry and hatred
and also the terrible price paid for in-
difference and for silence.
It's fitting also that we recall today the
persecution, the suffering, and the de-
struction which has befallen so many
other people in this century, in many na-
tions, people whose representatives have
joined us for this observance. For the cen-
tral lesson of the Holocaust must be that,
in the words of the poet, "Each man's
death diminishes me."
To truly commemorate the victims of
the Holocaust, we must harness the out-
rage of our memories to banish all human
oppression from the world. We must rec-
ognize that when any fellow human being
is stripped of humanity, when any person
is turned into an object of repression, tor-
tured or defiled or victimized by terror-
ism or prejudice or racism, then all human
beings are victims, too.
The world's failure to recognize the
moral truth 40 years ago permitted the
Holocaust to proceed. Our generation-
the generation of survivors-will never
permit the lesson to be forgotten. Human
rights and human dignity are indivisible.
684
