Mar. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
four corners of the Earth, to solve our
social and economic problems, to make
the desert bloom, and, above all, to build
a society founded on the spiritual heritage
of our fathers and universal human
values.
We have worked hard to achieve these
aims, even in times of stress and war. But
we are profoundly convinced that only
true peace will enable us to achieve these
ideals. It is my sincere and earnest prayer,
Mr. President, that the efforts you have
devoted here towards that end and the
efforts devoted by the Prime Minister,
Mr. Begin, and the Government, will be
crowned with success.
Mr. President and Mrs. Carter, while
it is irrelevant now, I read that both of
you shook hands, while running for the
governorship of Atlanta, you shook, in 4
years, 600,000 hands. Yesterday we added
a few more. Today we wanted to save
you some, but the President went down
and shook a few hands more, so I lost
count of it. [Laughter] Anyhow, I can tell
you those hands stretched to you and those
whom you did not shake are very friendly
hands.
Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you
all, please, to join me, to stand up and
join with me in drinking a toast to our
illustrious guests, the President of the
United States and his honored lady, to
the success of his noble mission, to the
family, to Miss Lillian, to the friendship
between our peoples, and to the progress
and prosperity of the United States of
America.
Lechayim.
PRIME MINISTER BEGIN. Mr. President
of the United States; Mrs. Carter; Mr.
President of the Republic of Israel; Mrs.
Navon; Mr. Speaker; Mr. President of the
Supreme Court and Justices of the Su-
preme Court; our masters and teachers,
the chief rabbis; members of the Cabinets
of the United States and of Israel; mem-
bers of the Knesset; the leader of our loyal
opposition; the Chief of Staff of our
Army; and Mr. Mayor of our capital city;
ladies and gentleman; honorable guests:
Mr. President, on behalf of the Govern-
ment and the people of Israel, I welcome
you to the eternal capital of the land of
Israel, the indivisible Jerusalem.
The saga of America is living in our
hearts. What is the saga of America?
Thirteen colonies, ruled by a great nation,
but by a foreign power, rising in revolt
against a regular army, including mer-
cenary troops, going through a horrible
winter of suffering and deprivation, fight-
ing on, ultimately winning the day and
receiving the surrender of General Corn-
wallis, proclaiming its independence, ex-
plaining to the world why that separation
took place.
That Declaration of Independence,
written 13 years before the Declaration of
Rights of Man and Citizen during the
French Revolution, and—I, a Jew, dare
say which reads as a chapter of the Bible;
proclaiming those self-evident truths for
which man, almost in every generation,
has to rise and fight; giving a constitution
which is working for 200 years, and work-
ing well, which helps overcome every
crisis in democracy; and then three times
in 60 years saving all mankind from the
dangers of militarism, from the peril of the
most horrible tyranny ever known in the
annals of mankind, and from Communist
domination over the world-indeed sav-
ing thrice all mankind in a short period of
60 years.
The saga of America, to which in 25
years 22 million Jews emigrated, one of
the greatest phenomenon of people's wan-
derings; 100,000 per year, from the shtetl,
bringing with them and transferring with
them all the traditions of the shtetl, know-
420
