Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
black civil rights movement of recent
years.
When it was impossible for a black
voice to be heard clearly in the South, in
a courtroom or a courthouse or even a
public school, the black churches were a
haven for liberty. The black colleges sup-
ported by churches were the origin of the
development of high intelligence and
dedication. And the organizational struc-
ture that resulted in this dramatic change
in our Nation for all citizens originated in
the deep, dedicated, unselfish service of
the religious leaders.
Dr. King, as you know, is the pastor of
Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta,
where I have been many times. His family
has suffered more than it should, but in
the suffering has produced martyrs whose
influence has been explosive in affecting
the lives of other people. He is one of the
founders of the NAACP; his son, the
leader of the Southern Christian Leader-
ship Conference.
And I'm honored and our Nation is
honored by the family of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Sr., and by his own personal
achievements, which have been an in-
spiration to his wife, his children, his
many blood relatives, and those of us,
like myself, who consider ourselves also to
be part of his family.
In the performing arts, I'd like to recog-
nize Ms. Dorothy Maynor.
The South is well represented here to-
day. Ms. Maynor is a concert singer from
Norfolk, Virginia, world famous, dis-
covered by Mr. Koussevitsky in 1939. She
sang in concerts more than 25 years all
over the world. Sometimes she was per-
mitted to sing in foreign countries when
it was very difficult for her to find a stage
or an audience where she could demon-
strate her superb ability here in her own
country. This took a special dedication
and an extraordinary talent to overcome
the obstacles that were placed in her path.
When she retired from her full-time serv-
ice to humanity as a superb performer,
she founded the Harlem School of Arts to
aid young Americans, and in every aspect
of life, hers has been admirable.
And I express to you, Ms. Maynor, my
congratulations, my thanks, and my love.
I guess it's impossible for a son to have
two fathers, but I'd like to ask Dr. Ben-
jamin Mays to stand.
One of the greatest educators this Na-
tion ever produced. He didn't have to be
a full-time preacher to preach. [Laughter]
And he produced, through his inspira-
tional leadership, wisdom, confidence in
struggling young black Americans, lead-
ers that indeed have inspired us and have
been a great satisfaction to him as well;
still very active in his commitment to the
preservation of the character and the
quality and the service of the predomi-
nantly black colleges, the historical black
colleges and universities of our country.
The Atlanta University complex was
the center for wisdom, judgment, and in-
fluence in the times when those attributes
were difficult to find for a black Ameri-
can. And Dr. Mays represents these high
ideals as well as anyone I have ever
known. He's a past president of More-
house College. I'm one of the distin-
guished honorary alumni of Morehouse.
And as I always say, I may be the first
alumni of Morehouse to be President, but
I'm sure I won't be the last one.
As you know, he's presently the presi-
dent emeritus of Morehouse and also is
the president of the United Negro College
Fund. This fund itself has not only kept
the great black colleges alive, but through
its own fundraising efforts and educa-
tional programs, it has acquainted many
distinguished white American leaders
with the superb accomplishments of black
students, black educators, and other
320
