Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
will establish a framework for private and
government activity to prevent privacy
abuses.
The responsibility for implementing
this policy should be shared by the Fed-
eral government, by state and local
gov-
ernments, and by private institutions. I
propose that the Federal government con-
centrate on improving its own activities
and on setting standards for non-Federal
record systems that contain particularly
sensitive data and either involve Federal
funding or require nationwide, uniform
rules. We are submitting three bills to
Congress today to address these areas, and
a fourth major proposal will follow soon.
State and local governments should
build on this base to ensure that their own
record systems are properly protected. In
addition, a key element of the policy I am
proposing is voluntary action by private
businesses and organizations.
I. FAIR INFORMATION PRACTICES
To establish privacy safeguards for key
record systems, I have these proposals:
MEDICAL RECORDS
The "Privacy of Medical Information
Act" is being submitted to you today. It
establishes privacy protections for infor-
mation maintained by almost all medical
institutions. The Act will give individuals
the right to see their own medical records.
If direct access may harm the patient, the
Act provides that access may be provided
through an intermediary. This legislation
allows the individual to ensure that the
information maintained as part of his
medical care relationship is accurate,
timely, and relevant to that care. Such
accuracy is of increasing importance be-
cause medical information is used to af-
fect employment and collection of insur-
ance and other social benefits.
The Act also limits the disclosure of
medical information, and makes it illegal
to collect medical information under false
pretenses. The legislation allows disclo-
sure when it is needed for medical care
and other legitimate purposes, such as
verifying insurance claims, and for re-
search and epidemiological studies. In
such cases, redisclosure is restricted.
FINANCIAL RECORDS
The Administration will soon submit
the "Fair Financial Information Prac-
tices Act." This bill will expand the laws
on consumer credit and banking records
to provide full fair information protec-
tions. It will ensure that consumers are
informed about firms' record keeping
practices and thereby help them decide
which firm to patronize. Specific require-
ments will be tailored to fit the varying
information practices of the industries.
The bill will also provide, for the first
time, national privacy standards for in-
surance records. This is a major step for-
ward into an area where individuals have
few such protections. The bill is not in-
tended to change the existing pattern of
regulating insurance at the state level,
and it allows state regulators to oversee
compliance. However, it will minimize the
danger that a welter of differing state
privacy standards will confuse the public
and impose heavy costs on the insurance
industry.
In addition, this bill will restrict dis-
closure of data from electronic funds
transfer (EFT) systems. Although the
emergence of EFT is relatively recent, its
potential impact on our lives is enormous.
Americans are benefitting from EFT in
a variety of ways: automatic deposit of a
583
