Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the homes. An investment in a home, even
at a high interest rate, is a good invest-
ment if there's a surety that the interest
rates will be maintained high or if prop-
erty values will go up. But I don't know
how to answer your question any better
except to say that I agree with you; we'd
be much better to have low inflation, low
interest rates, and I'm doing the best I
can as President to bring them both down.
IMPACT AID FUNDING
Q. Mr. President, my name is John
Sullivan, and I'm a member of the board
of education here in Portsmouth. Mr.
President, one of the most serious prob-
lems facing the city of Portsmouth today
is the lack of equitable funding for the
education of military students. This year
alone here in Portsmouth, the average
tuition rate for Portsmouth students aver-
ages $1,545, while under HEW public
law 874 they have authorized us $1,260.
This falls $285 short for a student, or in
our school system it means that the tax-
payers of the city of Portsmouth must
pick up an extra $315,000.
Now, I was just wondering if this is a
reasonable solution to our educational
program and the process between the city,
the State, and the Nation, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. It does not sound like
a reasonable solution to me. [Laughter] I
presume you're talking about impact aid
funds.
Q. Yes, I am, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. We are trying to re-
form the impact aid law, with very little
success. But perhaps you could join me
in this battle.
What's happening now is that the im-
pact aid formulae are so constructed that
some communities that have absolutely
no justifiable claim on these funds are get-
ting greatly enriched, whereas commu-
nities like your own, where you actually
do care for the dependent children of
service families, get underpaid.
And I would like for you to contact, if
you would write the name down, Stu
Eizenstat in my office in the White House
and call him and talk to him about how
you can let your voice be heard in the
Congress. This is very important, because
as long as extremely wealthy counties-
some of which are right around Washing-
ton, D.C.-who don't actually educate
the children get enormous payments of
impact aid funds, it means that that much
money which you deserve cannot come to
you. And we really need to modify and
to reform the impact aid formula. It's not
right for you to have to pay an excessive
amount of money to educate a military
child. Obviously the full amount should
be allotted to you, and I believe we could
do this if the law was reformed.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank
you for coming to Portsmouth.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm glad I came.
EDUCATION PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, excuse me if I'm
nervous, but the last time I won anything
in a government raffle, I was drafted.
[Laughter]
I find that my question is similar to
Mr. Sullivan's and it was an observation
more than a statement. My name is Joe
Arnstein, and I teach in this high school.
That is, we receive our tax dollars back
towards education in two ways in this
town and in this community, this area.
The one way is through the impact aid, in
which our schools receive dollars that can
be spent as local people see that they need
to be spent, whether that's for books or
salaries or if the roof is leaking. The other
way we receive money back is through
HEW. And from HEW we receive pro-
grams, forms to be filled out, title this, title
708
