Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
Liaison Group, which will conduct activi-
ties as directed by the Joint Commission;
i. provide liaison and coordination to
the United Nations command implement-
ing provisions of the Treaty, and, through
the joint liaison teams, maintain local co-
ordination and cooperation with the
United Nations Force stationed in spe-
cific areas or United Nations Observers
monitoring specific areas for any assist-
ance as needed;
j. discuss any other matters which the
Parties by agreement may place before it.
4. Meetings of the Joint Commission
shall be held at least once a month. In the
event that either Party or the Command
of the United Nations Force requests a
special meeting, it will be convened within
24 hours.
5. The Joint Commission will meet in
the buffer zone until the completion of
the interim withdrawal and in El Arish
and Beer-Sheba alternately afterwards.
The first meeting will be held not later
than two weeks after the entry into force
of this Treaty.
ARTICLE V
Definition of the Interim Buffer Zone and
Its Activities
1. An interim buffer zone, by which the
United Nations Force will effect a separa-
tion of Egyptian and Israeli elements, will
be established west of and adjacent to the
interim withdrawal line as shown on Map
2 after implementation of Israeli with-
drawal and deployment behind the in-
terim withdrawal line. Egyptian civil po-
lice equipped with light weapons will per-
form normal police functions within this
zone.
2. The United Nations Force will oper-
ate check points, reconnaissance patrols,
and observation posts within the interim
buffer zone in order to ensure compliance
with the terms of this Article.
3. In accordance with arrangements
agreed upon by both Parties and to be co-
ordinated by the Joint Commission, Israeli
personnel will operate military technical
installations at four specific locations
shown on Map 2 and designated as T1
(map central coordinate 57163940), T2
(map central coordinate 59351541), T3
(map central coordinate 59331527), and
T4 (map central coordinate 61130979)
under the following principles:
a. The technical installations shall be
manned by technical and administrative
personnel equipped with small arms re-
quired for their protection (revolvers, ri-
fles, sub-machine guns, light machine
guns, hand grenades, and ammunition),
as follows:
T1-up to 150 personnel
T2 and T3-up to 350 personnel
T4-up to 200 personnel.
b. Israeli personnel will not carry wea-
pons outside the sites, except officers who
may carry personal weapons.
c. Only a third party agreed to by Egypt
and Israel will enter and conduct inspec-
tions within the perimeters of technical
installations in the buffer zone. The third
party will conduct inspections in a ran-
dom manner at least once a month. The
inspections will verify the nature of the
operation of the installations and the
weapons and personnel therein. The third
party will immediately report to the
Parties any divergence from an installa-
tion's visual and electronic surveillance
or communications role.
d. Supply of the installations, visits for
technical and administrative purposes,
and replacement of personnel and equip-
ment situated in the sites, may occur un-
interruptedly from the United Nations
check points to the perimeter of the tech-
nical installations, after checking and be-
ing escorted by only the United Nations
forces.
e. Israel will be permitted to introduce
505
