Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
problem must not be left unattended any
longer.
Older Americans
Early in the Administration we moved
to correct one of the major concerns of
older Americans: the possible bankruptcy
of the Social Security Trust Funds. The
legislation that was enacted ensures the
financial solvency of the funds through
the beginning of the next century.
The Administration has also acted to
help remove discrimination against
senior citizens by supporting the legisla-
tion which removed the forced retire-
ment requirement in the Federal civil
service and postponed mandatory retire-
ment in the private sector from age 65 to
70. In addition, the Administration
worked with the Congress to amend the
Older Americans Act in a way that will
improve the administration of the Act's
social and housing programs, employ-
ment provisions, food delivery, and estab-
lishment of centers for the elderly.
This year
the Administration will con-
tinue its efforts to ensure that seniors re-
main in the mainstream of American life,
free from age discrimination and able to
receive the assistance and other benefits
they have earned.
Veterans
Our Nation has no obligation more
basic than providing for those men and
women who served us as members of our
armed forces.
There are still many veterans who need
medical care, employment assistance, and
assistance in adjusting to disabilities that
resulted from their service.
During the last two years we have
made significant improvements in pro-
grams to help meet all these needs.
In 1979 my Administration will seek
legislation to increase compensation rates
for disabled veterans, improve education
programs for the disadvantaged under
the G.I. Bill, provide special readjust-
ment counseling assistance for those Viet-
nam Era Veterans who need them, and
modernize the VA vocational rehabilita-
tion program. These efforts will help vet-
erans help themselves. In addition, we
will continue to provide quality medical
care in our VA hospital system by making
it more efficient and thus more responsive
to the needs of a changing veteran
population.
Education
Improving skills and educational op-
portunities has been one of my Adminis-
tration's major goals. To aid in this im-
provement, I have increased the Federal
Office of Education budget authority
alone by 50% since taking office-from
$8 billion in FY '77 to $12.2 billion in the
proposed FY '80 budget.
The increased education funding will
continue to be targeted at programs
which emphasize equal education oppor-
tunity, support for local schools, student
assistance, basic skills, and the linkages
between school and work.
School districts with high concentra-
tions of low income children have extra
costs in meeting their commitment to
equal educational opportunity. Last year
I proposed concentration grants which
would give supplemental payments for
compensatory education programs in
high poverty school districts. This year I
am requesting $400 million to fully fund
this proposal.
As is stated elsewhere in this Message,
I will continue to work with the Congress
to create a Cabinet-level Department
of Education. Through such a Depart-
ment we can make certain that education
receives the attention at the Federal level
that it deserves.
139
