May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
protection division since it was estab-
lished in 1974 by the Minnesota Pension
Protection Law, which she helped draft.
Committee for the Preservation
of the White House
Appointment of Jay P. Altmayer as a Member.
May 3, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Jay P. Altmayer, of
Mobile, Ala., as a member of the Com-
mittee for the Preservation of the White
House.
deep concern about government effi-
ciency. As chairman of the Senate Gov-
ernmental Affairs Committee, he has
shepherded through the Senate a series
of proposals to reorganize and stream-
line the Federal Government. On the
Senate Finance Committee, he has been
one of the architects of our tax laws and
has fought to see that the elderly and the
disadvantaged receive the benefits they
need and deserve.
Rosalynn and I wish Senator Ribicoff
and his wife, Casey, health and happiness
in the years ahead.
Altmayer, 64, is an attorney, real estate Department of Commerce
developer, and director of the First Na-
tional Bank of Mobile. He is active in
civic affairs and is a collector of art, 18th
century furniture, and
and presentation
swords. He has given the White House a
gold sword presented to Zachary Taylor
by the Commonwealth of Virginia, and
has a painting on loan to the White House
("North Shore of Lake Pontchartrain"
by Richard Clague).
Nomination of Luther H. Hodges, Jr., To Be
Under Secretary. May 4, 1979
Senator Abraham Ribicoff
Statement on the Connecticut Senator's
Decision Not To Seek Reelection.
May 3, 1979
Over the past two generations, Senator
Abraham Ribicoff has compiled a distin-
guished career of public service that can
serve as a model of decency, compassion,
and ability. As a Senator, he has had the
vision to take unpopular stands that are
vindicated by subsequent events. His cour-
age, leadership, and counsel have helped
to pave the way for peace between Israel
and Egypt.
Senator Ribicoff and I both share a
The President today announced that he
will nominate Luther H. Hodges, Jr., of
Charlotte, N.C., to be Under Secretary of
Commerce. He would replace Sidney
Harman, resigned.
Hodges is a professor of management
at the Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration of Duke University.
He was born November 19, 1936, in
Eden, N.C. He received an A.B. in eco-
nomics from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1957, and an
M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate
School of Business Administration in
1961.
From 1961 to 1962, Hodges was a re-
search associate and instructor of corpo-
rate finance at the School of Business
Administration of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. From 1962 to
1977, he was with the North Carolina
National Bank, serving as chairman of the
board and member of the executive com-
mittee from 1974 to 1977. In 1977 and
1978, he was the Democratic candidate
782
