Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
Congress, State and local governments,
and consumer groups.
Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN)
I have already notified the Congress
that we expect to sign and submit for
Congressional approval a set of trade
agreements which we will reach in the
Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade
Negotiations. With these agreements, we
expect to achieve major reductions in tar-
iff and nontariff barriers to international
trade. These agreements will:
-lead to increased opportunities for
U.S. exports;
-ensure that import competition is
fair; and
-result in lower prices, increased com-
petition, and greater prosperity for
the American people.
Passage of the MTN will be one of my
highest legislative priorities this year. It
is critical to the health of our domestic
and of the world economy.
Countervailing Duties
I have recently sent to the Congress a
message urging prompt passage of legis-
lation permitting the waiver of the imposi-
tion of countervailing duties on certain
imported products. Passage is essential to
the successful completion of the Multi-
lateral Trade Negotiations, and therefore,
should be one of Congress' highest pri-
orities at the beginning of this session.
Exports
The United States has entered a period
where export growth is essential to im-
prove our balance of payments, strengthen
the dollar, and thereby help reduce infla-
tionary pressures. To do this, both the
private sector and the Federal govern-
ment must place a higher priority on
exports.
With the National Export Policy I an-
nounced last year, we are moving to meet
this need. First, we are working to reduce
domestic barriers to exports so that ex-
porters are not stifled by excessive govern-
mental regulation. Second, we are provid-
ing further incentives in the form of better
export financing and better government
export development programs. Third, we
are working with our trading partners in
the Multilateral Trade Negotiations to re-
duce foreign barriers to our exports and to
secure a fairer international trading
system for all exporters.
These actions should expand our ex-
ports in 1979 and help us move toward a
reduced trade deficit, although they will
not cure our serious balance of trade diffi-
culties overnight. They are the first steps
in an essential, long-term effort to
strengthen the U.S. position in world
trade, while reaffirming the Nation's com-
mitment to maintain an open world trad-
ing system and to resist protectionism.
Council on Wage and Price Stability
The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility is playing a vital role in our anti-in-
flation efforts. The Council and its staff
have the lead responsibility within the
Executive Branch for implementing the
voluntary wage and price standards that
I have announced. Without the Council's
continuing role, the anti-inflation effort
would have a very slim chance of
succeeding.
Council, along with its staff operation, be
reauthorized early this year with the addi-
tional staff I will request to handle the
enormous volume of work under my anti-
inflation program. The reauthorization
should not contain amendments that in-
I therefore believe it is essential that the
125
