Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 23
world. The best thing to do is to stick
with the programs that we have initiated
in the last 22 years.
Let me give you a few quick examples.
One is we are eliminating excess paper-
work and redtape and regulation from
Government. We've cut down the paper-
work burden already by 15 percent. We're
still working on it. We're trying to deregu-
late industries to let them be more
intensely competitive.
Most of you flew to Las Vegas, and I
think anyone who's been a constant air
passenger, for instance, the last few years,
will see the extreme advantages of the
deregulation of the airline industry. We
have saved air passengers about $2½ bil-
lion already by lowering prices, because
there's more intense competition now in
domestic and foreign flights.
I inherited, when I ran for President,
for instance, a deficit in 1976 of $66 bil-
lion in the Federal budget. I have set as
one of my major goals to work toward a
balanced Federal budget. We will, this
coming year, in the budget that Congress
is presently considering, slash that deficit
between 55 and 60 percent already. And
we can have good momentum and a good
support now from the American people
to balance the budget actually.
In addition to that, we have established
voluntary wage and price guidelines or
standards. We are monitoring those com-
pliance data very closely. We supervise
with the greatest of attention the prices
set, for instance, by the Fortune 500, the
very largest corporations, and by an in-
creasing number of middle-sized or even
smaller corporations. There's been re-
markably good compliance. Almost all of
the labor settlements the last year have
been within our 7-percent guidelines, a
few exceptions, but almost all of them
have complied although this is a volun-
tary program. We've just got to stick to
them.
I have tried the best I could to increase
exports, a major cause in the past of very
serious inflationary pressures. We are set-
ting records every year. For instance, in
agricultural exports, we set one in '77,
another record last year. This year we'll
have $272 billion in exports, a new record
this
year in cutting down our trade deficit.
Eight or nine months ago, if you re-
member, the headlines almost every day
were about the value of the American dol-
lar going down in international monetary
trade. We have stabilized the American
dollar, beginning last November. And
now some of our allies who were com-
plaining in the past about it being too
weak, like Germany and Japan, are now
complaining that the dollar is too strong.
There are no magic answers. We're go-
ing to be faced with inflationary pressures
for a long time. But the best thing that
we can do is to stick to these programs
that have begun and that are proven to be
effective, to recognize that every Ameri-
can must contribute. It's not something
that just business or just labor or just
government can resolve. All of us are go-
ing to have to do our best, cut down waste
and cooperate.
I don't want to paint an overly rosy
picture. For the next 2 or 3 months, we
are going to have some serious adverse
data coming forward about the inflation-
ary trends. Food looks a little better. I
think the general economy is slowing
down somewhat. It's going to get better
in the near future, but we cannot aban-
don a permanent commitment to control
inflation because we have a temporary
disappointment for a few months after it
was initiated. We're making good prog-
935
