Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
one another, and also from some of their
neighbors who fear what they have just
done. To overcome these differences, to
dispel these fears, we must rededicate
ourselves to the goal of a broader peace
with justice for all who have lived in a
state of conflict in the Middle East.
We have no illusions-we have hopes,
dreams, and prayers, yes, but no illusions.
There now remains the rest of the Arab
world, whose support and whose cooper-
ation in the peace process is needed and
honestly sought. I am convinced that
other Arab people need and want peace.
But some of their leaders are not yet will-
ing to honor these needs and desires for
peace. We must now demonstrate the ad-
vantages of peace and expand its benefits
to encompass all those who have suffered
so much in the Middle East.
Obviously, time and understanding will
be necessary for people, hitherto enemies,
to become neighbors in the best sense of
the word.
Just because a paper is signed, all the
problems will not automatically go away.
Future days will require the best from us
to give reality to these lofty aspirations.
Let those who would shatter peace, who
would callously spill more blood, be aware
that we three and all others who may join
us will vigorously wage peace.
So let history record that deep and an-
cient antagonism can be settled without
bloodshed and without staggering waste
of precious lives, without rapacious de-
struction of the land.
It has been said, and I quote, "Peace
has one thing in common with its enemy,
with the fiend it battles, with war; peace
is active, not passive; peace is doing, not
waiting; peace is aggressive-attacking;
peace plans its strategy and encircles the
enemy; peace marshals its forces and
storms the gates; peace gathers its weap-
ons and pierces the defense; peace,
war, is waged."
like
It is true that we cannot enforce trust
and cooperation between nations, but we
can use all our strength to see that nations
do not again go to war.
All our religious doctrines give us hope.
In the Koran, we read: "But if the enemy
incline towards peace, do thou also incline
towards peace, and trust in God; for He
is the One that heareth and knoweth all
things."
And the prophet Isaiah said: "Nations
shall beat their swords into plowshares
and their spears into pruninghooks: na-
tion shall not lift up sword against nation,
neither shall they learn war any more."
So let us now lay aside war. Let us now
reward all the children of Abraham who
hunger for a comprehensive peace in the
Middle East. Let us now enjoy the ad-
venture of becoming fully human, fully
neighbors, even brothers and sisters. We
pray God, we pray God together, that
these dreams will come true. I believe they
will.
Thank you very much.
PRESIDENT SADAT. President Carter,
dear friends:
This is certainly one of the happiest
moments in my life. It is a historic turn-
ing point of great significance for all
peace-loving nations. Those among us
who are endowed with vision cannot fail
to comprehend the dimensions of our
sacred mission. The Egyptian people, with
their heritage and unique awareness of
history, have realized from the very be-
ginning the meaning and value of this
endeavor.
In all the steps I took, I was not per-
forming a personal mission. I was merely
expressing the will of a nation. I'm proud
of my people and of belonging to them.
518
