Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Other judicial reforms remain to be
made. Some, such as expanding the
authority of magistrates and curtailing
diversity jurisdiction, were proposed to
the last Congress. I will shortly send a
message to the Congress urging prompt
action on these and several additional
proposals designed to improve the respon-
siveness and efficiency of our system of
justice. They merit the attention and ap-
proval of the Congress.
In addition, as was indicated in my
Consumer Message to Congress, the Ad-
ministration will continue to support re-
form of class action procedures. Reform
legislation should seek to ease unnecessary
burdens and costs of class actions, while
at the same time preventing them from
being used in a harassing manner.
Antitrust Enforcement and Competition
Free enterprise and competition, pro-
tected by the antitrust laws, are the cen-
tral organizing principles of our economic
system. Competition produces powerful
incentives for innovation and efficiency,
fights inflation, and enhances consumer
welfare. Strict enforcement of our anti-
trust laws are critical to the health of
competition and the Nation's economy.
Several important strides were made
last year in improving antitrust enforce-
ment. In 1978, the courts imposed over
$11 million in corporate fines for antitrust
violations and imprisoned 29 individuals
for antitrust violations. These fines and
sentences are significantly larger than in
past years, and are consistent with my
strong commitment to vigorous antitrust
enforcement.
Last year I appointed the National
Commission for the Review of Antitrust
Laws and Procedures to suggest ways of
expediting antitrust cases and making
relief more effective. Its members have re-
cently reported to me, and we will work
closely with the Congress and the Judicial
Conference to implement many of its
recommendations.
Similar progress in improving the
effectiveness of antitrust enforcement can
be made in the 96th Congress.
I continue to support legislation to al-
low those who are injured by antitrust vio-
lations to recover damages from the anti-
trust violator, whether the injured person
is a direct or indirect purchaser. Under
the Supreme Court's decision in the Illi-
nois Brick Case only direct purchasers
may recover, even though they may have
passed on the injury to consumers, who
are prevented from suing. This decision
undercuts state and private enforcement
of the antitrust laws, reduces their deter-
rent effect, may contribute to higher
prices, and often allows the violator to
keep his gain at the expense of the in-
jured consumer. This needed legislation
would overturn that decision.
Banking
I anticipate receiving shortly the rec-
ommendations of the Administration's
Task Force studying Regulation Q and
the system of deposit interest rate controls,
and I expect to make recommendations
based upon the Task Force's findings.
My Administration remains supportive
of Congressional action to deal with the
need to halt the continuing attrition in
the percentage of bank deposits subject to
the reserve requirements of the Federal
Reserve System.
Carryover Basis
Carryover basis was one of the most im-
portant reforms passed by Congress in the
Tax Reform Act of 1976. This reform
would add substantial equity to our tax
laws and greater efficiency to our capital
markets.
132
