June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
To Paragraph 2 of Article VII of the
Treaty
First Agreed Statement. The term "sig-
nificant increase," as used in subpara-
graph 2(a) of Article VII of the Treaty,
means an increase of fifteen percent or
more. Any new ICBM test and training
launchers which replace ICBM test and
training launchers at test ranges will be
located only at test ranges.
Second Agreed Statement. Current test
ranges where ICBMs are tested are lo-
cated: for the United States of America,
near Santa Maria, California, and at
Cape Canaveral, Florida; and for the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in
the areas of Tyura-Tam and Plesetskaya.
In the future, each Party shall provide
notification in the Standing Consultative
Commission of the location of any other
test range used by that Party to test
ICBMs.
First Common Understanding. At test
ranges where ICBMs are tested, other
arms, including those not limited by the
Treaty, may also be tested.
Second Common Understanding. Of the
eighteen launchers of fractional orbital
missiles at the test range where ICBMs
are tested in the area of Tyura-Tam,
twelve launchers shall be dismantled or
destroyed and six launchers may
be con-
verted to launchers for testing missiles
undergoing modernization.
Dismantling or destruction of the
twelve launchers shall begin upon entry
into force of the Treaty and shall be com-
pleted within eight months, under pro-
cedures for dismantling or destruction of
these launchers to be agreed upon in the
Standing Consultative Commission.
These twelve launchers shall not be
replaced.
Conversion of the six launchers may be
carried out after entry into force of the
Treaty. After entry into force of the
Treaty, fractional orbital missiles shall be
removed and shall be destroyed pursuant
to the provisions of subparagraph 1(c) of
Article IX and of Article XI of the Treaty
and shall not be replaced by other missiles,
except in the case of conversion of these
six launchers for testing missiles under-
going modernization. After removal of
the fractional orbital missiles, and prior
to such conversion, any activities associ-
ated with these launchers shall be limited
to normal maintenance requirements for
launchers in which missiles are not de-
ployed. These six launchers shall be sub-
ject to the provisions of Article VII of
the Treaty and, if converted, to the pro-
visions of the Fifth Common Under-
standing to paragraph 5 of Article II of
the Treaty.
To Paragraph 1 of Article VIII of the
Treaty
Agreed Statement. For purposes of test-
ing only, each Party has the right,
through initial construction or, as an ex-
ception to the provisions of paragraph 1
of Article VIII of the Treaty, by conver-
sion, to equip for cruise missiles capable
of a range in excess of 600 kilometers or
for ASBMs no more than sixteen air-
planes, including airplanes which are
prototypes of bombers equipped for such
missiles. Each Party also has the right, as
an exception to the provisions of para-
graph 1 of Article VIII of the Treaty, to
flight-test from such airplanes cruise mis-
siles capable of a range in excess of 600
kilometers and, after the date on which
the Protocol ceases to be in force, to
flight-test ASBMs from such airplanes as
well, unless the Parties agree that they
will not flight-test ASBMs after that date.
1072
