Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We do not make our standards the pre-
condition for every relationship we have
with other countries; yet human rights
can never be far from the focus of our
thinking or we violate our own best
values.
In the year just passed, some have
quarrelled with the timing or the tactics
of our emphasis on human rights abroad.
Others have pointed to our own imperfect
record on human rights at home. Yet few
can dispute an important fact of this ex-
perience: our concern for human rights
has met with great resonance in the world
at large. The very term has entered the
language and become imbued with an
everyday familiarity that was simply un-
known little more than two years ago.
We believe our efforts have contributed
to a global awakening:
⚫ thousands of political prisoners have
been freed;
• in several countries, torture of pris-
oners has been significantly reduced or
eliminated and trials are more often open
to the public;
• open advocacy of human rights has
occurred in nations where the concept was
heretofore forbidden;
• international organizations such as
the UN and the OAS now have vigorous
human rights commissions for the inves-
tigation and airing of human rights viola-
tions and the Commission on Security and
Cooperation in Europe has helped to
make human rights an institutionalized
part of the international agenda on both
sides of the Atlantic;
• in a number of key nations around
the world, democratic institutions are
being strengthened as democratic values
are reasserted.
Americans can be proud of the leading
role their government has played in ad-
vancing this process. I now ask the Con-
gress to take action in 1979 which will
further strengthen our human rights rec-
ord. I have signed four important human
rights treaties, including the Convention
on Racial Discrimination, the Interna-
tional UN Covenants on Economic and
Social Rights, and on Political and Civil
Rights, and the Inter-American Conven-
tion on Human Rights. Senate ratification
of these treaties will firmly align our Na-
tion with the growing forces for rule of
law and human dignity in this world. Sim-
ilarly, I call upon the Senate finally to
ratify the Genocide Convention. The
United States is one of the very few coun-
tries which have not yet ratified this con-
vention; this anomaly should be corrected
at the earliest possible moment in this
Congress.
I am also proud of the efforts we have
undertaken this past year to alleviate the
plight of refugees from the far corners of
the world, particularly those fleeing the
troubled Indochinese peninsula. We have
done a great deal to reduce suffering
among these desperate people and to pro-
vide many of them with a possibility of a
new home and a new start.
We will continue to do our part and to
encourage others to increase their fi-
nancial assistance and opportunities for
resettlement. I hope to cooperate closely
with this Congress in the passage of new
legislation which will allow us to focus
U.S. assistance more efficiently in working
toward the solution of this global, human
problem.
Our challenges reflect a single fact: the
pressure of accelerating change in our
century. We need not fear this phe-
nomenon; indeed, we should welcome it.
Change has not been merely a challenge
in American history; to a very real de-
gree,
it has been our Nation's charter. We
162
