Jan. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
As we commemorate the invention of
the incandescent lamp and celebrate the
accomplishments of this remarkable man,
we should all draw new inspiration from
him. I hope that the memory of Thomas
Alva Edison will help us all to realize, as
he did, that with perseverance, hard
work, knowledge and imagination we can
overcome adversity and achieve new ad-
vances from which all can benefit.
JIMMY CARTER
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
of China
Remarks to Reporters Following a Meeting.
January 30, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Vice Premier Deng
Xiaoping and I will meet again tomorrow
afternoon to conclude the signing of
agreements that will be worked out be-
tween now and then. Our discussions yes-
terday and today have been far-reaching.
They have been very frank and honest.
They've been very cordial and harmoni-
ous, and they've been extremely bene-
ficial and constructive.
We have, I think, established a rela-
tionship for future routine consultation
which will bring great benefits to the
people of the United States of America
and to the People's Republic of China.
Again, we consider this visit one of the
most historic events in our Nation's his-
tory, and we are grateful for the progress
that has been made already and for the
prospects of even greater benefits in the
future.
THE VICE PREMIER. As for myself, I
agree to every word that the President
has just said. And I also believe that
through these discussions and through
this visit, we have enhanced our mutual
understanding and friendship. And
through this visit, I am even more con-
vinced that China and the United States
and the Chinese people and the American
people have broad prospects in various
fields-politically, economically, in the
science and technological fields, and in
the cultural field, et cetera.
Of course, the reception which is being
accorded to me and my party by the
American Government and people has not
yet concluded. But up to the present, I
would still like to express our sincere
thanks and appreciation for the kind re-
ception given to us and given to me per-
sonally by the President, Mrs. Carter, and
the American Government and people,
and for their friendship which they ex-
pressed to us.
Let us shake hands once again, a hand-
shake between the two peoples.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you again.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:58 a.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House. The
Vice Premier spoke in Chinese, and his remarks
were translated by an interpreter.
General Services Administration
Nomination of Kurt W. Muellenberg To Be
Inspector General. January 30, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Kurt W. Muellen-
berg, of Washington, D.C., as Inspector
General of the General Services Adminis-
tration.
Muellenberg, 46, is currently Chief of
the Organized Crime and Racketeering
198
