Mar. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Pan American Day and Pan
American Week, 1979
Proclamation 4644. March 6, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Saturday, April 14,
1979 as Pan American Day and the week
beginning April 15, 1979 as Pan Ameri-
can Week, and I call upon the Governors
of the fifty States, the Governor of the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and ap-
propriate officials of all other areas under
the flag of the United States to issue
similar Proclamations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of March,
in the year
of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-nine, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two
Each year the peoples of the Americas
celebrate our common origins and con-
tinuing mutual ties. To the people of the
United States Pan American Day com-
memorates the importance of mutual re-
spect and cooperation which characterize
the Inter-American system and its central hundred and third.
institution, the Organization of American
States.
No region of the world can boast a
greater tradition of peace and tranquility
among nations. No nations of the world
have worked more consistently or harder
to find solutions to the political and eco-
nomic problems which they face in the
world today. Our Organization of Amer-
ican States, the birth of which we will
celebrate on April 14, has been and con-
tinues to be vital to this continuing effort.
In the past year alone, the Organization
of American States has made important
contributions to the welfare of the people
of the hemisphere. It has helped to pro-
mote the cause of human rights and dig-
nity in the Americas and to diffuse ten-
sions in Central and South America.
The United States, on Pan American
Day 1979, salutes the other nations of this
hemisphere, and pledges its solidarity
with them, and with the Organization of
American States, in the continuing efforts
to achieve the visionary democratic ideals
of the founding heroes of our hemisphere.
It is from these ideals that we derive our
desire and our ability to cooperate for a
common good and for the benefit of all
our people.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:13 p.m., March 6, 1979]
The Albert Einstein Centennial
Message of the President. March 6, 1979
March 14, 1979, marks the one hun-
dredth anniversary of the birth of Albert
Einstein—a man who profoundly influ-
enced the shape of science and the course
of history.
Albert Einstein set the tone for nearly a
century of physics. He took a science that
could no longer explain phenomena
through the concepts of Newton and
greatly expanded its viewpoint. His in-
sights form the basis of much of our
Twentieth Century comprehension and
control of matter and energy. We are still
following the path he outlined, and his
genius remains a powerful stimulus and
guide for future scientific discovery.
But Albert Einstein left his mark on
humanity by more than just his brilliant
scientific achievements. He will be remem-
bered by all of us for the simplicity of his
life, the humility and willingness with
which he shared his talents and the dedi-
390
