Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
clarify the procedure and to make it more
open, more clear, more obvious to the
American people what the issues are in-
volved, would be a step in the right
direction.
ALFRED KAHN
Q. Mr. President, Alfred Kahn, your
inflation adviser, appears to be constantly
making impressions, though not the im-
pression that you want to make or, per-
haps, the impression that he wants to
make. He says things which in their own
terms may seem logical but then produce
headlines which indicate floating trial
balloons about possible mandatory price
controls or perhaps predicting a reces-
sion. Do you think there is anything more
that you can do now to set straight what
it is that Mr. Kahn does that produces so
much confusion?
THE PRESIDENT. It's obvious that
neither Alfred Kahn nor I have discov-
ered an ability to control the headlines.
[Laughter]
I think he does the best he can under
very difficult circumstances in putting
forward to the American people the op-
tions that we have to control inflation.
The particular recent incident to which
you may have referred said that there are
two unacceptable alternatives. One is
mandatory price and wage guidelines,
and the other one is a deliberate reces-
sion that would cause very high unem-
ployment. Those are unacceptable to me.
I might point out, as a matter of in-
terest to the public, because this is quite
often not recognized, the President of the
United States does not have the author-
ity to impose mandatory wage and price
guidelines. In 1973 President Nixon did
have that standby authority, and he used
it. I do not want such standby authority,
and there would be no way, in my opin-
ion, for the Congress to pass such legis-
lation. I think it would arouse tremendous
opposition in the Congress, including fili-
buster, and so it's a prospect that I don't
think will be materializing at all.
If the Congress should attempt to grant
standby wage and price authority, man-
datory wage and price authority, I would
resist it.
Q. Is your confidence in Mr. Kahn as
a spokesman diminished?
THE PRESIDENT. My confidence in Mr.
Kahn as a spokesman is undiminished.
INCOME TAX SURCHARGE
Q. Mr. President, we've heard a lot of
talk recently about balanced budgets, and
you've stated that's your goal. I'm won-
dering if you'd consider asking Congress
for an income tax surcharge similar to
the one former President Johnson asked
for in the mid-sixties. You have a similar
economic situation, demand-oriented in-
flation. If you could get an income tax
surcharge, you would automatically wipe
out your budget deficit, and it would
make all these folks who want the bal-
anced budget, you know, put up or shut
up, so to speak. Or is this sort of thing not
politically possible?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't think
it's advisable. Because of inflationary
pressures, the income revenues inevitably
go up year by year. Even before I became
President, there was a routine reduction
of income tax rates from time to time.
And for me to ask for an increase in the
income tax rate would be both inadvis-
able for the well-being of the Nation and,
also, I think, impossible. So, I would not
consider doing that.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, a question on SALT.
Secretary Vance and Ambassador Do-
651
