Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
inexpensive compared to the acquisition
cost of weapons systems. The proper
strategy, therefore, is to expand our op-
tions in the early stages of the acquisition
process through research, and then be
very selective at the costly engineering,
development, and production stage.
For these reasons, our science and tech-
nology base related to national security
must be the best in the world. Thus, I am
deeply concerned over the declining sup-
port for research and technology in the
defense budgets that occurred in the early
part of this decade. My budgets for Fiscal
Year 1979 and 1980 reverse that trend
and strengthen our technology base. The
two year average growth in the technol-
ogy base will be about 14 percent, includ-
ing an increase in basic research of about
20 percent.
The Department of Defense also is tak-
ing steps to strengthen its relationship
with universities in order to use the re-
search and development resources of the
academic community more effectively.
Defense support of university research will
have increased more than 20 percent be-
tween Fiscal Years 1978 and 1980.
PREVENTING EXPORT THAT ERODES OUR
TECHNOLOGICAL SUPERIORITY
Within the framework of national
security, export controls on technology.
are important to ensure that our tech-
nological advantage is not compromised.
A comprehensive study of the implica-
tions of international technology transfer
was undertaken early in my Administra-
tion. I am persuaded that the export con-
trol process must seek to balance the con-
flicting goals of trade promotion, selected
trade restriction based on national security
considerations, and furthering our foreign
policy objectives. Decisions in specific ex-
port licensing cases must be made on their
merits by considering these three goals.
In particular we are taking steps to refine
and expedite the government's decision-
making processes. I must emphasize, how-
ever, that while sound export controls
are important, only a strong research and
development program, as I have pro-
posed, ensures our technological leader-
ship in defense.
UTILIZING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL
CAPABILITY FOR ARMS CONTROL
National security is enhanced by pru-
dent arms control, as well as new weapons
systems. To this end I have pursued a
new Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty
with the Soviet Union, a comprehensive
nuclear test ban treaty, and other arms
control measures. As these agreements en-
ter into force, our choices in weapons de-
velopment must meet our own needs,
while giving our adversaries the incentive
to participate seriously in negotiations.
Successful arms control depends on
science and technology to provide ade-
quate technical means of verification.
Our current national capability to verify
arms agreements is excellent. It includes
observation satellites and extensive capa-
bilities for seismographic detection and
interpretation. We must continue to pur-
sue scientific and technological advances
to maintain these capabilities.
HARNESSING THE NATIONAL CAPABILITY
Equally as important as the substance
of our science and technology policies is
our strategy for managing it and ensuring
its vitality. This task is a challenging one
because of the diversity of the partici-
pants-business and industry, universities,
the Federal agencies, government at all
levels, and the public. Each sector has dis-
543
