Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
not only to maintain it but to elevate our
commitment to that principle.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
OVERSEAS TRIPS BY JOURNALISTS
Q. Could I ask you one question, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Just one quick one,
then I've got to go.
Q. In the 1950's and the 1960's, the
State Department encouraged journalists
to make trips overseas, and we were
briefed for a day and a half, we came to
Washington. Would you think of restor-
ing a program like that to encourage more
groups to go overseas?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be a
good idea.
Q. Thank you very much, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I wonder if I could
do something. I've got another meeting,
and I've only got 3 minutes left. Would
you all mind if I have a photograph with
each one of you individually?
Q. No. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:16 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter
W. Wurfel is a Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on April 7.
Imports of Petroleum and
Petroleum Products
Proclamation 4655. April 6, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The Secretary of Energy has advised
me that the continuation of shortages in
international petroleum and petroleum
product supplies has resulted in escalat-
ing world oil prices which impact directly
on the United States economy. This sit-
uation requires that imports of crude oil
and petroleum products be adjusted by
temporarily suspending tariffs and the
system of license fees which have been
imposed since 1973 under Proclamation
No. 3279, as amended. In light of the
current market shortages and price con-
ditions the continued imposition of im-
port fees and tariffs, at least for the near
term, do not serve the purposes of the
Mandatory Oil Import Program and are
detrimental to the economy. As a con-
sequence, for the period that the short-
ages persist, continued imposition of the
tariffs and import fees has become un-
necessary and burdensome to the Ameri-
can public.
Therefore, the Secretary of Energy has
recommended that I temporarily suspend
imposition of the import fees and tariffs.
Suspension of the fees and tariffs will
serve to alleviate some of the world oil
price impacts on the American consumer
and should also improve access to certain
refined products which are threatened to
be in short supply. I agree with the
changes proposed by the Secretary and
they are consistent with the purposes of
Proclamation No. 3279, as amended. The
temporary suspension of fees and tariffs
does not alter the long term purposes or
benefits of the import control program
established pursuant to Proclamation No.
3279, as amended. This action will adjust
the imports of petroleum and petroleum
product supplies so that they are not im-
ported in such quantities or under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by
628
