Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
particularly by the Convention on Inter-
national Civil Aviation, 1944 ("The Chi-
cago Convention") and the International
Air Services Transit Agreement, 1944.
2. Upon completion of the interim with-
drawal any declaration of national emer-
gency by a party under Article 89 of the
Chicago Convention will not be applied
to the other party on a discriminatory
basis.
3. Egypt agrees that the use of airfields
left by Israel near El Arish, Rafah, Ras
El Nagb and Sharm el Sheikh shall be
for civilian purposes only, including pos-
sible commercial use by all nations.
4. As soon as possible and not later
than six months after the completion of
the interim withdrawal, the Parties shall
enter into negotiations for the purpose of
concluding a civil aviation agreement.
5. The Parties will reopen and main-
tain roads and railways between their
countries and will consider further road
and rail links. The Parties further agree
that a highway will be constructed and
maintained between Egypt, Israel and
Jordan near Eilat with guaranteed free
and peaceful passage of persons, vehicles
and goods between Egypt and Jordan,
without prejudice to their sovereignty
over that part of the highway which falls
within their respective territory.
6. Upon completion of the interim with-
drawal, normal postal, telephone, telex,
data facsimile, wireless and cable com-
munications and television relay services
by cable, radio and satellite shall be es-
tablished between the two Parties in ac-
cordance with all relevant international
conventions and regulations.
7. Upon completion of the interim with-
drawal, each Party shall grant normal ac-
cess to its ports for vessels and cargoes of
the other, as well as vessels and cargoes
destined for or coming from the other.
Such access shall be granted on the same
conditions generally applicable to vessels
and cargoes of other nations. Article 5 of
the Treaty of Peace will be implemented
the exchange of instruments of rati-
upon
fication of the aforementioned Treaty.
ARTICLE 7
Enjoyment of Human Rights
The Parties affirm their commitment to
respect and observe human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all, and they
will promote these rights and freedoms in
accordance with the United Nations
Charter.
ARTICLE 8
Territorial Seas
Without prejudice to the provisions of
Article 5 of the Treaty of Peace each
Party recognizes the right of the vessels
of the other Party to innocent passage
through its territorial sea in accordance
with the rules of international law.
AGREED MINUTES TO ARTICLES I, IV, V
AND VI AND ANNEXES I AND III OF
TREATY OF PEACE
ARTICLE I
Egypt's resumption of the exercise of
full sovereignty over the Sinai provided
for in paragraph 2 of Article I shall occur
with regard to each area upon Israel's
withdrawal from that area.
ARTICLE IV
It is agreed between the parties that the
review provided for in Article IV (4) will
be undertaken when requested by either
513
