Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
Energy Research Institute at Golden,
Colorado, will also be increased.
The proposals I will later announce,
coupled with the FY '80 budget, will
chart a firm and ambitious course for
accelerating the use of solar and other
renewable energy sources both now and in
the future. The time for solar energy has
come.
be proposed to provide interim storage
for spent fuel from existing reactors
until a permanent waste repository is
established.
Enactment of nuclear licensing and
siting legislation to shorten the leadtimes
required to plan, locate, construct and
license nuclear power reactors will again
be sought. Design and construction activi-
ties for the new centrifuge enrichment
Other Energy Research, Development, plant at Portsmouth, Ohio, will continue
and Demonstration
In the coming year, significant invest-
ments will be made in the demonstration
of technologies which can convert coal to
more useable and environmentally accept-
able energy forms, continued strong re-
search and development in fusion, devel-
opment of geothermal energy sources,
such as hot underground brines and hot
rock resources, and efforts to resolve a
range of environmental issues which these
and other technologies raise.
Nuclear Energy
A wide range of Administration initia-
tives, both legislative and administrative,
will be proposed to ensure that this coun-
try can further use light water reactors
for the generation of electricity, safely and
efficiently. Of central importance will be
the development and implementation of a
strong, responsible program to manage
and dispose of nuclear wastes. As a result
of the work of the Interagency Review
Group on Waste Management, I will be
making a series of legislative and admin-
istrative recommendations to ensure that
the necessary schedules, coordination, and
legislative authorities are firmly in place.
Public discussion and participation in the
nuclear waste management area, along
with the close cooperation of State and
local elected officials, will receive con-
tinued high priority. Legislation will also
to ensure that the U.S. is able to meet
the nuclear fuel needs of our domestic
industry, as well as our international cus-
tomers who share our non-proliferation
objectives. These activities, coupled with
the Administration's waste management
program will help ensure that our coun-
try can continue to rely on current nu-
clear technologies to meet power needs.
Looking toward the future, we will seek
to improve the efficiency of our existing
power reactors by reducing their uranium
feed requirements. For the longer run,
the Administration will maintain and
strengthen the strong research and devel-
opment program we now have for more
advanced nuclear fission technologies
such as the fast breeder reactor. We con-
tinue to believe that the Clinch River
Breeder reactor project is premature,
technically inadequate, and should not go
forward, but the Administration is com-
mitted to keeping the breeder option open
for the future.
Domestic Crude Oil Pricing
Provision of adequate incentives for
both domestic production of crude oil and
for conservation must be carefully
weighed in light of our efforts to control
inflation. In consultation with the Con-
gress, I will be making my decisions and
recommendations on domestic crude oil
pricing and related issues later this year.
149
