Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 23
think Israel has always cherished the con-
cept that they are perfectly able to defend
themselves. And I think that's an accurate
assessment.
MR. SHILON. It seems that accomplish-
ing this goal was important to you person-
ally, at least as important as to the parties
involved.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. SHILON. Why was that?
THE PRESIDENT. It's important to my
country. We have a political, a philosophi-
cal, and a moral commitment to Israel-
Israel's right to exist, to exist permanently,
to exist securely, to exist in prosperity, and
to exist in peace. And this is not a per-
sonal-this is not merely a personal belief
of mine, but it's a belief that accurately
represents the overwhelming portion of
the American people.
Additionally, we have a strong friend-
ship with Egypt. And obviously, it's to our
own Nation's advantage to have our two
friends, who are permanent neighbors, be
friends with each other.
So, in addition to the personal com-
mitment that I've had, I think I accur-
ately represent what's best for my country
and the aspirations which the people of
my country have cherished for many years.
MR. SHILON. Mr. President, finally,
during the ups and downs of the negotia-
tions, was there any moment in which
you
felt despair or thought of giving up your
efforts?
THE PRESIDENT. I despaired many
times, but I never reached such a state of
discouragement that I thought about giv-
ing up. I was always determined to con-
tinue the peace process as long as I hold
the office of President of the United States.
And if there should evolve, in the future,
problems, I'll be just as determined to
work for peace as I have been in the past.
MR. SHILON. Mr. President, thank you
so much for spending your time with us.
THE PRESIDENT. It's been a pleasure for
me. Thank you.
NOTE: The interview began at 3 p.m. in the
Map Room at the White House. It was taped
for later broadcast in Israel.
The transcript of the interview was released
on March 23.
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Adib
Andrawes of Egyptian Television.
March 22, 1979
MR. ANDRAWES. Mr. President, you have
committed the United States to be a full
partner in the peace process until the
Palestinian problem is settled, which is the
core of the Middle East conflict. Would
you care, Mr. President, to tell us what
are your immediate plans for the Pales-
tinian people?
THE PRESIDENT. The immediate plans
are specified in the Camp David agree-
ments and also in the terms of the peace
treaty. They involve, to use part of the
language, the right of the Palestinians to
have a voice in the determination of their
own future and to recognize the legitimate
rights of the Palestinians. This is encom-
passed in the mutual agreement, signed
by Prime Minister Begin, President Sa-
dat, and myself: first of all-to use Prime
Minister Begin's words-full autonomy
for the Palestinians who live in the West
Bank and Gaza areas; secondly, the termi-
nation of the Israeli military government;
third, the withdrawal of Israeli troops
into specified security locations.
I think the success of this effort will de-
pend to a substantial degree on the will-
ingness of the Palestinians and others to
participate in the negotiations themselves.
455
