May 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I appreciate Dianne Feinstein,2 who,
with her calm and compassionate leader-
ship, preserved the precious attributes of
this city during those trying days. It's a
magical city on the bay, which has the
admiration and appreciation and love of
the entire country. And you demonstrated
again a special spirit by being able, during
this event, to change grief and loss into
love and hope.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:05 p.m. at
the War Memorial Opera House.
Following the performance, the President
left for Los Angeles, where he spent the night
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Rodri-
guez.
Gasoline Shortages in California
Statement by the President. May 5, 1979
Although this particular crisis came on
suddenly, we have known since 1973-74
that something like this was bound to
happen.
The reason for the gas lines and terrible
inconvenience here-and the rest of the
Nation faces similar problems later this
summer and maybe worse next year-is
that we have failed to be prepared.
I sent up proposals in 1977 as part of
the National Energy Plan to increase
production, reduce consumption, and cut
back on our reliance on imported oil-
COET, industrial users tax, etc.-none of
these proposals were passed into law.
A few weeks ago, I announced phased
decontrol and asked Congress to pass a
windfall tax, a standby rationing plan, a
gasoline conservation plan, and two other
conservation measures. We have a decent
chance on the windfall tax-three of the
other four are doubtful.
2 Ms. Feinstein succeeded Mr. Moscone as
mayor of San Francisco.
Too many people are afraid to vote for
steps that may be a little unpopular. As
a result, we continue to dream while our
problems grow worse and worse.
The fact of the matter is that once a
shortage is on us, there is no way to create
more gas out of thin air. By then, it is
too late for immediate relief.
Immediate causes of the problem seem
to be:
(1) Less oil than expected coming in
because of Iran-which underscores our
dependence on imports and thus our vul-
nerability.
(2) Increased consumption here and
nationwide.
(3) My decision that priority in a time
of shortage must be given to heat for
homes, hospitals, etc., and to food produc-
tion.
I have taken these steps:
(1) Directed Secretary Schlesinger to
immediately determine the facts of this
situation, in consultation with State and
local government and private leaders-
why it developed as it did; what steps can
be taken, if any, beyond those I have al-
ready recommended to Congress, to alle-
viate the situation now and in the future.
He is to report his findings to me by the
end of next week.
(2) Directed the Department of Energy
to move immediately to ensure that recent
changes in the allocation program to pro-
vide additional gasoline to high-use areas,
such as southern California, are strictly
enforced.
(3) I want to ask drivers in this area
to resist the urge to try to keep their tanks
full at all times. This only exacerbates the
problem, and obviously there is a great
need to avoid all nonessential use of gas-
oline.
But let me repeat, the only way we can
avoid increasingly frequent and more se-
vere repetitions of this type of problem is
808
