Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 15
Joe Califano has worked closely with
me. He's going to describe the legislation
to you now, brief you on the legislation.
I am going to meet with the Congres-
sional Relations staff and start-work out
a strategy for getting the legislation passed
through Congress.
Thank you.
Joe, I leave you with it.
Joe just went with me to the World
Health Organization. I spoke about
mental health there, because I think it
is a worldwide problem. And we had
some long discussions on the airplane
about the legislation and how we can get
it passed. And he's going to brief you now
on maybe what we talked about.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:03 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare Califano's remarks and a news conference
on the proposed legislation are included in
the press release.
Mental Health Systems
Legislation
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Proposed Legislation. May 15, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today submitting to Congress the
Mental Health Systems Act. This pro-
posed legislation establishes a new partner-
ship between the federal government and
the states in the planning and provision of
mental health services. It seeks to assure
that the chronically mentally ill no longer
face the cruel alternative of unnecessary
institutionalization or inadequate care in
the community. It provides local com-
munities with more flexible federal sup-
port for mental health services and places
a new emphasis on the prevention of
mental illness.
I am deeply committed to reducing the
tragic toll which mental illness exacts from
our citizens and our country. Less than one
month after entering office I signed an
Executive Order creating the President's
Commission on Mental Health with
Rosalynn Carter as Honorary Chair-
person. I directed the Commission to
undertake an intensive study of the mental
health needs of our nation and to recom-
mend appropriate ways of meeting these
needs.
During our years in Georgia, both Rosa-
lynn and I became keenly aware of the
unmet needs of people in our state who
suffered from mental and emotional dis-
abilities. Those with chronic mental illness
were too often locked away in isolated
institutions far from family and friends.
Children and adults with signs of develop-
ing mental and emotional problems did
not have access to early detection and pre-
vention programs. Community-based care
was beginning to develop but was con-
stantly stripped of its full potential by in-
flexible program models designed for the
"average" community, rather than for the
particular needs of a given locale or state.
Special populations such as the elderly,
children, and racial and ethnic minorities
were not receiving care designed to meet
their special needs. For those who required
hospitalization there were almost no alter-
natives to large state mental hospitals.
Aftercare was almost non-existent for
patients released from those hospitals who
returned to their home communities.
While I am proud of what we accom-
plished in Georgia to begin to solve these
problems, my concern that similar prob-
lems exist throughout the nation prompted
me to establish the Commission and to ask
it to report back to me in one year with its
findings and recommendations. The excel-
859
