Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the most successful in the history of our
association. I believe most of the Gov-
ernors would tell you they're somewhat
exhausted tonight, because if words were
a premium, we would have balanced your
budget. [Laughter]
Indeed, as Governors, we come to sup-
port you totally in your effort to balance
your budget. And Dr. Kahn was with us
today. Indeed, Jim McIntyre was with
us. And we understand the problems of
inflation, and we are trying diligently to
assist you, and we support you totally in
that regard. And the other Secretaries
and the directors of your various agen-
cies and departments, along with the
Members of the Congress, have certainly
enlightened all of the Governors and, I'm
sure, our 21 new Governors that have
joined us in this conference.
And now, to the President and Mrs.
Carter, particularly our prayers and our
blessings as we toast the President and
his First Lady, and to the United States
of America, and to continued world
peace. God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Gov-
ernor Julian Carroll of Kentucky is chairman
of the National Governors' Association.
United States-Federal Republic
of Germany Agreements on
Social Security
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Agreements. February 28, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to section 233 (e) (1) of the
Social Security Act as amended by the
Social Security Amendments of 1977
(P.L. 95-216; 42 U.S.C. 1305 note), I
am transmitting the Agreement between
the United States of America and the
Federal Republic of Germany (F.R.G.),
signed on January 7, 1976, the Final Pro-
tocol to the 1976 Agreement, also signed
on January 7, 1976, and the Administra-
tive Agreement to implement the 1976
Agreement, signed on June 21, 1978.
These U.S.-F.R.G. agreements are
similar in objective to the U.S.-Italian
social security agreements which I sub-
mitted to the Congress on February 28,
1978. Such bilateral agreements, which
are generally known as totalization agree-
ments, provide for limited coordination
between the United States and foreign
social security systems to overcome the
problems of gaps in protection and of
dual coverage and taxation. In addition
to remedying these problems, the 1976
U.S.-F.R.G. Agreement and Administra-
tive Agreement would extend under
specified conditions voluntary coverage
rights under the F.R.G. system to U.S.
citizens who have a prior connection
with the F.R.G. system or who reside in
the United States and were victims of
persecution.
I also transmit for the information of
the Congress a comprehensive report pre-
pared by the Department of Health, Ed-
ucation, and Welfare, which explains the
provisions of the Agreement and provides
data on the number of persons affected
by the agreements and the effect on so-
cial security financing as required by the
same provision of the Social Security
Amendments of 1977.
The Department of State and the De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare join in commending this Agreement,
Protocol, and Administrative Agreement.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
February 28, 1979.
362
