Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Reaffirming their adherence to the
"Framework for Peace in the Middle East
Agreed at Camp David,” dated Septem-
ber 17, 1978;
Noting that the aforementioned Frame-
work as appropriate is intended to consti-
tute a basis for peace not only between
Egypt and Israel but also between Israel
and each of its other Arab neighbors
which is prepared to negotiate peace with
it on this basis;
Desiring to bring to an end the state of
war between them and to establish a peace
in which every state in the area can live
in security;
Convinced that the conclusion of a
Treaty of Peace between Egypt and Israel
is an important step in the search for
comprehensive peace in the area and for
the attainment of the settlement of the
Arab-Israeli conflict in all its aspects;
Inviting the other Arab parties to this
dispute to join the peace process with
Israel guided by and based on the prin-
ciples of the aforementioned Framework;
Desiring as well to develop friendly
relations and cooperation between them-
selves in accordance with the United
Nations Charter and the principles of
international law governing international
relations in times of peace;
Agree to the following provisions in the
free exercise of their sovereignty, in order
to implement the "Framework for the
Conclusion of a Peace Treaty Between
Egypt and Israel":
ARTICLE I
1. The state of war between the Parties
will be terminated and peace will be
established between them upon the ex-
change of instruments of ratification of
this Treaty.
2. Israel will withdraw all its armed
forces and civilians from the Sinai behind
the international boundary between
Egypt and mandated Palestine, as pro-
vided in the annexed protocol (Annex I),
and Egypt will resume the exercise of its
full sovereignty over the Sinai.
3. Upon completion of the interim
withdrawal provided for in Annex I, the
Parties will establish normal and friendly
relations, in accordance with Article
III (3).
ARTICLE II
The permanent boundary between
Egypt and Israel is the recognized inter-
national boundary between Egypt and the
former mandated territory of Palestine,
as shown on the map at Annex II, without
prejudice to the issue of the status of the
Gaza Strip. The Parties recognize this
boundary as inviolable. Each will respect
the territorial integrity of the other, in-
cluding their territorial waters and air-
space.
ARTICLE III
1. The Parties will apply between them
the provisions of the Charter of the
United Nations and the principles of
international law governing relations
among states in times of peace. In par-
ticular:
a. They recognize and will respect each
other's sovereignty, territorial integrity
and political independence;
b. They recognize and will respect each
other's right to live in peace within their
secure and recognized boundaries;
c. They will refrain from the threat or
use of force, directly or indirectly, against
each other and will settle all disputes be-
tween them by peaceful means.
2. Each Party undertakes to ensure that
acts or threats of belligerency, hostility, or
violence do not originate from and are
not committed from within its territory, or
by any forces subject to its control or by
496
