May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the same time, their earnings are made
more responsive to changing interest rates.
Accordingly, I shall ask the Con-
gress to:
• provide that through an orderly
transition period all deposit interest rates
be permitted to rise to market-rate levels.
This will be subject to emergency action
on the part of the responsible regulators
if the safety and soundness of financial
institutions is threatened or the imple-
mentation of monetary policy so requires;
grant the power to offer variable rate
mortgages to all Federally-chartered sav-
ings institutions, subject to appropriate
consumer safeguards. This authority,
which would be phased in, would permit
thrifts the earnings flexibility to pay com-
petitive rates throughout the business
cycle;
• permit all Federally-chartered sav-
ings institutions to invest up to 10%
of their assets on consumer loans; and
permit all Federally-insured institu-
tions to offer interest-bearing transaction
accounts to individuals.
These steps will bring the benefits of
market rates to consumers, promote a
steadier flow of mortgage credit and im-
prove the efficiency of the financial
markets.
In the interim, I support the efforts of
the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank Board and the
National Credit Union Administration to
take steps to increase the interest rates
payable to small savers. I urge them to
pursue the direction begun with author-
ization of the six-month money market
certificate, with the goal of increasing the
responsiveness of the interest rate ceilings
to market rates.
The White House,
May 22, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
National Hispanic Heritage
Week, 1979
Proclamation 4662. May 22, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
From the earliest days of our Nation's
history, Hispanics have played a central
role in our country's development. First
as explorers, then as settlers, and today as
leaders in all segments of society, men and
women of Hispanic ancestry have con-
tributed greatly to our national heritage.
As a nation, we have not always prop-
erly appreciated these contributions. Too
often, Hispanics have been the victim of
stereotypes and prejudice. Even today,
Hispanics endure a disproportionately
high unemployment rate. As a nation, we
must reaffirm our commitment to elim-
inate these residues of prejudice and
bigotry.
Our Hispanic American communities
continue to grow with our Nation. They
share with our Nation a deep pride in
their language and culture, and a sense of
justice and compassion which nurtures
our democratic system and keeps it pro-
gressing. It is important that we recognize
these singular benefits and encourage their
perpetuation.
This country must continue to provide
its many ethnic groups with the oppor-
tunity to contribute their ideas, their ex-
perience, and their energies to the better-
ment of our society. We must be receptive
to the richness of diverse cultures, but we
also must work to assure that all Ameri-
cans benefit in turn from the resulting im-
provements. With the assistance of our
Hispanic citizens and through our own
continued commitment, these goals will
be achieved.
930
