Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 18
tion and the American Marketing Associ-
ation and is a member of the Caucus of
Black Economists.
Clinch River Breeder Reactor
Statement on Action by the Senate Energy
and Natural Resources Committee.
May 17, 1979
I am very pleased by the action taken
by the Senate Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee this morning approv-
ing Senator Bumpers' amendment on the
Clinch River breeder reactor (CRBR).
In adopting this amendment, the com-
mittee has endorsed a strong, technically
sound research and development program
that will not rush us unnecessarily toward
a plutonium economy. The committee has
acted in a fiscally responsible manner by
voting against wasting an additional $1.5
billion of taxpayers' dollars on the CRBR.
We are currently compelled to spend
$15 million per month on the Clinch
River breeder reactor-a project which
is premature, technically outmoded, and
unnecessary. With all of the critical en-
ergy needs of our country competing for
Federal resources, the CRBR's continued
drain on the Federal Treasury is a shame-
ful waste.
The committee has voted to approve a
sound, well-structured program to ensure
that breeder technology will be available
to our country if and when it is needed.
I urge the full Senate and the House of
Representatives to follow the lead of the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee to stop wasting Federal funds
on this project and save our taxpayers
$1.5 billion. Fiscal responsibility and
sound energy policy demand that the
committee's recommendations be enacted.
Women's Business Enterprise
Remarks on Signing Executive Order 12138
and a Memorandum Concerning Government
Programs. May 18, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I've gotten permission to
say just a word before I sign the Executive
order. [Laughter]
I consider this to be a very important
and a very significant action on my part
as President of our country.
One of the constant struggles in our so-
ciety, ever since our Nation was formed,
has been to eliminate discrimination, not
only legal and overt discrimination but
also a kind that's much more difficult to
detect, to prove, and to correct. And to-
day I think we're taking that kind of step.
There was a superb task force report,
which many of you hold in your hands,
called "The Bottom Line," pointing out
in tangible form the discrimination that
does exist in our free country against
women who are involved directly in busi-
ness.
I know many women-some who are
married, some who are not-who have
the full responsibility on their shoulders
of supporting a family and providing a
future life for children that might be ac-
ceptable. And almost invariably they have
found it very difficult to achieve equal
treatment in the business world. Part of
this, I think, is a kind of oversight by
American society; part of it is deliberate;
part of it derives from intense competi-
tion, where newcomers are seldom wel-
comed to the entrepreneur field.
Government quite often mirrors almost
exactly those attitudes in private business,
and I think that we've addressed it in the
proper fashion. Government can set an
example. Unfortunately, it hasn't in the
past.
I've seen many reports, long before I got
887
