Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
few areas of the country are entirely free
of even those water quality problems
which we understand best and control
most effectively. And we are only on the
threshold of comprehending and control-
ling newer problems of toxic pollution in
water supplies.
Our efforts to enhance the quality of
urban environments offer another exam-
ple. We have gained many insights in the
past few years into how tax, water, sewer,
transportation, and a host of other Fed-
eral programs affect the shape of cities
and the use of land. Those insights are
reflected in my Urban Policy Message of
last March and in many new laws and Ex-
ecutive Branch policies. Yet as we find
ourselves better able to cope with the
problems of urban sprawl, new and un-
familiar problems have emerged with the
unprecedented migration from cities to
small towns and rural counties in the
1970's. The lesson is that even as we learn
more and do better in protecting our en-
vironment, new challenges will continue
to appear.
We can be proud of our achievements
so far. In my 1977 Environmental Mes-
sage, I promised energetic enforcement of
the environmental programs already on
the books and asked your collaboration in
developing certain new ones. As a result
of our partnership, we can point to:
• The first law setting Federal stand-
ards for the stripmining of coal;
• a renewal of the Clean Air and Clean
Water Acts, with strict but enforceable
standards;
amendment of the 25-year-old Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act to provide
orderly development of offshore oil and
gas resources with high standards of en-
vironmental protection;
• a nuclear non-proliferation law;
our selection of the environmentally
preferable route for shipping Alaskan nat-
ural gas to the lower 48 States;
• the permanent protection of nearly
95 million acres of unspoiled lands in
Alaska in our park and refuge systems;
• a major expansion of the Nation's
park and wilderness systems, including the
addition of large acreage to Redwood Na-
tional Park; and
• effective regulation of fishing in the
U.S. 200-mile fishery conservation zone,
with a 50 percent reduction of foreign
fishing and a total ban on commercial
whaling within that zone.
Building on the foundation already laid
by Congress and using authority already
granted me, I asked agencies of the Execu-
tive Branch to undertake a number of
broad policy reforms in environmental
matters, including:
• a comprehensive new water resource
policy that stresses conservation, environ-
mental protection, Federal-State cooper-
ation, cost sharing, and rational economic
evaluation;
• an Administration policy that would
reduce the risks of plutonium and nuclear
weapons proliferation;
vigorous support for the development
of solar energy, continuation of selected
solar projects, and a national policy re-
view;
improved protection of health and
safety in the workplace, emphasizing seri-
ous health hazards while eliminating triv-
ial regulations;
• a concerted drive by all Federal
agencies to design a uniform approach
toward the control of cancer-causing, life-
altering toxic substances;
• a thoroughgoing reform by EPA of
its regulations to minimize costs and de-
lay, welcome outside ideas and partici-
pants, and test flexible new approaches,
while ensuring adequate protection of
health and the environment.
Finally, I directed the Council on En-
vironmental Quality to issue regulations
120
