Feb. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
culture, customs, the control of narcotics,
fisheries, maritime law. We've worked out
a treaty on exchange of prisoners, and
we've laid a good basis for further
achievements, both on my upcoming visit
and also for the future.
So, the consultations have been very
productive so far. I think they'll be much
more productive in the future.
One of the things that we see is a rapid
improvement in the job opportunities and
quality of life of the people of Mexico and
my country because of increased trade.
Mexico is our most important trade part-
ner in this hemisphere, in Latin America.
And our trade level now is about $10 bil-
lion a year. We export about the same
amount that we import from Mexico. It's
an even and mutual benefit.
So, these are the kind of things that
we see as great opportunities in the future,
even for more rapid progress. We're very
excited about this.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President,
would you tell us, please, which is the
main purpose of your visit to Mexico oil,
gas, illegals, or all together?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, all of our rela-
tionships with Mexico are very complex
and complicated. There will be an agenda
for which I'm preparing that consists of
literally dozens of different subjects, and
I think they are very closely interrelated.
You can't isolate just one subject and say
this is the most important thing.
We are very grateful for the friendship
that exists between Mexico and the
United States. I'm also very grateful and
have admiration for your leaders and
your people, because Mexico has in recent
years become one of the most influential
countries of the whole world in stabilizing
affairs in this hemisphere, in providing a
commitment that never changes for the
protection of human rights, in promoting
democratic principles in all the govern-
ments of the Western Hemisphere, in try-
ing to hold down the spread of weapons
and war, in trying to prevent nuclear ex-
plosives from spreading throughout the
Southern Hemisphere.
We are very interested also in seeing
the benefits that come to us and the entire
world for Mexico's leadership among the
nations that are rapidly developing, and
as a regional leader, Mexico's good rela-
tionships with us are very valuable to the
United States. And I think in a system of
mutual respect and equality, partnership,
friendship, we benefit greatly, as do the
people of your country.
I might add that we now have 20 mil-
lion American citizens of Mexican ances-
try who live among us. And we derive
great strength from this sharing of a com-
mon background. Our Nation is one of
immigrants. And almost everyone who
lives in our country, with very few excep-
tions, immigrated to our Nation. So, we
value this strength and this natural tie of
kinship and friendship very much.
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Muchas gracias,
Señor Presidente. ¿ Cómo va su español,
your Spanish? [Thank you, Mr. President.
How is your Spanish?]
tunidad de practicar aquí en Washington.
THE PRESIDENT. No hay mucha opor-
Será un gran placer para mí estar en Méx-
ico
y un grande oportunidad de consultar
[There is not much opportunity to prac-
su Presidente. Muchas gracias a tí, señor.
tice here in Washington. It will be a great
pleasure for me to be in Mexico and a
great opportunity to consult with your
President. Thank you, sir.]
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Muchas gracias,
Señor Presidente.
NOTE: The interview began at approximately
1:40 p.m. in the Map Room at the White
House. It was taped for later broadcast in
Mexico.
The transcript of the interview was released
on February 12.
254
