Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
loupe, or wherever, we generally jog about
35 or 40 minutes, early in the mornings.
When I'm around the White House here,
it's more convenient for me to jog later
on in the afternoon, 4:30, 5 o'clock. I en-
joy it. And I don't have any present inten-
tion of going above 10 miles, because of
the time constraints; that takes me about
an hour and a half.
I might say that I called Bill Rogers
the other day after he won his magnifi-
cent, third Boston Marathon, and con-
gratulated him. And he said he was still
sore.
Sometimes I get sore as well. But I'm in
good shape. I've deliberately dropped my
weight down to about 148, which is what
the doctors say I ought to do, and my
pulse rate has dropped about half—well,
from 60 down to 40. So, I feel better;
enjoy it.
My wife jogs an average of about 2
miles a day. Her longest distance is 4 miles,
but that was in the mountains, and it's
pretty hard to jog in the mountains.
It's been a good sport for me. It has a
minimum requirement for time, compared
to almost any other sport of that much
exercise.
PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN ACTIVITIES
Q. Mr. President, this week you had
one or two political appearances in the
Northeast. I come from California, where
we have an evolving foreign policy on
Africa. [Laughter] I'm wondering if you
intend to step up your campaign activi-
ties and appearances in California in the
months ahead?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I don't intend to
make any campaign appearances in the
foreseeable future. But I am going to be
out in Los Angeles before too long, as
President. We've had this trip planned for
a good while. I'll be stopping in Iowa on
the way for some events there.
I have habitually taken advantage of
an opportunity as President to have things
like townhall meetings not only in our
own country-in Mississippi, in Massa-
chusetts, in New Hampshire, in Oregon,
and so forth-but also in other countries,
places like West Berlin, where I had just
an open, free-style townhall meeting. And
I might possibly have one in Japan when
I go over there later on in June. But I'm
going to stay out of the campaigning busi-
ness for a while.
PRESIDENTIAL TERM OF OFFICE
Q. Mr. President, in light of an up-
coming campaign, do you feel that Presi-
dents of the future should have their
terms limited to one, maybe 6-year term,
so that you wouldn't have the possibility
of-
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't use to think
so, even after I became President. But
I've begun to realize lately that if I could
just, by the stroke of a pen, change the
Constitution, I think one 6-year term.
would be preferable. The reason is that
no matter what I do as President now,
where I am really trying to ignore politics
and stay away from any sort of campaign
plans and so forth, a lot of the things I
do are colored through the news media
and in the minds of the American people
by, "Is this a campaign ploy or is it gen-
uinely done by an incumbent President
in the best interests of our country with-
out any sort of personal advantage in-
volved?"
I think that if I had a 6-year term,
without any prospect of reelection, it
would be an improvement. This is the
case in some countries, as you know. And
I've come to that conclusion reluctantly,
not that I have any inclination to avoid
738
