Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 25
to such date shall not be denied entry.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:20 a.m., May 25, 1979]
The Federal Budget
Statement on Congressional Approval of the
First Concurrent Resolution on the FY
1980 Budget. May 24, 1979
The budget I presented to Congress in
January restricted Federal spending and
reduced the deficit for fiscal year 1980
to less than $30 billion, well under half
of what it was when I ran for election.
At the time, I said: "This policy of re-
straint is not a casual one. It is an imper-
ative if we are to overcome the threat of
accelerating inflation."
The Congress, in approving the first
budget resolution, has joined the admin-
istration in recognizing the urgency of
fiscal restraint, while still providing for
critical national needs. I congratulate the
Congress and, in particular, Chairmen
Muskie and Giaimo, who guided the reso-
lution through their respective Houses.
National Commission on
Employment Policy
Appointment of Nine Members.
May 25, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of nine persons as members
of the National Commission on Employ-
ment Policy.
This Commission was created last Oc-
tober by Public Law 95-524 to advise the
President and Congress on national em-
ployment and training issues.
The members appointed today are:
MICHAEL J. DUKAKIS, of Brookline, Mass., di-
rector of intergovernmental studies at Har-
vard University's Kennedy School of
Government and former Governor of Mas-
sachusetts;
ROY R. ESCARCEGA, of Hacienda Heights,
Calif., vice president for the social services
division of the East Los Angeles Commu-
nity Union, where he is responsible for the
implementation of a $1 million grant from
the California Employment Development
Department;
PATSY L. FRYMAN, of Fairfax, Va., assistant to
the president of the Communications Work-
ers of America, AFL-CIO;
ELI GINZBERG, the A. Barton Hepburn pro-
fessor of economics at Columbia University's
Graduate School of Business and director of
the Conservation of Human Resources Proj-
ect. Ginzberg was Chairman of the National
Commission for Manpower Policy, the pred-
ecessor of this Commission. He has also been
designated Chairman of this Commission;
GEORGE L. JENKINS, of Columbus, Ohio, an
attorney and former assistant attorney gen-
eral of Ohio;
SAM LENA, of Tucson, Ariz., owner of a retail
package liquor store, and a former Arizona
State senator and State representative;
RUTH LOVE, superintendent of the Oakland
(California) Unified School District and for-
mer director of HEW's Right to Read Effort;
AUSTIN P. SULLIVAN, JR., of Wayzata, Minn.,
vice president for government and commu-
nity relations of General Mills and chairman
of the Minnesota Governor's Council on Em-
ployment and Training;
JULIUS B. THROWER, of Mobile, Ala., director
of admissions and previously director of vet-
erans affairs at S. D. Bishop State Junior
College and vice chairman of the American
Association of Minority Veterans Program
Administrators.
947
