Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 25
twisted and pulled in every direction by
hundreds of well-financed and powerful
special interests. They see every extreme
position imaginable defended to the last
breath, almost, to the last vote, by one
unyielding, powerful group or another.
They often see a balanced and fair ap-
proach that demands sacrifice, a little sac-
rifice from everyone, abandoned like an
orphan without support and without
friends. Often they see paralysis, stagna-
tion, and drift. The American people
don't like it and neither do I.
This country was not founded by people
who said, "Me first, me last, and always."
We've not prevailed as a free people in
the face of challenge and crisis for more
than two centuries by practicing the poli-
tics of selfishness. We've not continually
enlarged individual liberty, freedom, re-
sponsibility, opportunity, human dignity
for all the people by listening to the voices
of those who say, "We must have 100 per-
cent, now or nothing, and I will not listen
to other voices who are seeking a common
goal for our country."
The times we live in call for plain talk
and call for political courage. Slogans will
not do the job. Press conferences will not
solve serious problems that we face in in-
flation, in energy, in maintaining peace in
a troubled world.
We have already wasted years, as you
know, under Republican leadership, look-
ing for quick fixes, often just before a na-
tional election. This is a time to tell the
American people the truth. The days of
the quick fix and the painless solution, if
they ever existed, are gone.
We can argue, we can debate, we can
evade, we can duck, but one fact remains
clear: So long as we spend our time
searching for scapegoats or weeping or
wringing our hands and just hoping for
some kind of miraculous deliverance, our
problems will get worse, the decisions will
get more difficult, the choices will dimin-
ish, our people will get more cynical, and
the future for our great Nation will be less
bright.
I'm not asking you to support verbatim
every recommendation which I make.
The question today is not whether gov-
ernment reaches solutions which any of us
support 100 percent; the question is
whether government, on these extremely
difficult questions, can reach any accept-
able solution at all.
The issue is not one of political philoso-
phies, but a failure of will and a failure of
the political process itself. The bottom
line is clear. We need positive political
solutions in America today, not just a sus-
tained record of negative votes to ap-
pease some special, powerful political
group back home. Whatever solutions we
offer, there should be no illusions in the
Democratic Party: No one in public office,
in Detroit or in Washington, can escape
having to make difficult decisions.
Every public official lives in Harry Tru-
man's kitchen, and there is no way of
avoiding the heat if we're going to meet
the responsibilities of leadership which the
American people have given to us.
As President, I've made mistakes, but
I have made and I will continue to make
decisions without fear which call for you
and for your States to make some sacri-
fices. These decisions will not always be
popular, but I didn't seek the Presidency
for 2 or 3 or 4 years with my utmost
capability because I wanted to live in
some self-imposed comfort in the White
House. I sought this office to lead our
country, and I will never duck any de-
cision which is vital to the welfare of this
Nation just because the popularity polls
might go down.
You, the leaders of our party—I need
your help and support. And those of us-
among those of us who are in positions of
949
