Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Q. Mr. President, at where you are at
the moment, would you think that you
and Sadat will have an agreement by the
time you leave?
PRESIDENT CARTER. That's hard to pre-
dict. Prime Minister Khalil and Secre-
tary Vance are talking about language
and specifics. President Sadat and I have
always been basically in agreement on
strategic matters. And that's the situation
now. We'll get together in Alexandria
with the whole group to see what differ-
ences still remain.
Q. You said, sir, before you came out,
that you didn't think it would be easy. Is
it any less difficult now that you're here?
PRESIDENT CARTER. That's hard to
judge. We obviously came on this trip
without any assurance of success. But I
know two things: One is that the people
of Israel and Egypt want peace. That's
obvious. And I believe that the leaders of
Israel and Egypt want peace.
Q. Mr. President, if it's possible that
you may have to stay 1 more day, can we
conclude that the talks are not going as
you thought they might?
PRESIDENT CARTER. I don't think that's
easy to predict, because if they should go
well or shouldn't go well, 1 day in life
my
wouldn't be very significant, compared to
the prospect of improving chances for
peace. So, I don't believe that that would
be a good measurement.
Q. If you went 1 day later, would that
foul things up on the Israeli side, with
the arrangements that they've made, sir?
PRESIDENT CARTER. No. I don't think
there's any likelihood at all that I would
get to Israel a day later. I think what it
will do is to take to Israel either an en-
couraging prospect or one that would re-
quire some substantial modifications. And
we really wouldn't know what the chances
were until we got through with our dis-
cussions in Israel.
Q. Are you in communication with the
Israelis while you are here?
PRESIDENT CARTER. Only through the
Ambassadors. But there's really nothing
to report to the Israelis yet, because we're
in the process of discussing the specific
terms on which there is a disagreement
still. And I think it'll be after our meet-
ings in Alexandria this evening and to-
morrow that we'll know how close we are
together. Obviously, we'll go to Israel with
some differences still remaining. And I'll
do the best I can to resolve those differ-
ences.
Q. Were you surprised by the Egyptian
counterproposal?
PRESIDENT CARTER. No. We've had a
very clear picture of the Egyptian posi-
tion, both from the statements and atti-
tudes of Prime Minister Khalil in Camp
David and, also, my own private conver-
sations and communications with Presi-
dent Sadat. So, there have not been any
surprises.
Q. President Carter, how far apart do
you presently regard the Israelis and
Egyptians to be on the question of Pales-
tinian autonomy?
PRESIDENT CARTER. Well, the question
of Palestinian autonomy will have to be
resolved in the talks that would com-
mence 1 month after the Israeli-Egyptian
peace treaty. The Palestinian autonomy
description is best summarized in the
Camp David agreements, and both Pres-
ident Sadat and Prime Minister Begin
have reconfirmed their commitment to
me that all of the Camp David agree-
ments will be carried out. And the details,
obviously, will have to be worked out
over a period of a year after the peace
treaty is signed.
Q. Mr. President, just to clear up one
thing.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Yes.
408
