Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We're a nation which recently has been
involved more and more deeply in trying
to bring peace to southern Africa, based
on one-person-one-vote, majority rule,
an end to racism, an end to apartheid.
We've suffered in the process, because a
peacemaker often gets condemned from
both sides. But our Nation has not been
willing to shrink from this new involve-
ment to ensure peace in a potentially
troubled area of the world.
We've now opened our arms to em-
brace as friends, as new friends, a billion
people who live in China and, in the
process, to retain our commitment to the
independence, the openness, the trade re-
lationships, the cultural relationships, and
the peaceful life of the people of Taiwan.
These decisions have not been easy
ones, but our country has not shrunk from
this commitment.
In the past, our Government has been
too close to every dictatorship that exists
throughout the world if it might benefit
us in a selfish and transient way. But
we've changed all that. As I mentioned
this afternoon in Wausau, I and many of
you formerly shrank from the prospect of
the United Nations General Assembly
beginning its annual fall debates, because
we knew that our Nation, which we loved,
would inevitably be the target of every
attack, the butt of every joke cast at us by
more than a hundred small, new, weak,
black, brown, or yellow nations on Earth.
I thank God that time has changed,
and now those struggling nations look on
us as a friend and not an enemy, as an
equal and not a superior, as a nation to
be trusted, as a nation to be sought out as
a source of help.
We are now approaching the conclu-
sion of negotiations on a SALT treaty
and on a comprehensive test ban agree-
ment. I hope that when I go out of office
that we will have taken a major stride
toward the ultimate goal of our Nation
which I espouse, and that is once and for
all to eliminate the threat of nuclear
weapons from the face of the Earth.
This is not going to be an easy action
for the Senate to take, to ratify the SALT
II treaty. But I think the consequences
of a rejection of this treaty will be so pro-
found and so damaging to our country, its
reputation, that ultimately the sound
judgment of the American people will
prevail. And I would like to ask every one
of you in this room to extend your influ-
ence even beyond Wisconsin, and wher-
ever you have a friend or an acquaintance
or a customer or a relative, to encourage
upon them the importance of joining in
the support of this major step toward a
nuclear-free world.
We have in addition to that many seri-
ous problems domestically. Inflation has
been with us now for 10 years. The 3
years before I became President, the av-
erage inflation rate was about 8 percent;
6 years ago, it was 15 percent.
The inflation rate is still creeping up.
Every group tends to lay the blame on
someone else—business on labor, labor on
business, the average citizen on the Gov-
ernment, Americans on OPEC. But we're
all in it together. It will require a partner-
ship not only of analysis but also of com-
mitment and action. And every family in
our country can make a major step toward
assuaging inflationary pressures if we
adopt an unselfish and an incisive and a
knowledgeable attitude toward controlling
this blight on our country.
I particularly wanted to thank Senator
Nelson, who has led the battle successfully
in the Senate last year and who, I'm sure,
will lead it again this year, to control hos-
pital costs and to pass a hospital cost con-
tainment bill. At the present time, medical
576
