Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 15
-Over the past several years, there has
been a marked increase in the number of
professional and paraprofessional mental
health practitioners. However, rural
areas, small towns, and poor urban areas
still have only a fraction of the personnel
they need. Many mental health facilities
have a shortage of trained personnel. The
mental health professions still have too
few minority members, and there is a
shortage of specialists trained to work with
children, adolescents, and the elderly.
-Since 1969, our national mental
health research capacity has undergone
substantial erosion and our investment in
mental health research is now so low that
the development of new knowledge is
jeopardized.
To deal with these and other problems
in the mental health arena, the Commis-
sion developed a series of recommenda-
tions for bold new action to improve our
nation's mental health. Many of these
recommendations served as a blueprint for
the proposed Mental Health Systems Act.
The proposed Act charts a new course
for mental health care which promises
comprehensiveness, flexibility and innova-
tion. For the first time in the history of fed-
eral involvement with mental health care,
a true, performance-based partnership
would be created between the federal and
state governments. Special emphasis is
placed on the chronically mentally ill.
Recognizing that this population has long
been the most neglected of any mentally
ill group, the proposed Act provides sup-
port to states which are phasing down
large state hospitals, upgrading the quality
of services in remaining institutions, and
providing quality alternatives to institu-
tionalization. I believe that these provi-
sions of the Act will encourage the de-
velopment of a comprehensive, integrated
system of care designed to best serve the
needs of chronically mentally ill adults
and children.
Another innovation is the proposed
Act's emphasis on prevention. States and
localities are awarded grants to develop
preventive and mental health promotion
programs through public and professional
education and demonstration projects.
Such programs, I believe, will lay the
foundation for the future in mental health
care as we learn how to prevent mental
illness before it occurs.
The proposed legislation gives a new
and much needed flexibility to community
mental health programs. It authorizes
funds for one or more mental health
services without requiring that a compre-
hensive package be developed as a prereq-
uisite for financial assistance. This new
flexibility will enable communities to pro-
vide services to their most underserved
populations-whether the chronically
mentally ill, children, the elderly, racial
and ethnic minorities, the poor, rural res-
idents, or other groups and build to-
the entire community over time. In ad-
ward a comprehensive system of care for
dition, by providing financial incentives
for closer coordination between ambula-
tory health care providers and mental
health care providers, the Act takes an
important step toward assuring that ap-
propriate mental health care is available
for all who need help.
availability of mental health personnel in
The Act also guarantees increased
underserved areas by requiring that men-
tal health professionals who receive federal
support for training work in an area with
a shortage of mental health personnel for
a period equal to the length of the support.
It is, of course, impossible for any one
piece of legislation to meet all the mental
861
