Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
what can be spent under optimum circum-
stances, the cutback looks as though we're
trying to cheat summer youth out of po-
tential jobs.
The same thing applies to the school
lunch program, and the same thing ap-
plies, by the way, to food stamps. I don't
think any administration has done more
to enhance the ease with which the food
stamps can be used and to serve the poor
people better with the food stamp pro-
gram than have we. The administration
of it is going to be much more efficient,
much more effective, much more broad-
reaching, less paperwork, less expense for
administrative purposes, and more easily
used by people who formerly did not use
the food stamp program.
But, obviously, there has to be a great
attention given to closing loopholes
for rich and powerful and influential
people, as combined with making the ef-
fective delivery of services to the poor a
very high priority. And this balance is a
responsibility constantly on my shoulders
and on that of the Congress.
I might say that controlling inflation
has erroneously been equated in the past
to cheating the poor. But, as I've tried to
say in every possible forum, the people
who suffer most from inflation are the
poor and the unemployed and the minor-
ity groups and the aged who are retired
on a fixed income, all those who are not
well educated and not capable of moving
from one job to another to find a better
opportunity if they are constrained overly
by inflation and can't live on what they've
got as an income. And I see that the ones
that benefit most from an anti-inflation
program, those very constituency groups
that Senator Kennedy has effectively
defended.
Someone at my income level-I can
very well accommodate inflation without
my own family suffering. But a person
with a very low income cannot. And quite
often the most difficult elements of infla-
tion to control are the elements applying
directly to the necessities of life-food,
clothing, health care, and shelter. And
we're trying to concentrate our efforts
there.
So, I don't think there's any difference
between me and Kennedy in the premise.
I just think that I have done the best pos-
sible job in evolving a budget to balance
those factors that he has described as im-
portant.
MR. WURFEL. Thank you, sir.
TAX REFORM
Q. Without a new tax bill to attach it
to, will
you make another try
try this
year at
closing some of those loopholes that you
talked so much about last year?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The answer is
yes, I would like very much to see them
passed and will pursue it with every op-
portunity. But I don't want to open up
the entire tax question unless I under-
stand clearly that the Congress is not go-
ing to be retrogressive in opening up more
tax loopholes than they close.
Last year we were taken aback by the
attitude of the Congress. They were much
more inclined to create more loopholes
for the wealthy than they were to close
loopholes in some instances, and I don't
want to run that risk. It would put me in
a posture of vetoing a bill. I almost vetoed
the so-called tax reform bill last year. And
only the fact that it reduced taxes overall
induced me to sign it, and it was a close
call. And this year I don't see any need
for a general tax reduction. We need to
deal with inflation first before we start
talking again about tax reductions.
I've got to go, but I would like to ask
you, particularly if you haven't been up
here before, to come and let me get a
photograph with you individually. And I
188
