Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 9
son, and the wife of Virginia Lieutenant speak. [Laughter] On a strictly nonpoliti-
Governor Charles S. Robb.
cal basis, of course. I even visited one
State that does not have an early primary
next year. The darned scheduler resigned
before I could fire him. [Laughter]
The four new members announced to-
day, in addition to Robb, are:
LINDA J. LEE, an assistant on human resources
issues to New York City Council President
Carol Bellamy and president of the Council
of Asian American Women;
ALICE MCDONALD, executive assistant to the
mayor of Louisville, Ky., and former director
of the Neighborhood Development Office
there;
ANN S. RAMSAY, director of the office of budg-
ets of Harvard University, previously first
deputy secretary of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts;
JILL L. SCHROPP, a Seattle real estate investor
and former journalist who was campaign
manager for Citizens to Retain Fair Employ-
ment in Seattle.
Marjorie Bell Chambers, newly named
Vice-Chair of the Committee, has served
as Acting Chair since January. The Pres-
ident expressed his thanks to her for her
outstanding work as Acting Chair. She is
president of the American Association of
University Women.
The other Vice-Chair, Libby Koontz, is
assistant State superintendent of educa-
tion for North Carolina and chair of
the National Commission on Working
Women.
Democratic Congressional
Campaign Dinner
Remarks at the Dinner. May 9, 1979
After that introduction, I'll have to quit
thinking about Fritz Mondale as a lame-
duck Vice President. [Laughter] I would
have been here earlier tonight to enjoy
the first part of the program with you,
but I heard it was going to be a partisan
affair. [Laughter] Some joker told me you
had baloney for supper. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, the last few months,
I have been looking for invitations to
I've traveled a lot around the country.
I know some of you have, too. And I have
noticed a few people quite upset about
inflation. Maybe you've noticed this.
[Laughter] It's hard for me to understand.
I've watched this trend very carefully
from the perspective of Washington. You
can still get a wonderful meal, good en-
tertainment, pleasant company, beautiful
surroundings, same price as last year,
$1,000 a plate. [Laughter]
I think we owe our tremendous victo-
ries over inflation to one man. And I hope
you'll join in with me in giving a wonder-
ful round of applause to the number one
inflation fighter, proven by his record in
our country, the honorable Bob Strauss.
[Applause] Our hats are off to you Bob—
those of us who still have a hat. [Laugh-
ter]
I called Bob in not too long ago and
said, “Because of your superb work in
fighting inflation, I'm going to give you
a new job." He smiled with great antici-
pation, looking forward to rushing out
and holding another press conference.
[Laughter] And I said, "Bob, it's not an
easy job. It's one of the most difficult jobs
on Earth." I said, "I want you to be re-
sponsible for establishing peace between
people who have been at war since an-
cient times, filled with hatred, combat."
And he interrupted, "Mr. President," he
said, "I have already been chairman of
the Democratic Party once." [Laughter]
But I think you know he's helped these
fine fund raisers on my left, using his new
job as the Mideast negotiator as kind of
an unofficial lever in his inimitable style.
I understand that he's even sold five tables'
worth of tickets, jointly, to the Egyptian
and the Israeli Embassies-[laughter]—
827
