Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
terrupt or restrain the necessary work of
the Council or its staff.
EMPLOYMENT
The Administration, working closely
with Congress, has made significant prog-
ress over the last two years in reducing
unemployment and creating new jobs:
• The December unemployment rate of
5.9% represents almost a 25% reduction
from the December, 1976 rate.
• 7.3 million more people have jobs
than they did before the beginning of the
Administration. This increase exceeds the
employment growth in any other two-year
period since World War II.
• Total employment has reached an
all-time high of 95.9 million.
• Over the past two years black em-
ployment is up by 12%; and black teen-
age employment is up by 19.7%; adult
female employment has increased by
10.5%; teenage employment overall has
increased by 11%. Although progress has
been made, unemployment remains unac-
ceptably high for these groups. And in
inner-city areas unemployment remains
much too high for all workers.
Last year, which ended with the lowest
unemployment rate in 3 years, a frame-
work for continued progress into the next
decade was established:
• the Comprehensive Employment and
Training Act (CETA) was reauthorized
at high levels for four more years;
• the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Em-
ployment Act became law after many
years of effort;
⚫ the Administration's demonstration
youth programs were extended for two
more years;
• a new partnership between the gov-
ernment and the private sector to assist
the unemployed was approved by Con-
gress with the passage of a new Title 7 of
CETA-the Private Sector Initiatives
Program; the targeted jobs tax credit, to
encourage private employees to hire our
poor young people and others who are
hard to employ; and an expanded tax
credit for mothers on welfare.
In 1979 this framework will help us
continue to improve the employment
prospects for America's workers. We espe-
cially want to improve the targeting of
job creation programs to those who most
need these opportunities and to improve
the quality of the training and employ-
ment assistance for the poor, blacks, His-
panics, youth and women.
We expect to achieve these goals
through a number of actions:
First, we will continue working toward
achievement of the Humphrey-Hawkins
Full Employment Act goals. We will pro-
vide an average of 546,000 CETA public
jobs, and shift many of them to the long-
term or "structurally" unemployed. We
will continue to search for the most prom-
ising ways to reduce the structural unem-
ployment that denies many the oppor-
tunity for full participation in American
life.
Second, we will begin implementing the
new Private Sector programs, including
establishment of Private Industry Coun-
cils in communities throughout the coun-
try, to encourage business to hire the
hard-core unemployed. I am proposing
to Congress that this effort be supported
at a level of $400 million this year.
Third, we will continue our special
efforts to provide jobs and training pro-
grams for young workers in cooperation
with community-based organizations and
the private sector. We must meet our re-
sponsibility to provide opportunities for
young Americans to learn to work.
Fourth, we will take steps to improve
the management and delivery of employ-
ment and training services. I will seek a
reform of the Wagner-Peyser Act, which
authorizes the U.S. Employment Service,
126
