Jan. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
made one mistake. We should have had
the press invited for at least one session, in
order to let it be witnessed by yourselves
how friendly the atmosphere really was.
[Laughter]
Representing nations who belong to the
same alliance, it was, of course, natural
that we at some length dealt with security
questions, among which, of course, was of
great importance the report that we were
given by the American President, by
Jimmy Carter, on the progress of SALT
II. And I would like to join my British
colleague here in stressing that in our
view, SALT II is going to be a very
important contribution toward stabilizing
world peace.
I do hope for early conclusion and,
also, for swift ratification thereafter. And
as far as my country is concerned, we will
take the appropriate opportunity to make
this very clear to everybody in the world.
President Giscard d'Estaing already in-
dicated that we also talked about other
matters in the field of arms control, which
was a chance for me to express my desire
to bring about progress also in the field of
mutual balanced force reductions. And in
this context, of course, we also dealt with
the French proposal for a European con-
ference on arms limitation.
Naturally, France, Great Britain, and
Germany, having had diplomatic relations
with the People's Republic of China
already, all of us considered it to be a con-
tribution to normalization in the world
that there now should also be diplomatic
relationships between the United States
and the People's Republic of China.
I think one could sum up this part of
our deliberations in telling you that we
did agree on the global necessity to stabi-
lize the equilibrium of the world and to
carry on détente with the Soviet Union,
of course, especially so, including limita-
tion of armaments.
In confirming that we have talked
about a number of trouble spots in the
world of today, I would, as well, wish to
stress what already has been said by two
previous speakers, namely, that we all are
confident on the present stability of the
world, which we consider to be improved
as compared with the situation a couple
of years ago.
Stability of the world did, of course,
include the relationship between indus-
trialized and developing countries, which
gave me a chance to directly report to the
other three gentlemen about a conference
which I recently was participating in, not
far away from here, on the invitation of
Prime Minister Manley of Jamaica.
In concluding, I wish to express my
gratitude to the host of this meeting, my
friend, the French President, especially
for his hospitality, especially for the
initiative which has been taken by him,
which has led us here. I would express my
personal gratitude to the two Presidents
and the British Prime Minister for this
very personal exchange of views, of judg-
ments, of information, which I'm quite
certain will improve the foundations for
decisions which one will have to take in
the later course of 1979.
I must confess that I've learned a lot in
this meeting, would like to thank the host,
to thank the other participants and, in the
end, like to thank the people on this
wonderful island for the hospitality they
have shown to all of us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing of
France spoke at 1:15 p.m. at the Meridien
Hotel. He spoke in French, and his remarks
were translated by an interpreter. Also speak-
ing were Prime Minister James Callaghan of
the United Kingdom, President Carter, and
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Re-
public of Germany.
The 2-day series of meetings was held at the
Hamak, a resort located on the southern coast
of Grand Terre, Guadeloupe.
20
