Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
problems would escalate into serious super responsibility to reduce the possibility of
power confrontations.
Rejection would also be a damaging
blow to the Western Alliance. All of our
European and other allies, including es-
pecially those who are most directly and
courageously facing Soviet power, all of
them strongly support SALT II. If the
Senate were to reject the treaty, America's
leadership of this alliance would be com-
promised, and the alliance itself would be
severely shaken.
In short, SALT II is not a favor we are
doing for the Soviet Union. It's a deliber-
ate, calculated move that we are making
as a matter of self-interest for the United
States a move that happens to serve the
goals of both security and survival, that
strengthens both the military position of
our own country and the cause of world
peace.
And, of course, SALT II is the absol-
utely indispensable precondition for mov-
ing on to much deeper and more sig-
nificant cuts under SALT III.
Although we will not begin negotiations
Although we will not begin negotiations
on SALT III until SALT II goes into
effect, I discussed other nuclear control
issues with President Brezhnev, such as
much deeper mutual reductions in nu-
clear weapon inventories, stricter limit on
the production of nuclear warheads and
launchers, enhanced survivability and sta-
bility of missile systems that are author-
ized under existing SALT agreement,
prenotification about missile tests and
mass use or exercises of strategic bombers,
and limits and controls on types of mis-
siles which are not presently covered un-
der any SALT agreement
Though SALT is the most important
single part of the complex relationship
between the United States and the Soviet
Union, it is only a part. The U.S.-Soviet
relationship covers a broad range of issues,
some of which bear directly on our joint
war. President Brezhnev and I discussed
these issues in Vienna this morning in a
long private session with only the inter-
preters present.
I undertook all these discussions with a
firm confidence in the strength of Amer-
ica. Militarily, our power is second to
none. I'm determined that it will remain
so. We will continue to have military
power to deter any possible aggression,
to maintain security of our country, and
to permit the continuing search for peace
and for the control of arms from a posi-
tion of strength. We must have that
strength so that we will never be afraid to
negotiate for peace.
Economically, despite serious problems
of energy and inflation, we are by far the
most productive nation on Earth. Along
with our allies, our economic strength is
three times greater than that of the Soviet
Union and all its allies.
Diplomatically, we've strengthened our
friendships with Western Europe and
Japan, with China and India, with Is-
rael and Egypt, and with the countries
of the Third World. Our alliances are
stronger because they are based not on
force, but on common interests and often
on common values.
Politically, our democratic system is an
enormous advantage, not only to each of
us as individuals who enjoy freedom but
to all of us together because our Nation
is stronger. Our support of human rights,
backed by the concrete example of the
American society, has aligned us with
peoples all over the world who yearn for
freedom.
These strengths are such that we need
fear no other country. This confidence in
our Nation helped me in Vienna as we
discussed specific areas of potential, either
direct or indirect, confrontation around
1091
