Feb. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
memory, the Secretary's Award, the high-
est award the State Department can give.
As I present this award, I note with re-
gret that for health reasons Spike's par-
ents could not be here as we honor him.
The citation reads: "To Adolph Dubs,
for inspiring leadership, outstanding cour-
age and devotion to duty for which he
gave his life. Kabul. February 14, 1979."
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
12:30 p.m. at Andrews Air Force Base, Md.,
where the Ambassador's body was returned
from Afghanistan.
Atlanta, Georgia
Remarks at the Unveiling of the Official State
Portrait Commemorating the President's
Term as Governor. February 20, 1979
You don't know how nice it is to see
a picture of yourself that's not 80 percent
teeth. [Laughter]
many
It would be impossible for any of you
to know the deep feelings of sentiment
and emotion that I feel standing here at
this podium. I'll never forget the first
day I came to the senate, with five or six
of still members, and with
you
of
those who stand on my left-Peter Zack
Geer was Lieutenant Governor; Carl
Sanders was Governor; Garland Byrd sat
next to me. I was eager to learn about the
duties of my first elected public office, and
I made friends then that have stood me
in good stead ever since.
Many of you helped me a great deal in
those early days as a senator, as a candi-
date, as Governor, candidate again, and
now as President. I know it has been
somewhat of a surprise to many of you
that I was successful in the elections. And
as I look around, I have to admit that it's
a surprise to me that some of you were re-
elected so many times yourselves. [Laugh-
ter]
But I feel a sense of common purpose
with you. As President of the greatest na-
tion on Earth, I bear on my shoulders
great and sobering responsibilities. But
you, as Georgia senators, bear great and
sobering responsibilities as well. And what
makes it easier for us successfully to carry
out our duties is the knowledge that we
are not alone, that in a democracy built
on freedom, on the worth of every indi-
vidual human being, there's a sharing of
difficulties, purpose, ideals, and hopes for
an even greater future. And this sense of
community that binds our Nation to-
gether has been most reassuring to me in
recent years.
I'd like to thank you for honoring me in
this way. I think this is a moment that
I will never forget, with all its pleasant
flood of memories and friendships.
I look forward to shaking hands with
everyone who's a member of the senate
or who has been a member in the past,
and to pledge to you that the lessons that
I learned here of the importance of
public service, of patriotism and dedica-
tion, of the ability and willingness to face
difficult times with enthusiasm and con-
fidence and purpose-will stay with me
forever.
We live in the greatest nation on Earth,
and the foundation of our Nation's great-
ness is its system of federalism, for the
States were the original repository of re-
sponsibility and authority, and where the
cities, counties, and even the Federal
Government only have that authority and
responsibility dedicated to us by the
States.
Thank you again for honoring me.
Thank you for your friendship. And I
look forward to an even greater future
for our State, which is still so dear to my
heart and our great Nation.
296
