Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 8
National Credit Union
Administration Board
Nomination of Lawrence Connell, Jr., To Be a
Member. March 8, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Lawrence Connell, Jr., of
Washington, D.C., to be a member of the
National Credit Union Administration
Board for a 6-year term. The President
also announced that on confirmation,
Connell will be designated Chairman of
this Board.
Connell was born September 30, 1936,
in New York City. He received an A.B.
in economics from Harvard College in
1958, a J.D. from Georgetown University
in 1966, and an M.A. in economics from
Trinity College in 1973.
Connell worked in the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency from 1958
to 1968, beginning as a field examiner and
ending as Deputy Regional Administrator
of National Banks in New England. In
1962-63 he participated in the reorga-
nization of the internal operations of the
Washington office of the Comptroller of
the Currency. He also participated in the
first study of competition and branch
banking by that office in 1963.
In 1968 he joined Hartford National
Bank and Trust Co. as vice president and
counsel, was promoted to cashier, and
then became secretary of Hartford Na-
tional Corp. He also served as an officer
and director of a number of its subsid-
iaries.
From 1975 to 1977, Connell was bank
commissioner of the State of Connecticut,
and served on the Governor's Commission
to Study Uniform Consumer Credit
Code. In 1977 he was appointed Admin-
istrator of the National Credit Union Ad-
ministration by President Carter.
National Railroad Passenger
Corporation
Nomination of M. Athalie Range To Be a
Member of the Board of Directors.
March 8, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate M. Athalie Range, of
Miami, Fla., to be a member of the Board
of Directors of the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for a term expiring
July 18, 1981. Range was nominated for
this position last session, but was not con-
firmed before the Senate adjourned.
She was born November 7, 1918, in Key
West, Fla. She attended Booker T. Wash-
ington High School in Miami.
Range became involved in public serv-
ice as president of the Liberty City PTA,
where she led a building drive for schools
in black areas. She served as a local and
county PTA president for 16 years.
In 1965 Range was elected to the
Miami City Commission. She was the first
black and the second woman elected to
that commission. She introduced ordi-
nances including more stringent handgun
controls and updating housing and fire
codes.
In 1971 Range was appointed secretary
of the Florida Department of Community
Affairs. She resigned in 1973 to return to
private business as owner and funeral di-
rector of the Range Funeral Home in
Miami.
Range is a member of the board of
directors of the Florida Legal Aid Com-
mission and a member of the Southern
Growth Conference Committee Policy
Board. She is president of the Martin
Luther King Boulevard Development
Corp. and the Sixty-second Street De-
velopment Corp.
397
