May 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
be of tremendous benefit to West Vir-
ginia and to other States in the country.
MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Ed Belkin, news
director of KYW News Radio, Philadel-
phia. Citizens in the Northeast are in-
creasingly disturbed with military facili-
ties being closed or shifted to the so-called
Sunbelt States from what is already an
economically depressed area. I'm sure you
know all too well the case of Frankford
Arsenal. The battle of the aircraft car-
rier Saratoga is underway yet between
Philadelphia and Newport News. And
now, of course, there's the issue of basic
training at Fort Dix. What are you doing
to ensure that this apparent imbalance is
corrected, so that all these facilities are
not shifted out of the Northeast and that
the thousands of jobs and millions and
billions of dollars that would go with
these facilities are not shifted elsewhere?
THE PRESIDENT. Economic factors and
balance of military placement in the
country are both factors in the ultimate
decision. The primary factor, however, is
how to enhance our Nation's security to
an optimum degree within budgetary and
personnel constraints.
I have never interfered in a very care-
fully evolved decision by the Department
of Defense in deciding how to modify the
base structure. I think that we have
proven, since I've been in office, to have
the best interests of Philadelphia at heart.
We recognize the adverse economic im-
pact of the Frankford Arsenal decision. It
was reassessed after I got into office, and
again, after considering all the factors, the
Defense Department felt that this change
was advisable. I did not dispute that final
decision. We assessed all the economic
factors as well as the military factors.
On the Saratoga, we could save some
money by having the repairs or the over-
haul of Saratoga performed at Newport
News. But I feel that it's very important
for the shipyard not only at Newport
News but also in Philadelphia-the Navy
shipyards to be kept available for future
use in case of a national emergency.
And my administration, with the full
knowledge of the Newport News people,
went all out to assure that the major over-
haul of the Saratoga would be carried out
in Philadelphia. It was done on the basis
of merit, and although it cost a little bit
more to do the actual overhaul, it pre-
serves the entity itself and the strength
of the Philadelphia shipyard for future
use in a balanced fashion.
These are very complicated decisions,
and they have in the past been fraught
with political interference. I don't believe
that anybody could accuse me or my ad-
ministration or the Defense Department,
Charlie Duncan, the Deputy that makes
the basic recommendation, of ever mak-
ing one of these decisions on the basis of
politics-not to get votes or anything else.
And sometimes we aggravate some ex-
tremely interested and dedicated and
competent Members of Congress when
those changes are made. But in balance,
I can tell you that every decision has been
made to the best of my ability, in the best
interests of our Nation's security, within
the budgetary and personnel limits.
On some occasions we make a decision,
like in the Philadelphia shipyard overhaul
case with the Saratoga, to preserve the
ability of a defense establishment for fu-
ture use in a case of emergency. That's
the best answer I can give you.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS
Q. Mr. President, Raul Parra from the
Spanish Television Network, Albuquer-
que. Are there any definite plans on how
to deal with the illegal aliens influx from
Mexico and the possibility of implement-
ing the bracero program again?
906
