Apr. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Which reminds me of Bob Strauss.
[Laughter] Many of you know him, and
you'll have to admit that he is an ideal
man, under the circumstances, to inject
into the problems of the Middle East. He
got stuck with this position when he sold
the fewest number of tickets to the big
state dinner in the circus tent. [Laughter]
And that was not the only disappoint-
ment for me. This event actually delayed
our "energy plan of the month." [Laugh-
ter] We had to wait until after this fund-
raiser-and you can well understand
this before announcing the windfall
profits tax. They thought it was "You
scratch my back, I'll scratch yours."
[Laughter]
relationship. But as President of one of
the greatest nations on Earth, I hope that
we never forget that the people who
founded this country planned it that way.
This Nation of ours would be unimagin-
able without a free and a vigorous press.
That's why, when the Founders wrote
the Bill of Rights, they made the first
amendment the lead. And may that never
change.
We have a lid until 9 o'clock Monday
morning. [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hil-
ton Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Aldo B. Beckman, president, and Ralph
Harris, incoming president of the White House
Correspondents Association.
This careful scheduling arrangement
does show that I've learned a lot about
the oil companies. And I may have made
some unfair accusations against them. Of
course, I wouldn't admit this in public. White House Conference on
I have learned, for instance, that they
really never wanted to buy a circus; they
were really after the Congress and just
got confused. [Laughter]
And speaking of confusion, I would like
to say in all sincerity that you, the White
House correspondents, are some of my
best and closest friends. We have a won-
derful, almost unprecedented personal
unprecedented personal
relationship. "I'm proud of you." [Laugh-
ter] As a group, I consider you one of
our Nation's treasures. And I'm working
on plans to develop for you a permanent
and a suitable homeland. [Laughter]
It's been a pleasure being with you to-
night and to have shared a few quiet mo-
ments on this solemn occasion. In our
day-to-day dealings with each other, we
occasionally-in our day-to-day dealings
with each other, we often-in our day-to-
day dealings with each other, we almost
always aggravate the hell out of each
other. [Laughter]
And sometimes we do engage in what
Washington semanticists call an adversary
Library and Information Services
Appointment of Helen Meyer as a Member of
the Advisory Committee. April 30, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Helen Meyer, of South
Orange, N.J., as a member of the Advis-
ory Committee of the White House Con-
ference on Library and Information
Services.
Meyer is editorial consultant to Double-
day & Co., and former chairman of the
board of Dell Publishing Co.
Permanent Committee for the
Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise
Appointment of Paul J. Mishkin as a Member.
April 30, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Paul J. Mishkin as a mem-
ber of the Permanent Committee for the
746
