Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to encourage that use of increased rev-
enues for oil and gas production.
Q. Would you require it?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I would be glad
to put restraints on them. I don't know if
you could require it in every instance,
but I would certainly favor either laws or
administrative actions to put constraints,
so that they would plow back that oil into
energy production.
As I said in my opening statement, for
them to take that money and use it to buy
circuses or to buy timberlands or to buy
motels or department stores, I think con-
travenes the need of our country, and it
contravenes the purpose that I and the
Congress have in mind when we give
them that additional income.
ITINERARY FOR EAST ASIAN TRIP
Q. Mr. President, you said that you're
going to the economic summit conference
in Tokyo in June, I believe.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, in June.
Q. Will you also be going to South
Korea? Will you also be going to any
other countries?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know yet.
Q. You are uncertain about South
Korea?
THE PRESIDENT. That's right. We've
not decided on the itinerary yet.
MIDDLE EAST
Q. Within the last few hours, Mr. Pres-
ident, a terrorist bomb was exploded in
Tel Aviv, and Israel has bombed Leba-
non. Isn't there likely to be even more
violence in the Middle East than there was
before the treaty, and what can you do
about it? And would you be willing to
stop arms sales, all arms sales to the
Mideast?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I would not be
willing to stop all arms sales to the Middle
East, because I think the countries there
must have an adequate means of defend-
ing themselves-Israel, Egypt, and others.
Secondly, I believe that the terrorist
bombing is a longstanding problem. It's
not something that just has arisen because
the treaty has been signed. I think the
terrorism threats are counterproductive.
My own hope is that the best way to alle-
viate this constant dependence on death
and hatred and destruction and terrorism
is to prove the viability and the ad-
vantages of the peace process.
I would like to see, as early as possible,
but by the end of next month, all the bor-
ders open between Israel and Egypt, a free
passage of students and tradesmen, diplo-
mats, tourists, and for the demonstrated
advantages to Israel and Egypt to be very
apparent to the citizens of Jordan and
Syria and Lebanon and to the Palestin-
ians, wherever they live, hoping to con-
vince them that that's the best approach
to achieve their own purposes and goals-
that is, peace and a realization of the right
to control their own future.
But I don't think there's any doubt that
terrorism will continue in the coming
months. I hope it will wane as it's proven
that the peace treaty is permanent and
that it is going to work.
An immediate step that will tend to
convince everyone that it is permanent
and cannot be disrupted by terrorist acts
will be the quick ratification of the treaty
by the Egyptian Parliament and the ex-
change of the documents themselves. And
then the return of El Arish and the first
part of the Sinai to Egypt-I think that
will be a step in the right direction.
ENERGY CONSERVATION AT THE
WHITE HOUSE
Q. Mr. President, in your speech last
week, you asked the American people to
cut back on the use of energy. Do you and
656
