May 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lent final report of the Commission pre-
sented to me last April made clear that
the past 30 years had seen tremendous
achievement on behalf of our mentally ill
population. Not only had there been a
dramatic shift of emphasis from inpatient
care to community-based care, but great
strides had been made in mental health-
related research, and thousands of mental
health personnel had been trained. How-
ever, the report also contained unmistak-
able evidence that there are unmet needs
in every region of our country.
Some of the key Commission findings
dramatically illustrated the challenges this
nation faces in meeting the needs of the
mentally ill :
-According to the most recent esti-
mates, between ten and fifteen percent of
the population-20-32 million Ameri-
cans—need
cans need some form of mental health
services at any one time.
-Substantial numbers of Americans do
not have access to mental health care of
high quality and at reasonable cost. For
many, this is because of where they live;
for others, it is because of who they are—
their race, age, or sex; for still others, it
is because of their particular disability or
economic circumstance.
-There are approximately 1.5 million
chronically mentally disabled adults in
mental hospitals, nursing homes and other
residential facilities. Many of these indi-
viduals could lead better lives in less re-
strictive settings if mental health and sup-
porting services were available in their
communities. The problem is that for
them and for the hundreds of thousands
of patients who have been returned to
their communities from large institutions
over the past few years-such support
services are seldom readily available. As a
result, evidence indicates that half the
people released from large state mental
hospitals are readmitted within a year
of
discharge.
-There is insufficient emphasis at fed-
eral, state, and local levels on prevention
and early detection of mental disorders.
Infants and children would especially
benefit from expanded prevention efforts,
since early intervention with problems in
physical, emotional and cognitive devel-
opment can prevent more serious mental
and emotional problems in the future.
-Conflicting policy objectives in var-
ious Federal health and mental health
programs and between federal and state
programs often lead to confusion, frag-
mentation of services, and a lack of con-
tinuity of care for those with mental and
emotional problems. In addition, diverse
federal planning requirements and poorly
developed planning capabilities at the
state and local levels have perpetuated
the lack of integrated planning necessary
to build a nationwide network of acces-
sible public and private mental health
services.
-The lack of flexibility in Federal
funding of community-based services has
prevented some communities from pro-
viding services to their underserved popu-
lations. Although over 700 Community
Mental Health Centers provide services
to almost 3 million patients annually, this
model of organizing services cannot fit the
needs of all people and all communities.
Therefore, varying approaches to devel-
oping comprehensive community mental
health services should be encouraged.
-About two-thirds of all mentally ill
persons being treated in this country every
year are receiving care in the general
health care system. Nevertheless, coopera-
tive working arrangements between gen-
eral health care settings and community
mental health programs are rare.
860
