Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The need for improved health care
coverage is clear:
• About 19 million Americans have no
health insurance.
• Another 65 million Americans face
cost saving. I will also continue to press
for reforms making it easier for HMO's
to obtain equitable reimbursement under
Medicare and Medicaid.
Services
potential bankruptcy because they lack Prevention and Accessible Health
insurance protecting them against catas-
trophic medical expenses.
The health care system is highly in-
flationary. Spending in the entire health
care industry-has been rising at an an-
nual rate of 12%. These expenditures
cannot be successfully contained under
current health delivery and financing
methods, which produce unnecessary hos-
pitalization, over-reliance on expensive
technology and inadequate preventive
inadequate preventive
care.
• Health resources are unevenly dis-
tributed across the country, resulting in
significant gaps in vital medical services
for many residents of rural and inner city
areas.
Over the next several weeks, we will
be consulting closely with Congress and
interested outside groups on the scope and
nature of the plan I will propose. I expect
to submit a plan later in the year shortly
after those consultations have been com-
pleted, and I look forward to working
with the Congress toward a prompt en-
actment of that plan.
An essential companion to any plan
must be hospital cost containment legis-
lation. As I have indicated earlier in this
Message, I will make passage of that legis-
lation one of my highest priorities this
year.
Our effort to control health care costs
would be further strengthened by the
early passage of the Health Planning Act.
We must also continue to promote com-
petition in the health care sector of the
economy. Accordingly, the FY '80 budg-
et expands Federal support for Health
Maintenance Organizations, which have
demonstrated a significant potential for
More health care services alone, how-
ever, will not necessarily improve the
health status of our Nation—even if these
services are affordable, accessible, and
efficient. Our national health strategy
must direct more attention to health pro-
motion and disease prevention if we are
to achieve our goal of improved health
status. The Surgeon General will present
this year a major report outlining our
needs in this area. I will be asking for
your help in carrying out many of its
recommendations.
We have made great strides in expand-
ing the availability of health care services
to rural and low-income urban areas in
recent years through the creation of the
National Health Service Corps and the
establishment of a system of Community
Health Centers. If health care is to be
accessible to all Americans, these pro-
budget provides for such an expansion.
grams must be expanded, and the FY '80
Child Health Assessment
I believe that our health strategy must
place high priority on the health of our
children. Accordingly, I will submit a re-
vised Child Health Assessment Program
to improve the early and preventive
screening, diagnosis, and treatment pro-
gram for lower-income children under
Medicaid. This program would cover
over 2,000,000 low-income children who
are not receiving Medicaid services. An
additional 100,000 low-income pregnant
women would become eligible for medical
services prior to delivery, improving the
health of both the mothers and infants.
134
