Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
have these two proud and ancient peoples
again become independent nations.
But that generation, to use the words of
King Solomon, has also been a time to die,
to pluck up that which was planted, a
time to kill, a time of breaking down, a
time to mourn, a time of weeping, a time
to lose, a time to hate, and a time for war.
We pray that the season of weeping is past.
And to continue the words of that same
king, that now will come a time to heal,
a time to plant, a time to build up, a time
to laugh, a time to dance, a time to em-
brace, a time to love.
We pray to God that at last the chil-
dren of Abraham have come to a time of
peace,
And now, I would like to propose a
toast: To the President of the Arab Re-
public of Egypt, Anwar al-Sadat, and to
the Prime Minister of the State of Israel,
Menahem Begin; to the great peoples they
Menahem Begin; to the great peoples they
serve, the people of Egypt and the people
of Israel, now joined together in hope;
and to the cause we all serve: salaam,
shalom, and to peace.
PRESIDENT SADAT. President Carter,
Prime Minister Begin, dear friends:
Only a few hours ago we laid down a
solid foundation for a lasting peace in the
Middle East. We did so in a determined
effort to heal the wounds of the past and
usher in a new era of love and fraternity.
At long last cousins will be able to revive
the traditions of the glorious past when
they lived side by side in peace and
harmony.
Our great friend, President Carter, who
was the architect of the entire process,
spoke of the new reality which is dawning.
We all share his hopes and aspirations.
We want to see a steady progress on the
road to peace. This will require a positive
movement on all fronts.
Within a few weeks, we will be entering
into negotiations with the goal of estab-
lishing a self-governing authority with full
autonomy on the West Bank and Gaza.
The success of these negotiations will de-
pend largely on the ability of all parties to
rise to the level of events and demonstrate
their good faith. Above all, it depends
upon an active American role. President
Carter has promised me to spare no effort
to ensure the coronation of our efforts.
I have full confidence in him. He has
been a wonderful partner and a coura-
geous statesman. He has shown an un-
paralleled understanding of the plight of
the Palestinian people. He is sensitive to
their legitimate call for the eradication
of the injustice that was inflicted upon
them in the unhappy past.
We all realize their need to be reassured
step on the road to self-determination and
that they will be able soon to take the first
step on the road to self-determination and
statehood. A dialog with their representa-
tives will be very helpful. It would also
be consistent with American tradition.
It is with this in mind that we proceed
towards the completion of this sacred mis-
sion. None of us can bear the responsi-
bility of defeating the expectations of mil-
lions across the borders. None of us can
interfere with the course of history or turn
the clock back.
We should seize this opportunity. We
should seize this opportunity, this his-
toric opportunity in this historic gather-
ing, which is hosted by the American
people, to pledge ourselves to the continu-
ation of the process. We should vow to
employ all the moral strength we muster,
to ensure the ultimate success of our
endeavor.
Dear friends, I ask you to rise in a trib-
ute to President Carter, his spouse, the
American people, and to the millions of
people of good will everywhere, Mr.
Begin and Mrs. Begin.
524
