Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
242-the basis for all our discussions, and
a resolution that's been endorsed by all of
the Arab countries, as well as the Is-
raelis—and also recognizes Israel's right
to exist. As long as the PLO and its con-
stitution and commitment is dedicated to
the destruction of Israel, we will not
negotiate with them.
As far as the Palestinian people them-
selves are concerned, we are eager to see
them join in the discussions and negotia-
tions to effectuate the agreements reached
at Camp David and encompassed in the
recent Mideast treaty and all its ancillary
documents.
My hope is that in a couple of months,
when El Arish is returned to Egypt and
the borders between Israel and Egypt are
open, that the free travel of Palestinians
and Egyptians, for instance, back and
forth between their homes, will alleviate
the tension and let the Palestinians escape
from the unwarranted constraint of the
threat of terrorism against them if they
negotiate to get full autonomy, to use
Mr. Begin's expression-full autonomy.
I think Sadat has done more for the
Palestinians and their cause than any
other
Arab leader. And now they are fearful of
the carrying out of threats of death by
some of the more radical Arab elements
in the Mideast.
So, we're eager to see the Palestinian
people participate, to have full autonomy.
And we will not deal with the PLO un-
less they meet the requirements that I
described.
ENERGY SECURITY FUND
Q. Mr. President, Bill Franklin from
WNJR in Newark, New Jersey. I want
to just extend the greetings of our staff.
You were with us before you were elected.
We'd like you to come back to the
ghetto and visit your friends sometime.
[Laughter]
My question is, last night, sir, in your
message to the Nation, you asked the poor
people of this Nation to pay more for gas,
and you said you would give the money
back to them. How do you propose to do
that, sir? Would you define that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. It's defined, I think,
in the handout sheet that you are all wel-
come to take.
I believe that we've set up for those poor
families $100-per-family allocation that
would cover for the poorer families the in-
crease in the costs that would be attribut-
able to the deregulation. It'll be a simple
mechanism. Exactly how it comes back,
we have not yet described. But in the re-
serve fund, there will be money set aside
for that purpose.
THREE MILE ISLAND NUCLEAR FACILITY
Q. Mr. President, Don Mulford, Mont-
clair, New Jersey, Times. Are you satis-
fied that the parameters of the peril in
Pennsylvania have been adequately pre-
sented to the American people and that
the radiation levels have been adequately
monitored, so that you can go before the
Nation and say with confidence that you
have the information necessary to reas-
sure the people who want to come back to
their homes near Three Mile Island?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The answer is
yes.
I don't want to minimize the serious-
ness of the accident and the importance
of the lessons that we will learn from it. I
think the result of that unfortunate acci-
dent will be a much more careful assess-
ment of nuclear power, and the product
will be a much more stringent set of safety
regulations and operating procedures than
we have followed in the past.
But I felt perfectly safe last Sunday
when I was in the control room, just a
hundred feet away from the reactor core
624
