Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 24
Diesel Fuel Shortages
Announcement of Meeting on Federal-State
Cooperation To Resolve Supply Problems.
May 24, 1979
The President today announced that he
is sending a team of top officials from
several Federal agencies to Kansas City
tomorrow to meet with Midwestern Gov-
ernors and their representatives about die-
sel fuel shortage problems.
Agriculture is one of the sectors of the
economy most seriously affected by the
current energy shortage. It is particularly
vulnerable to disruptions of supply be-
cause of its complex and far-ranging dis-
tribution system, and because of the criti-
cal importance of timing in its need for
fuel, especially in the planting and har-
vesting of crops. Delays in planting due to
an unusually wet spring in many parts of
the country have further aggravated the
situation by compressing the period of
time during which plantings must be
completed.
The President is strongly committed to
meeting 100 percent of farmers' needs for
diesel fuel. He has directed the Depart-
ment of Energy to begin a mandatory al-
location of diesel fuel to meet farmers'
spring planting requirements. At the same
time, the Department requested com-
ments on establishing additional manda-
tory allocation priorities for mass transit
systems.
The President has also instructed the
Secretaries of Energy, Agriculture, and
Transportation to work jointly with the
States to meet farm diesel requirements
with minimal disruptions. On Wednesday
and Thursday of this week, these Depart-
ments sent a team to several Midwestern
States to establish clear and explicit pro-
cedures for rapid implementation of the
mandatory allocation program.
Yesterday the President met with Sen-
ators from several farm States to get their
viewpoints and suggestions and to outline
the actions already underway. Following
that meeting, the President directed Dep-
uty Secretary of Agriculture Jim Williams
and senior officials of DOE and DOT to
meet Friday in Kansas City with Gover-
nors or their senior agriculture and energy
advisers from a 10-State area to exchange
information and to work out mutual
problems in meeting the diesel fuel short-
age during the critical planting period.
The Federal interagency group will also
meet with major fuel suppliers for the
region while in Kansas City.
In addition, at the President's direc-
tion, DOE, USDA, and DOT are imme-
diately assigning staff to the State energy
offices, as needed, to assist in resolving
diesel supply problems.
In his meeting with the farm State Sen-
ators, the President emphasized that mid-
dle distillate supplies are extremely tight.
He also pointed out that, while we must
immediately address the middle distillate
requirements of agricultural production,
we must also begin to increase inventories
in order to meet diesel needs in transpor-
tation as well as home heating fuel re-
quirements for next fall and winter.
The President also observed that we
can avoid serious disruptions to our peo-
ple and to the economy only if there is full
realization of the energy problem and
broad-based cooperation in dealing with
it.
The President noted that the diesel al-
location program will work only if every-
one, including farmers, uses restraint to
make it work. For example, the program
should not be used to top off farm storage
tanks. Unless farmers and suppliers re-
sort to the program only to meet actual
requirements, the system will be over-
loaded and unable to respond to immedi-
ate fuel needs.
945
