Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 12
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
FEBRUARY 12, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I have two or three
brief statements I'd like to make before
the questions.
THE SITUATION IN IRAN
First of all, I'd like to say a few words
about Iran. Over the past several months,
we have observed closely the events un-
folding there. Our objective has been and
is a stable and independent Iran which
maintains good relations with the United
States of America. Our policy has been
not to interfere in the internal affairs of
Iran and to express our firm expectation
that other nations would not do so either.
We hope that the differences that have
divided the people of Iran for so many
months can now be ended. As has been
the case throughout this period, we have
been in touch with those in control of the
Government of Iran, and we stand ready
to work with them. Our goals are now, as
they have been for the past few months,
to ensure the safety of Americans in Iran,
to minimize bloodshed and violence, to
ensure that Iran is militarily capable of
protecting her independence and her ter-
ritorial integrity, to prevent interference
or intervention in the internal affairs of
Iran by any outside power, and to honor
the will of the Iranian people.
These have been our hopes and our
goals, and our involvement there has been,
as you know, minimal during the last few
months.
The curtailment of Iran's energy sup-
plies is of special interest to the people of
our country and to the world. This under-
scores the vulnerability about which I
spoke when I presented our proposal for a
comprehensive energy plan to the Con-
gress in April of 1977.
The net shortfall from the curtailment
of Iran's energy production is, on a world-
wide basis, about 2 million barrels per
day and for the United States a curtail-
ment of about one-half million barrels per
day. To put this in perspective, it com-
prises about 22 percent of the current
American consumption.
Most petroleum stocks were fairly high
at the beginning of this winter season, and
while we are, therefore, in no immediate
danger, the stocks here and throughout
the world continue to be drawn down.
I want to emphasize and support the
call that Secretary Schlesinger made for
voluntary conservation of oil within our
Nation by all Americans. If we would
honor the 55-mile-per-hour speed limit,
set thermostats no higher than 65 degrees
in homes and buildings, and limit discre-
tionary driving, voluntarily, and shifting
to carpools and to rapid transit systems,
we could offset the current reduction in
Iranian supply of oil to our country.
A prudent public response early and on
a broad-scale basis will make sure that any
interruption in our economic system will
be minimal in the future.
INFLATION
I'd like to make a brief statement about
inflation, because last month's increase in
the wholesale price index emphasized
again a very clear message to our Nation,
that we cannot shrink from making tough
decisions which are needed to bring infla-
tion under control.
The demands of special interest groups,
no matter how legitimate or benevolent,
must be resisted. The Congress must hold
the line on Federal spending this year. We
have steadily reduced the Federal deficit
over the past 2 years, and we will continue
to reduce the Federal deficit further. The
255
