Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 16
I
National Forest System Lands
Statement Announcing Decisions on
Wilderness Designations. April 16, 1979
We have reached a decision on the fu-
ture of 62 million acres of roadless and
undeveloped National Forest System
Forest System
lands.
Through the Department of Agricul-
ture's Roadless Area Review and Evalua-
tion-known as RARE II—we sought
public assistance in establishing the best
future uses of these lands. We struck a
reasonable balance between accommodat-
ing the Nation's needs for wilderness and
for the other goods and services produced
from these lands.
I am recommending to Congress wil-
derness designations for about 15.4 million
acres of RARE II lands. I already have
sent to Congress wilderness recommenda-
tions for lands in the two National For-
ests in Alaska, including about 5.5 million
acres identified in RARE II. I will now
recommend wilderness designation for
about 9.9 million additional acres on 118
National Forest System units in 35 other
States and the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico.
These recommendations from RARE
II will more than double the present size
of the National Forest System segment of
the National Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem and will more than quadruple the
number of National Forest wildernesses
in the highly populated States east of the
Mississippi.
The balance of the 62 million acres
falls into two categories. The first is "fur-
ther planning." We need more informa-
tion to determine the best uses for about
10.6 million acres in this category. Deci-
sions on these areas will be made as soon
as possible. In the second category are
about 36 million acres which will be man-
aged for multiple uses other than wilder-
ness. I am asking Secretary Bergland to
proceed immediately with the planning
and management of these areas under ex-
isting law.
For many years, the process of deter-
mining the best uses of National Forest
has been a slow, piecemeal effort. This
process has been the source of frustration
and controversy for all interest groups—
recreational, environmental, and indus-
trial. RARE II provided a comprehensive,
nationwide review and evaluation of these
important public lands. It is my hope that
the decision being announced today will
help resolve the longstanding controversy
over their case.
This decision will assure the American
people that high-quality areas will be pro-
tected for wilderness consideration by the
Congress and for enjoyment by future
generations. It also will assure a continu-
ing, sustained yield of goods and services
from those lands not recommended as
wilderness. This will help our national
economy, as well as the growth and sta-
bility of many local communities, by pro-
viding additional oil and gas, minerals,
and timber products, which are essential
to restraining inflation and increasing
productivity.
This decision also meets two major ad-
ministration goals. First, the recommen-
dations fulfill the pledge in my May 23,
1977, environmental message to enlarge
the Nation's treasury of wilderness re-
sources. And second, by releasing some of
the land for uses other than wilderness,
we respond to our urgent need for energy,
wood products, livestock forage, minerals,
and a broad array of recreational oppor-
tunities. In sum, our recommendations
are vital to the effort to reduce inflation,
control unemployment, and encourage
energy development.
All the nonwilderness lands in the Na-
tional Forest System will be managed to
671
