Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
There's a different mood in the country
now than there was when I proposed the
crude oil equalization tax. There were
several obstacles to the passage of that
tax. One was that I had a multiplicity of
responsibilities in energy, because it was
a comprehensive package. I couldn't
focus on one particular part of it. Sec-
ondly, if the Congress had passed the
crude oil equalization tax that I proposed
2 years ago, they would at the same time
have had to be responsible for decontrol.
I have taken that responsibility on my
own shoulders, as mandated by the Con-
gress, to be accomplished by September
of 1981.
I think the Congress is much more will-
ing now to prevent the oil companies
from reaping this great windfall from un-
earned profits. And I believe that the
American people can focus much more
accurately and intensely on this one basic
issue.
One of the reasons that I decided to
take the action which I announced on
television the other night was to narrow
down the focus of congressional debate,
primarily on that one issue-should we
or should we not let the oil companies
capture about $15 billion which they have
not earned, or should we retain a substan-
tial portion of that to meet the needs of
the American people?
That's the basic issue. And I think be-
cause the issue is so clearly defined and
the mood of the country has changed and
I can focus on that issue with the full
resources of my own office, I believe that
it will pass.
OIL COMPANY DIVESTITURE OR
NATIONALIZATION
Q. By way of followup, Mr. President,
are you any more in favor of divestiture
or even nationalization now than when
you were first asked about it?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I'm not in favor
of nationalization. I think there is some
exploration to be done on the subject
of divestiture, particularly in horizontal
divestiture, so-called, where there have
been allegations made in the past, some
of which I believe, that some of the major
energy companies have invested-for in-
stance, oil companies have invested in
coal mining and then used their owner-
ship of new coal mines to reduce pro-
duction of those mines, therefore, to mini-
mize competition and also to control
prices.
I think the horizontal divestiture area
should be explored thoroughly, but I am
not in favor of nationalization of the en-
ergy industry in this country.
REINSTATEMENT OF THE DRAFT
Q. Mr. President, do you have a com-
ment about the reinstatement of the
draft? There are many young Americans
that are worrying that the draft is going
to be reinstated, sir. Do you have a com-
ment on that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see any im-
mediate prospect that we would want to
reinstate the draft. We are meeting the
needs of our regular Armed Forces ade-
quately with the present voluntary re-
cruitment program. There are some prob-
lems in the Reserve forces which we are
trying now to address. We will continue
to assess the needs. We do have the au-
thority, as you know, to register persons
for a draft in the future, if it's needed.
I would like to say that if we ever do
institute a draft, I would like to make it
universal in its scope. I don't think that
just because someone is wealthy enough
or influential enough to go to college that
654
