Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
Here in Iowa, rushing, wild rivers may
be as scarce as oil wells, but you should
search even for those relatively rare op-
portunities to use water to drive small
turbines.
I'm announcing today a reprograming
of $300 million of existing funds to re-
habilitate 100 rural hydroelectric turbines.
The Army Corps of Engineers has identi-
fied nearly 2,000 places where we can
build or restore this type of hydroelectric
plant. Eventually, we should be able to
produce enough electricity to save almost
140 million barrels of oil each year-
enough to meet the energy needs of 82
million people.
Again, extracting natural gas from coal
mines and from shale reserves is some-
thing else we need to do. Over 6,500 rural
communities are located near coal or shale
reserves, and many have existing gas dis-
tribution systems already in place. These
communities could use these reserves to
produce a steady, dependable supply of
natural gas with a slightly lower Btu con-
tent, without damaging the environment.
Let me explain how this works. A port-
able drilling rig can tap the natural gas
that exists around deposits of coal and
shale. All you then need to do is to cap
this well with a device about the size of a
fire hydrant. With minimum processing,
out comes gas of sufficient pressure and
quality to heat the homes, light stoves,
and power factories.
The Energy Department has already
awarded $3.8 million in grant money to
the American Public Gas Association to
demonstrate that natural gas can be re-
covered from coal and shale and at com-
petitive prices. If this experiment is a suc-
cess and I believe it will be-we will
reprogram another $300 million in exist-
ing Federal funds to finance development
of these new supplies of natural gas be-
tween now and 1981.
Last week I was in New Hampshire,
and they were very excited to know that
last year alone, 750,000 Americans bought
wood-burning stoves to heat their homes.
Right now, the energy equivalent of more
than 500,000 barrels of oil is being pro-
duced by wood. We should be able again
to double that figure by 1985.
I grew up with wood-burning stoves
and open fireplaces, but the new designs
of stoves are absolutely remarkable. They
burn not only the wood, but the gases from
the wood. They are highly efficient, have
automatic thermostats, and two or three
oak logs or hardwood logs will last for as
long as 8 or 10 hours. By the way, I intend
to install one quite soon, before next win-
ter, in the White House, and I'll be using
it next winter.
But in order to encourage this trend,
which is very, very good, I will seek a tax
credit for the purchase of wood-burning
stoves to be funded out of the revenues
from the windfall profits tax. Throughout
the Government, we are now working on
projects like this to enable us to improve
the use of our forests for energy, and par-
ticularly the wood we now waste.
Two-thirds of all the home heating, for
instance, in some New England States-
the same would apply to Georgia and,
obviously, to places in the Northwest-
can be derived from the wood in our
forests that's now left on the ground and
completely wasted. This would provide
enormous opportunities, as you can see,
for additional employment.
The point I'm trying to make is this:
Rural America is the best place to ex-
periment with solar energy or with re-
newable products that come from the
Sun. In my 1980 budget, I've proposed
that we establish two research centers
to work on applying alternative energy
sources, including solar energy, to agri-
culture.
793
