Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
and we foresee a marked improvement in
the more comprehensive current account
measure.
Nineteen hundred and seventy-eight
was also a year of unusual instability in
international financial markets. In the
fall, movements in the exchange value of
the dollar became very disorderly, and its
decline became clearly excessive.
On November 1, I announced a series
of steps to restore order to the foreign
exchange markets and to correct the ex-
cessive decline of the dollar. Up to $30
billion in foreign exchange resources were
assembled by the United States, to be used
in coordination with other countries uti-
lizing their own resources, to protect the
dollar's value in currency markets. Do-
mestic interest rates were raised signifi-
cantly to help reduce inflation and
strengthen the dollar in exchange markets.
And the United States underlined its
commitment to deal with its inflation
problem and strengthen its underlying
economic position.
These actions have improved the tone
of the exchange markets and contributed
to a rise in the value of the dollar. More
importantly for the longer term, they are
helping to create more stable conditions.
in the exchange markets, in which the
value of the dollar can better reflect the
fundamental strength of the U.S. econ-
omy.
Progress also was made in 1978 in
achieving closer economic cooperation
among the leading industrial nations. I
met in Bonn with the leaders of the six
major industrial countries to discuss ma-
jor economic problems facing us. Out of
this came a concerted action program to
restore greater balance and confidence in
the international economy and in world
financial markets. Together, we took the
necessary steps to achieve those ends-the
United States committed itself to combat
inflation and reduce oil imports, Germany
and Japan to increase growth and reduce
trade surpluses, others to take measures
on trade or inflation. Only through con-
tinued economic cooperation and sound
policies can we attain the goal of full em-
ployment and price stability that is our
ultimate objective.
BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE
During this coming year, we as a Na-
tion have an opportunity to strengthen
our economy and lay the basis for con-
tinuing prosperity. The gains of the last
2 years have been notable. We have made
great progress at home in recovering from
the recession, and we have strengthened
the stature of the United States in the
world economy. In the year ahead, we
can secure and extend those gains by
working together to moderate inflation. I
am confident that we will rise to the
challenge.
January 25, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The President's message is printed in the
report entitled "Economic Report of the Presi-
dent, Transmitted to the Congress, January
1979-Together with the Annual Report of the
Council of Economic Advisers" (Government
Printing Office, 306 pages).
Council on Environmental
Quality
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. January 25, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Con-
gress the Ninth Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality.
The Report contains abundant evi-
dence of progress in meeting our national
commitment to protecting our environ-
ment. The dimensions of the task still be-
fore us also emerge from the Report. For
example, the Report cites encouraging
evidence that the quality of our streams
and lakes is improving in many places. Yet
119
