Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 25
to have prosperity, providing jobs for our
people, and in cementing, as I said earlier,
closer relations with our natural friends
and allies throughout the world. And the
enhancement of international trade is a
partial, sometimes almost a complete an-
swer to some of those specific problems.
We have a very high adverse trade bal-
ance, as you well know, primarily result-
ing from our extraordinary and excessive
imports of oil from overseas. And the re-
dressing of this trade balance by improved
sale of American products overseas with
which you can help is very beneficial
beneficial
indeed.
There's another element that ought to
be mentioned. When I correspond directly
and privately with President Brezhnev of
the Soviet Union, I don't believe I've ever
received a secret message from him that
did not include an emphasis on his desire
to improve trade relationships with our
country. In my recent visit to Mexico, at
the root of all our difficulties and potential
successes in the future—the alleviation of
tension, misunderstanding, the repairing
of historical mistakes-the word "trade"
can almost be considered a magic key to
open up doors of progress in every one of
those areas of question.
Mike Blumenthal is now in the People's
Republic of China, a billion people now
hoping for and expecting better relation-
ships with our country, a wonderful op-
portunity if it's handled well. Secretary
Kreps will be following his trip with her
own. In our dealings with other countries
who have historically been our friends, the
same thing applies.
I've just left the White House a few
minutes ago, having met with the Prime
Minister of Egypt, the Foreign Minister of
Israel to receive a report from them on
progress made at Camp David this week
and, hopefully, to prepare for a head-of-
state meeting later on this coming week to
proceed with these peace negotiations.
And again, at the root of basic problems,
and as an incentive to further progress, is
the question of trade, economic stability,
economic prosperity, improving the qual-
ity of life of people in those countries.
We are now facing a difficult decision
in Congress about how to handle the
Taiwan question, to honor our commit-
ments to those good friends. And as you
well know, one of the things that I insisted
upon in normalizing relations with the
People's Republic of China was the con-
tinued trade and commerce and cultural
exchange with the people of Taiwan.
So, in every one of these areas, the im-
portance of trade cannot be overempha-
sized. Ambassador Bob Strauss has been
negotiating day and night for months
to bring about an international allevia-
tion of obstacles to trade through the
Multilateral Trade Negotiations, to re-
duce existing protectionism and to pre-
vent the selfish protectionist tendencies
that always exist in every country, includ-
ing our own, from prevailing in the fu-
ture. This is not going to be an easy agree-
ment to have ratified or approved by the
Congress. And speaking frankly, I hope
that all of you will study the details of
these agreements and the benefits that we
can derive from them, and use your own
influence, speaking constructively and
soundly and from a basis of knowledge
and intelligence, to encourage the Con-
gress to approve these agreements once
they have been reached.
I've recognized the limitations on what
the Federal Government can do. And
your chairman and I use that primarily
as the reason for making this move among
the Governors. I have tried to improve
the quality of service by the Eximbank,
for instance. I think in the 1977 budget,
the total amount of money available to
the Eximbank was about $700 million. In
the budget that I've just presented to
Congress, it's $4.1 billion, about six times
331
