Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
any other forces stationed on its territory,
against the population, citizens or prop-
erty of the other Party. Each Party also
undertakes to refrain from organizing, in-
stigating, inciting, assisting or participat-
ing in acts or threats of belligerency, hos-
tility, subversion or violence against the
other Party, anywhere, and undertakes to
ensure that perpetrators of such acts are
brought to justice.
3. The Parties agree that the normal re-
lationship established between them will
include full recognition, diplomatic, eco-
nomic and cultural relations, termination
of economic boycotts and discriminatory
barriers to the free movement of people
and goods, and will guarantee the mutual
enjoyment by citizens of the due process
of law. The process by which they under-
take to achieve such a relationship parallel
to the implementation of other provisions
of this Treaty is set out in the annexed
protocol (Annex III).
ARTICLE IV
1. In order to provide maximum secu-
rity for both Parties on the basis of reci-
procity, agreed security arrangements will
be established including limited force
zones in Egyptian and Israeli territory,
and United Nations forces and observers,
described in detail as to nature and tim-
ing in Annex I, and other security ar-
rangements the Parties may agree upon.
2. The Parties agree to the stationing of
United Nations personnel in areas de-
scribed in Annex I. The Parties agree not
to request withdrawal of the United Na-
tions personnel and that these personnel
will not be removed unless such removal
is approved by the Security Council of the
United Nations, with the affirmative vote
of the five Permanent Members, unless
the Parties otherwise agree.
3. A Joint Commission will be estab-
lished to facilitate the implementation of
the Treaty, as provided for in Annex I.
4. The security arrangements provided
for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article
may at the request of either party be re-
viewed and amended by mutual agree-
ment of the Parties.
ARTICLE V
1. Ships of Israel, and cargoes destined
for or coming from Israel, shall enjoy the
right of free passage through the Suez
Canal and its approaches through the
Gulf of Suez and the Mediterranean Sea
on the basis of the Constantinople Con-
vention of 1888, applying to all nations.
Israeli nationals, vessels and cargoes, as
well as persons, vessels and cargoes des-
tined for or coming from Israel, shall be
accorded non-discriminatory treatment in
all matters connected with usage of the
canal.
2. The Parties consider the Strait of
Tiran and the Gulf of Aqaba to be inter-
national waterways open to all nations for
unimpeded and non-suspendable freedom
of navigation and overflight. The Parties
will respect each other's right to naviga-
tion and overflight for access to either
country through the Strait of Tiran and
the Gulf of Aqaba.
ARTICLE VI
1. This Treaty does not affect and shall
not be interpreted as affecting in any way
the rights and obligations of the Parties
under the Charter of the United Nations.
2. The Parties undertake to fulfill in
good faith their obligations under this
Treaty, without regard to action or in-
action of any other party and independ-
ently of any instrument external to this
Treaty.
3. They further undertake to take all
the necessary measures for the applica-
497
