Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 16, 1979
Cairo, Egypt
Remarks of President Anwar al-Sadat and
President Carter at the Welcoming Ceremony.
March 8, 1979
PRESIDENT SADAT. My dear friend and
brother, President Carter:
On behalf of 40 million Egyptians, I
welcome you in the cradle of civilization.
You are held here with the highest esteem,
as one of the greatest statesmen of our
time. Your courage and wisdom are par-
alleled only by the strength of your com-
mitment to morality and justice.
Never before has an American Presi-
dent been so firm in his devotion to the
cause of world peace and the universal
brotherhood of man. Never before has a
statesman with your awesome responsi-
bility devoted so much of his time and
effort to the noble task of promoting peace
and cooperation among nations.
This is a historic and courageous mis-
sion. On your departure yesterday, you
said that you were undertaking it with
hope and sober realism. We share your
hope and pray for the success of your en-
deavor. You will find the Egyptian people
firm in their dedication to a just and com-
prehensive peace in the area. We are
determined to enable our Palestinian
brothers to realize their national rights
and regain their freedom.
In the days ahead, we will be working
together to make these cherished hopes a
living reality. We want to build a viable
structure for peace that's based on the rule
of law and legitimacy.
The reception you were accorded today
by our masses is a testimony of the affec-
tion they have for you and for every
American. Let us vow to cement the
bonds of friendship and cooperation be-
tween our nations.
May God Almighty guide our steps and
lighten our way and, God willing, we
shall overcome.
Thank you.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Salaam alaikum.
[Peace be upon you.]
Hundreds of thousands of Egyptians
lined the streets this afternoon to express
their deepest feelings-feelings not of per-
sonal friendship or admiration for me, or
even for their noble and beloved leader,
President Sadat, but their deepest feeling
expressed hundreds of times over was a
genuine desire for peace.
The greeting of peace has a special and
urgent meaning for all of us today. I come
to you, Mr. President, in the service of
peace. You receive me in a spirit of peace.
405
