Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 9
desire of the Tuvaluan people that their
claim to sovereignty over half of the in-
habited islands in their country, includ-
ing their capital, will not be encumbered
by a conflicting claim by the United
States. It will protect United States inter-
est in assuring nondiscriminatory future
access to the fishing grounds of Tuvalu
which supply fish to the canneries on
American Samoa. United States security
interests in a peaceful, secure, and stable
South Pacific are served by the consulta-
tion clauses in times of international crisis.
The Treaty will further United States
foreign policy interest in promoting peace,
security and development of the region
and assure nondiscriminatory access to the
region by the United States fishing fleet
and other vessels contributing to the
American Samoan economy. I recom-
mend that the Senate give early consider-
ation to the Treaty and give its advice and
consent to ratification.
The White House,
May 9, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan
Statement on Senate Approval of the Plan.
May 9, 1979
I applaud the Senate for showing the
Nation and the world that this country
is ready to deal with an unexpected fu-
ture energy shortage, through its strong
endorsement of the Standby Gasoline Ra-
tioning Plan.
I call upon the House of Representa-
tives to place the national interest above
narrower interests, as the Senate has
done.
Congress required the executive branch
to submit a standby rationing plan in the
Energy Policy and Conservation Act of
1975. The plan which the Senate passed
was submitted pursuant to that require-
ment. This is not a plan to achieve
mandatory conservation, but is simply a
standby measure to permit an orderly
distribution of gasoline in the event of a
significant shortage. Congress will have
the opportunity to pass upon the plan
again before it can be implemented.
The plan passed by the Senate creates a
national ration reserve to deal with criti-
cal national emergencies; a significant
State ration reserve of 8 percent to be al-
located within States at the discretion of
the Governors to deal with special State
problems which may occur as a result of
severe gasoline shortages; provides for
priority allocation of gasoline to critical
sectors of the economy, such as farmers;
and distributes the balance to owners of
registered vehicles based upon historic use
of gasoline within the States. This is an
efficient and equitable way to distribute
gasoline allotments.
State consumption figures would be
regularly updated so that in the unex-
pected event that the standby plan had to
be implemented, the latest data would be
available.
For reasons of equity, we have limited
the gasoline allotments to no more than
three vehicles per household.
We do not expect that we will ever
need to use this plan, but, as with our mil-
itary forces, we would be foolhardy not to
be prepared should such a need ever arise.
Defeat of this plan would leave this
country vulnerable and defenseless
against a supply interruption. The Gov-
ernment would require 6 to 8 months to
develop, pass, and implement a new
plan-time we could ill-afford during an
energy crisis.
I urge the Members of the House of
Representatives to recognize the national
823
