Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 15
Just as Dr. King and Mahatma
Gandhi knew that nonviolence was not
the course of cowards, so our search for
peace is a sign not of weakness, but of
strength. We must also demonstrate that
our national human values work so well
that they are worthy for other nations to
adopt, to emulate. We will never pur-
chase a peace that's merely a surrender
of our ideals and beliefs, and neither will
we seek to force our values on others.
That, too, would be a surrender of our
commitments and our principles.
Dr. King spoke of two kinds of peace,
of negative peace, which meant the ab-
sence of fear and tension, and he spoke of
a positive peace, which meant the pres-
ence of justice.
It's a positive peace that we now seek-
peace that keeps alive his audacious
dream that all people can have food and
health care for their bodies, education
gether, Daddy King, me, Coretta, all of
you, we can make it come true.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:53 p.m. at
the Ebenezer Baptist Church.
Attendees at the ceremony included Prime
Minister Ola Ullsten of Sweden, Foreign
Minister Knut Frydenlund of Norway, Sena-
tor Herman E. Talmadge and Representative
Elliott H. Levitas of Georgia, Dr. Martin
Luther King, Sr., pastor emeritus, and the Rev.
Dr. Joseph L. Roberts, Jr., pastor of the Ebe-
nezer Baptist Church, and Dr. Benjamin E.
Mays, chairman, board of trustees, and Jesse
Hill, Jr., chairman of the board of directors,
Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Social
Change.
Coretta Scott King, widow of Dr. King and
president of the Center, presented the award to
the President. The award consisted of a cita-
tion, a medal, and a cash stipend of $1,000,
which the President donated to the Center.
and culture for their minds, and dignity, Interview With the President
equality, and freedom for their spirits.
It is this ideal America-an America
that has not yet been, but that can be,
that will be-that we seek for our own
children and for children yet to come.
As President, I will follow through on
the continuing revolution that our found-
ers started, and that many of you perpetu-
ated, to make our Nation a standard of
justice and freedom and opportunity.
Martin Luther King, Jr., his life, has
become an inspiration for many people.
It must never be forgotten. Tomorrow,
we celebrate the 50th anniversary of
the birth of Martin Luther King, Jr. I
support the Democratic platform call for
making his birthday a national holiday,
and I will work for it. And I particularly
hope that in this 50th anniversary year,
that I will be able to sign a bill proclaim-
ing January 15 as a national holiday in
honor of Dr. King's principles and accom-
plishments.
We must never forget his dream. To-
Question-and-Answer Session With Black
Media Representatives. January 10, 1979
MR. AGURS. Good morning, Mr. Presi-
dent. As I said, I'm Don Agurs of the
Mutual Black Network. And I'd like to
congratulate you, first of all, on your
award of the 1979 Martin Luther King,
Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize and thank you
for this opportunity to talk with you to-
day.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's a great
honor for me, and I look forward to be-
ing in Atlanta with Mrs. King and the
others who admire not only what Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s life meant
while he was with us but what it still
means and will mean in the future.
Thank you very much, Don.
UNEMPLOYMENT
MR. AGURS. My first question, Mr.
President, is, in the last days of his life,
Dr. King became an active campaigner
33
