Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 30
THE PRESIDENT. That's just a lot of
baloney. [Laughter]
I really can't believe that Senator Ken-
nedy said this unless the phrases were
taken out of context, because everyone
knows who's in the Congress that decon-
trol is mandated in the present law, con-
trols to be terminated in October of 1981.
This is not a decision that I made. I am
complying with an existing law. And in
order to minimize the impact of decon-
trol, we are carefully and slowly phasing
out controls over roughly a 28-month
period.
I have made a proposal to the Congress
which, in my judgment, is eminently fair.
It lets the oil companies keep 29 cents
out of every dollar of increased revenue
which they derive from decontrol. As I
said earlier in this news conference, if the
Congress, including Senator Kennedy,
wants to tighten up on that windfall
profits tax with their proposals that I con-
sider to be fair, I will gladly support such
more stringent windfall tax proposals. I
will not support any move in the Congress
to make the windfall tax more lenient on
the oil companies.
But I have a responsibility as President
to make the best judgment on what needs
to be done in the future and to comply
with the Federal laws when I make deci-
sions for the present. And I'm always
amenable to proposals made by Senator
Kennedy or anyone else to make the laws
fairer or more stringent if the Congress
thinks they should be made
stringent.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
more
Q. Mr. President, on Capitol Hill to-
day, a number of Republican Senators
who say that they are uncommitted on
SALT II were critical of Admiral Turner,
the director of intelligence. They claim
that he has been making speeches around
the country in support of the treaty, and
they feel that he should not get involved
in what may become a partisan issue.
What is your understanding of Admiral
Turner's role? Is he an advocate of
SALT II? And if so, is this at your
direction?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I've never asked
him to make any such speech. I think, as
is the case with almost every major official
in the Federal Government—in the ex-
ecutive branch, at least they are called
upon to make speeches on matters of
great moment and importance to the
people. Even in the case of the CIA
Director, responsible for intelligence, he's
not confined just to expressing an opinion
on collection techniques, most of which
are highly secret in any case.
I don't know what comments Admiral
Turner has made. I happen to know that
he's basically in favor of the SALT treaty.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
I might say, to get back to the previous
question about the Congress attitude to-
ward the windfall profits tax, this is not
an easy question to address, but we've
made a lot of progress in the last 2 weeks.
When the windfall profits tax was first
mentioned, when I started talking about
it back in April, there was an almost
unanimous opinion expressed on Capitol
Hill that no windfall profits tax could be
passed, and those of you in the media
reported these comments, and now some
of those very same people who said that
it was not possible for a windfall profits
tax to be passed at all are now quarreling
about whether we should take from the
oil companies 29 cents out of each dollar,
or 25 cents or 24 cents or whatever.
But I think we've made great progress
in the last 2 weeks in selling to the Ameri-
753
