Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ARTICLE 10
1. The Contracting Parties shall estab-
lish a US-PRC Joint Commission on Sci-
entific and Technological Cooperation,
which shall consist of United States and
Chinese parts. Each Contracting Party
shall designate a co-chairman and its
members of the Commission. The Com-
mission shall adopt procedures for its op-
eration, and shall ordinarily meet once a
year in the United States and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China alternately.
2. The Joint Commission shall plan and
coordinate cooperation in science and
technology, and monitor and facilitate
such cooperation. The Commission shall
also consider proposals for the further de-
velopment of cooperative activities in spe-
cific areas and recommend measures and
programs to both sides.
for five years. It may be modified or ex-
tended by mutual agreement of the Par-
ties.
2. The termination of this Agreement
shall not affect the validity or duration
of any implementing accords made under
it.
DONE at Washington this 31st day of
January, 1979, in duplicate in the English
and Chinese languages, both equally au-
thentic.
For the Government of the United States
of America:
JIMMY CARTER
For the Government of the People's Re-
public of China:
DENG XIAOPING
3. To carry out its functions, the Com- Visit of Vice Premier Deng
mission may when necessary create tem-
porary or permanent joint subcommittees
or working groups.
4. During the period between meetings
of the Commission, additions or amend-
ments may be made to already approved
cooperative activities, as may be mutually
agreed.
5. To assist the Joint Commission, each
Contracting Party shall designate an Ex-
ecutive Agent. The Executive Agent on
the United States side shall be the Office
of Science and Technology Policy; and on
the side of the People's Republic of China,
the State Scientific and Technological
Commission. The Executive Agents shall
collaborate closely to promote proper im-
plementation of all activities and pro-
grams. The Executive Agent of each
Contracting Party shall be responsible for
coordinating the implementation of its
side of such activities and programs.
ARTICLE 11
1. This Agreement shall enter into force
upon signature and shall remain in force
of China
United States Letter Implementing
Understandings on Educational Exchange,
Agriculture, and Space as Part of the
Agreement on Science and Technology.
January 31, 1979
Dear Mr. Minister:
With reference to the Agreement Be-
tween the United States of America and
the People's Republic of China on Co-
operation in Science and Technology,
signed in Washington today, it is the un-
derstanding of the Government of the
United States of America that existing
understandings in the fields of education,
agriculture and space will become a part
of the formal specific accords to be con-
cluded in those fields under Article 5 of
the Agreement.
Attached as annexes to this letter are
the Understanding on the Exchange of
Students and Scholars reached in Wash-
ington in October 1978, the Understand-
ing on Agricultural Exchange reached in
Beijing in November 1978, and the Un-
202
