Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
equipped for ASBMs which are not sub-
ject to the limitation provided for in Ar-
ticle V into a bomber of a type equipped
for ASBMS which are subject to that limi-
tation shall become subject to that limita-
tion when the bomber is brought out of
the shop, plant, or other facility where
such conversion has been performed.
5. A heavy bomber of a type not subject
to the limitation provided for in para-
graph 1 of Article V shall become subject
to that limitation when it is brought out
of the shop, plant, or other facility where
it has been converted into a heavy bomber
of a type equipped for cruise missiles
capable of a range in excess of 600 kilo-
meters. A bomber of a type not subject to
the limitation provided for in paragraph 1
or 2 of Article III shall become subject to
that limitation and to the limitation pro-
vided for in paragraph 1 of Article V
when it is brought out of the shop, plant,
or other facility where it has been con-
verted into a bomber of a type equipped
for cruise missiles capable of a range in
excess of 600 kilometers.
6. The arms subject to the limitations
provided for in this Treaty shall continue
to be subject to these limitations until they
are dismantled, are destroyed, or other-
wise cease to be subject to these limita-
tions under procedures to be agreed upon.
7. In accordance with the provisions of
Article XVII, the Parties will agree in the
Standing Consultative Commission upon
procedures to implement the provisions of
this Article.
ARTICLE VII
1. The limitations provided for in Arti-
cle III shall not apply to ICBM and
SLBM test and training launchers or to
space vehicle launchers for exploration
and use of outer space. ICBM and SLBM
test and training launchers are ICBM and
SLBM launchers used only for testing or
training.
2. The parties agree that:
(a) there shall be no significant in-
crease in the number of ICBM or
SLBM test and training launchers
or in the number of such launchers
of heavy ICBMs;
(b) construction or conversion of
ICBM launchers at test ranges
shall be undertaken only for pur-
poses of testing and training;
(c) there shall be no conversion of
ICBM test and training launchers
or of space vehicle launchers into
ICBM launchers subject to the
limitations provided for in Article
III.
ARTICLE VIII
1. Each Party undertakes not to flight-
test cruise missiles capable of a range in
excess of 600 kilometers or ASBMs from
aircraft other than bombers or to convert
such aircraft into aircraft equipped for
such missiles.
2. Each Party undertakes not to con-
vert aircraft other than bombers into air-
craft which can carry out the mission of
a heavy bomber as referred to in subpara-
graph 3(b) of Article II.
ARTICLE IX
1. Each Party undertakes not to de-
velop, test, or deploy:
(a) ballistic missiles capable of a range
in excess of 600 kilometers for in-
stallation on waterborne vehicles
other than submarines, or launch-
ers of such missiles;
(b) fixed ballistic or cruise missile
launchers for emplacement on the
ocean floor, on the seabed, or on
the beds of internal waters and in-
land waters, or in the subsoil
1055
