Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
has come with its modern programs to
take its place in the broad and glorious
and progressive mainstream of America
and Virginia as well.
I inherited, along with you, a Repub-
lican mess in Washington a little more
than 2 years ago. But we Democrats at
that time formed a partnership. You've
helped me since I've been there. And we
have made a great deal of progress.
The 2 years since I became President
have been a time for rebuilding. I'm
proud of what we've accomplished, but
our work, as you well know, is far from
done.
When they write the history of these
years, I hope they will say four things
about what has been accomplished, what
we've done together.
I want them to say that we were not
afraid to tackle the difficult and some-
times unpopular problems, such as energy,
and that we placed the long-term good of
our country above petty political advan-
tage.
I want them to say that we have re-
stored what was lost, the trust and faith
of American people in our own Govern-
ment.
I want them to say that we have made
America prosperous again and put our
people back to work.
And, most of all, I want them to say
that America has been at peace, and that
we as a nation have contributed to a
world without war.
If we can continue to build this New
Foundation for peace, trust, and pros-
perity, we will have kept faith with our
party and with our country.
Two nights ago, as you may have no-
ticed, I spoke on television to the Ameri-
can people about our Nation's very seri-
ous energy problem. Our energy problem
is, above all, an oil problem. We use too
much oil; we waste too much oil. We
don't produce enough oil in our own
country, and our progress in developing
alternatives to oil are being pursued all
too slowly. As a result, we are importing
oil now to the tune of $50 billion this
year-that's $225 spent for foreign oil by
every man, woman, and child in the
United States of America.
So, our economy and our security are
dangerously subject to the whims of a
foreign oil cartel.
Two years ago, almost exactly 2 years
ago, I introduced a comprehensive plan
to the Congress to deal with this prob-
lem. And then after more than a year
and a half of debate and special pleading
and struggling among the various interest
groups, Congress finally passed a program
that was a beginning, a good beginning.
But that program which Congress did
pass, because of the political difficulties
involved, did not deal at all with the oil
problem. So, we still face the basic reality
about America's use of oil: We must use
less, and we must pay more for what we
use.
That's not a pleasant message for any
of us, but it's the truth. And the Ameri-
can people have shown time and time
again that when they get the truth, they
will respond. I did not make the decision
that I announced because I expected it
to be pleasant or popular. I made it be-
cause it's right, and it's necessary, and it's
in the best interest of our Nation. But,
having made it, I will not allow this pain-
ful but necessary step to become an ex-
cuse for a massive ripoff of the American
people by the American oil companies.
That's why I will fight for a windfall
profits tax just on the unearned, excess
profits of the oil companies.
With the revenues from this tax, we
will establish an energy security fund.
We will ease the financial burden of
higher oil prices on those who can least
632
