Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 29
and to the peace and progress of the
people of the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:48 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
The Vice Premier spoke in Chinese, and the
translation of his remarks follows the White
House press release.
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
of China
Remarks Following a Performance at the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts. January 29, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. All of us are fortunate in
being able to participate in a truly mo-
mentous and historic occasion, the formal
cementing of friendship now and perma-
nently in the future between the 220 mil-
lion Americans and the more than 900
million Chinese. We are grateful for this
opportunity to extend our welcome to
Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping, to Madame
Zhuo Lin, to all the delegation, who've
come here from China.
We are grateful for the opening up of
new avenues of scientific, trade, cultural
exchange. And there could be no better
way to demonstrate what our Nation is,
what we have to offer, than the wonderful
performers who have joined us tonight to
give them just a tiny glimpse, but a beau-
tiful glimpse of some of the superb talent
of great American performers.
Mr. Vice Premier, it's indeed a great
honor for me, as President of a great
country, to welcome you, the Vice Premier
of another great country, to the people of
America. Thank you for coming.
God bless all of you. We thank you for
being with us as we join our two nations
together on this formal occasion.
Thank you very much.
THE VICE PREMIER. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you, Mr. President and Mrs.
Carter, for arranging this magnificent
performance by American artists, which
gives us an enjoyable evening and leaves
on us an indelible impression.
This occasion reminds me of what Lu
Xian, the great Chinese thinker, once
said. He said, "It would be best if man-
kind could avoid lack of mutual under-
standing and show concern for
another."
Art and literature will provide the best
means towards that goal.
The art and literature of each nation
is unique. International exchanges in
this area will contribute to mutual under-
standing between peoples, to the flourish-
ing of art and literature of each country,
and to world peace and human progress.
No doubt there should be active cul-
tural exchanges between China and the
United States following normalization.
Here I'm happy to inform you that the
Boston Symphony Orchestra, as the first
cultural exchange item since the estab-
lishment of diplomatic relations between
China and the United States, will visit
China in March.
We hope that more American musi-
cians, dancers, actors, and other artists will
come to China on performing tours. We,
on our part, will send more Chinese artists
here to perform for the American people.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:35 p.m. in
the Opera House. The Vice Premier spoke in
Chinese, and his remarks were translated by
an interpreter.
The program, entitled "An Evening for the
Performance of American Arts," was broad-
cast live on television.
195
