Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
you will feel, following this meeting, that
a new avenue has been opened for con-
sultation, advice, criticisms, and the mu-
tual sharing of the opportunity to make
our great Nation even greater in the
future.
Together I believe we will succeed in
opening up new vistas, new realms of
success in your own business commit-
ments, your own life interests, and also
to make government in our country more
enlightened, more wise, more influenced
directly from those who benefit from its
proper decisions.
Sometimes they've suffered in the past
from its improper decisions. But in my
judgment, this ease of communication
and sharing of experiences and hopes can
be a powerful force in strengthening our
country in many different ways.
I can tell you accurately that the
longer I'm here in the White House as
President, the more I cherish my years as
a small businessman. [Laughter] One of
the main reasons I'm interested in the
White House conference is that it'll give
you an opportunity to help me do a better
job for you as President.
Thank you very much for your friend-
ship and coming here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:45 p.m. at
the ceremony in the East Room at the White
House. Prior to his remarks, Vice President
Walter F. Mondale administered the oath of
office to the 11 members of the Commission.
Energy Conservation
Contingency Plans
Message to the Congress Transmitting Three
Plans. March 1, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Section 201 of the
Energy Policy and Conservation Act
(EPCA), 42 U.S.C. 6261, I am hereby
transmitting to the Congress for its ap-
proval the following three energy conser-
vation contingency plans: Emergency
Weekend Gasoline Sales Restrictions,
Emergency Building Temperature Re-
strictions and Advertising Lighting Re-
strictions. I have also today directed the
Secretary of Energy to publish these con-
servation plans in the FEDERAL REGISTER,
as the final step in my prescribing these
plans as required by Sections 202 and 523
of the EPCA.
The plans which I am transmitting are
the product of extensive plan develop-
ment and refinement. They can be effec-
tive tools in reducing consumption of
energy in the event of a severe energy sup-
ply emergency. Work on the development
of contingency plans is continuing and
any additional measures will be trans-
mitted for approval pursuant to Section
201 of the EPCA upon their completion.
Together with the Standby Gasoline
Rationing Plan which I am also trans-
mitting to the Congress today under sepa-
rate letter, these energy conservation con-
tingency plans could help mitigate the
effects upon the United States of a severe
energy supply interruption. These meas-
ures, along with voluntary conservation
efforts and other measures contained in
existing legislation and the Department
of Energy's present contingency pro-
grams, will provide the government with
several options to deal with energy emer-
gencies of varying types and degrees of
severity. Such flexibility is essential if we
are to prevent unnecessary hardship to
our citizens and harm to our economy in
the event of future curtailments of our
energy supplies.
As required by Section 201 (f) of the
EPCA, each energy conservation contin-
gency plan is accompanied by an analysis
370
