Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
coordinate the participants' regulatory
activities and research programs. Third,
the regulatory agencies and the environ-
mental health research agencies have
joined in the new National Toxicology
Program to set priorities for the testing
and evaluation of toxic chemicals.
To ensure that we make effective use
of science and technology in the regula-
tory process, I am asking the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology
Policy to give this issue personal atten-
tion in the coming year. He is to work
with the heads of agencies, the Chairman
of the Regulatory Council, and others to
identify gaps in research programs, seek
ways for research and development agen-
cies to work with regulatory agencies, and
develop procedures for proper use of sci-
entific and technological data.
EXPANDING THE BENEFICIAL USE OF SPACE
Two decades ago mankind entered the
space age. In that short time we have wit-
nessed remarkable accomplishments—evi-
dence of this country's progress in science
and technology. Americans have explored
the moon. Space probes are examining
the planets of our solar system, as recently
highlighted by the historic encounter of
the Voyager I spacecraft with Jupiter.
Satellites are indispensable components of
our communications networks, weather
forecasts and international security
systems.
With the advent of the Space Shuttle,
we are entering a new era. The Space
Shuttle our national space transporta-
tion system for the coming decades-will
increase the flexibility of space operations,
reduce costs, improve national security,
and make possible new cooperative activi-
ties with other nations. To meet the chal-
lenges ahead, I have established a Na-
tional Space Policy that sets the direction
of our space activities over the coming
years. We will emphasize applications not
only by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, but also by other
Federal agencies, foreign governments,
and the private sector. The policy stresses
the use of space technologies to meet hu-
man needs here on earth. The new tech-
nologies of the space age can further revo-
lutionize our communication and possibly
can provide new energy supply. They can
improve our ability to manage wisely our
renewable and nonrenewable resources,
and monitor our environment. Assessment
and forecasting of crop conditions and
yields, and extension of communications
to remote areas are examples. I am com-
mitted to the continuity of remote sensing
data over the coming decade and I expect
to propose additional initiatives in remote
sensing of the earth's ocean, land re-
sources, and environment in future years.
My space policy also encourages con-
tinued scientific investigation of the uni-
verse. We will conduct a vigorous pro-
gram of exploration to understand the
origin and evolution of the solar system.
The space telescope-to be launched and
serviced by the Space Shuttle-and free-
flying satellites will usher in a new era of
astronomy. From the clear environment
of space, these new eyes will allow us to
explore the distant galaxies and other as-
tronomical phenomena-quasars, pulsars,
and black holes. They will vastly expand
our knowledge and understanding of the
universe.
It is important that we maintain our
world leadership in space. My policy is
designed to encourage further advances
in our use and exploration of space. We
will provide adequate resources to main-
tain that leadership.
536
