Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
This Nation has made a concerted effort
to provide for those in our society who are
in need. We have assisted the poor to
acquire the basic necessities of life. We
have taken steps to assure adequate in-
comes and medical care for the elderly.
And we have helped to assure better
health care, nutrition, and education for
the
young. My budget for 1980 continues
to respond to the challenge that poverty
sets before our Nation.
Each of these challenges calls for action
by the government. In a period of infia-
tion, however, our ability to act is limited.
We cannot do everything, but we must do
what we can and do it well. That is the
framework within which I have con-
structed my budgetary program for 1979
and 1980. This budget provides a care-
fully balanced spending plan which will
ensure that the activities of the Federal
Government are well administered and
effective, and that we continue to respond
to the important needs of the country.
My 1980 budget provides important
building blocks for the future in many
areas:
• Health programs, which I have ex-
panded substantially during my first 2
years in office, will be maintained at those
levels and in some cases increased. In ad-
dition, consistent with the development of
a National Health Plan, new resources
have been provided for the Child Health
Assessment Program, which will extend
Medicaid benefits to over 2 million low-
income children. Funds have also been
provided for extending Medicaid cover-
age to 100,000 low-income pregnant
women not now eligible.
Authority for new spending for edu-
cation is maintained at the level that I
provided in my budget last year. This pro-
gram will support spending nearly 20 per-
cent greater, in real terms, than 2 years
ago.
Publicly assisted housing will be pro-
vided through subsidies for 325,000 new
units for families with low or moderate
incomes.
Job-related programs will include
funds that will support an average of 546,-
000 public service jobs, phasing down to
467,000 jobs by the end of 1980. These
jobs have been targeted more tightly to
serve the structurally unemployed. An-
other 424,000 training opportunities also
will be provided for the structurally un-
employed. Programs to provide employ-
ment and training opportunities for
youths remain a high priority. More pri-
vate sector job opportunities will be made
available through the new private sector
initiative and the targeted employment
tax credit.
• A welfare reform program, to take
effect in 1982, will expand aid to families
with dependent children, increase the
earned income tax credit for low-wage
workers, substantially improve employ-
ment opportunities for the Nation's need-
iest citizens, and provide fiscal relief to
State and local governments with severe
welfare burdens. Important reforms in the
administration of the program will make
America's welfare system easier to operate.
• Aid to our cities and counties will
continue to be provided through revenue
sharing, community development block
grants, urban mass transit assistance, and
urban development action grants. My
budget provides new resources for the
National Development Bank and requests
funding in fiscal 1979 and 1980 for a new
program of special fiscal assistance to
cities and counties with severe unemploy-
ment problems.
This spending program provides for our
Nation's vital needs, while remaining
117
