Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
No-Fault
The Administration will continue to
support legislation to establish Federal
minimum standards for state no-fault
automobile compensation systems. No-
fault systems have proven to be far more
efficient in delivering benefits to the vic-
tims of automobile accidents than the cur-
rent tort system, and they also provide
greater opportunities to coordinate and
reduce overall insurance costs. Too great
a percentage of the premiums paid by
policy-holders goes for the administration
of the current wasteful tort liability sys-
tem. No-fault would save money and
court-time. It deserves Congressional
support.
Consumer Representation
My Administration has developed new
procedures that will set standards and
assess performance for effective public
representation within government agen-
cies. These procedures are designed not
only to improve the delivery of govern-
ment services to our citizens, but also to
enhance the awareness of government to
the health, safety, and economic concerns
of all consumers. In 1979, we will direct
adequate resources to these procedures,
which include complaint handling, train-
ing and technical assistance for consumer
organizations, advocacy, consumer
education and information, and citizen
participation.
LEAA
Last year I proposed legislation which
would institute significant and long-over-
due changes in the structure and programs
of the Law Enforcement Assistance Ad-
ministration. The LEAA has the poten-
tial to improve and strengthen State and
local law criminal justice programs, but
in its present form it has fallen far short
of its potential. My Administration will
work with the Congress again this year
reform this framework, which includes a
National Institute of Justice to enable us
to obtain better information and research
about crime problems. Once the legisla-
tion is enacted, we will make certain that
the new agency is efficiently carrying out
its mission of providing meaningful Fed-
eral law enforcement assistance.
Judgeships
Last year my Administration worked
closely with the Congress to enact legisla-
tion creating the additional Federal judge-
ships needed to reduce our court's back-
logs and delays. As a result, I will soon be
nominating 152 new Federal judges—the
largest addition to the Federal judiciary
in our history. Some of these judges will
still be serving in the next century.
I am determined to nominate judges of
the highest quality; our Federal judiciary
must be selected on the basis of merit. I
am also determined to increase the low
representation on the Federal bench of
women, blacks, Hispanics, and other
minorities. These goals are within our
reach, if we work together cooperatively
and recognize the importance our
country places in the selection of these
new judges.
Judicial Reform
Because our Federal courts do not func-
tion as well as we have the right to expect,
my Administration has made judicial re-
form one of its goals. During 1978, Con-
gress took major steps toward alleviating
the problem by increasing substantially
the number of Federal judges and by
adopting numerous substantive and pro-
cedural reforms in the handling of bank-
ruptcy matters.
131
