Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
It is for all of these reasons that reduc-
ing inflation must now be the primary
concern of economic policy.
POLICIES TO CONTROL INFLATION
Firm, sustained and carefully applied
fiscal and monetary restraint must be the
first element in our effort to reduce infla-
tion. We have entered a period in which
the high rate of economic growth that we
experienced when the margin of unused
resources was larger no longer is appropri-
ate. We will apply the needed restraint
and stick with it.
We will not try to wring inflation out of
our economic system by pursuing policies
designed to bring about a recession. That
course of action would be unfair. It would
put the heaviest burden of fighting infla-
tion on those who can least afford to bear
it. It also would be ineffective. Twice in
the past decade inflation has accelerated
and a recession has followed, but each
recession brought only limited relief from
inflation. The underlying pressures behind
rising prices and costs continued to be
strong, and inflation eventually accele-
rated again when recovery began. Stop-
and-go policies do not work. A successful
anti-inflation program must be durable to
deal with a long-run inflation problem.
Our program meets that test.
When I announced my anti-inflation
initiatives last October, I pledged to pur-
sue a restrained budgetary policy in fiscal
year 1980. I have kept that pledge. The
central element of my fiscal program is
tight control over Federal spending:
• Growth in Federal spending will be
curtailed. As in 1979, Federal outlays in
the next fiscal year will increase in real
terms by significantly less than 1 percent.
• The share of the Nation's output
accounted for by Federal spending will be
reduced to about 21 percent in fiscal 1980,
a full year ahead of the schedule that I
had earlier announced.
Restricted growth in Federal spending,
combined with the revenues yielded by a
moderately growing economy, will reduce
1980, less than half its size in the
the budget deficit to $29 billion in fiscal
year be-
fore I took office. This course of fiscal
policy will exert the measured restraint
that is needed. Excessive demands upon
the Nation's resources will be avoided.
Growth in economic activity will slow to
a little below the rise in the Nation's
economic potential.
These measures of fiscal policy are
being complemented by firm and careful
monetary restraint on the part of the Fed-
eral Reserve Board. In this way, monetary
and fiscal policy are supporting each other
to combat inflationary pressures and
foster a healthy and stable economy.
OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ACTIONS
I am taking other steps to reduce the
inflationary effects of government actions.
I have directed the agencies of the execu-
tive branch to pay special attention to
ensuring that the regulations they issue do
not impose unnecessary burdens on the
public, and I shall continue the efforts
that got under way in 1978 to improve the
regulatory process.
Last year the deregulation of the airline
industry brought American consumers the
benefits of substantially lower prices and
better service. This year I intend to seek
congressional approval of legislation to in-
crease the role of competitive forces in the
trucking and railroad industries. I will
submit to the Congress legislation to re-
form the process by which regulations are
developed by Federal agencies, and to in-
crease the emphasis on a careful balanc-
ing of costs and benefits. And I am taking
steps to reduce the burden of paperwork
114
