Mar. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mother's Day, 1979
Proclamation 4646. March 16, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
For 65 years we have set aside a special
day to honor all American mothers and
acknowledge the important contribution
of mothers to the future of their children
and of our Nation.
The activities and aspirations of many
American women have changed dra-
matically in recent years. Whether or not
they combine employment outside the
home with their other responsibilities, the
fundamental commitment of mothers to
the welfare, development and future op-
portunities of their children remains as
strong as that of mothers in past
generations.
In this time when the family is sub-
jected to many new pressures, the job of
nurturing future generations is often both
more difficult and more important than
ever. Our children remain our major re-
source, and preserving the valuable aspects
of our heritage while working to build a
better world for the future is the duty of
all Americans.
Our Nation has made great progress in
providing educational opportunities,
health care and adequate nutrition for our
children, but we still have much to do to
make sure all our children are able to de-
velop their full potential. In addition to
these basic necessities, parents must pro-
vide the love and training that produces
the critical spiritual and social values as
well as the motivation and self-discipline
their children will need to live fruitful
lives.
Mother's Day affords us an opportunity
to express our thanks to our own mothers,
and to honor the devotion, dedication and
service of all mothers.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby request that Sunday, May 13,
1979, be observed as Mother's Day. I di-
rect Government officials to display the
flag of the United States on all Govern-
ment buildings. I urge all citizens to dis-
play the flag in appropriate ways as a
sign of their gratitude to the mothers of
America, and to seek ways to aid and sup-
port the important efforts of American
mothers to provide the kind of influences
and resources their children need to de-
velop into strong, honest, capable and
happy adults.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixteenth day of
March, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:24 p.m., March 16, 1979]
International Export Credit
Negotiations
Message to the Congress Reporting on
the Negotiations. March 16, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
as amended in November 1978 (Sec.
1908 (a) of Public Law 95-630) requested
me "to begin negotiations at the minis-
terial level with other major exporting
countries to end predatory export financ-
ing programs and other forms of export
subsidies, including mixed credits, in third
country markets as well as within the
United States." The legislation called for
438
