Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 27, 1979
National Academy of Sciences
Remarks at the Academy's Annual
Meeting. April 23, 1979
President Handler, distinguished mem-
bers of the National Academy of Sciences,
guests who are equally distinguished in
your own field of work:
I'm indeed pleased to be here. I know
that election to the National Academy is
the highest honor that can be paid to a
scientist or an engineer in the United
States, and I again congratulate all of
you.
I understand that in the Soviet Union,
when someone is chosen to their National
Academy of Sciences, his or her salary
immediately doubles [laughter]—and a
chauffered car is made available for use.
I understand there's a slight difference in
our own country. [Laughter] You im-
mediately get a bill for membership dues,
and you are pledged voluntarily to give
advice to your Government free of
charge. [Laughter] And I thank you for
that.
I am honored to address this distin-
guished convocation and to join with you
in commemorating the 100th anniversary
year of the birth of Albert Einstein.
The National Academy of Sciences was
already a thriving institution when Albert
Einstein was born. In 1942, soon after
taking out American citizenship, Dr.
Einstein was elected to this Academy, be-
coming at once its newest and, perhaps,
its most eminent member. His coming to
our country was a matter of carefully con-
sidered choice. In this respect, he was like
many thousands of scientists from all over
the world-drawn to this country by an
atmosphere of intellectual freedom, ad-
venture, and hospitality for the pursuit of
scientific truth.
That atmosphere has invigorated
American life from our Nation's begin-
nings. Scientists-statesmen such as Benja-
min Franklin and Thomas Jefferson were
among the authors of our own national
independence. Their influence helped to
establish the young American republic as
a place where scientific endeavor was not
only encouraged but was honored.
We've never deviated from that com-
mitment. And it's significant, I believe,
that the Congress and President Lincoln
chartered this National Academy of Sci-
ences at the height of our gravest national
crisis. In so doing, they demonstrated a
deep understanding of the importance of
science to the very survival of our Nation.
There is little that we can predict with
certainty. But we can be very sure that
whatever the future holds, we will be
better prepared for it if we pursue a
strong national program of support for
science and technology. That's why even
in this time of budgetary restraint, I have
remained firmly committed to such a pro-
gram.
Scientific enterprise will be a key to our
future strength, but we in this room can-
not take this for granted. In this cen-
677
