Feb. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
that are eligible for benefits of the GSP
when imported from all designated bene-
ficiary countries except those specified in
General Headnote 3 (c) (iii) of the
TSUS, is amended by substituting there-
for the new Annex III, attached hereto
and made a part hereof.
SEC. 4. General Headnote 3(c) (iii)
of the TSUS, listing articles that are eli-
gible for benefits of the GSP except when
imported from the beneficiary countries
listed opposite those articles, is amended
by substituting therefor the new Annex
IV, attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
SEC. 5. General Headnote 3(c)(i) of
the TSUS is modified-
(i) by adding, in alphabetical order, to
the list of independent designated bene-
ficiary developing countries for the pur-
poses of the Generalized System of Pref-
erences "Comoros", "Djibouti", and
"Seychelles"; and by deleting from the
list of non-independent designated ben-
eficiary developing countries and terri-
tories "Comoro Islands", "French Terri-
tory of the Afars and Issas", and "Sey-
chelles."
(ii) by deleting from the list of inde-
pendent designated beneficiary develop-
ing countries "Central African Republic",
"Congo (Brazzaville)", "Maldive Is-
lands", and "Republic of China", and by
substituting therefor, in alphabetical or-
der, "Central African Empire", "Congo",
"Maldives", and "Taiwan", respectively.
(iii) by deleting from the list of non-
independent designated beneficiary devel-
oping countries "Falkland Islands (Mal-
vinas) and Dependencies", "Pitcairn Is-
land", and "Spanish Sahara", and by sub-
stituting therefor, in alphabetical order,
"Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)",
"Pitcairn Islands", and "Western Sa-
hara", respectively.
(iv) by deleting from the list of non-
independent designated beneficiary devel-
oping countries "Portuguese Timor."
SEC. 6. The amendments made by this
Order shall be effective with respect to
articles that are both: (1) imported on or
after January 1, 1976, and (2) entered,
or withdrawn from warehouse, for con-
sumption on or after March 1, 1979.
SEC. 7. Effective March 1, 1980, Annex
II to Executive Order 11888, as amended,
is further amended by deleting item
652.97, TSUS.
The White House,
February 28, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:30 p.m., February 28, 1979]
The annexes are printed in the FED-
ERAL REGISTER of March 2, 1979.
Small Business Conference
Commission
Remarks at the Swearing In of the
Commission's Membership.
February 28, 1979
This is, by far, the best organized
group of small business leaders I've ever
seen. [Laughter] And my guess is that
after this, they won't be nearly so co-
operative with each other, or orderly—
I'm sure much more lively and com-
mitted to seeing beneficial change.
If there's one element of my own back-
ground as a human being that I value
and have observed carefully to be bene-
ficial to me as President, it has been my
career as a small businessman. When I
campaigned for President for 2 years, on
every possible occasion when I had the
opportunity to shake hands with em-
ployees in small and large plants, I always
made a point to go in and have a private
conversation with the owners, managers,
operators of the business, and also with
368
