Feb. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Madame Khunying Virat Chomanan are
visiting the United States officially during
the period February 4 to February 16,
1979. In addition to Washington, D.C.,
the Prime Minister and his party will also
extend his official travel to New York
City, Los Angeles and Honolulu.
The Prime Minister is accompanied by
Deputy Prime Minister Sunthorn Hon-
gladarom, Foreign Minister Upadit Pac-
hariyangkun, Minister of Interior General
Lek Naeomali, Minister of Communica-
tions General Surakij Mayalarp, Minister
Somporn Punyagupta, Minister of Indus-
try Kasame Chatikavanij and other senior
civilian and military officials of the Royal
Thai Government. In Washington, the
President and the Prime Minister met on
February 6. Participants on the United
States side included Vice President Mon-
dale, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, Sec-
retary of Defense Harold Brown, Assistant
to the President for National Security Af-
fairs Zbigniew Brzezinski and others.
The President's invitation to the Prime
Minister was extended last May by Vice
President Mondale during his visit to
Thailand and Southeast Asia.
PURPOSE AND SIGNIFICANCE
The President welcomed the Prime
peace, stability and economic growth in
Southeast Asia. ASEAN has the active
support of the U.S. as well as Japan,
Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the
EEC and other nations.
THE MEETINGS
The President reviewed the United
States role as an Asian and Pacific power
and noted recent developments, including
the normalization of United States rela-
tions with China and the new agreement
on U.S. bases in the Philippines, which
contribute constructively to the future of
the region.
The Prime Minister outlined his view
of current developments in Indochina and
the policies which the Thai Government
is pursuing to support a peaceful system of
independent states in the region, a goal
which the United States shares. He wel-
comed U.S. relations with China as a posi-
tive contribution. Both the Prime Minis-
ter and the President agreed on the
importance of an independent Cambodia
to regional stability.
The President stated that the United
States supports the integrity of Thailand
both in terms of the historic US-Thai
friendship as well as our interest in Thai-
land as a stable, secure and peaceful na-
Minister recognizing particularly the long tion in Southeast Asia with an important
and close relations between the U.S. and
Thailand. The two countries have had
diplomatic contact for nearly a century
and a half and the fabric of U.S. and Thai
relations has been particularly close for
over 30 years.
The visit enabled the two leaders to dis-
cuss directly recent events in Asia and
Southeast Asia and the efforts of the two
governments to pursue regional peace and
stability. The President was able to hear
first-hand views from one of the leaders of
ASEAN, a dynamic organization recog-
nized internationally as dedicated to
role in regional peace and cohesion. He
confirmed the continuing validity of U.S.
commitments in the Manila Pact.
The Prime Minister stressed that Thai-
land's policies are based on self-reliance
and independence. Foreign economic and
military assistance are important, but
must be complementary to Thailand's
own policies and efforts.
Within the context of an ongoing mili-
tary assistance program, the United States
will expedite items of military equipment
already ordered by Thailand and has in-
creased military credits (FMS) for FY
230
