May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
This name was given birth when my na-
tion was coming back to their beloved
coastal home after the ice had receded
from the land, and that is a long time ago.
We are now going to warm the name
upon your forehead as a stamp of our
legal adoption.
Nahoo-woo ah', Nahoo-woo ah,' Na-
hoo-woo ah'.
You are now my brother of the Raven
Beaver Clan and an honorary chief of
Angoon and of all Admiralty Island.
We have one more presentation.
CHIEF JOHNSON. There is a saying
that behind every great man stands a
woman. And we can't leave Mrs. Carter
out. So, we are presenting the President-
hopefully, he will present it to Mrs.
Carter a little token that was made by
my brother-in-law, the Chief of the Raven
Tribe. It's an eagle. You can't be married
to your own side, so we'll make Mrs. Car-
ter the Eagle Clan.
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine.
With my new name, Nahoo-woo, I
think it's appropriate for me to say Goo-
nalth-cheesh, which means, for those of
you who are not Native Americans-
[laughter] "Thank you very much."
This is indeed an honor for me. I feel
more at ease in the woods or in a field or
in a swamp or on a mountain or under-
neath a kayak on a beautiful mountain
stream than I do encapsulated in an ur-
ban society. And for me to meet these
distinguished Tlinget leaders and to have
them express to me their deep feelings,
historic feelings, paramount feelings
about the importance of the preservation
of the quality of life and the quality of the
land in the Alaska region is indeed an
honor for me.
As symbols of the Raven and the Eagle,
they've honored me and my wife by
letting us be part of their heritage. This
symbol of freedom of the spirit is indeed
also important to recognize.
We have many difficult decisions to
make in a modern, fast-changing, tech-
nological society, where quite often the
small and the isolated, the quiet person
or group is never heard, or heard too late,
after their own lives are destroyed-some-
times by well-meaning leaders who don't
have a comprehension of the significance
of preserving God's earth and God's
oceans the way they were created.
I'm deeply grateful for this honor, and
I want to express to the Tlinget tribe and
to others who are deeply committed to the
outdoors, to the heritage of our Nation,
my permanent commitment never to be-
tray their trust.
Thank you.
Ms. DOUGLAS. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
Mr. President, there are two more
groups represented on the platform. First
is the Alaska Coalition, under the lead-
ership of Mr. Clusen, who has worked
so hard in the vineyard out on the Hill
to get the legislation the way it is; and,
secondly, Americans for Alaska, which is
represented, in addition by me, to Am-
bassador Lodge, Larry Rockefeller, and
our person who will present you with an
award.
So, on behalf of these organizations,
and on behalf of the millions of people
that love our land, we would like to honor
you for your leadership in preserving the
great natural heritage of Alaska. Conser-
vationists feel that you have done more
than any President since President Teddy
Roosevelt to preserve our natural herit-
age, so we thought it very appropriate to-
day that Teddy Roosevelt give the Amer-
icans for Alaska Award to you, Mr.
President.
Teddy Roosevelt IV.
MR. ROOSEVELT. Mr. President, no
cause was closer to the heart of my great-
774
