Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 6
cation with which he pursued the greatest provide
good of all mankind.
He believed that it was the nature of
man to inquire thoroughly and endlessly.
In a lecture at Oxford he stated: "The
deeper we search, the more we find there
is to know, and as long as human life
exists, I believe it will always be so." And
he believed such search was worthwhile.
"The most incomprehensible thing about
the world is that it is comprehensible," he
said.
Einstein abhorred oppression. He fled
from it in his native land and found free-
dom and friendship in the United States.
His gentle nature led him toward pacifi-
cism, but he was at the same time deeply
committed to the defense of freedom and
rights of free people everywhere.
He sought and found order, under-
standing and beauty in the universe. He
gave his findings freely to all the world.
Our tallest tribute to him in this centen-
nial year of his birth is to reaffirm our
commitment to build vigorously on his en-
during legacy of scientific discovery and
social progress.
JIMMY CARTER
Intergovernmental Fiscal
Assistance
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. March 6, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Three years ago, at the lowest point of
our Nation's deepest recession since the
1930's, many urban and rural communi-
ties were experiencing severe fiscal distress.
The recession had weakened their revenue
bases at the same time that their unem-
ployment and service costs rose sharply.
In 1976, Congress enacted the Anti-
recession Fiscal Assistance program to
provide emergency fiscal assistance to
these distressed States and localities. When
I came into office, I strengthened this pro-
gram as part of
gram as part of my Economic Stimulus
Package. Since 1976, approximately $3
billion has been spent under this program,
which was effective in avoiding excessive
layoffs of essential employees, service re-
ductions and counterproductive tax in-
creases in many areas.
Fortunately, nearly four years of na-
tional economic recovery have produced
great progress in restoring the fiscal health
of most of these communities. However, a
number of communities still are experi-
encing severe fiscal problems and need
more time to recover. The unexpected and
abrupt termination of this program last
fall has threatened many of these locali-
ties with painful reductions in vital serv-
ices and with costly layoffs.
To assist these communities in regain-
ing their financial stability and to protect
State and local governments against un-
expected future downturns in the econ-
omy, I am hereby transmitting to Con-
gress the Intergovernmental Fiscal Assist-
ance Amendments of 1979. These amend-
ments outline a two-tier program, which
meets the fiscal needs of our Nation's com-
munities and which is consistent with the
overall austerity of my budget.
The targeted fiscal assistance portion of
this legislation (Title I), is designed only
for those local governments with signifi-
cant fiscal need-those urban and rural
communities with unemployment rates of
6.5 percent or more. I am requesting that
$250 million be spent in FY 1979 and $150
million in FY 1980 for this program.
These funds would be distributed only to
those local governments that face the
most serious economic and fiscal prob-
lems-1231 local governments in FY
391
