Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 20
Solar Energy
Message to the Congress. June 20, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
On Sun Day, May 3, 1978 we began a
national mobilization in our country to-
ward the time when our major sources of
energy will be derived from the sun. On
that day, I committed our Nation and
our government to developing an aggres-
sive policy to harness solar and renewable
sources of energy. I ordered a major gov-
ernment-wide review to determine how
best to marshal the tools of the govern-
ment to hasten the day when solar and
renewable sources of energy become our
primary energy resources. As a result of
that study, we are now able to set an
ambitious goal for the use of solar energy
and to make a long term commitment to
a society based largely on renewable
sources of energy.
In this Message I will outline the ma-
jor elements of a national solar strategy.
It relies not only on the Federal govern-
ment, both Executive and Congress, but
also on State and local governments, and
on private industry, entrepreneurs, and
inventors who have already given us sig-
nificant progress in the availability of
solar technologies. Ultimately, this strat-
egy depends on the strength of the Ameri-
can people's commitment to finding and
using substitutes for our diminishing sup-
plies of traditional fossil fuels.
Events of the last year-the more than
30% increase in the price of oil we import
and the supply shortage caused by the
interruption of oil production in Iran—
have made the task of developing a na-
tional solar strategy all the more urgent,
and all the more imperative.
More than ever before, we can see
clearly the dangers of continued excessive
reliance on oil for our long-term future
security. Our energy problem demands
that we act forcefully to diversify our
energy supplies, to make maximum use
of the resources we have, and to develop
alternatives to conventional fuels.
Past governmental policies to control
the prices of oil and natural gas at levels
below their real market value have im-
peded development and use of solar and
renewable resource alternatives. Both
price controls and direct subsidies that
the government has provided to various
existing energy technologies have made it
much more difficult for solar and renew-
able resource technologies to compete.
In April of this year I announced my
decision to begin the process of decon-
trolling domestic oil prices. Last Novem-
ber, I signed into law the Natural Gas
Policy Act which will bring the price of
that premium fuel to its true market level
over the next five years. Together, these
steps will provide much-needed incen-
tives to encourage maximum exploration
and production of our domestic resources.
They provide strong incentives to curb
waste of our precious energy resources.
Equally important, these steps will help
solar and renewable resource technologies
compete as the prices of oil and natural
gas begin to reflect their real market
value. Consumers will see more clearly
the benefits of investing in energy systems
for which fuel costs will not escalate each
year. Industry can plan and invest with
more certainty, knowing the market terms
under which their products will compete.
We must further strengthen America's
commitment to conservation. We must
learn to use energy more efficiently and
productively in our homes, our trans-
portation systems and our industries.
Sound conservation practices go hand in
hand with a strong solar and renewable
resource policy. For example, a well-
designed and well-insulated home is better
1097
