Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Federal courts. Too many cases
jamming the dockets in Federal courts in-
volve solely issues of State law that would
be more properly and more efficiently dis-
posed of in State courts. The historical
basis for permitting these claims to be
heard in Federal court-presumed preju-
dice towards citizens of one State in the
courts of another-no longer appears
valid. Moving these State law cases to
the State courts where they belong would
not create an undue burden on any State,
but would enable the Federal courts to
concentrate on serving the needs of those
whose disputes involve questions of Fed-
eral law. Under my proposal, diversity
jurisdiction would be abolished totally
and cases could be brought in Federal
court only where Federal law is involved.
The next component of our judicial re-
form package is a bill that would permit
the Supreme Court to exercise greater
control over its own docket. By eliminat-
ing the Supreme Court's mandatory juris-
diction, except for appeals in three-judge
cases, this proposal would do away with
the artificial and out-dated distinction be-
tween discretionary review and review of
right. The change would enable the Court
to focus its limited resources on the cases
and issues truly deserving of its attention.
This, in turn, would permit speedier clari-
fication of the law, to the benefit not only
of litigants in the lower courts but
also persons wishing to avoid legal
controversies.
The last of the proposals carried over
from the previous Congress is a bill to im-
prove the means available to the people of
the United States for resolving everyday
disputes, such as complaints by neighbors,
customers, tenants, and family members.
Everyday problems, small or large, if left
unsettled, can fester and grow. They can
lead to breakdowns in otherwise harmoni-
ous neighborhood relationships. They can
even lead to crime. This legislation, en-
titled the Dispute Resolution Act, would
provide Federal assistance to the States to
improve the institutions that deal with
these programs. The programs established
by this bill would promote improvements
in small claims courts and more wide-
spread use of Neighborhood Justice Cen-
ters, a new concept that the Department
of Justice is presently testing in Los An-
geles, Kansas City, and Atlanta. This leg-
islation would enable the Federal and
State governments to work in partnership
to improve the delivery of justice to all the
people of the United States. No additional
funding is being sought; existing funds in
the Law Enforcement Assistance Admin-
istration will be used to finance these
programs.
Passage of these five bills would be a
major step in eliminating excessive delays,
red tape, and exorbitant costs within the
civil justice system. These bills have been
discussed in the 95th Congress, and I hope
that after further careful examination
these bills will be enacted during the 96th
Congress. These measures are necessary if
we are to derive maximum benefit from
the newly authorized judgeships. We will
work for their enactment.
In addition to these bills, the Attorney
General will transmit to Congress addi-
tional proposals to improve the courts
which have been developed in consulta-
tion with Congressional leaders in this
area. These new measures would solve a
variety of problems relating to administra-
tion of the Federal judiciary, as well as
practice and procedure in the courts in
the following ways:
-Create a new intermediate Federal
appellate court on the same tier as the
existing courts of appeals. The new court,
which would be known as the "United
States Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit", would be formed by merging the
344
