Apr. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Disaster Emergency in Mississippi His spirit, courage, and humor enhanced
Telegram to Governor Cliff Finch.
April 19, 1979
Bill Simpson of my staff is finalizing a
report on the flood conditions in Missis-
sippi following his visit to Jackson.
The people of Mississippi have met this
disaster and the tragedy it has
wrought-with strength, resolve and
faith. My prayers are with them, and I
am confident that their spirit will prevail
over this unprecedented flood as it has
over previous natural disasters.
While I am concerned about the scope
of the flooding and the suffering inflicted
on our citizens, I am heartened to know
that an effective working partnership has
already been achieved among all levels
of government and the private sector to
relieve the situation.
This partnership, which reaches from
the White House through the Governor's
office into every county and community
involved in this catastrophe, insures we
will succeed in our efforts to rebuild
homes, businesses and livelihoods in every
afflicted area of the state.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the telegram was released
on April 20.
Death of Rogers C. B. Morton
Statement by the President. April 20, 1979
Americans who care about conserva-
tion and the environment have lost a
champion with the death of Rogers C. B.
Morton. He fought gallantly for the out-
doors he cherished. In Congress, in the
Cabinet, and in politics he was both an
ardent partisan and a perfect gentleman.
our public life and will be greatly missed.
NOTE: Mr. Morton served as Secretary of the
Interior during the Nixon administration and
as Secretary of Commerce during the Ford
administration. He had also been chairman
of the Republican National Committee and a
U. S. Representative from Maryland.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
April 14
The White House announced that the
President yesterday declared a major dis-
aster for the State of Oklahoma as a result
of severe storms and tornadoes, beginning
on April 10, which caused extensive pub-
lic and private property damage.
The White House announced that the
President yesterday amended his April
11 declaration of a major disaster for
the State of Arkansas to provide Fed-
eral assistance also for damage inflicted
by severe storms and tornadoes occurring
after April 8, but a part of the same
weather system.
The President declared an emergency
for the State of Mississippi because of the
impact of severe storms, tornadoes, and
flooding, beginning on or about April 11.
The President's action will permit the
donation of Government-owned mobile
homes to the State to provide tem-
porary housing for those families who lost
their homes.
674
