Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
chance to be the hosts for an inspiring
occasion like this one.
I notice there are a couple of words
that I would change if I were naming the
organization again. I think "national" is
really a little too narrow in scope. If there
ever was an event that has international
overtones, I would say it is this one, be-
cause distinguished black Americans have
not only been an inspiration to the people
of the United States of America, they
have set an example of leadership, dedi-
cation, courage, and achievement that's
an inspiration throughout the world.
And the word "aged" to me seems a
little inappropriate as I look around at
the list of the honorees today. Maybe if it
has to start with "a," maybe “ambi-
tious" [laughter] or maybe "aspiring"
or at least "ageless," because I can't
imagine anyone looking on Dr. Martin
Luther King, Sr., or Jesse Owens or Roy
Wilkins or Gus Hawkins and thinking
about the word "aged," because they
have shown us that there is no age limit
on achievement and inspiration and dedi-
cation. And every person who's being
honored here today is indeed a notable
citizen of our country whose own life's
events and accomplishments far exceed
their own circle of friends and personal
acquaintances.
I would like to introduce each person
individually who's being honored here to-
day. As you well know, each one is worthy
of a very extensive biographical descrip-
tion. But I'll just say a very few words
about each one, not doing anyone justice,
but letting them bask in the glory of the
fellowship which they enjoy, because as
they look around and see the others who
are being honored, that in itself is a great
honor indeed.
I'd like to begin my presentation with
a man who has joined me in the last 2
years, since I've been President, as a great
and distinguished leader of the Congress,
a man who's being honored today because
of his accomplishments in one of the most
aged professions, and that is politics, a
man who is a Democratic Congressman
from Los Angeles whose name has been
associated with notable achievements in
congressional history, who's been active
in California politics up until the time he
was elected to the Congress in 1962. He's
an original native of Louisiana, and I
would like to introduce to you one of
our distinguished honorees, Augustus
Hawkins.
Another very famous person who can't
be with us today, who is ill, has been
known by Americans of every race and
creed because of her achievements in the
field of literature. Ms. Margaret Walker
Alexander, prominent poet, novelist, na-
tive of Birmingham, Alabama, her poetry
includes: "Prophets for a New Day,"
"October Journey," and her very famous
novel, "Jubilee."
And I'd like to recognize her in her
absence and ask you to give her a round
of applause, even though she isn't here.
The next person I'd like to recognize is
Ms. Septima Poinsettia Clark, in the
field of human services. She's a promi-
nent educator.
Ms. Clark, just stay standing for a few
minutes. I just want to say a few more
words while you're standing. Let every-
body look at you. [Laughter]
She did her graduate work at Hampton
University. She taught in the Charleston,
South Carolina, schools, and she exempli-
fies, as do many of those who are being
honored today, a special courage that was
required when she spoke out so courage-
ously for the impetus in the early years of
the civil rights movement. Because she
was active in demanding civil rights for
her people, she lost her job and she also
lost her retirement pay. She's been active
318
