Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 30
ments on the West Bank. In light of the
enormous cost to the United States of im-
plementing the Egyptian-Israeli peace
treaty, isn't it reasonable to expect the Is-
raelis to cease from settlement policy
which violates international law? And sec-
ondly, why should the American people
pay for policies of the Israelis that under-
mine the peace process and run counter
to American foreign policy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the position of
the United States historically has been
consistent, and my own position on settle-
ments in the West Bank, Gaza area and
on the Golan Heights, and in the Sinai
have my position has been consistent.
The Israeli Government knows perfectly
well, after hours of discussion on this is-
sue, what my position is.
We do consider the creation of Israeli
settlements in these areas as being incon-
sistent with international law, and, as
I've said many times, they are an obstacle
to peace. Knowing that, the Israeli Gov-
ernment still on occasion authorizes new
settlements. They interpret the law dif-
ferently from myself.
I hope that the Israeli Government will
severely restrain any inclination, either
approved by the Knesset or done without
legal sanction, in establishing new settle-
ments. But there is a limit to what we can
do to impose our will on a sovereign
nation.
RHODESIA
Q. Mr. President, the administration
position on the Rhodesian election has
been, until now, that you are assessing
the situation. Can you tell us, though,
however, whether you personally are in-
clined to lifting sanctions against Rhode-
sia, recognizing the new government
there, and if you do do that, what impact
do you think that will have on your Africa
policy? Won't it cause you severe trou-
bles for what you've been trying to do on
that continent?
THE PRESIDENT. I am constrained by
the law to wait until after the new gov-
ernment is established before I make a
decision on whether or not the recent
elections have been adequate in my judg-
ment to lift the sanctions. And we are now
going through a very careful process of
assessing the conduct of the elections
themselves and also the consequences of
the election.
I'm not going to comment any further
on it than that, but I will say that we have
not varied our position that the Govern-
ment of Rhodesia ought to be established
through democratic principles, the elec-
tion should be held with all parties will-
ing to vote or run for office being
permitted to do so, and that this should
be based on the one-person-one-vote
principle.
We have worked in consonance with
most other Western nations-all, so far
as I know—and closely with the British,
who have a legal responsibility for Rho-
desia. We have kept the United Nations
informed, and I think that our position is
a proper one. But after the new govern-
ment is installed in office, at that time I
will make a judgment under the Case-
Javits amendment and decide whether
or not I think the elections were enough
progress toward those principles that I've
just described to warrant the lifting of
sanctions. I cannot make that judgment
at this time.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-eighth news
conference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
755
