June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
by the trucking industry, and the outcome
remains uncertain.
The bill I propose permits contract car-
riers to hold common carrier authority,
and states that the ICC may not limit the
number of shippers that a contract carrier
may serve.
FREIGHT FORWARDERS
Freight forwarders are regulated com-
panies who consolidate small shipments,
pay a common carrier (railroad, motor
carrier or airline) to transport the ship-
ments to the forwarder's terminal in an-
other area, and then deliver the ship-
ments to their ultimate destination.
The bill removes unnecessary restric-
tions on freight forwarders. Freight for-
warders will be permitted to negotiate
rates and enter into contracts with rail
and motor carriers. The removal of these
restrictions will enable freight forwarders
to compete more effectively, and will
afford shippers of small shipments a
greater variety of price and service
options.
RATES AND RATE BUREAUS
Collective ratemaking, commonly
commonly
known as price-fixing, is normally a
felony, punishable by fines up to $100,000
and three years imprisonment for individ-
uals, and up to $1 million for corpora-
tions.
Since 1948, however, the regulated
trucking industry has enjoyed a special
exemption from the antitrust laws. This
immunity allows trucking companies to
meet in secret and decide the prices they
will charge for truck transportation. Al-
though rate agreements are theoretically
subject to ICC review, the ICC has been
inclined to rubber stamp rate agreements
rather than subject them to an independ-
ent and thorough review. This lack of
effective oversight is due in part to the
sheer volume of processing, some 5,000
pages of rate tariffs are filed before the
ICC each day.
Legalized price-fixing and the lack of
rate flexibility have cost consumers bil-
lions of dollars in higher prices. There is
considerable evidence that rates are sig-
nificantly higher today than they would
be if set by the competitive marketplace.
-The Director of the Council on
Wage and Price Stability has stated that
consumers pay some $5 billion a year in
extra costs because of the current regula-
tory system.
-Rates for the transportation of ex-
empt agricultural commodities are lower
than they would be under regulation. A
representative of the American Farm Bu-
reau Federation has estimated that:
if agriculture had been saddled
with a totally regulated motor carrier and
barge transportation system for the past
35 years, the cost of transportation, which
now accounts for nearly 10% of the na-
tion's food bill, would be a third greater."
-In the mid-1950's, fresh and frozen
dressed poultry and frozen fruits and
vegetables were declared exempt from
ICC regulation. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates that as a result of
deregulation, trucking rates dropped sub-
stantially for those commodities.
-A recent study concludes that un-
regulated household mover rates within
Maryland are 27-87% lower than rates
for comparable interstate shipments.
-The trucking industry is highly
profitable. Last year the largest eight
trucking companies earned an average re-
turn on equity of 28.8%. These returns
far exceed the average 14% return on
equity earned by, unregulated manufac-
turing companies, as well as the return on
equity for the top firms in any other ma-
jor industry.
1122
