Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 11
there can be no doubt. And I feel abso-
lutely certain, after my experience of the
past 3 days, that the people of Egypt fully
share that desire for peace.
During the last 3 days I have spent
many hours discussing with President
Sadat what could be the final details of a
treaty of peace in the context of compre-
hensive peace for the whole region. Prime
Minister Begin and I will soon begin dis-
cussing the same details with the same end
in mind—to seek in the present situation
the means and the will to take this next
crucial step toward a just and lasting
peace for the Middle East.
is a sacred task. In the words of the Mid-
rash, "Peace is important, for God's name
is Shalom." Let us have shalom. Let us
make peace together.
NOTE: The exchange began at 8:15 p.m. at
Ben Gurion International Airport.
Following his remarks, the President went
by motorcade with Prime Minister Menahem
Begin to the entrance to the city of Jerusalem,
where he participated in a welcoming ceremony
at the site of a monument to those who died in
the 1948 Israeli war for independence. He was
greeted by Mayor Teddy Kollek at the cere-
mony.
Later in the evening, the President and Mrs.
Carter had dinner with Prime Minister and
Mrs. Begin at the Begin residence. Following
the dinner, the President and the Prime Minis-
ter met privately, and then the President went
to the King David Hotel, where he stayed dur-
ing his visit to Israel.
We have come a great distance to-
gether-perhaps a greater distance than
many would have dreamed of. Under the
strong and courageous leadership of Prime
Minister Begin, the Government of Israel
has been willing to make difficult deci-
sions, as your President has just said, all
along the way. I need not add that it Jerusalem, Israel
would be a tragedy to turn away from the
path of peace after having come so far.
I have good reason to hope that the
goal can now be reached. But, of course,
the ultimate choice lies where those
choices have always lain-with the chosen
representatives of the people who have
suffered directly from so many years of
destruction and bloodshed. I look forward
to completing the urgent business at hand
on this brief visit.
I bring with me the best wishes of the
American people and also the greetings of
President Sadat, whom I left no longer
than 1 hour ago, and the hopes for peace
of the entire world.
The task we are striving to accomplish
together demands more than reason, more,
even, than will. It demands faith. For in a
very real sense, the task of building peace
Remarks of the President and Prime Minister
Menahem Begin Following a Meeting.
March 11, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. This morning and this
afternoon I, the Secretary of State, Sec-
retary of Defense, National Security Ad-
viser, and others have met with the
Defense Council of the Government of
Israel and with the Prime Minister to
discuss the issues that still remain to be
resolved between Israel and Egypt.
It was a friendly meeting, a frank meet-
ing, a thorough meeting. We have not yet
reached a final agreement. Important is-
sues still remain to be resolved. All of us
are dedicated to continue with our best
efforts to reach success.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Thank you, Mr.
President.
417
