Feb. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
finance more and more new programs.
That's why our efforts to cut waste, to
eliminate fraud, and to end mismanage-
ment of public funds is so important.
We've reformed the civil service system
so that Government will deliver more and
better services for every dollar spent and
every employee hired.
in
I've now appointed Inspectors General
every major Federal agency to root out
fraud and to bring to justice those who are
responsible for it. We are already uncov-
ering abuses in agencies like the General
Services Administration. And I intend to
see these investigations of fraud and abuse
pursued aggressively, wherever they
lead-let the chips fall where they may.
The Federal Government has neither
the resources nor the wisdom to solve
every problem by itself. The States and
the localities and, most important, the
people must do their part.
This is the time for restraint. Expendi-
tures must be controlled. The deficit must
be reduced. The Federal Government
must set an example. But this kind of
restraint is difficult. It asks each of us to
serve the general good by accepting less
than we want in our own specific area.
I have sent to the Congress a budget
that's tight and fair. But as in every other
year, the inevitable pressures to spend just
a little more here or just a little more
there, for someone's pet project or for
someone's favorite interest group, have
already begun.
I'm determined to fight these pressures.
I'm determined to stand firm. I'm deter-
mined to use the full powers and resources
of my office to hold the line on the Federal
budget.
I was taught that as a senator and as
Governor by a great leader in this cham-
ber, former Chairman Sloppy Floyd.
In closing, let me say that to hold the
line, I need and I ask for the help of every
elected official and every American tax-
payer who shares my concern about waste
and inflation. I believe the people of this
country are ready to build a new founda-
tion for the 1980's, to regain control of
our economy and our destiny as a nation.
From our earliest days, students of
American democracy have warned that
our freedom and our prosperity might
tempt our citizens to get so caught up in
their own personal pursuit of happiness
and wealth that they would neglect the
public business.
The challenge for us today is to put
aside temporary gratifications for the sake
of the long-term public good. The job
will not be glamorous, and results will not
come quickly or easily and may not always
even be detectable. But I believe that we
will succeed. And when we have, the
monuments to our efforts will be a vital,
healthy economy-sustaining the needs
and hopes and dreams of all people. And
we will have, you and I, working together,
an even greater United States of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:48 a.m. in the
House Chamber of the State Capitol.
Atlanta, Georgia
Remarks at a Special Convocation of the
Georgia Institute of Technology.
February 20, 1979
Chairman Milton Jones, Chancellor
George Simpson, Dr. Joe Pettit, Mr. Kroll,
honored guests, fellow Tech students and
alumni, ladies and gentlemen:
I have always been proud that I at-
tended Georgia Tech, and I've always
been grateful for what I learned here.
I have attended as a full-time student
four different colleges in my life. Georgia
Tech is by far the most difficult-
300
