Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 11
ten briefings on other very important ele-
ments of government that apply directly
to you. But I don't look on senior citizens
as just being interested in things that
apply to you personally.
In effect, you come here as students,
and I know the tremendous benefit of
continued education programs. I'm un-
der the process of being educated every
day myself as President. And I hope that
you will set an example of how a senior
citizen's mind and heart can continue to
grow and to expand every day of life.
My mother is, obviously, that way.
She'll be 81 this summer and she's grow-
ing every day, and I know all of you are.
And I think this dynamic expression of
the ability of senior citizens, not only to
grow within yourself but to continue to
contribute just as greatly, perhaps some
of you contribute even more to a better
America now than you did when you were
administration officials, to come to the
White House to meet personally with the
President. That's an experience and a
privilege that many people don't have.
And so, you will be observed very care-
fully as you go back home, and as the
months and years go by as a special am-
bassador for the Government of the
United States of America. And so, in ef-
fect, you'll be partners with me and with
the Congress. And I have great apprecia-
tion for your contribution so far and even
greater appreciation for the tremendous
increased contribution that you'll make in
the future.
Thank you very much. God bless all
of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:38 a.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
full-time employees at a young, vigorous Meeting With President L. I.
age.
Now, in your older, vigorous age, I want
you to do the same thing. And I want
our Government to force us to recognize
that. But I also want you to be interested
in other things as well. SALT is impor-
tant. The security of our country, the con-
tribution to world peace is just as great a
responsibility on your shoulders as it is on
the shoulders of your sons and daughters
or your grandsons and granddaughters,
and as it is on mine. And I know that
your
own concept of responsibilities of our
Government has been greatly expanded
by your presence here.
The last thing I'd like to say is that
you will, in effect, be ambassadors in the
coming months and years, because those
around you in your own home communi-
ties and your own families will look upon
you as having had a special privilege to
come and meet with and serve with Mem-
bers of the Congress, to be briefed by top
Brezhnev of the Soviet Union
Announcement of the Forthcoming Meeting in
Vienna, Austria. May 11, 1979
By mutual agreement, the meeting of
the President of the United States, Jimmy
Carter, with the General Secretary of the
Central Committee of the Communist
Party of the Soviet Union and the Presi-
dent of the Presidium of the Supreme
Soviet of the U.S.S.R., Leonid Brezhnev,
will take place from June 15 to 18 in Vi-
enna, Austria.
The two leaders will confirm and sign
the treaty on the limitation of strategic
offensive arms, the work on which is now
being completed, and will discuss other
issues of mutual interest to the United
States and the Soviet Union.
NOTE: Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, read
the announcement at 10:45 a.m. to reporters
assembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
839
