Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
feller, who heads the President's Coal
Commission as its Chairman, to hold pub-
lic hearings within the next 60 days to
identify acceptable ways to hasten the sub-
stitution of coal for oil.
The Nation's energy policy has been
paralyzed for years over the question of
controls over domestic energy prices. I
have now cut the Gordian knot and put
that decision behind us. The question is
no longer whether or not we decontrol do-
mestic oil prices; Congress mandated an
end to controls effective September 1981.
And they will be phased out to avoid a
sudden inflationary shock in 1981, and
also phased out to provide incentives in
the immediate future for increased do-
mestic production of oil and gas.
The issue now is to make sure that the
necessary step is carried out in a way
which is effective, fair, and equitable.
What we must do now is to impose a
windfall profits tax on the excess, un-
earned profits of the oil producers and to
use these revenues to create an energy se-
curity fund to protect our Nation's energy
future.
This tax proposal will be sent to Con-
gress immediately after their return from
their Easter recess. And this fund will be
used for three critical needs: first, to help
low-income Americans meet the increased
cost of energy; second, to provide for a
better transportation system, particularly
mass transit; and third, greatly to expand
research and development of alternative
future sources of energy, with the same
scientific effort that put a man on the
Moon.
Even after all other taxes and royalties
are taken into account, the windfall
profits tax will still leave over $6 billion
of new dollars, over the next 3 years, to
plow back for domestic oil production
and for domestic oil exploration. But I
want to issue a warning. We have already
begun to hear a good deal of talk from
the oil companies about so-called plow-
backs. But what this talk covers up is that
this proposal, as it will be presented with
the windfall profits tax, already provides
$6 billion in increased revenue, after all
taxes and royalties, to the oil companies
over the next 3 years.
The Nation has a right to expect that
all of this new income will be used for
exploration for oil and gas and not to
buy timberlands and department stores.
In addition to this built-in plowback
for the oil companies to spend on do-
mestic production, we must also have the
windfall profits tax and the energy se-
curity fund it will finance. I'm com-
mitted to it; the country needs it; it's
already clear that the people demand it.
And I am also confident that we can get
it.
The American people are willing to
face the hard reality of the petroleum
problem. And they are willing to see oil
priced on a realistic basis. But they are
not, and I am not, willing to see their
sacrifices mocked by a wholly unjusti-
fied giveaway to the oil companies, par-
ticularly when the needs that would be
met by the energy security fund are so
urgent and pressing. That's why I am
making the passage of this tax and the es-
tablishment of the security fund for
energy one of my highest legislative
priorities.
Thank you, and I would be glad to
answer questions.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
QUESTIONS
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, you have already
mentioned that you've reached some very
difficult decisions on energy policy. Don't
you at this point face, perhaps, equally
painful decisions on inflation?
649
