Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
under the National Environmental Policy
Act which will help all Federal agencies
make well-informed, environmentally
sound decisions, with a minimum of
paperwork and delay. I asked for new
regulations which would improve the
government's ability to assess the effects of
its actions and encourage the preparation
of concise, analytic environmental impact
statements. After public hearings and a
thorough review by other Federal agen-
cies, the Council drafted regulations to
achieve these goals.
I am pleased that the United States
has pioneered laws to protect our air,
water and land. I believe our leadership
has proved its worth. Since the National
Environmental Protection Act (NEPA)
was passed, at least 25 States have
adopted "little NEPAs" patterned after
the Federal model, 16 other nations have
adopted some form of environmental im-
pact review of governmental activities,
and more than 80 nations have incorpo-
rated into their governments a ministry
with environmental responsibility.
In the years ahead, let us continue our
fruitful collaboration and our leadership
in environmental protection.
The White House,
January 25, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Environmental
Quality: The Ninth Annual Report of the
Council on Environmental Quality-Decem-
ber 1978" (Government Printing Office, 599
pages).
The State of the Union
Annual Message to the Congress.
January 25, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
My State of the Union Address was
devoted to what I believe are the highest
priorities facing our Nation in 1979 as
we seek to build a new foundation at home
and abroad.
However, my Administration's time
and effort this year will also be focused
on a significant number of other im-
portant initiatives and goals. I am send-
ing this State of the Union Message so
that the Members of the 96th Congress
are presented with a full picture of my
basic legislative program in domestic and
foreign affairs for the year.
Over the past two years, my Adminis-
tration has developed a very cooperative
relationship with the Congress. That re-
lationship not only resulted in the extra-
ordinarily productive record of the 95th
Congress, but will provide the foundation
for a renewed sense of trust and confi-
dence by the American people in their
government.
We have an enviable record to match.
But with your help, the 96th Congress can
meet this challenge. My Administration
and I are eager to help in the effort.
Our basic goals will be to continue
working with you to build solid founda-
tions for the next century-a solid eco-
nomic foundation of stable prices and
continued growth-a solid foundation for
a more efficient, less intrusive Federal gov-
ernment a solid foundation for world
peace and American security.
FOUNDATION FOR PROGRESS
When I took office two years ago, the
country faced serious domestic problems:
⚫ the economy had not recovered from
a recession;
• unemployment was intolerably high
at 7.8%, with 734 million Americans out
of work;
⚫ the Nation had no sound energy
policy and oil imports were rising rapidly;
121
