Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
Minister Begin and was followed by Prime
Minister Begin's equally historic trip to
Ismailia.
Their vision and their courage stirred
hopes in the hearts of people throughout
the world.
The distance we've come since then is
little short of miraculous. There were diffi-
cult moments, many difficult moments;
times when the differences seemed impos-
sible to overcome. But at each of those
times, just a few simple realities sum-
moned us to renewed effort: first of all,
the knowledge that the people-the peo-
ple of Egypt and the people of Israel-no
matter what the leaders might have done,
deeply and passionately desired peace;
second, the awareness that the process
which we had initiated was the only prac-
tical route to progress; third, the obliga-
tion that was felt to those who have suf-
fered so much—to the young, to the old,
and to future generations; and I think
above all, the depth of our common faith
in a just and a merciful God.
peoples, proud of past heritage and pres-
ent achievements, and wise enough to
know that future well-being can be assured
only through cooperation and a very diffi-
cult element of mutual trust.
Tonight we commemorate not an end,
but a beginning, for a treaty between
Egypt and Israel is but the first step along
a long and a rough and a narrow and a
very difficult road.
We hope that the Palestinians and
others will soon join us in our efforts to
make this treaty the cornerstone of a com-
prehensive peace, a true and a lasting
peace, a just peace for the entire Middle
East. I welcome and invite those who have
so far held back-for whatever motive
they might honor—to join us in the future.
The way is long and the way is hard, but
peace is the way.
We share a vision of a time when all the
people of the Middle East may turn their
energies back to the works of life, when
young people can marry and start families
and have a hope of seeing and knowing
their own children's children, when the
These things sustained us, and they've old can end their lives quietly after wit-
brought us here tonight.
I would like to note here a simple fact:
that when others could not or would not
move to end the seemingly endless tragedy
of the Middle East, two men-President
Anwar Sadat and Prime Minister Mena-
hem Begin-dared to think the unthink-
able, dared to do what others feared could
not be done, dared to seize history in their
hands and to turn history toward peace.
And I am thankful to them both.
Theirs is the vision of the psalmist who
said: "Behold, how good and how pleas-
ant it is for brethren to dwell together in
unity!"
But this is an achievement not just of
leaders but of peoples, strong and creative
nessing many a gentle spring. We pray for
that time, and we shall continue to work
for that time.
This is a season of renewal, when the
Earth brings forth life. The Koran tells us
of a prophet and a king of Israel for whom
God's power "made the violent wind blow
tamely." The Old Testament tells us the
words of that same king, the words of
King Solomon, David's son: For every
thing there is a season, and a time to every
purpose under the heaven.
For centuries the people of Israel were
dispersed around the world, often de-
spised and persecuted. For centuries the
people of Egypt suffered under foreign
domination. Only in the past generation
523
