Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Portillo made a State visit to Washington,
D.C.-the first visit by a foreign Head of
State to the United States after the in-
auguration of President Carter.
Both Presidents reviewed the operation
of the U.S.-Mexican Consultative Mech-
anism, which was established during that
visit to examine issues facing the two
countries within the context of an overall
bilateral relationship. In this regard, they
decided to strengthen the mechanism and
provide it with more dynamism, cohesion
and flexibility for its more effective opera-
tion. To this end, they agreed that, in the
light of the guidelines spelled out in this
Joint Communique, concrete recom-
mendations would be made within a pe-
riod of four months on ways the mecha-
nism can more effectively solve problems,
taking into consideration the close rela-
tionship among these problems.
Upon reviewing the international scene
and the grave problems that affect world
peace, both Presidents reiterated their
confidence in the United Nations, con-
vinced that this institution is the best al-
ternative to achieve a peaceful world with
equity and justice. They also agreed that
all possible efforts should be made so that
the United Nations can achieve new dy-
namism. They expressed their willingness
to cooperate to this end within the Spe-
cial Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening
of the Role of the Organization. They also
expressed support for the important work
of the Organization of American States
and the need to strengthen and modernize
this regional organization.
They emphasized that a new interna-
tional system should be guided by accept-
ed principles of international conduct,
particularly the following: non-interven-
tion of the internal affairs of other States,
the prohibition of the use of threat or
force, respect for the self-determination of
peoples, the peaceful solution of conflicts,
and the sovereign right of each nation to
take full advantage of its natural re-
sources for the economic and social de-
velopment of its people.
Both Presidents expressed their agree-
ment that peace is more than just the ab-
sence of hostilities; peace also includes the
elimination of hunger, disease, illiteracy,
poverty, ignorance and injustice-tasks in
which all countries of the international
community share responsibility.
The Presidents examined the develop-
ment of their economies within a global
context. They agreed that major efforts
should be made to adjust and improve
the international economic system to take
into account the interests and concerns of
developing countries. They expressed their
concern over the world-wide problems of
inflation, unemployment, protectionism
and monetary and financial difficulties.
They recognized that it is important to
assure the adequate transfer of real re-
sources to developing countries and to pro-
mote stable economic and social develop-
ment throughout the world.
The Heads of State committed them-
selves to use their best efforts toward the
execution of the goals set by the Tenth
U.N. Special Session on Disarmament,
and, within this context, they also recog-
nized the importance of the Treaty for
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in
Latin America (the Treaty of Tlatelolco).
President López Portillo expressed his ap-
preciation to President Carter for having
signed Protocol I of the Treaty of Tlate-
lolco, and he also expressed his firm hopes
that it will be ratified soon. President Ló-
pez Portillo recognized the importance of
reaching an agreement on strategic arms
limitations as a solid base for further
agreements in this field.
The Presidents exchanged opinions on
the possible measures to limit the transfer
of conventional weapons, both at a world-
wide and regional level, and, in this con-
288
