Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Department of Education
Statement on Senate Action on the
Legislation. April 30, 1979
I applaud the Senate's vote in support
of a separate department of education.
This department will bring tighter man-
agement to more than 150 Federal pro-
grams. It will eliminate the bureaucratic
duplication necessitated by the current
organizational structure. It will cut red-
tape for States, local governments, and
others who deal with Federal education
programs. It will make one Cabinet offi-
cial responsible full-time for the effective,
economical management of programs
which cost the American taxpayer $13
billion annually.
Today's Senate vote confirms the in-
adequacy of the existing administrative
structure. I would like to thank Senators
Ribicoff and Byrd for giving this very im-
portant legislation the priority it deserves.
I hope the House will move quickly to
ensure that Federal education programs
receive the full-time management atten-
tion and accountability that they clearly
require.
United States Sinai Support
Mission
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. May 1, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit herewith the
Seventh Report of the United States Sinai
Support Mission. It covers the Mission's
activities during the sixth-month period
ending April 1, 1979 in fulfillment of obli-
gations assumed by the United States un-
der the Basic Agreement signed by Egypt
and Israel on September 4, 1975. This
Report is provided to the Congress in
conformity with Section 4 of Public Law
94-110 of October 13, 1975.
The Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty
signed in Washington on March 26, 1979,
which supersedes the 1975 Basic Agree-
ment, calls for the United States to con-
tinue its monitoring responsibilities in the
Sinai until Israeli armed forces withdraw
from areas east of the Giddi and Mitla
Passes. This withdrawal is to be completed
within nine months from the date of the
exchange of instruments of ratification.
In the meantime, the United States will
continue to discharge its responsibilities
in the Sinai in the same objective and
balanced manner that has characterized
the operations of the Mission since its in-
ception in early 1976.
This year, funding of the Sinai Support
Mission is authorized under Chapter 6,
Part II of the Foreign Assistance Act,
"Peacekeeping Operations". Careful con-
trol over program costs is expected to re-
duce expenditures by at least $500,000
below the amount appropriated for Fiscal
Year 1979.
The Mission will be closed sometime
next year, thus completing a successful
U.S. initiative begun over three years ago.
All Americans may be justly proud of the
U.S. contribution to peacekeeping in the
Sinai, and I know the Congress will con-
tinue its support of the Mission until the
end of this important phase in the search
for peace in the Middle East.
The White House,
May 1, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to the
Congress SSM: United States Sinai Support
Mission" (20 pages plus annexes).
756
