Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 31
derstanding on Cooperation in Space
Technology reached in Washington in De-
cember 1978.
If the Government of the People's Re-
public of China confirms this understand-
ing and the texts of the understandings
annexed hereto, this letter and the letter
of confirmation of the People's Republic
of China will constitute an agreement re-
lating to these fields between our two
governments.
Sincerely,
FRANK PRESS
Director, Office of Science
and Technology Policy
[His Excellency Fang Yi, Minister in Charge,
The State Scientific and Technological Com-
mission, Beijing]
UNDERSTANDING ON THE EXCHANGE OF
STUDENTS AND SCHOLARS BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
THE PEOPLe's RepubliC OF CHINA
An understanding on educational ex-
changes between the United States and
China was reached in Washington, D.C.
in October 1978 during discussions be-
tween the Chinese education delegation
headed by Dr. Chou Pei-yuan, Acting
Chairman of the PRC Science and Tech-
nology Association, and the U.S. edu-
cation delegation headed by Dr. Richard
C. Atkinson, Director of the National Sci-
ence Foundation, as follows:
1. Both sides agreed they would pursue
a program of educational exchange in ac-
cordance with and in implementation of
the spirit of the Shanghai Communique;
2. There will be a two-way scientific
and scholarly exchange which will pro-
vide mutual benefit to both countries;
3. The exchanges will include students,
graduate students and visiting scholars for
programs of research and study in each
country;
4. The two sides exchanged lists of
fields in which its students and scholars
are interested and lists of institutions
where they wish to work. Each side will
use its best efforts to fulfill the requests of
the other for study and research oppor-
tunities. Each side will expeditiously grant
visas for such exchanges in accordance
with its laws and regulations;
5. The sending side will pay the costs
associated with its participants;
of
6. Both sides may take full advantage
any scholarships which may be offered;
7. Each side will be responsible for the
implementation of the program in its
territory, including responsibility for pro-
viding advice to the other side and rele-
vant information and materials about the
universities and research institutions con-
cerned;
8. The two sides agreed that the stu-
dents and scholars sent by both sides
should observe the laws and regulations
and respect the customs of the receiving
country;
9. The Chinese side indicated it wishes
to send a total of 500 to 700 students and
scholars in the academic year 1978-1979.
The United States side indicated it wishes
to send 10 students in its national program
in January 1979 and 50 students in its
national program by September 1979 as
well as such other numbers as the Chinese
side is able to receive. Both sides agree
to use their best efforts to implement such
programs;
10. To set each year the number of
students and scholars to be exchanged and
to discuss the progress of the program of
exchanges, the two sides will meet when
necessary. Consultations on important
matters may also be held by the govern-
ments of the two countries. In addition,
both sides will encourage direct contacts
between the universities, research institu-
tions, and scholars of their respective
countries;
11. Both sides believe that the discus-
sions mark a good beginning and have
203
