Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 11
established by the treaties would develop
satisfactorily, to the benefit of both coun-
tries, and pledged their best efforts to en-
sure that both nations carry out the trea-
ties, faithfully respecting both their letter
and spirit.
The President took note of the historic
significance of the treaties and their im-
portance, not only for the signatories but
also for the entire international commu-
nity, as an example of how large and
small nations can reconcile their inter-
ests, to their mutual benefit, through un-
derstanding, cooperation, and respect for
the national identity and dignity of each.
President Carter expressed interest in
the favorable prospects for the social and
economic development of Panama and
the increased private investment that will
result from the implementation of the
treaties.
The two Presidents also discussed vari-
ous regional and international issues.
They reviewed the situation of human
rights in the hemisphere and deplored the
continuing violence in Central America
that causes unnecessary bloodshed and re-
sults in deprivation and suffering for the
people of that region. President Royo ex-
pressed the satisfaction of his government
with the conclusion of the peace treaty
between Egypt and Israel.
The two Presidents agreed that democ-
racy and human dignity are inseparable
and that the possibilities for the balanced
development of free peoples are infinite.
Panama and the United States of America
symbolize, in their new relationship estab-
lished through the Canal Treaties, what
free men, working together, can accom-
plish.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased the following announcement.
The President met with President Aristides
Royo today at 11 a.m. in the Cabinet
Room. Those attending the meeting were:
United States participants
THE PRESIDENT
SECRETARY OF STATE CYRUS VANCE
DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE WARREN
CHRISTOPHER
SECRETARY OF THE ARMY CLIFFORD ALEX-
ANDER
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE VIRON P.
VAKY
AMBASSADOR AMBLER MOSs, U.S. Ambas-
sador to Panama
MR. ROBERT PASTOR, National Security
Council staff member
Panama participants
PRESIDENT ARISTIDES ROYO
FOREIGN MINISTER CARLOS OZORES
AMBASSADOR GABRIEL LEWIS, Director, Pan-
ama Canal Authority
AMBASSADOR ALFREDO LOPEZ, Panama Am-
bassador to the United States
Death of Cyrus Eaton
Statement by the President. May 10, 1979
With the death of Cyrus Eaton, Amer-
ica has lost both a leading industrialist
and an enthusiastic advocate of world
peace. As a businessman, Mr. Eaton
helped make the Midwest a center of fi-
nance. As a private citizen, he helped be-
gin the process of change that led to
détente between the United States and
the Soviet Union. The Nation honors his
memory and the many contributions he
made.
House-Senate Bipartisan Senior
Citizen Intern Program
Remarks to Participants in the Program.
May 11, 1979
I had a report this morning from the
White House escort group, or the guides,
that this was the most vigorous and dy-
837
