Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
addition to what we've advocated to be
changed.
In the long run, we have got to make
sure that within the limited social security
funding, which is derived from those who
are working now, that the allocation of
funds goes to those who need it most, who
don't have any other way to derive bene-
fits. And with a limited amount of money,
it's imperative that the system be efficient
and that benefits go where they are most
needed.
This is not a politically popular pro-
posal. I understand that. But I believe
that those reform proposals ought to be
implemented. They will be assessed by the
Social Security Advisory Committees.
They will be assessed thoroughly by the
Congress. And if they stand those tests,
combined with testimony, then they'll be
implemented.
I might say that there's an additional
factor concerned with disability pay-
ments, aside from social security. I think
they are much more needed and much
less controversial. But the entire package
is designed to have a better social security
structure.
I might add one other thing, that in the
year of a very stringent budget, that is,
1980 fiscal year budget, we have a 12-per-
cent increase in allocation of funds for
the elderly in this country. So, we have
not in any way overlooked the genuine
needs of elderly or retired people in this
Nation.
Q. But a key issue is that these benefits
are now an entitlement under payroll
taxes under social security. Are you going
to turn these into welfare programs, when
you say "go to the neediest people"?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We're not turn-
ing them into welfare programs at all. I
think I've already answered the question
adequately by saying that these are one-
half of 1 percent of the total benefits.
They are well-advised reforms. They
comprise reforms that need to be done in
any instance, and they cover benefits that
can be derived from some other source.
And we have to have an efficient alloca-
tion of funds. It's the best answer I can
give you.
VISIT OF VICE PREMIER DENG
Q. Mr. President, Vice Premier Deng
arrives in this country on Sunday. And,
of course, his major purpose is to get to
know this country a little bit better and
so that you can have more of an op-
portunity to discuss a variety of issues. But
I wonder if you're shooting for a con-
clusion of any diplomatic agreements or
trade agreements with him, as well as
the other things that I've mentioned?
THE PRESIDENT. There are some out-
standing ancient claims filed on the part
of China against our country and vice
versa. We hope to lay the groundwork for
the resolution of that difference. We
would like to prepare for the future visits
to China of some of our key Cabinet of-
ficers concerning trade and commerce.
Secretary Blumenthal, Secretary Kreps
will be going there within the next few
weeks. We hope to conclude an aviation
agreement with them to provide better
transportation to and from our countries.
We hope to conclude, in addition, agree-
ments that would encompass technology,
scientific exchanges. These are the kinds
of bilateral agreements that we will ex-
plore.
Perhaps some of them can be resolved
while Vice Premier Deng is here. Most
of them, I think, would be concluded
later on with more detailed technical dis-
cussions when an actual legal document
can be drafted for signature. But we'll
have a very broad agenda of items to be
discussed with China. Those are some
illustrative examples of the kind of bilat-
eral agreements that will be discussed.
174
