Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 21
THE PRESIDENT. I agree to some extent.
Let me give it to you from my perspective.
I have tried to restrain the growth in
total Federal employment, but I've tried
to do it in such a way as to eliminate ex-
cessive employees, when a normal attri-
tion takes place in areas where they're
not needed. In order to save time, just let
me give you two quick examples.
Within the last 2 or 3 weeks, we've had
two Ambassadors retire: one in Switzer-
land, one in Egypt. The one in Switzer-
land is a noncareer officer who's a top
businessman, very successful. The other
one is a career officer, Hermann Eilts, who
has served in the Mideast for 30 years.
Both of them, when I asked them on re-
tirement, "What is your major suggestion
for improvement in the ambassadorial
service?" they said, "We have entirely too
many people in the foreign embassies of
our country, in Egypt and in Switzerland.
We could do a much better job if we had
half as many people."
So, I have already contacted the Secre-
tary of State and the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and we're going to send
a small team around to visit a representa-
tive number of embassies in foreign capi-
tals. And if we can see there that we can
do a better job with fewer people, that
will be great. And then if we save 200
employees or 2,000 employees, if we can
increase the number of agricultural ex-
perts who sell American grain over-
seas-
MR. MULHERN. Amen. Amen!
THE PRESIDENT.
change, right? [Laughter]
excessive employees where they are not
needed.
MR. MULHERN. If the evaluation shows
that it's excess, I think everybody is in
agreement.
THE PRESIDENT. That's what we are
trying to do.
MR. MULHERN. It's when the evalua-
tion is not even made and the decisions
are made, that's when we protest.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't deny that some-
times we make a mistake, and sometimes
the impositions are arbitrary. But I have
really tried to look at it personally.
Obviously, I have to take the recommen-
dations of the head of your agencies and
also of the Office of Management and
Budget, but I get involved in it personally
and try to make the best judgment I can.
MR. MULHERN. I don't want to mo-
nopolize the time here.
MR. CAMPBELL. Since the President is
allotted only a certain amount of time, we
ought to at least get one question from one
of the women.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I'd like that.
[Laughter]
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE
Ms. GIBSON. Well, Mr. President, I
feel that many Federal employees are con-
cerned about health insurance, health
benefits. Specifically, will the new health
insurance plan contain a clause to cover
dentistry? The high cost of dentistry is not
covered in most health insurances that we
that's a good have in government. Has any provision
MR. MULHERN. That's right.
THE PRESIDENT. That's the kind of
thing we're trying to do. But we have not
cut down overall levels of employment.
We have tried to maintain them constant.
But we've tried to focus the need and fill
those needs, and we've tried to eliminate
been made for that?
MR. CAMPBELL. Should I respond to
that, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I'd better let
Alan respond. [Laughter] Please do.
MR. CAMPBELL. Yes. We are working
with the carriers now about the possibility
of including dental coverage in health
925
