June 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The reforms I am proposing today are
based on the principle that comparability
is the best long-term policy for deter-
mining compensation for Federal em-
ployees. It is not expected that any em-
ployee will suffer any actual reduction in
current pay as a result of these proposals.
However, in the long-run this legislation
will create significant annual budget sav-
ings.
I ask the Congress to act promptly on
these proposals to reform the Federal
civilian compensation system. Federal
employees will benefit from fairer compen-
sation treatment. The American people
will benefit from more efficient use of their
tax dollars.
The White House,
June 6, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Meeting With Chancellor
Helmut Schmidt of the Federal
Republic of Germany
Remarks to Reporters Following the Meeting.
June 6, 1979
The President. The Chancellor and I
have had a very productive discussion of
many items of importance to the Federal
Republic of Germany and to the United
States of America.
We discussed our plans for the eco-
nomic summit conference in Tokyo, to be
held the last part of this month. We spent,
I would say, more of our time on the
energy question than any other single is-
sue, because it has become of crucial im-
portance to our countries and to the entire
world. We recognize the importance of
our acting in concert to the extent that our
own national interests permit.
We discussed the upcoming summit
conference in Vienna between myself and
President Brezhnev of the Soviet Union.
As has been my custom ever since I've
been in office, I sought the advice and
counsel of Chancellor Schmidt. We rec-
ognize that our countries share a great
responsibility as members of NATO, and
we discussed how upcoming discussions
on SALT III and theater-type weapons
might be addressed after SALT II is con-
cluded and ratified.
We had a general discussion about
other regional areas of the world-
southern Africa, Mideast, Persian Gulf
area and general relationships between
our two countries and matters of mutual
interest.
It's always a great honor for us to have
the leader of Germany come here and
consult on matters that are important,
and we, I think, without question, con-
sider these discussions both fruitful and
they are held in a spirit of great frankness
and mutual productivity.
I described to Chancellor Schmidt the
elements of the SALT II agreement, and
we have continued the discussion and
consultations with our major allies, like
the Federal Republic of Germany, as the
SALT II negotiations have progressed.
Again, on behalf of the American
people, I would like to say, Chancellor
Schmidt, that we're delighted to have you
here with us. This visit has been very
helpful to me and to our people.
THE CHANCELLOR. Thank you.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would
just like to add a very few words. Espe-
cially, I would like to stress what the
President has said about the friendliness
and the frankness, at the same time, and
the productivity of the talks between the
President and myself, and I would also
like to include the talks I had earlier on
with Secretaries Blumenthal and Schles-
inger and Harold Brown.
It's almost now been a habit that there
be at least one occasion in the course of
1004
