Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 15
Ms. ALLEN. Thank you.
MR. AGURS. Mr. Briscoe.
MINORITY-OWNED PUBLISHING FIRMS
MR. BRISCOE. Mr. President, I'm Sher-
man Briscoe from the National News-
paper Publishers Association. As you
know, the first amendment rights have
prohibited the Small Business Adminis-
tration that is, it has interpreted it as
so in its regulations-not to make insured
loans to communications media. That was
true with respect to electronic media un-
til recently, but now it does insure loans
to electronic media to buy stations, to
build towers, to buy and install equip-
ment. What do you think of having the
prohibition removed with respect to small
newspapers and minority newspapers,
where they, too, could obtain loans, in-
sured loans, from the Small Business Ad-
ministration to buy presses and equip-
ment and this kind of thing?
THE PRESIDENT. In addition to what
you've described, we, through the Feder-
al Communications Commission, have
encouraged the allocation of radio and
television licenses to minority-owned cor-
porations. I think it would be very help-
ful if we could have small business-type
loans made available to the owners or po-
tential purchasers of newspapers, if the
courts can work out a way to protect any
dominance or unwarranted influence by
the Government on those publishers and
editors, who ought to have a free right to
speak their own voices in the publishing
field.
So, if that one concern can be allevi-
ated, I think it would be very helpful
to have loans made to either expand
black-owned publishing firms or to let
black-owned corporations or others buy
into the publishing field.
MR. BRISCOE. Would you suggest how
the black press might go about obtaining
this kind of relaxing of the prohibition?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are only
two methods that I can think of offhand.
One is for a test case to be pursued in the
Federal courts to define more clearly
where the options are for increased financ-
ing for black-owned publishing firms. And
the other would be for corrective legisla-
tion. My guess is that in your own profes-
sional organization, a test case in the
courts would be the most rapidly con-
cluded procedure.
MR. AGURS. Mr. Betts.
PEOPLE'S TEMPLE
MR. BETTS. Mr. President, Roy Betts,
Johnson Publishing Company, Ebony and
Jet magazines. An estimated 600 bodies
of victims, mostly black, of the Guyana
cult massacre still remain at the Dover
Air Force Base in Delaware, as you prob-
ably are aware. Residents there are de-
manding that the Government have mass
cremations or burials at sea so that the
cult will not build a burial shrine in that
State. How can the Government bring a
fitting close to this terrible chapter of
violence?
THE PRESIDENT. This has been one of
the most shocking and disheartening oc-
currences that I've ever known about.
The Government, as you know, played no
role in the procedure except, in a humani-
bodies, to bring them back to our country.
tarian way, to go in and to recover the
We are now trying to make maximum
opportunity available for the families of
those deceased persons to identify and to
claim the bodies. After that effort has
additional families would come forward,
been exhausted and we feel sure that no
then final decisions would be made on how
to have appropriate burial. But at this
time, Roy, I just don't know what can
be done other than to encourage the fami-
lies to come forward and to provide every
possible opportunity for them to identify
35
