Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 6
12 months that the President and I have
a chance for private exchange of views,
except of official conferences. We learn a
lot from such private talks. We know that
we depend heavily on the United States
of America in many fields, not only in de-
fense, also in economics and in interna-
tional politics.
As you may have heard, I have a
chance to make two or three public
speeches today and tomorrow, day after
tomorrow. And I will certainly not only
publicly underline the strong feeling of
indebtedness which my nation shares with
me vis-a-vis the United States, vis-a-vis
the United States Government, vis-a-vis
the United States President, in principle
and in general, but we'll especially take
these opportunities in trying to empha-
size towards the American public that we
also, from a European and especially from
a German point of interest, looking for-
ward to a swift and positive ratification
process as regards SALT II, that we are
in agreement with the United States on
the basic lines of our energy policies in
particular and our economic policies in
general.
Thank you very much, Jimmy, for your
hospitality and for the frankness and
friendliness of our talks.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:55 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
Meeting With Chancellor Schmidt
of the Federal Republic of
Germany
White House Statement. June 6, 1979
President Jimmy Carter and Federal
Chancellor Helmut Schmidt met today
for an extensive exchange of views. With
their advisers they discussed the forth-
coming Tokyo summit, and in particular
the critical energy situation. They agreed
on the need to reduce energy demand now
and to increase energy supply over the
longer term, including the use of alterna-
tives to oil.
Later, the President and the Chancellor
discussed privately a wide range of issues,
including the forthcoming summit meet-
ing in Vienna between Presidents Carter
and Brezhnev, efforts to pursue the policy
of détente, Western defense policy, Mid-
dle East, and southern Africa.
President Carter and Chancellor
Schmidt agreed on the importance—for
both Europe and America-of the SALT
II agreement, and the Chancellor ex-
pressed strong support for the agreement.
On Western defense policy, the two lead-
ers reviewed the implications of Soviet
military efforts, especially developments
in theater nuclear forces. They agreed that
these Soviet military efforts pose a chal-
lenge to the Alliance that requires a re-
sponse. They discussed theater nuclear
force modernization in particular, and
agreed on the need for the NATO Alli-
ance to move forward expeditiously with
its deliberations on both force moderniza-
tion and arms control, with a view to col-
lective Alliance decisions in both areas.
They also reaffirmed their commitment
to strengthen NATO's defenses as part of
the Alliance's Long-Term Defense Pro-
gram.
On the Middle East, the two leaders
discussed the importance of the Egypt-
Israel treaty and the need to move for-
ward with the peace process, leading to a
comprehensive peace throughout the re-
gion. They emphasized the importance of
speedy progress in the negotiations con-
cerning the West Bank and Gaza with a
view to facilitating the exercise by the
Palestinian people of their legitimate
rights.
1005
