Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Energy Impact Assistance
As new domestic energy resources are
developed, particularly in rural or iso-
lated areas of the country, provision must
be made for the needs of rapidly devel-
oping communities. The Administration
will again seek enactment of legislation
establishing an Inland Energy Assistance
program, with funding of $150 million
per year, to aid those states and local
areas which are experiencing a rapid
growth in population as a result of new
energy supply development. These com-
munities often cannot plan for or meet
increased need for new public facilities
or services, since the population increases
occur before the new energy supply ac-
tivities are fully developed and producing
local revenues. This legislation is essen-
tial to ensure that the burdens associated
with solving our energy problems are
borne equitably by all citizens and regions
of the country.
Management of Federal Energy
Resources
The last two Congresses passed land-
mark legislation to reform the manage-
ment of federally-owned coal, oil and gas
resources. These new laws include Fed-
eral strip mine controls, and amendments
to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act
and the Mineral Leasing Act. With this
new framework, the Administration is
proceeding to implement swiftly new pro-
grams which will permit increased leasing
and development activities while protect-
ing our environment.
Water Policy Legislation
Water is a basic human necessity and
its proper management is essential to eco-
nomic activity, particularly in the arid
West. The policies of my Administration
are designed to emphasize the more effi-
cient use of water as well as the need to
provide adequate water supplies. We are
particularly sensitive to the interests of
the West and other areas in the develop-
ment of additional water resources, to the
importance of water conservation, and
to the concerns of many Eastern urban
areas about their water systems.
Last year I announced a comprehen-
sive water policy which included many re-
forms now being implemented adminis-
tratively. In addition, I will propose leg-
islation to increase the role of the States
in water policy, through increased water
planning grants and through new grants
for state water conservation programs. I
will also propose legislation which would
provide for states to share in the costs of
Federal water projects. This cost sharing
proposal will result in direct participa-
tion by states in setting water project pri-
orities and will help insure that Federal
programs are responsive to the most press-
ing water-related needs.
Congressional action is also needed on
Administration Amendments to moder-
nize the 1902 Reclamation Act to ensure
that acreage limitations in federally-
funded irrigation projects are equitable
and fair.
Environment
My Administration is committed to bal-
ancing the needs for development, con-
servation and preservation of our natural
resources. Our Nation has been blessed
with an outstanding natural heritage
which, if properly cared for, can meet our
needs for food and fiber, mineral, energy,
recreation, and solitude in a way that is
environmentally sound. The Congress and
the Administration have worked together
over the past two years to achieve this
goal. We have enacted the first Federal
standards for strip-mining coal; we have
improved and extended the Clean Air and
150
