Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
degree of safety and what can be done to
make nuclear powerplants safer in the fu-
ture. And that's why I believe that the
Kemeny Commission will play a very con-
structive role. I think it would help to
assuage the concern of people like your-
self. I think it would help to assuage the
concern of environmentalists who are
deeply concerned about all atomic power.
I think it would help to assuage the con-
cern of people who live around power-
plants and who still believe that they
ought to be there. So, in my opinion, this
will kind of clear the air and give us a
great degree of guidance for the future.
Let me say this in closing. I've made
notes of each person's name and the type
of question here on a piece of scratch
paper, and the interest that you've shown
in such a wide diversity of subjects is really
overwhelming. I don't claim to know the
answer to all questions. I have an excellent
opportunity to learn. And coming here,
hearing of your interests and getting your
own, sometimes criticisms, sometimes con-
gratulations, sometimes advice, is very
beneficial to me.
We've got such a wonderful and such
a great country. And if I can just leave
one thought with you before I depart: I
hold perhaps the most important political
office in the world, certainly the most im-
portant elective political office in the
world. And I represent a nation made up
of people who are absolutely free to ex-
press yourselves, to agree, to disagree, to
debate, to criticize a President, to criticize
the Members of Congress, to criticize a
mayor, to make constructive suggestions,
to ask questions, even though they might
be embarrassing. And this gives us
strength.
And most of the time when we read the
newspapers or see the evening television
or listen to the radio, what we hear about
is the current problems, and what we hear
about are the current arguments, and
what we hear about are the current dis-
appointments. But what we don't hear
enough about is the solid, stable, superb
strength of a great nation.
And I hope that in the future when you
are concerned about schools, taxes, energy,
inflation, nuclear power, that you will re-
member that in some countries your con-
cern could not be expressed. And in some
countries these kinds of problems would
not even be noticed by you, because you
would be deprived of freedom and your
children would be starving and your voice
would never be heard, and the independ-
ence to make your own decisions would be
absolutely missing.
So, as we face the future, let's remember
our blessings. And one of the greatest
blessings of all is a free American people
like you who have never been afraid to
speak your mind and to let public officials
have an opportunity to listen.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:30 p.m. in
the Portsmouth Senior High School auditorium.
Manchester, New Hampshire
Remarks at a Reception for Governor
Hugh Gallen. April 25, 1979
Governor Gallen, distinguished officials on
the stage with us, young Democrats, vol-
unteers, friends of mine from throughout
the State of New Hampshire:
This State has a special place in my
own heart and also, whether or not you
realize it, a special place in the political
life of our country. There is no other State
like it which has the opportunity to shape
the political policies and the political
consciousness of America.
My own first visit here came in 1974,
when I first met Norm D'Amours, a
713
