Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lation to consolidate Federal funds for
environmental programs at the State
level, thus giving the States more flexibil-
ity to use these funds to deal with their
most pressing environmental problems.
These and other changes we are mak-
ing will assure the American public that
the money we spend on environmental
controls is the best investment we can
make in our future and oúr children's
future.
The State of Food and Agriculture
World food security has been substan-
tially improved in 1978. For the third
consecutive year, good-to-record crops
were harvested in most parts of the world,
pushing supplies to record quantities and
creating the opportunity for people all
over the world to improve their diets.
For the United States, 1978 was also a
year of records. Large food and record
feed grain crops were harvested by U.S.
producers, re-emphasizing the U.S. farm
sector's capability to lead the world in
productivity. But despite the record crops
which placed downward pressure on
prices here and abroad, our farm econ-
omy became stronger in 1978 and our
agricultural trade reached record levels.
The value of U.S. agricultural ex-
ports reached $27.3 billion in fiscal
1978-14 percent above 1977's record.
The volume of our farm exports was a
record 125 million metric tons-up 18
percent from 1977. Agricultural trade
made another record contribution to our
balance of payments-$13.4 billion in fis-
cal 1978. Exports also accounted for one
out of every four dollars the U.S. farmer
earned.
Net farm income, which was $20.6 bil-
lion in 1977, is estimated at over $28 bil-
lion for 1978-second highest on record.
In constant dollars, this was the best year
since 1975. This was achieved while we
met our domestic needs, fulfilled our
commitments to our overseas customers
and built reserves for future stability pro-
tection. This recovery in agriculture has
been shared by crop and livestock pro-
ducers alike. Indeed, American live-
stock producers can now look forward to
several years of good returns to help them
recover from the last four years which
were marked by poor prices and forced
liquidation of herds.
Part of the recovery in the farm sector
can be attributed to the programs and
policies adopted by my Administration
and the Congress-which farmers have
used to improve their incomes and sta-
bilize prices.
I am personally proud of the recovery
our farmers have made.
International Agricultural Trade
Over the past 2 years, this Administra-
tion has worked to reduce barriers to in-
ternational trade and to develop new
markets and encourage increased exports
of agricultural products. The Agricultural
Trade Act of 1978, for example, provides
important new authorities for intermedi-
ate credit and the establishment of trade
offices in major markets. We have moved
to establish new and stronger trade ties
with several nations, including Japan and
the People's Republic of China. Partly as
a result of these efforts, exports of U.S.
farm produced goods are expected to
reach a record $29 billion in fiscal 1979-
21 percent higher than 2 years ago and
contribute $15 billion to our balance of
payments.
Unlike previous Multilateral Trade
Negotiations, in the current MTN we
have placed heavy emphasis on the les-
sening of restrictions on trade in agricul-
tural products. Our efforts here should
have a major impact on U.S. agriculture
in the future, by broadening our access
152
