Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 29
SEC. 1-104. For purposes of this Order,
the term "Governor" includes the Gover-
nors of the 50 States, the Chief Executive
Officer of the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, and the territories and pos-
sessions of the United States, other than
the Panama Canal Zone.
SEC. 1–105. This Order shall terminate,
unless extended, at midnight on Septem-
ber 30, 1979. The Secretary of Energy may
at any time revoke this delegation in
whole or in part with respect to any
State.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 29, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:28 a.m., May 30, 1979]
National Conference of
Christians and Jews
Remarks at the 30th Annual Brotherhood
Citation Dinner. May 29, 1979
Last September, I spent 13 days at
Camp David with an Arab and a Jew. It
was one of the most difficult times of my
life; one of the most challenging, interest-
ing and, ultimately, perhaps one of the
most productive.
Both these leaders, President Sadat and
Prime Minister Begin, were deeply reli-
gious. We were engaged in intense nego-
tiation. But for 10 of those 13 days, they
never saw or spoke to each other because
the differences were so deep, and it was
almost impossible for them to communi-
cate even their most heartfelt beliefs and
desires.
I had a chance to get to know those men
very well, and we spent long hours speak-
ing about death and war and hatred and
bigotry and prejudice and division be-
tween one human being and another. And
we spent a lot of time talking about hope
and peace and brotherhood and love.
The men were quite different, and I
had to orient my own schedule to accom-
modate theirs. President Sadat, highly dis-
ciplined, did not want to meet with any-
one until about 10 o'clock in the morning,
because he got up for his calisthenics, and
then he took a long walk, and then he
came back and rested for a while, and
then he was ready to go to work.
So, one morning I saw him walk past
my door, and I ran out and joined him.
And for quite a while we walked in silence,
and then we began a kind of fumbling
conversation. I had an ulterior motive. I
wanted to convince him to accept one of
the propositions that had been relayed to
me. But while we walked, President Sadat
said, "I think that someone from the South
in this country is especially qualified to rec-
ognize the damages of losing a war and of
seeing people divided one from another
by misunderstandings, even those who are
brothers under God, and even in more re-
cent times to see racial prejudice hold
back progress among people."
He meant that as a compliment to me,
and I instantaneously swelled with quiet
pride. And then I recalled my own return
to the South and my later service on the
Sumter County School Board. I was a
young ex-naval officer, idealistic, liberal
for Sumter County, Georgia, living under
a ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court
known as separate-but-equal. I was some-
what proud of the fact that my own chil-
dren went to an old and relatively dilapi-
dated school, which I had attended and
my wife attended, and her parents and
my parents, and the black children in the
other end of Plains went to a newer
school.
I asked the other four school board
members, all of whom were white men, to
join with me in inspecting the school sys-
969
