Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
build on the proposal passed last year by
the Senate.
Real Wage Insurance
I have proposed to the Congress a real
wage insurance program to protect em-
ployee groups that comply with the 7%
voluntary wage standard against losses in
purchasing power if inflation exceeds 7%.
If inflation exceeds 7%, these employees
will receive a tax refund equal to their
1979 income up to $20,000 times the dif-
ference between the actual inflation rate
(up to 10%) and 7%. This program will
give workers a strong economic incentive
to cooperate with the voluntary pay
standards I have established, thereby
helping to break the wage/price spiral
that is at the root of the current persistent
inflation.
This is a novel approach to the infla-
tion problem. The persistence of high in-
flation for the past ten years makes clear
that new solutions are needed. Innovative
approaches must be added to the arsenal
if we are to break the back of inflation.
Real wage insurance represents the type
of innovative approach which is re-
quired: it will provide a significant tax
benefit for those working people who par-
ticipate in helping to reduce the infla-
tionary cycle, but without raising taxes for
anyone else.
My administration intends to work very
closely with Congress in developing and
enacting a real wage insurance law.
Voluntary Pay and Price Standards
It is vital that our program of volun-
tary pay-price standards succeed. At stake
is the reduced rate of inflation that all
Americans demand and deserve. The co-
operation of business and labor is obvi-
ously essential, and we have already had
clear evidence of their willingness to join
in this effort. I have already received as-
surance from over 200 of the Nation's
largest corporations that they will comply
with the standards. And just recently the
Oil, Chemical, and Atomic Workers
Union reached agreement on a contract
with the major refineries that met the
pay standards.
standards will continually be tested. Your
Throughout this year the pay and price
cooperation in encouraging voluntary
compliance can help ensure the standards'
success. The Administration will keep the
Congress fully informed and involved as
we work to implement this program.
State and Local Governments
If we are to succeed in our anti-infla-
tion efforts, the cooperation and active
participation of State and local govern-
ments is essential. We will soon announce
a program which actively involves the
Governors, Mayors, County Executives,
and other local officials in a comprehen-
sive approach to restrain inflationary pres-
sures within their control.
The Necessities
In recent years, the greatest inflation-
ary burden on the working men and wom-
en has involved necessities of life-food,
energy, housing, and medical care. An ef-
fective anti-inflation program must in-
volve a series of concerted attacks on the
sources of rising prices in these vital
sectors.
In each of these areas, the Administra-
tion has established task forces to identify
existing government policies that unrea-
sonably inflate prices, and to suggest ac-
tions that can be taken, at both national
and local levels, to combat inflation. In
these efforts we will work directly with
124
