Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 15
we've been relatively successful, compared
to previous records of our own country.
We have an immediate prospect for suc-
cess in having a majority government es-
tablished in Namibia. And we've exerted
every effort, along with other members of
the United Nations, particularly the lead-
ership from Canada, Great Britain,
France, and Germany, working in har-
mony, to bring about the move by South
Africa to withdraw their own influence
from Namibia and let the people who live
there choose on a one-person-one-vote
basis the majority government.
In addition, working closely with the
British, and also through, of course, Andy
Young and others, we've tried to bring
together the National Front-the present
government of Rhodesia and the front-
line governments surrounding Rhode-
sia-to have a majority government es-
tablished in that country, which would
then be called Zimbabwe, based on a
one-person-one-vote representation. We
haven't made much progress there, al-
though I think all three of those entities
that I named are looking for some contin-
ued leadership from the United States
and, particularly, Great Britain. We de-
plore apartheid and any sort of racial dis-
crimination, and we strongly support the
establishment of majority rule govern-
ment in South Africa. We have made this
clear to the Botha government and con-
tinue to pursue that goal.
I think, in general, the progress has
been detectable and sound. In my
opinion, it's been too slow, but we are de-
termined. And I think we have at least
been successful in arousing among the
black leaders of Africa an increasing de-
gree of confidence in our own Govern-
ment when, for decades, even genera-
tions, we have stayed aloof from any
movement toward majority rule, black
rule in Africa.
So, I think we made good progress, slow
progress, but we'll be very consistent
through Andy Young and other leaders in
pursuing these goals that I've described to
you.
MR. BETTS. One brief followup. Would
you consider a followup trip to your ear-
lier trip to Nigeria or some other part of
Africa in the near future?
THE PRESIDENT. Not in the near fu-
ture, but I'd like very much to go back to
Africa again and to travel in countries
that I was not able to visit before. In the
meantime, of course, we've had many of
the top leaders from Africa come here
and meet with me. And I think that as a
result of this there's been a much better
understanding. So, yes, I would like very
much to go back to Africa again.
MR. AGURS. Mr. Boone.
PRESIDENTIAL ADVISERS ON BLACK ISSUES
MR. BOONE. Mr. President, I would
like to know who is your top adviser on
concerns of the black community? I'd
like to know whether this person is black.
I ask this question, because I have seen
a number of lists published which show
your top advisers, but never is there a
black person. So, could you comment on
that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one thing that
I've tried to avoid is any arrangement
within the White House or within my
Cabinet advisers where only a black per-
son can be responsible for improving the
quality of life of the black citizens of our
country. Louis Martin works very closely
with me here in the White House on
matters that relate directly to black per-
sons alone.
But I would like to point out that I
consider myself to be a good spokesman
for the well-being of black citizens. I think
I could not possibly have a better Vice
President than Fritz Mondale, whether
that Vice President was black or white.
And I believe that every member of my
39
