Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sure this country had the most modern
weapons systems in the world. We miss
his leadership in Washington. But John
Durkin and Norm D'Amours carry on this
same great Democratic, New Hampshire
tradition.
Our military strength and our national
will are clear, and they are well known to
all nations. We do not need to prove our
strength or our will through rash or reck-
less military adventures; rather, our mili-
tary capacity gives us a rare opportunity
to lead the world toward peace.
Here in New Hampshire, I promised
you a government as good as the people.
Some critics dismissed that statement as
meaningless campaign rhetoric: How
could a government try to be as good as
the people? But you understood what I
was talking about. Our foreign policy is
as good as our people when we speak out
for human rights around the world. We
have and we will continue to protect hu-
man rights as long as I am President.
Our foreign policy is as good as the
American people when we fight for free-
dom and for justice, and we have and we
will continue to preserve these ancient
American principles.
Our foreign policy is as good as the
American people when we work to bring
peace not only to ourselves but to ancient
enemies. We have and we will continue to
work for peace around the world.
We won a victory of this kind when a
peace treaty was signed last month be-
tween Egypt and Israel. The United
States was able to play a crucial role at
the critical time to make that possible.
That treaty was not a personal accom-
plishment, though I was proud and grate-
ful to be part of it. That treaty was a trib-
ute to two courageous leaders, President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin. But it
was also a triumph for the moral strength
and the leadership of our Nation.
If we can help the nations of the Middle
East eventually to work out a lasting
peace, it will not be because they trust any
particular American President; it will be
because they recognize that the American
people will always support those who seek
freedom and justice and peace.
This is not just for one administration,
but from the moment of our birth as a na-
tion, through all times, as long as we call
ourselves a free people.
Freedom, peace, and justice are the
sources of our true power on which all
else must rest. This is what makes America
so great.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:05 p.m. in
the Sheraton Wayfarer Hotel Convention
Center. In his opening remarks, he referred to
former New Hampshire Governor Meldrim
Thomson, Christos C. Spirou, house minority
leader, Robert F. Preston, senate Democratic
leader, Romeo Dorval, New Hampshire Demo-
cratic Party chairman, and Dudley Dudley,
member of the Governor's Council.
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. April 26, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
three new deferrals of budget authority
totalling $164.1 million and a revision to a
previously transmitted deferral increasing
the amount deferred by $1.0 million. The
items involve the fossil energy construc-
tion and Strategic Petroleum Reserve pro-
grams in the Department of Energy and
the payment of Vietnam prisoner of war
claims in the Foreign Claims Settlement
Commission.
720
