Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
that related programs are considered si-
multaneously. To ensure that the reviews
are serious, spending authority would ter-
minate unless Congress acts to renew or
revise the program.
Sunset will make a crucial contribution
to the effort to cut the waste from govern-
ment regulation and government spend-
ing. An excellent sunset bill passed the
Senate last year. With the addition of
sunset reviews for Federal tax expendi-
tures, this legislation will make a great
contribution to effective management. I
urge Congress to put it into law.
In addition, my Administration will
work with Congress this year to reform
several individual regulatory statutes. We
just submitted the first of our proposals
to reduce economic regulation of surface
transportation. We will submit legislation
on drugs, nuclear plant siting, meat and
poultry inspection and other areas. And
we will work with Congress on bills al-
ready introduced to revamp regulation of
communications.
To reform regulation, we and Congress
must act in partnership, within our re-
It would disrupt our effort to manage the
regulatory process, and it would distract
Congress from the fundamental job of re-
forming underlying statutes. Any serious
effort to administer the legislative veto
would require a major increase in con-
gressional staff and threaten the Consti-
tutional division of power.
The program I am proposing will not
solve all the problems overnight. But these
steps will make regulation a more effec-
tive tool to improve our lives. They will
help get needless rules and paperwork off
our backs, and they will help marshal our
resources to attack the real problems with
maximum efficiency. By doing so, they will
help us advance our national commitment
to the regulatory goals we all believe in-
a healthier, safer and fairer America.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 26, 1979.
NOTE: The text of the message was released on
March 25.
Treaty and Related Documents.
March 26, 1979
spective spheres of responsibility under Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty
the Constitution. The program I have
stated follows that principle. From Con-
gress, it asks reform of underlying statutes
and modernization of the ground rules for
administering them. From me, and from
the agency heads I have appointed to help
me execute the laws, it demands compe-
tent management and coordination.
I ask Congress to join me in this effort
and to refrain from seeking authority to
veto individual regulatory decisions and
thereby to administer the laws itself. The
legislative veto is an illusory solution to
the problems of regulation. In some cases
it would make rules weaker; in others it
would make them stricter. But in all cases,
it would increase delay, undermine fair
procedures, and fragment responsibilities.
TREATY OF PEACE BETWEEN THE ARAB
REPUBLIC OF EGYPT AND THE STATE
OF ISRAEL
The Government of the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Government of the
State of Israel;
PREAMBLE
Convinced of the urgent necessity of the
establishment of a just, comprehensive
and lasting peace in the Middle East in
accordance with Security Council Resolu-
tions 242 and 338;
495
