Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 19
THE PRESIDENT. We have no plans to
use the bracero program again. As you
know, I presented to the Congress my
first year in office, after a great deal of
study, a proposal on how to deal with the
undocumented workers. There are many
names for the same people-some, illegal
aliens; some, undocumented aliens. I've
lately been calling them undocumented
workers. The other day someone sug-
gested that we call them undocumented
taxpayers. [Laughter]
But the Congress has not been willing
to act on my recommendations. The His-
panic American community is sharply
divided on the issue because the undocu-
mented workers coming into our country
compete in some areas for scarce jobs, as
you know. In other cases, those very same
American citizens who have Mexican her-
itage would like for their relatives to
come here, and the pressures from eco-
nomics in Mexico are quite severe now.
But Mexico, with a large prospective im-
provement in their economy in the future
because of the gas and oil discoveries, I
think will help to assuage this problem.
I have met with López Portillo, Presi-
dent of Mexico, on this subject at length.
I've sent Reubin Askew, former Governor
of Florida and the chairman of my com-
mission on immigration, down to meet
several days with the President of Mexico,
the Secretary of State-or the Foreign
Minister, and others. We are trying to
evolve a program that would be fair. And
I think for the first time, at least in my
historical memory, Mexico and the
United States Governments are now
working in harmony to try to hammer out
a reasonable and fair approach to the
problem. I don't say that we'll be to-
gether at the end, but we're working to-
gether,
The last thing is that I have pledged
to all the minority groups in our country,
and to the people of Mexico, that undoc-
umented workers who are in our Nation
and who do not have a legal right to be
here, will be treated fairly. They will not
be abused, and their constitutional-or
human rights will be preserved.
I'm sworn on my oath to uphold the
law and the Constitution of my country,
and there's no way that I can condone
the illegal crossing of our border. But we're
working the best we can to deal with the
question that's been long in existence and
to do it humanely and fairly and legally.
Some modification of the law will be
required.
The commission that has now been
established will make those recommenda-
tions. I and the Congress are waiting for
their recommendations to be made.
Ms. BARIO. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I might
take one other question.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
Q. Hal Rosen of Chicago. Earlier this
week, on Monday, Joseph Sisco,¹ speaking
Council, said that while it's official U.S.
before the Chicago Foreign Relations
policy that we don't recognize—or make
contact, rather, with the PLO unless they
recognize 242, that he sees modification in
this in the future. While he's not an offi-
cial Government spokesman, obviously,
does his view reflect any change in our
policy?
THE PRESIDENT. No, there's been no
change. I don't contemplate any change.
Our Nation is pledged, again, on its word
of honor, which I have corroborated since
I've been in office, that we will not deal
with the PLO until they accept U.N.
Resolution 242 as a basis for negotiations,
which all the other Arab entities have
done, and until they recognize the right
of Israel to exist.
¹ Former Under Secretary of State for Politi-
cal Affairs.
907
