Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 15
we are making every effort we can in Vir-
ginia to encourage the selection of minor-
ity members to be judges.
I might say that in several of the North-
ern States we are also having a problem
getting the Members of the Senate to
change their longstanding policy and to
make it possible for me to appoint black
judges. But I'm determined to succeed.
CIA AND FBI; CONGRESSIONAL
ASSASSINATIONS INVESTIGATIONS
MR. AGURS. Mr. President, my next
question is, are you satisfied that all of the
people who are responsible for illegal or
unethical acts by the CIA or the FBI are
now out of those agencies? And are you
convinced that there is no longer a possi-
bility that a government-run campaign
could be mounted to destroy or discredit
a national leader in our country?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm convinced that
the leadership of the CIA and the FBI
and the White House are all equally de-
termined that there should never be a
repetition of the attack on a minority
leader, as was the case with Martin
Luther King, Jr. And although I can't
guarantee what will happen after I leave
the White House, I can guarantee you
that while I'm here in the White House as
President, there will be no such attack on
a leader as there was in the past.
MR. AGURS. In that same connection,
are you satisfied that the House assassina-
tions investigation are you satisfied with
their conclusion, and do you feel that the
Justice Department now should take a
look at these conspiracies that the com-
mittee feels might have existed?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no definite
answer to whether or not there was a con-
spiracy. I think the thorough investiga-
tion, though, of all new evidence is neces-
sary. And the FBI has publicly stated that
they will pursue any new information
that's available to them.
MR. AGURS. Ms. Allen.
HOSPITAL COST CONTAINMENT
Ms. ALLEN. Mr. President, in view of
the fact that health care costs in the past
10
years have been such a high source of
inflation, what steps are being taken to
reduce the percentage of health care costs
in the Federal budget, in terms of the un-
derprivileged especially?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, health
care costs, hospital costs, have been going
up-doubled every 5
every 5 years for the last 15
or so years. And unless we do something
about it, hospital costs are going to double
again in the next 5 years.
Last year, we mounted a major cam-
paign in the Congress to have passed hos-
pital cost containment legislation simi-
lar to what has already been passed in
States like New York and Connecticut,
which has proven so successful. Because
of the extraordinary influence of the hos-
pital lobby and the medical doctors lob-
by, we were not able to get this legislation
passed in the House, although it did pass
the Senate in modified form.
We will make another effort this year,
which I believe will be successful. What
we need in order to accomplish this goal
is to have broad citizen understanding of
how much their own best interests are in-
volved in having a strong hospital cost
containment bill passed. It would be at
the top of our priorities in controlling in-
flation.
I think these extremely high costs are
unnecessary and unwarranted, and I be-
lieve that the public is being robbed. And
I hope that everyone listening to this
broadcast will let their Member of the
Congress in the House or Senate know
that as citizens themselves, worried about
37
