Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 26
ber agencies of the Trade Policy Staff
Committee, may make a determination
that for the purposes of section 203(e)
(3) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2253 (e)
(3)) the orderly marketing agreements
do not continue to be effective.
(b) Beginning on February 1, 1979, if
during any restraint period the quantity
of imports of the articles covered by the
agreements, from countries other than
Taiwan and the Republic of Korea, ap-
pear likely to disrupt the effectiveness of
the provisions of the orderly marketing
agreements described in paragraph (1)
above, the Special Representative may
initiate consultations with those countries
responsible for such disruptions and may
prevent further entry of such articles for
the remainder of that restraint period or
may otherwise moderate or restrict im-
ports of such articles from such countries
pursuant to section 203 (g) (2) of the
Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2253 (g) (2)). Be-
fore exercising this authority, the Special
Representative shall consult with repre-
sentatives of the member agencies of the
Trade Policy Staff Committee.
(c) Should the Special Representative
determine, pursuant to this proclamation,
to institute import restrictions on articles
entered, or withdrawn from warehouse,
for consumption from countries other
than Taiwan or the Republic of Korea
pursuant to this proclamation, such ac-
tion shall be effective not less than eight
days after such determination and any
necessary changes in the TSUS have been
published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
(6) The Special Representative shall
take such actions and perform such func-
tions for the United States as may be nec-
essary concerning the administration, im-
plementation, modification, amendment
or termination of the agreements de-
scribed in paragraph (1) of this procla-
mation, and any actions and functions
necessary to implement paragraphs (3),
(4) and (5) of this proclamation. In
carrying out his responsibilities under this
paragraph the Special Representative is
authorized to delegate to appropriate offi-
cials or agencies of the United States
authority to perform any functions neces-
sary for the administration and imple-
mentation of the agreements or actions.
The Special Representative is authorized
to make any changes in Part 2 of the Ap-
pendix to the TSUS which may be nec-
essary to carry out the agreements or
actions. Any such changes in the agree-
ments shall be effective on and after their
publication in the FEDERAl Register.
(7) The Commissioner of Customs
shall take such actions as the Special Rep-
resentative shall determine are necessary
to carry out the agreements described in
paragraph (1) of this proclamation and
to implement any import relief pursuant
to paragraphs (3), (4) and (5) of this
proclamation, or any modification there-
of, with respect to the entry or withdrawal
from warehouse, for consumption into the
United States of products covered by such
agreements or by such other import relief.
(8) This proclamation shall be effec-
tive as of February 1, 1979, and shall
continue in force through June 30, 1980,
unless the period of its effectiveness is
earlier expressly modified or terminated.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of
January, in the year of our Lord, nineteen
hundred and seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:04 p.m., January 26, 1979]
NOTE: The annex is printed in the FEDERAL
REGISTER of January 29, 1979.
169
