Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
President, I take the management of the
regulatory process as seriously as I do the
goals it's intended to achieve.
The legislation which I will submit to
Congress tomorrow will continue and
streamline our own reform efforts and
expand them to every independent reg-
ulatory agency. It will accomplish five
major goals, which I will list very briefly
in closing.
First, this legislation will make sure that
the costs and benefits of all major regula-
tions and rules are weighed before they
are issued. From now on, regulators will
have to get the job done at the least pos-
sible cost, and they will have to justify the
bill to the American people.
Secondly, this legislation will help us to
clean up the enormous backlog of rules
and regulations that have accumulated
over the years, but have long since out-
lived their usefulness.
By deregulating airlines last year, we
saved consumers $22 billion in reduced
fares. We have brought record profits to
the airline industry, and we have begun,
for the first time in my memory, to dis-
mantle a Federal bureaucracy.
Third, it'll put a brake on the regula-
tory assembly line. It will make sure that
Government plans ahead, that the Amer-
ican people know what new rules are
going to be proposed, and that regulations
are developed not in the secret inner sanc-
tums of the bureaucracy, but under the
supervision of senior officials who are ac-
countable to the people, to me as Presi-
dent, and to the Congress.
Fourth, this legislation will end need-
less delays and endless procedural night-
mares which have plagued too many
Americans for too long. It should not have
taken 12 years and a hearing record of
over 100,000 pages for the FDA to decide
what percentage of peanuts there ought to
be in peanut butter. [Laughter] I would
have used that example even if I had
grown soybeans and wheat, by the way.
[Laughter]
And finally, this legislation will open up
the rulemaking process. It will ensure that
all Americans have a voice-consumers
and small business, local officials, State
governments, certainly, you-not just the
best financed and the best organized in-
terest groups.
In regaining control of the regulations
that govern our lives, we can also regain
our faith in self-government. Together,
we will reaffirm that our future depends
not on fate or accident or impersonal
forces beyond our control, but on our own
decisions as a free people in the freest
democracy on Earth, which I am deter-
mined to see become even more free.
Thank you very much. I'd now like to
answer some questions.
QUESTIONS
RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Q. Mr. President, George Allen of
KLGA, Algona, Iowa. Iowa is corn coun-
try, and Iowans are concerned about the
lack of appropriations to test and develop
gasohol as an energy source. Are you plan-
ning any actions from the White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The testing and
the use of gasohol and other energy
sources derived from replenishable mate-
rials is a very high priority for us. We are
increasing every year the allocation of
funds for that purpose. The Congress is
now considering, as you know, some man-
datory, step-by-step increment increase in
the amount of gasohol that has to be
mixed with gasoline. We are considering
this proposal. It's being sponsored by, I
think, Senator Church and others. The
final decision is yet to be made.
Within the next week, I will make a
decision about the regulatory process for
484
