June 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
future years must be to expand this cover-
age to include children up to age six. The
employer provisions of the Plan, com-
bined with the Child Health Assurance
Plan I have already proposed for low-
income expectant mothers and children,
will assure that no newborn child in this
country will be denied the chance for a
full and productive life by the high costs
of health care.
EXTENDED INSURANCE COVERAGE
Today, many employees and their
families suddenly lose all health coverage
when the employee is laid off or is be-
tween jobs. Under the National Health
Plan, employer-based insurance policies
will be required to maintain coverage for
90 days after employment ends. In addi-
tion, employer-based policies will be re-
quired to maintain family coverage for
90 days after an employee's death, and
to cover dependents until age 26.
COST CONTAINMENT
A renewed emphasis on cost contain-
ment must accompany new health bene-
fits. The American people now spend over
9% of the Gross National Product on
health services-$200 billion a year. Hos-
pital costs in America are rising $1 mil-
lion an hour, 24 hours a day. It is time to
draw the line.
The National Health Plan is premised
on passage of strong hospital cost contain-
ment legislation, which will save the
American people $53 billion over the next
five years, including $28 billion in Fed-
eral, State, and local expenditures. The
Nation cannot afford expanded coverage
without hospital cost containment legisla-
tion. In addition, my National Health
Plan proposes a $3 billion annual limit on
hospital capital expenditures. This Na-
tion cannot support more duplicative
facilities and more unnecessary equip-
ment. We must not add to the 130,000
excess hospital beds we now have. We
must and we will insure that needed ex-
tensions in coverage do not become the
excuse for further waste.
This Plan will also provide for a man-
datory fee schedule for physicians who
serve Healthcare patients. The fee sched-
ule will curb excessive inflation in physi-
cian fees and will reduce the disparities in
fees paid to rural physicians as compared
to urban physicians, and primary care
physicians as compared to specialists.
Over time, the new fee schedule will help
produce a better geographic distribution
of physicians and increase the availability
of primary care services.
The Healthcare fee schedule will pro-
vide a model for private health insurance
plans. Private plans will publish the
names of physicians who agree to adhere
to the Healthcare fee schedule for all
their patients. To assure that Blue Shield
and similar organizations reexamine their
physician reimbursement policies, the
Plan will prohibit physician domination
of the governing boards of these orga-
nizations.
INCREASED COMPETITION
Competition has been weak in the
health care industry because a very high
percentage of costs are paid by third
parties, and because patients generally
cannot determine or shop for the serv-
ices they need. In recent years, how-
ever, health maintenance organizations
(HMOs) have injected important com-
petitive forces into the health care system.
The National Health Plan will encourage
further competition by giving employees
and Healthcare beneficiaries new finan-
cial incentives to enroll in HMOs or
other cost-effective health plans.
1030
