Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 18, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
May 11, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. It's a pleasure to have
you here. I understand this morning
you've already been briefed, to some de-
gree at least, on SALT and Multilateral
Trade Negotiations and perhaps some
other issues. And I want to welcome
you
here. This is somewhere between the 40th
and 50th group that we've had come to
the White House since I've been in office
to give the editors around the Nation a
briefing on matters that are of interest to
you and your readers, or viewers or
listeners.
I'd like just to make an opening state-
ment, very brief.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Our Nation is faced with several-both
very important international issues and
also very important domestic issues. I
would say the most important of all is
now the consummation, the signing, and
the ratification of a SALT agreement.
Perhaps more important than anything
that I will address while I'm President
and perhaps the most important vote that
the incumbent Members of the Senate
will ever cast is concerning the ratifica-
tion of SALT II.
It's a fair treaty, enforceable treaty,
verifiable treaty, and rejection of this
treaty would have a devastating, adverse
effect on our Nation's relationship with
the Soviet Union, on our ability to deal
effectively with our allies, with uncom-
mitted nations, and with the control of
nuclear weaponry or explosives in the fu-
ture throughout the world. That's one
issue.
Of course, the Middle East peace
treaties now signed between Israel and
Egypt are extremely important to us and
to stability in the Middle East-I think
perhaps even indirectly to the rest of the
world. We stand staunchly behind our
allies and friends, Israel and Egypt.
We hope that the other nations in that
region will soon realize the importance of
these treaties. We'll do all we can to im-
plement them fully and to demonstrate
to all those who are interested that we
believe in and are committed to a com-
prehensive peace settlement.
We have some additional problems
that face NATO, although it's been sub-
stantially strengthened. Turkey is obvi-
ously one problem. They have economic
matters to address jointly with us, with
845
