Jan. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Independent Water Project
Review
Memorandum From the President.
January 4, 1979
Memorandum for the Chairman and
Members of the Water Resources Coun-
cil
In my Water Resources Policy Reform
Message of June 6, 1978, I stated that an
independent project review unit would be
created in the Water Resources Council
to ensure water projects have been
planned in accordance with the Principles
and Standards and other planning re-
quirements. Today I have signed an
Executive Order which establishes this
independent water project review func-
tion in the Water Resources Council.
I look forward to your speedy orga-
nization of the independent review unit.
As described in my Water Policy Mes-
sage, I expect the review function will be
performed by a professional staff of about
30 and will be operational in time for the
1981 budget cycle. Rules, regulations and
procedures necessary to implement the in-
dependent review function should be pub-
lished in proposed form in the FEDERAL
REGISTER within six weeks and in final
form within the following six months.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on January 5.
Environmental Effects Abroad of
Major Federal Actions
Executive Order 12114. January 4, 1979
By virtue of the authority vested in me
by the Constitution and the laws of the
United States, and as President of the
United States, in order to further environ-
mental objectives consistent with the for-
eign policy and national security policy of
the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1.
1-1. Purpose and Scope. The purpose
of this Executive Order is to enable re-
sponsible officials of Federal agencies hav-
ing ultimate responsibility for authorizing
and approving actions encompassed by
this Order to be informed of pertinent
environmental considerations and to take
such considerations into account, with
other pertinent considerations of national
policy, in making decisions regarding such
actions. While based on independent au-
thority, this Order furthers the purpose of
the National Environmental Policy Act
and the Marine Protection Research and
Sanctuaries Act and the Deepwater Port
Act consistent with the foreign policy and
national security policy of the United
States, and represents the United States
government's exclusive and complete de-
termination of the procedural and other
actions to be taken by Federal agencies to
further the purpose of the National En-
vironmental Policy Act, with respect to
the environment outside the United
States, its territories and possessions.
SEC. 2.
2-1. Agency Procedures. Every Federal
agency taking major Federal actions en-
compassed hereby and not exempted
herefrom having significant effects on the
environment outside the geographical
borders of the United States and its terri-
tories and possessions shall within eight
months after the effective date of this
Order have in effect procedures to imple-
ment this Order. Agencies shall consult
with the Department of State and the
Council on Environmental Quality con-
10
