Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 22
1957, an M.A. from Duke University in
1958, and a B.Litt. (1963) and D. Phil.
(1965) from Oxford University.
From 1961 to 1973, Krueger was a pro-
fessor and dean of the College of Arts and
Sciences at Duke University. From 1973
to 1975, he was chairman of the board of
Comal Hosiery Mills. From 1975 to 1979,
he was U.S. Representative from the 21st
District. Since leaving the Congress, he
has been a businessman and rancher in
New Braunfels.
Independent Truckers' Strikes
White House Statement. June 22, 1979
Over the past few days the actions of
the Nation's independent truckers have
had a serious impact on the country's
transportation system. The White House
staff has met with a number of trucking
industry representatives to learn firsthand
of their concerns and has kept the Presi-
dent closely informed of developments.
The truckers have many legitimate con-
cerns. Some can be remedied speedily,
some will take time and much hard work
to improve.
The key problems that face the truck-
ers are the same as those that face all of
us: too little fuel at too high price. Be-
cause of OPEC price increases and the
cutback in Iranian oil production, our
Nation's long-term energy problem has
become a critical shortage of diesel fuel
both for truckers and for other transpor-
tation industries.
While the steps the administration in-
tends to take to address the truckers con-
cerns are important, the President wishes
to underscore the statement he made yes-
terday deploring the acts of violence that
have accompanied the truckers' strike.
None of the problems faced by the inde-
pendents can justify the lawlessness that
has occurred in some parts of the coun-
try. We will not tolerate shootings, van-
dalism, or violations of individual rights.
Law enforcement is primarily a State re-
sponsibility, but the Federal Government
will provide every assistance to the States
to help them preserve order.
To help increase supplies of diesel fuel,
a number of steps have already been
taken. Two weeks ago, incentive entitle-
ment payments for importation of middle
distillates, which includes diesel, were in-
creased by $5 per barrel. Since then these
imports have increased substantially. In
addition, every effort is being made to
increase refinery output of diesel, gaso-
line, and other products. With rising
crude oil imports, additional supplies of
diesel and gasoline should be refined as
quickly as possible. This administration
will not tolerate any withholding of avail-
able supplies. A major audit of the Na-
tion's refineries is now underway as part
of the administration's efforts to ensure
maximum refinery utilization.
Besides increasing overall diesel sup-
plies, we must ensure that available fuel
is distributed where it is most needed.
To accomplish this the Department of
Energy recently instituted a special pro-
gram, Special Rule #9, to provide farm-
ers and others with 100 percent of their
needs. This allocation was based on the
critical importance of timely planting to
ensure adequate national food supplies.
Because of weather problems, farmers
were far behind in their planting sched-
ules earlier this year. Each day of delay
due to fuel shortages could have cost the
Nation millions of dollars in lower crop
yields and higher food prices.
As Secretary Bergland indicated this
morning, Rule #9 has succeeded well in
1135
