Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 22
port from officials and others at the local
and State level for what we are attempt-
ing to do here in Washington.
I'm sure there will be temptations for
you to take the same position I've just
described in critical terms. "Take out the
inflationary action on others. Don't touch
us." But I think your coming here is in-
dicative of your willingness to join in this
worthwhile fight.
We've had excellent relationships with
you ever since I've been in the White
House. When we evolved our energy
policy, most of it was done in concert
with you. Our urban policy, the same;
civil service reform, the same; the evolu-
tion of hospital cost containment legis-
lation, the same; the evolution of our
overall approach to controlling inflation,
the same. We've consulted closely with
municipal, county, State officials from the
very beginning. And that's been the basis
on which we've enjoyed successes in many
of these areas.
I think that it's obvious to you I con-
sider this to be a very important task, a
very difficult task. But it's one where I
do not intend to fail. And with your help,
I feel secure that we will be successful.
I'll try to be answerable to you in setting
a good example here in Washington.
I'm not going to back down. I'm not
going to yield to pressure. I'm willing to
fight openly and aggressively and consist-
ently to control inflation in our country.
And with your help and support and part-
nership, I believe we'll be successful in
having an even greater United States of
America in the future.
Thank you very much.
I want to thank all of you for coming
today. It means an awful lot to us. We're
glad you're here. I think you have already
gotten a taste of the suggestions we're
about to hand out to you. They're just
examples of what you can do. And if
you've got other suggestions or ways that
we can improve on these, I know you well
enough to realize that you won't be reti-
cent about giving us your opinion.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
1:30 p.m. at the briefing conducted by admin-
istration officials in Room 450 of the Old Ex-
ecutive Office Building.
As printed above, this item does not include
the remarks of Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the
President on Inflation, which were included in
the press release.
United States Savings Bonds
Program
Memorandum From the President.
February 22, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
In 1978, I appointed Ray Marshall,
Secretary of Labor, to serve a two-year
term as Chairman of the Interagency Sav-
ings Bonds Committee. I am confident
that with your help he will be able to en-
sure that the 1979 Federal Savings Bonds
Campaign is a most successful one.
Participants in the Payroll Savings
Program choose this method of saving for
a wide variety of excellent reasons.
Whether their goals revolve around pro-
viding higher education for their children,
a more comfortable retirement, or a ready
reserve in the event of personal emer-
gency, they all recognize this program as a
safe and convenient means by which to
save.
It is also important to understand the
degree to which our government and our
309
