June 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
unnecessarily delay future VA construc-
tions.
The special provisions of S. 7 which
are the key initiatives of my legislative
program will permit the VA to more fully
and flexibly respond to special needs, par-
ticularly those of Vietnam era veterans
which have not until now been fully and
adequately addressed. Max Cleland, my
VA Administrator, testified 10 years ago
on behalf of psychological readjustment
counseling. I congratulate Senator Alan
Cranston, who has been a tireless cham-
pion for psychological readjustment
counseling legislation for many years and
She was born July 18, 1914, in New
York City. She attended Smith College
and Sir George Williams College.
From 1963 to 1967, Martindell was a
teacher, then reading supervisor, at Miss
Mason's School in Princeton. She was a
New Jersey State senator from 1973 to
1977. Since 1977 she has been Director
of the Office of Foreign Disaster Assist-
ance. She is a member of the Advisory
Council of the Department of Politics at
Princeton University.
deserves great credit for final passage of Department of Energy
this legislation.
The Nation has shown its appreciation
to veterans over the years. With this act
we demonstrate again our recognition of
those contributions. We also give special
tribute to Vietnam era veterans and
demonstrate forcefully that this country
has opened its eyes and its heart to their
unique experience and sacrifice.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 7 is Public Law 96-22,
approved June 13.
United States Ambassador to
New Zealand and Western
Samoa
Nomination of Anne Clark Martindell.
June 14, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Anne Clark Martindell,
of Princeton, N.J., to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to New Zealand and to
Western Samoa. She would replace Armi-
stead I. Selden, Jr., resigned.
Martindell is Director of the Office of
United States Foreign Disaster Assist-
ance.
Nomination of Louis F. Moret To Be Director
of the Office of Minority Economic Impact.
June 14, 1979
The President today announced that he
is nominating Louis F. Moret, of Los
Angeles, Calif., to be Director of the
Office of Minority Economic Impact at
the Energy Department. The President
announced his intention to nominate
Moret for this position on May 5, 1979, in
Los Angeles.
Moret has been Director of the Office
of Minority Business Enterprise at the
Commerce Department since 1977.
He was born October 18, 1944, in Los
Angeles. He received a B.A. in sociology
from Whittier College in 1972 and an
M.P.A. from the University of Southern
California in 1976.
In 1972 Moret was southern California
Chicano coordinator for Hubert H.
Humphrey's Presidential campaign, and
campaign manager for Richard Ala-
torre's campaign for the assembly. In 1975
he was campaign manager for Edward
Avila's campaign for councilman, and
served as vice president for public affairs
for the National Economic Development
Association.
From 1975 to 1976, Moret was affirma-
1040
