Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
tion of these facilities. Egyptian technical
teams will be permitted to observe and
familiarize themselves with the operation
of these facilities for a period of up to two
weeks prior to transfer.
3. When Israel relinquishes Israeli
military water points near El Arish and
El Tor, Egyptian technical teams will as-
sume control of those installations and
ancillary equipment in accordance with
an orderly transfer process arranged be-
forehand by the Joint Commission. Egypt
undertakes to continue to make available
at all water supply points the normal
quantity of currently available water up to
the time Israel withdraws behind the
international boundary, unless otherwise
agreed in the Joint Commission.
4. Israel will make its best effort to re-
move or destroy all military barriers, in-
cluding obstacles and minefields, in the
areas and adjacent waters from which it
withdraws, according to the following con-
cept:
a. Military barriers will be cleared first
from areas near populations, roads, and
major installations and utilities.
b. For those obstacles and minefields
which cannot be removed or destroyed
prior to Israeli withdrawal, Israel will
provide detailed maps to Egypt and the
United Nations through the Joint Com-
mission not later than 15 days before entry
of United Nations forces into the affected
areas.
c. Egyptian military engineers will
enter those areas after United Nations
forces enter to conduct barrier clearance
operations in accordance with Egyptian
plans to be submitted prior to implemen-
tation.
ARTICLE VII
Surveillance Activities
1. Aerial surveillance activities during
the withdrawal will be carried out as
follows:
a. Both Parties request the United
States to continue airborne surveillance
flights in accordance with previous agree-
ments until the completion of final Israeli
withdrawal.
b. Flight profiles will cover the Limited
Forces Zones to monitor the limitations on
forces and armaments, and to determine
that Israeli armed forces have withdrawn
from the areas described in Article II of
Annex I, Article II of this Appendix, and
Maps 2 and 3, and that these forces there-
after remain behind their lines. Special
inspection flights may be flown at the re-
quest of either Party or of the United Na-
tions.
c. Only the main elements in the mili-
tary organizations of each Party, as de-
scribed in Annex I and in this Appendix,
will be reported.
2. Both Parties request the United
States operated Sinai Field Mission to con-
tinue its operations in accordance with
previous agreements until completion of
the Israeli withdrawal from the area east
of the Giddi and Mitla Passes. Thereafter,
the Mission will be terminated.
ARTICLE VIII
Exercise of Egyptian Sovereignty
Egypt will resume the exercise of its full
sovereignty over evacuated parts of the
Sinai upon Israeli withdrawal as provided
for in Article I of this Treaty.
507
