Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
RESPONSIBILITIES OF FEDERAL
PARTICIPANTS
To assure that Federal actions recog-
nize regional differences and facilitate
state, local and private initiatives in ad-
dressing the special problems of balanced
growth which each region faces, I am di-
recting that the following actions be taken
by the Secretary of Commerce, the Fed-
eral departments and agencies, the Fed-
eral Cochairman of the Appalachian and
Title V Regional Commissions, the In-
teragency Coordinating Council and the
Federal Regional Councils:
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE
With respect to the Title V Regional
Commissions, the Secretary of Commerce
is directed to:
1. develop, in consultation with the ap-
propriate parties, guidance for the prepa-
ration of regional plans, investment pro-
grams and growth policy recommenda-
tions. The multi-year regional develop-
ment plans, annual investment programs,
policy recommendations and obstacles to
interagency coordination may be pre-
sented by the Secretary to the heads of
the relevant Federal departments and
agencies through the White House Inter-
agency Coordinating Council;
2. assist each Federal Cochairman of a
regional commission in presenting the
multi-year regional development plan, an-
nual investment program and growth pol-
icy recommendations developed from the
plan; and
3. institute a mechanism for consulta-
tion with Federal Cochairmen regarding
policy and administrative improvements
in the program.
FEDERAL DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES
The head of each Federal department
and agency is directed to:
1. assist and cooperate with the Secre-
tary of Commerce, the Federal Cochair-
men of the Appalachian and Title V
Regional Commissions, and with the
Interagency Coordinating Council in per-
formance of their functions with respect to
the regional growth policy process;
2. administer planning and develop-
ment assistance programs so as to facili-
tate regional and unified state growth
policy processes, and to the extent practi-
cable, support multi-year regional devel-
opment plans and annual investment
programs of the regional commissions
through financial assistance and direct
Federal development activities which are
consistent with such plans; and
3. recognize the mutual agreement of
the governors in each regional commis-
sion that the commission may participate
in the current process for evaluation, re-
view and coordination of Federal and
Federally assisted projects under Part II
of OMB Circular No. A-95. Projects for
review should be referred to the commis-
sion by State clearinghouses according to
procedures jointly prescribed by gover-
nors. I am directing the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget to
propose amendments to OMB Circular
No. A-95 to this effect.
INTERAGENCY COORDINATING COUNCIL
The Chairman of the Interagency Co-
ordinating Council is directed to:
1. work with the Secretary of Com-
merce, the heads of the other federal
departments and agencies, and the Fed-
eral Cochairpersons to overcome obstacles
in carrying out the objectives of this pol-
icy; and
80
