Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
brought about by beef price controls put the Congress, for instance, to develop a
on by the previous Republican adminis-
tration; and other factors over which the
Government nor private industry nor
labor have any control.
But I can say that out of the last 90
wage settlements, 80 of them have been
fully within the wage and price standards.
And we have carefully monitored the 500
largest corporations, all of them and most
of the middle-sized and smaller corpora-
tions, and they are substantially within
the guidelines in establishing their specific
prices. When we identify one that we be-
lieve to be out of compliance, we contact
them directly. And in almost every case so
far, they have voluntarily changed their
prices downward and, in one or two cases,
have even refunded to their customers
overcharges that they had initiated before
we caught them in their violations.
So, I think the essence of it is, things
look better in the future if we are patient.
This is a 10-year inflationary burden.
We're trying to turn it downward, but
everybody is going to have to cooperate.
And now, I understand that Michael
Holmes [Associated Press] has the next
question.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, noting Governor
Brown's plan for limited gas rationing
in California and the ever-increasing de-
mand for energy supplies, is there any way
to convince people to voluntarily con-
serve, or are mandatory controls inevit-
able?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is a way
to convince people voluntarily to control
the waste of energy. I think, first of all,
the Congress is going to have to be con-
vinced.
A few years ago, I was mandated by
standby gasoline rationing plan-not to
be put into effect instantly, but to be de-
veloped very carefully and to make sure
that it's equitable and fair-just to have it
on the shelf if we do have a nationwide
shortage of gasoline. It could then only
be implemented if both the President and
the Congress thought it was necessary. I
think we're going to have to have, per-
haps, a few demonstrable shortages, as is
now being faced in California, to show
that this is necessary.
Another thing that we need to do is
to have mandatory savings programs like
the setting of thermostats in public build-
ings, to hold the temperature no lower
than 80 degrees in the summer and no
higher than 65 degrees in the winter. This
saves a lot of energy.
And I believe there's a tremendous de-
sire on the part of American people to
go back to those simple forms of energy
that I described to the county officials
this morning. For instance, 750,000 Amer-
icans bought wood stoves last year, a very
good move in the right direction.
And we're doing all we can within the
Government to encourage Americans
voluntarily to restrain themselves. We also
have some mandatory laws. I don't have
time to go into all of them. One of them
is a very stringent law that, year-by-year,
will require Detroit and other cities where
automobiles are manufactured to give us
more efficient automobiles. And we are
exploring technology, in cooperation with
them and other manufacturers, to make
the items that use energy, necessary for
us, to be more efficient.
It's a long, tedious process. We've never
had a national energy policy before. The
Congress has courageously addressed this
very difficult issue, and I believe that the
benefits will be obvious in the future. But
797
