Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 4
2. The basis for the talks will be the Maka-
rios/Denktash guidelines of 12 February 1977
and the U.N. resolutions relevant to the Cy-
prus question.
3. There should be respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms of all citizens of the
Republic.
4. The talks will deal with all territorial and
constitutional aspects.
5. Priority will be given to reaching agree-
ment on the resettlement of Varosha under
U.N. auspices simultaneously with the be-
ginning of the consideration by the interlocu-
tors of the constitutional and territorial as-
pects of a comprehensive settlement. After
agreement on Varosha has been reached it will
be implemented without awaiting the outcome
of the discussion on other aspects of the Cyprus
problem.
6. It was agreed to abstain from any action
which might jeopardize the outcome of the
talks, and special importance will be given to
initial practical measures by both sides to pro-
mote goodwill, mutual confidence and the re-
turn to normal conditions.
7. The demilitarization of the Republic of
Cyprus is envisaged, and matters relating
thereto will be discussed.
8. The independence, sovereignty, territorial
integrity and non-alignment of the Republic
should be adequately guaranteed against union
in whole or in part with any other country and
against any form of partition or secession.
9. The intercommunal talks will be carried
out in a continuing and sustained manner,
avoiding any delay.
10. The intercommunal talks will take place
in Nicosia.
National P.O.W.-M.I.A.
Recognition Day, 1979
Proclamation 4664. June 4, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
In each of America's past wars our
prisoners of war have represented a spe-
cial sacrifice. On them has fallen an
added burden of loneliness, trauma, and
hardship. Their burden becomes double
when there is inhumane treatment by the
enemy in violation of common human
compassion, ethical standards, and inter-
national obligations.
The Congress has by Joint Resolution
(Public Law 95-349) designated July 18,
1979, as "National P.O.W.-M.I.A. Rec-
ognition Day."
peace,
As we now enjoy the blessings of
it is appropriate that all Americans recog-
nize the special debt owed those Ameri-
cans held prisoner during wartime. It
also is appropriate that we remember the
unresolved casualties of war, our soldiers
who are missing. The pain and bitterness
of war endures for the families, relatives
and friends of those whose fate is un-
known. Our Nation will continue to seek
answers to the questions that remain
about their fate.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Wednesday, July 18,
1979, as National P.O.W.-M.I.A. Recog-
nition Day, a day dedicated both to all
former American prisoners of war as well
as those still missing and to their families.
I call on all Americans to join on this
occasion in honoring those who made the
special sacrifice of being captive in war,
and their loved ones.
And I call on State and local offi-
cials and private organizations to observe
this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fourth day of June,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-nine, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two
hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:44 p.m., June 4, 1979]
99.9
