Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 22
Egyptian-Israeli Peace
Negotiations
Statement on Action by the Israeli Knesset
Approving a Peace Treaty. March 21, 1979
The Israeli Knesset spoke with a voice
heard around the world today—a voice
for
peace.
We welcome this historic deci-
sion. The overwhelming vote in favor of
the peace treaty between Israel and Egypt
affirms the deep and long-felt desire of the
people of Israel for peace with their neigh-
bors. In taking this action, Israel's de-
mocracy has lived up to its promise, pro-
viding a free and open discussion of all
the issues, and then deciding in favor of
peace.
The bonds of shared values and com-
mon purpose between the United States
and Israel are strong and enduring. The
achievement of peace between Israel and
Egypt will strengthen even more our rela-
tions with these two partners in peace
and
help move toward a stable, cooperative,
and peaceful future for all the peoples of
the Middle East.
Convention on International
Civil Aviation
Message to the Senate Transmitting Protocols
to the Convention. March 22, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for advice and con-
sent of the Senate to ratification and ac-
ceptance, respectively, the following two
related Protocols:
-The Protocol Relating to an Amend-
ment to the Convention on International
Civil Aviation (Chicago, 1944), done at
Montreal September 30, 1977.
-The Protocol on the Authentic
Quadrilingual Text of the Convention on
International Civil Aviation (Chicago,
1944), with annex, done at Montreal
September 30, 1977.
I also transmit, for the information of the
Senate, the Report of the Department of
State with regard to these Protocols.
The 1944 Chicago Convention estab-
lishes the International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO) and a framework
for the safe and reasonable conduct of
international civil aviation. The 1977
Protocols are designed to permit the
establishment of an authentic Russian
language text of the Chicago Convention
on an equal footing with the English,
French and Spanish texts, which are cur-
rently the only existing authentic texts.
The U.S.S.R. has been a Party to the Chi-
cago Convention since November 14,
1970, and Russian has been an official
working language at ICAO since early
1972.
Additionally, several other Eastern
European States use Russian in ICAO.
While these Protocols impose no new sub-
stantive obligations on the United States,
they would appear to be quite important
in facilitating the complete integration of
the Russian language speaking States, or
States which use Russian for aviation pur-
poses, into the international civil aviation
community. I therefore recommend that
the Senate give early and favorable con-
sideration to these Protocols and advice
and consent to their respective ratifica-
tion and acceptance.
The White House,
March 22, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
449
