Feb. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
as expressed by Mr. Deng. Our purpose,
our goal, I would say, perhaps the most
important responsibility I have on my
shoulders as President is to preserve peace
in the world, and especially to have good,
sound relationships with the Soviet Union,
based on a common desire for peace,
which I am sure they share. We are work-
ing now every day to try to hammer out
a SALT agreement with the Soviet Union.
They have negotiated in good faith. So
have we. This does not mean, however,
that there are not areas of contention and
areas where we have peaceful competition
with the Soviet Union. This is expectable,
and I think it will continue for many years
in the future.
I don't have any inclination to con-
demn the Soviets as a people or even as a
government. We'll explore in every way
we can a way to carry out the purposes
and honor the principles of our own Na-
tion, to compete with the Soviet Union's
people and government leaders peaceably
when necessary, but to seek with them as
much friendship, cooperation, trade as
possible under those circumstances.
VISIT TO MEXICO
Q. Mr. President, in that you're going
to Mexico, I'd like to ask a question on
that subject. Given their new-found oil re-
serves and given the fact that you want
to discuss such things as illegal aliens and
trade, don't they have you pretty much
over a barrel-pardon the bad pun—
[laughter]—on the matter of illegal
aliens, which they don't consider illegal,
and on their protective trade rules, if we
want any of their energy?
THE PRESIDENT. That's one of the rea-
sons for going to Mexico is to explore the
possibilities for resolving these acknowl-
edged differences of opinion between our
people and theirs. My goal will be to pro-
tect the interests of my Nation and the
people whom I represent, and at the same
time, obviously, to deal with the Mexicans
openly and fairly and to understand and
to honor the sensitivities that exist with-
in that
in that great country.
I'm sworn by oath to enforce the laws
of our Nation, including immigration
laws, to stop smuggling at the border, and
in many areas those goals are compatible
with the desires of the Mexican people
and the Mexican Government. They've
cooperated with us superbly, for instance,
in stopping the illicit traffic in heroin. And
I believe that this is one indication of
how we can cooperate.
We are very proud of the recent dis-
coveries of oil and natural gas in Mexico.
Obviously, a burgeoning, improving
economic situation in Mexico will
pro-
vide hundreds of thousands of new
jobs that will lessen the pressure on some
of them to seek employment in our coun-
try. And I want to make sure that we
minimize any illegalities relating to the
border, and I want to make sure that when
people are in our country, whether they
are here as citizens or not, that we pro-
tect their basic human rights.
Another question about energy that you
asked a decision on how much to ex-
plore, produce, and sell oil and natural
gas
is a decision to be made exclusively
by the Mexican people. We are interested
in purchasing now and perhaps in the fu-
ture even more oil and natural
gas from
Mexico. We'll negotiate with them in
good faith. We'll pay them a fair price.
We'd like to have those policies be pre-
dictable on delivery dates and also on
price schedules. And we'll try to be a good
customer. But we have no inclination to
force them to give us a special privilege
nor to do anything that would be dam-
aging to the well-being of the Mexican
people.
260
