Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 28
Asian/Pacific American
Heritage Week, 1979
Proclamation 4650. March 28, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
America's greatness-its ideals, its sys-
tem of government, its economy, its peo-
ple-derives from the contribution of
peoples of many origins who come to our
land seeking human liberties or eco-
nomic opportunity. Asian-Americans have
played a significant role in the creation of
a dynamic and pluralistic America, with
their enormous contributions to our
science, arts, industry, government and
commerce.
Unfortunately, we have not always fully
appreciated the talents and the con-
tributions which Asian-Americans have
brought to the United States. Until
recently, our immigration and naturaliza-
tion laws discriminated against them.
They were also subjected to discrimina-
tion in education, housing, and employ-
ment. And during World War II our
Japanese-American citizens were treated
with suspicion and fear.
Yet, Asians of diverse origins from
China, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, and
Southeast Asia-continued to look to
America as a land of hope, opportunity,
and freedom.
At last their confidence in the United
States has been justified. We have suc-
ceeded in removing the barriers to full
participation in American life, and we
welcome the newest Asian immigrants to
our shores-refugees from Indochina dis-
placed by political, and social upheavals.
Their successful integration into Ameri-
can society and their positive and active
participation in our national life demon-
strates the soundness of America's policy
of continued openness to peoples from
Asia and the Pacific.
The Ninety-fifth Congress has re-
quested the President by House Joint Res-
olution 1007, approved October 5, 1978,
to designate the seven-day period begin-
ning on May 4, 1979, as "Asian/Pacific
American Heritage Week."
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
declare the week beginning on May 4,
1979, as Asian/Pacific American Heritage
Week. I call upon the people of the
United States, especially the educational
community, to observe this week with ap-
propriate ceremonies and activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-eighth day
of March, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:47 a.m., March 28, 1979]
National Nursing Home Week,
May 13-20, 1979
Message of the President. March 28, 1979
The conscientious, considerate care
provided in American nursing homes is
essential to the well-being of a large num-
ber of our valued older citizens. Over the
years we have come to realize more fully
just how important the excellence of nurs-
ing home care is to us and to our families.
The state of nursing homes today is
a far cry from the situation that existed
in the early part of this century. Many
health professionals in nursing homes to-
549
