Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
cluding civil service reform, which will
help provide better incentives for produc-
tive work by Federal officials.
• An Executive Order establishing a
White House led Interagency Coordinat-
ing Council. This is a new mechanism for
resolving conflicts among agencies and
community programs, providing a com-
prehensive Administration-wide response
to coordinated State and local develop-
ment strategies.
• The Assistant Secretaries' Working
Group on Rural Development to work
on major, long-standing rural problems,
through links to the White House and the
Interagency Coordinating Council.
• Coordination of project investment
activities and joint applications among
domestic departments. Commerce and
HUD are working toward streamlined
economic development planning
planning re-
quirements.
• Coordination of Federal programs to
target on special rural problems. Some of
the results to date are:
-EPA and Agriculture will give pri-
ority in existing loan and grant programs
to rural towns to comply with the Safe
Drinking Water Act.
-HEW and Agriculture have agreed
that Agriculture will target a share of its
community facilities loans to make pos-
sible the construction, renovation and
equipping of some 300 rural primary
health care clinics. The Department of
Labor will support training to enable
people to work in these clinics. In all, over
13.5 million previously medically under-
served Americans in rural areas will now
have greater access to care.
-EPA, EDA, HUD, and FmHA have
adopted procedures for improving the
coordination and delivery of rural water
and sewer services, with emphasis on
paperwork reduction (e.g., single applica-
tions, consolidated reporting and auditing
requirements), simplified compliance re-
quirements for the host of Federal laws
applicable to water and sewer construc-
tion, joint agency training seminars and
technical assistance materials, a common
data base for needs assessments, and joint
agency consultation with applicant com-
munities to ensure that proposed facilities
are affordable and suited to local needs. A
companion agreement between DOL and
EPA has resulted in the training of 1,750
workers in the water and wastewater
treatment field to meet critical rural short-
ages in this rapidly expanding job market.
Agreement between the Department
of Transportation and the Environmental
Protection Agency on a joint planning and
funding process for air quality and trans-
portation planning.
Joint development and implementa-
tion of a public transportation assistance
program in rural areas and small cities by
the Federal Highway Administration and
Urban Mass Transportation Adminis-
tration.
A "zero-based" review of Federal
planning requirements governing receipt
of Federal grants by State and local gov-
ernments. This has produced:
-Demonstration programs in up to
five States permitting a single integrated
planning and budgeting process to sub-
stitute for HEW's multiple planning pro-
cedures.
-Annual program plans required by
HUD are being replaced with triennial
plans with annual updates.
-Approximately 165 of the more than
300 EPA planning requirements will be
consolidated or simplified.
-State/EPA agreements will be nego-
tiated to develop an integrated approach
to solving water supply, solid waste, and
water pollution control problems.
-Agreement between DOT and
Farmers Home Administration to coordi-
75
