Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The recommendations are broad-based.
They encompass many elements of de-
cisionmaking which have been made
much easier because of their fine work.
And I think the messages that I will send,
although brief, are certainly worthy of the
examination of all those interested in the
future of our country.
One of the most important decisions
that everyone reached was the necessity
for government to do everything it can
to strengthen the American private econ-
omy and to minimize any adverse effect
of government action or regulation which
might work counter to a strong free
enterprise system.
We have studied with care the need
for the continuation of the regional com-
missions and decided that they are needed.
We've analyzed many major programs
that the Congress has been considering
the first 2 years of my own administration,
like energy impact, and made recommen-
dations accordingly.
We are determined to improve the
quality of life in our Nation. Foreign ex-
ports have not been adequately encour-
aged in our country. There's not a sense
within the business community or the
general populace, my administration, or
the Congress, even, of the importance of
enhanced and increasing exports of
American goods.
I think we have made substantial prog-
ress in agricultural products. But I
asked the chairman of the National Gov-
ernors' Association, this past year, to con-
sider forming a special committee com-
prised of Governors, who would work
closely with me, with the Secretary of
Commerce, with the State Department,
and others, to concentrate on improving
trade with foreign nations. And this com-
mittee has now been established. It's al-
ready being briefed and instructed, and
I'm sure it will be a new addition to the
American political scene which will be
very valuable.
Governor George Busbee has been ap-
pointed by the Chairman to head up this
committee. We've asked the Governors
and mayors and county officials particu-
larly to concentrate on energy conserva-
tion and development of our own energy
resources, to build up the economic base
of individual communities, and also to as-
sure that transportation facilities are
adequate, both now and in the future.
We trust that the regional commissions
will continue to encourage better coordi-
nation of efforts among States who occupy
a particular region of our country. Ob-
viously, there will be some competition
among States-that's inevitable for new
industry, for jobs, for export opportuni-
ties. But the benefits to be derived jointly
among States by cooperation and con-
sultation and common planning are
substantial.
I think the recommendations of this
White House Conference were poten-
tially very divisive, but because of their
sound and constructive approach and the
close consultation that was held not only
in Washington but prior to the conference
itself, throughout the country, the recom-
mendations are very sound. They are sub-
stantive and aggressive and innovative
and helpful. But they're not radical
enough to cause a complete aversion
among Americans to their recommenda-
tions.
The final thing I'd like to say is that we
have substantially enhanced the degree
of strength of the system of federalism in
our country. The mayors and Governors
are now playing a much stronger role in
their interrelationship with the Federal
Government in all its aspects. This has not
always been the case in the recent past.
But as we evolve programs now that affect
the growth of our country, balanced
66
