Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
economic summit in Bonn in 1978, and
more recently in Washington, I discussed
the importance of intensifying joint energy
research and development with the Presi-
dent of the European Economic Com-
munity. Similarly, in my discussions with
the Prime Minister of Japan we agreed to
increase cooperation in large-scale proj-
ects, particularly nuclear fusion and syn-
thetic fuel production from coal. These
agreements will help both nations achieve
new energy sources-faster and at lower
cost than if the research were pursued
independently.
Environmental problems caused by in-
dustrialization are another area appro-
priate for cooperation. During my Ad-
ministration we have started efforts with
other nations to deal with problems of
transboundary air pollution. Canadian
and American scientists, for example, are
working jointly to alleviate damage from
acid rain caused by the long-range pol-
lutants across our common border.
During my visit this February with
Mexico's President José López Portillo,
we agreed to intensify scientific and tech-
nological cooperation to alleviate prob-
lems of mutual concern. We will explore
ways to cooperate on research for devel-
oping the vast arid lands on both sides
of our border. This will include research
on new crops suitable for these lands and
research on effective use of scarce water
resources. We also will exchange infor-
mation and begin joint work on housing
and urban planning for cities close to our
common border.
DEVELOPING SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES THAT
BRIDGE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN COUNTRIES
Most nations value scientific and tech-
nological cooperation with the United
States. We can use this fact to build
bridges with countries where official rela-
tionships have been absent or strained.
Our scientific and health exchanges with
the Soviet Union and Eastern European
countries, beginning after World War II,
can be viewed in this light. These ex-
changes are now mature and extensive.
Our scientific exchanges with the So-
viet Union are of special significance. At
the sixth meeting of the U.S.-Soviet Joint
Commission on Science and Technology
in Moscow in February 1979, we agreed
to add new cooperative areas of interest
to both sides. I expect to see continuing
improvement in the quality of our ex-
changes with the Soviet Union. I also ex-
pect these programs to support and re-
main compatible with our overall politi-
cal relationship.
The normalization of our relations with
the Peoples Republic of China is a major
event in American foreign policy. Since
the signing of the Shanghai Communique
of 1972, scientific and technological re-
lationships have played a critical role in
building the relationship. In order to ac-
celerate this process, my Science and
Technology Adviser led a delegation of
senior government scientists to China in
July of 1978. This delegation was followed
by visits of the Secretaries of Energy and
Agriculture. Chinese delegations subse-
quently visited the United States to dis-
cuss educational exchanges and space
technology programs.
These missions led to the science and
technology agreement that I signed with
Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping during his
recent visit to the United States. The
agreement covers programs of interest to
both countries, including development of
a satellite communications system that
will provide China with the means for
nationwide television and telephone serv-
ice. The agreement provides for exchange
of scholars and students, exchange of
539
