Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 25
Tomorrow, I'm submitting to the Con-
gress a comprehensive proposal to reduce,
to rationalize, and to streamline the reg-
ulatory burden throughout American life.
And I want to speak to you very briefly
about that legislation today.
The call for regulatory reform is not a
demand that all regulation be abolished;
it's a call for common sense. And I be-
lieve that most Americans do support re-
sponsible regulation to provide equal op-
portunity for employment, a clean envi-
ronment, safe drugs and food, a healthy
workplace, and a competitive market-
place.
Because of responsible regulation, the
air we breathe is cleaner today; our auto-
mobiles are safer and they burn less gaso-
line; millions of American workers have
won new protections against injury and
cancer. And I understand that for the
first time in 20 years, fish are now swim-
ming in places like the Connecticut River
and the Houston Ship Channel. Both the
American people and I, as President, are
determined to continue the progress that
we've made toward these social goals.
Our challenge is to pursue the legiti-
mate goals of regulation in ways that are
rational, predictable, and effective. For
far too long, we have acted as if we could
throw another law or another rule at
every problem in our society without
thinking seriously about the consequences
of it.
When I came to Washington a little
more than 2 years ago, I found a regu-
latory assembly line which churned out
new rules, paperwork, regulations, and
forms without plan, without direction
and, seemingly, without supervision or
control.
With the best of intentions, 90 separate
regulatory agencies were issuing 7,000
new rules every single year. These rules
affect teachers, truckdrivers, broadcast-
ers, farmers, small business, and local
gov-
ernment. But no one had stopped to say,
"Does each of these rules make sense?
Does it do the job? How much does it
cost, and is there a cheaper way to achieve
goals just as effectively?"
The FCC now requires 18 million man-
hours each year from broadcasters to fill
out the paperwork imposed by its rules
and regulations. Perhaps you've noticed
this already. [Laughter] But Chairman
Charlie Ferris is working to reduce that
load through a zero-based review of every
FCC rule and regulation.
I know that he will succeed in this
effort to reduce paperwork. He has my
full support. And he also, of course, needs
your support.
For too many Americans, today's con-
tact with government at every level means
a bewildering mass of paperwork, bu-
reaucracy, and delay. And the costs of
compliance with government regulations
has been steadily on the rise. It eats up
productivity and capital for new invest-
ment. It adds to inflation, and the burdens
often fall most heavily on those who are
least able to bear those burdens-small
businesses, local government, nonprofit
organizations.
Our society's resources in this country
are vast, but they are certainly not in-
finite. Americans are willing to spend a
fair share of those resources to achieve
social goals through regulation, but they
want their money's worth. They will not
support and I will not permit-need-
less rules, excessive costs, duplication,
overlap, and waste.
It's time that we take control of Fed-
eral regulations in America, instead of
regulations continuing to control us. As
483
