Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
I will then consider asking either Prime
Minister Khalil or President Sadat to
join in further discussions. I recognize
that the public interest in this matter is
intense. However, I have made it clear in
the past that any premature public dis-
cussions of these very sensitive issues serve
no useful purpose. For that reason, I will
have no further comments to make on the
Mideast peace negotiations this afternoon,
but I will be happy to answer any further
questions on other matters of interest to
the American public.
QUESTIONS
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Well, Mr. President, I really think
you should answer a couple of questions.
One, are you saying that Camp David is
back on track or you are trying to get it
on? And also, were you led to believe by
your own advisers or by the Israeli offi-
cials that Begin would come, or did you
labor under some false assumption on
your part?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't have any other
questions to answer on that subject. I
think I've covered it adequately. And
Prime Minister Begin is making a simul-
taneous announcement in Israel, and I
don't think it would be constructive for
me to answer any questions further.
INFLATION AND ENERGY PRICES
Q. Mr. President, does the escalating
price of oil and gasoline, which is continu-
ing-does that cause you to have any
second thoughts now about your predic-
tion of inflation for the year?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, the unpre-
dictable shortage of oil on the inter-
national market, caused by the Iranian
disruption of supply and other fac-
tors, have caused the price of energy
to go up faster than we had antici-
pated. This adds inflationary pressures.
The situation with supplies and prices is
serious; it's not critical.
I have made proposals to the Congress
for standby authority to take action, when
necessary in the future, on a mandatory
basis. Early next month we will present to
the Congress, also for their approval, mat-
ters that I can take-action that I can
take to deal with the temporary Iranian
disruption.
As you know, we had in 1973 about a
22 million barrel-a-day shortage brought
about by the embargo. We now have a
shortage of about 2 million barrels per
day. But I think it's accurate to say that
our own country and the international
consuming nations, including us,
much better organized to take care of
these changes that have been taking place.
So, inflationary pressures do exceed what
we had anticipated. I think we are much
better prepared to deal with them.
CONDUCT OF FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, some of your critics
are saying that you are exhibiting weak-
ness and impotency in your conduct of
foreign affairs, that is, in your reaction to
crises around the world. And although
you argue that your policy is one of pru-
dent restraint, is there not something to
the idea that the perception itself adds to
the problem of this country's interests?
And, if so, is there anything you can do
about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, percep-
tions have some importance in political
terms and also in diplomatic terms. There
is no doubt in my mind that the United
States is adequately protecting its own in-
terests, that we are adequately protecting
the interests of our allies and friends as
commitments bind us to do. We've had
347
