May 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
structure based on the free enterprise sys-
tem which I cherish.
Among the average American con-
sumer, that has not been the case. In
spite of the large amount of publicity that
has swept the Nation, indeed the whole
world, in the last 12 months about energy
shortages, the consumption of gasoline,
for instance, continues to rise quite
rapidly. It's much higher now than it was
in California a year ago. And I think
there's a general sense among American
people that the issue's going to go away.
But conservation is obviously the best
approach, if we can ever induce the
American people to recognize the need
for conservation, to hold down thermostat
settings, to obey the 55-mile-per-hour
speed limit, to cut off unnecessary con-
sumers of energy, equipment, to eliminate
unnecessary trips; that's not yet been
done. I see no indication of it being done
so far in our country. The second thing
that we can do, obviously, is to increase
American production of oil, gas,
and other
energy sources. And, of course, the third
thing is to shift toward more permanent
types of energy, replenishable energy
sources, and to increase the production
and use of coal.
We have been addressing this issue in
a fruitless way, almost, for the last 2 years.
The Congress has a law on the books
that gives me the authority as of June 1
to decontrol oil if I choose. I have an-
nounced that over a 28-month period,
step by step, carefully phased, oil prices
will be decontrolled. In October of 1971
[1981],ยน the control law expires. And
rather than having a peremptory decon-
trol of all energy prices overnight, which
would have an adverse impact and un-
controllable inflationary pressure on our
economy, my judgment was to phase out
ยน Printed in the transcript.
controls carefully in a predictable and
controllable fashion. And I do not want
the increase in oil prices to go to enrich
the oil companies.
I have no animosity against the oil
companies, but I believe that their profits
are adequate. And as these prices are
decontrolled, the oil companies will reap
an additional income, about 29 cents on
each dollar of price increase, which
amounts to about $6 billion over the
period. And this can be used, in addition
to the present oil company profits, for
substantial increases in exploration and
production of American oil and natural
gas.
We need additional money in the Fed-
eral Treasury earmarked for the specific
problem that I've described to you. There
are some very poor families in our Nation
who will have to suffer personally if the
decontrol results in an increased price of
energy when their budgets are severely
limited. That's one need that I am deter-
mined to meet.
The second need that I am determined
to meet is to provide some alternate trans-
portation for people in urban areas other
than automobiles. And so, an additional
supply of money is needed to increase even
beyond what we are presently doing for
rapid transit.
And the third need, of course, is for the
Government itself to embark upon a sub-
stantial research and development pro-
gram that would build year by year, in ad-
dition to what we've already got going
now. So, we've advocated to the Congress,
that began hearings last week on the 9th
of May, a windfall profits tax which
would leave the oil companies about 29
cents out of every dollar. We would tax the
increase in price above and beyond what
it would have been, plus future increases
on OPEC prices, and establish an energy
security fund. And that fund would be
864
