Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I don't think
there's any doubt that the most urgent
remaining issue for us to resolve on the
domestic scene is the control of inflation.
We have been very disappointed with re-
cent statistics on inflationary pressures.
They've been brought about to a great
degree by oil prices and energy prices.
I think it's important that we adhere to
the strict interpretation and the principle
of the voluntary wage and price guide-
lines. Most of the wage settlements-and
there have been hundreds of them in the
last 6 months-have been within the
wage guidelines. And most of the large
corporations, the so-called Fortune 500,
have adhered rigidly to the price guide-
lines.
But we are getting more and more ef-
fective in our ability to monitor and to
encourage compliance with the guide-
lines, and I believe it's important that for
the next few months we stick with them.
I believe that we will see a turn very
shortly in the inflationary trend down-
ward, and we will continue to devote our
utmost ability to this goal.
Q. Are you saying, Mr. President, that
the guidelines should be enough?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's not just the
guidelines, obviously. We are also work-
ing to cut down, for instance, the Federal
deficit, to control inflation. We're also
trying to remove redtape and Govern-
ment regulation which adds to inflation.
We're trying to encourage the American
people, because of patriotic inclinations,
to do everything they can within the fam-
ily structure and within a business, indi-
vidually, to cut down on inflation. And
we're trying to reduce the importation of
excessive amounts of goods from overseas
compared to what we export. We're try-
ing to strengthen the American dollar.
We're doing everything we can to hold
down OPEC oil price increases.
So, these things all go together. And I
think there must be a recognition that
no single scapegoat can be found and it's
counterproductive for any American, in-
cluding a President, to try to find some-
one else on whom to blame the cause of
inflation. It requires a joint effort, a con-
sistent effort, a persistent effort, and we
shouldn't give up just because we have a
few weeks of adverse statistics come
forward.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
Q. Mr. President, in view of the Three
Mile Island nuclear accident, and the
dangers that it exposed to the public-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. are you still as strong an ad-
vocate of nuclear power as you were, and
are you going to still pursue this business
of speeding up the licensing of nuclear
plants?
THE PRESIDENT. The fact is that we
now derive about 12 or 13 percent of our
total energy supplies in the United States
from nuclear power. I'll be establishing
very quickly a Presidential commission
to look into the causes of the accident at
Three Mile Island. I've not yet decided
on the chairman of that commission, nor
the members. But it will be done expedi-
tiously. They will present a report to me
and, obviously, to the American people
and to the Congress on the causes of the
accident and how we can strengthen
safety standards, better design techniques,
and also operating procedures to make
safety better in the future.
There is no way for us to abandon the
nuclear supply of energy in our country
in the foreseeable future. I think it does
not contribute to safety to have a bureau-
cratic nightmare or maze of redtape as
licensing and siting decisions are made.
So, I think anything that we can do to
650
