Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to which long-suffering people of this
region are entitled.
There is simply no workable alternative
to the course that your nation and my
nation are now following together. The
conclusion of a treaty between Israel and
Egypt will enable your government to
mobilize its resources not for war, but for
the provision of a better life for every
Egyptian.
I know how deeply President Sadat is
committed to that quest. And I believe its
achievement will ultimately be his greatest
legacy to the people he serves so well.
My government, for its part, the full
power and influence of the United States
of America, is ready to share that burden
of that commitment with you. These
gains which we envision will not come
quickly or easily, but they will come.
The conclusion of the peace treaty that
we are discussing will strengthen cooper-
ation between Egypt and the United
States in other ways. I fully share and will
support President Sadat's belief that sta-
bility must be maintained in this part of
the world, even while constructive change
is actively encouraged. He and I recog-
nize that the security of this vital region
is being challenged. I applaud his deter-
mination to meet that challenge, and my
government will stand with him.
Our policy is that each nation should
have the ability to defend itself, so that it
does not have to depend on external alli-
ances for its own security. The United
States does not seek a special position for
itself.
If we are successful in our efforts to
conclude a comprehensive peace, it will
be presented, obviously, each element of
it, to this body for ratification.
It is in the nature of negotiation that
no treaty can be ideal or perfect from ei-
ther the Egyptian or the Israeli point of
view. The question we've faced all along,
however, is not whether the treaty we ne-
gotiate will meet all the immediate de-
sires of each of the two parties, but
whether it will protect the vital interests
of both and further the cause of peace for
all the states and all the peoples of this
region. That is the basic purpose and the
most difficult question which we are re-
solved to answer.
Such a treaty, such an agreement, is
within our grasp. Let us seize this oppor-
tunity while we have it.
We who are engaged in this great work,
the work of peace, are of varied religious
faiths. Some of us are Moslems; some are
Jews; some are Christians. The forms of
our faith are different. We worship the
same God. And the message of Provi-
dence has always been the same.
I would like to quote the words of the
Holy Koran: "If thine adversary incline
towards peace, do thou also incline to-
wards peace and trust in God, for he is
the one that heareth and knoweth all
things."
Now I would like to quote from the
words of the Old Testament: "Depart
from evil and do good; seek peace, and
pursue it."
And now I would like to quote from
the words of Jesus in the Sermon on the
Mount: "Blessed are the peacemakers,
for they shall be called the children of
God."
My friends, my brothers, let us com-
plete the work before us. Let us find peace
together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1 p.m.
Following his address, the President hosted a
luncheon for President Sadat at the Mena
House in Giza.
414
