Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
And those long-range trends of trans-
portation development-rail, other sur-
face transportation, water transportation,
air transportation-as it relates to eco-
nomic growth and development, educa-
tion, environmental quality-these kinds
of things, the husbanding of our own
natural resources, are so closely inter-
twined on a long-range basis that this just
gives us a blueprint or basis from which
we can now make much more substantive
progress.
Again, my overwhelming sense of the
moment is one of gratitude for all of you
who've served with very little public
recognition, but served in a way that's
vital and very beneficial to our own
country.
Thank you again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
White House Conference on
Balanced National Growth
and Economic Development
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. January 19, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In fulfillment of a requirement of P.L.
94-487, October 12, 1976, I am trans-
mitting my report on the White House
Conference on Balanced National Growth
and Economic Development. For many
weeks preceding the final Conference,
there were State and regional Confer-
ences organized like town meetings, giv-
ing citizens and elected officials an oppor-
tunity to exchange views on the critical
issues of growth and development. Held
in Washington on January 29 through
February 2, 1978, the Conference was
attended by more than 700 individuals
from all parts of the country.
An important outcome of the Confer-
ence was the general agreement among
the delegates that no massive new Federal
spending programs were needed. Instead,
they called for more effective govern-
ment, more balanced decisions, and a real
partnership among levels of government
and the private sector in meeting persist-
ent social and economic problems. This
theme has been an invaluable guide in
helping shape the growth and develop-
ment policies of my administration.
We are indebted to those who partici-
pated in the Conference. It could have
been so controversial or so sterile that no
useful purpose was served. Instead, it pro-
vided many constructive insights to help
shape future growth and development
policy in this country.
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
"SHARED RESPONSIBILITY FOR GROWTH
AND DEVELOPMENT"
The President's Message to Congress on
his Recommendations and Findings on
the White House Conference on Bal-
anced National Growth and Economic
Development
I. INTRODUCTION
The White House Conference on Bal-
anced National Growth and Economic
Development involved a broad spectrum
of American society in considering and
formulating national policy of funda-
mental concern to our people. At every
level of government, such meetings are
essential elements of the democratic proc-
ess, assuring that elected officials remain
in touch with those whom we represent.
A White House Conference concerning
planning, growth, and economic develop-
ment could have been either so contro-
69
