Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 10
dangered, from interposing the American
Pacific Fleet between the island and the
Mainland. And there's certainly nothing
to prevent a future President or Congress
from even going to war, if they choose, to
protect the people of Taiwan, or to pro-
tect any other people in the country
[world]¹ that we look on with favor. So,
we still have complete flexibility to deal
with that kind of conjectural possibility if
we choose.
FARM PRICES
Q. Mr. President, Jeanie Stream, KSIB
Radio, Creston, Iowa. Quite obviously,
the farmers came to Washington this
week. Can you tell me if you think the de-
mands for 90 percent parity are reason-
able?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, I think the
farmers have a right not only to come to
Washington but to demonstrate when they
disagree with Government policy, or feel
that they've been abused in getting an
equitable treatment in our economic
system.
I think the American Agricultural
Movement, a year or two ago, when it
was first formed, effectively dramatized
the plight of farmers. The new agricul-
ture bill went into effect in October of
1977. It has worked very well. There is
no possibility of the Congress or I ap-
proving action which would lead to an
across-the-board 90 percent of parity
payment for all crops.
Did I answer your question?
REGISTRATION FOR THE DRAFT
Q. Mr. President, Howard Kelley
from WTLV in Jacksonville, [Florida].
Ten days ago, Secretary Brown indicated
that we ought to start considering regis-
tering 18-year-old men in case we need
them for the military. He said while
¹ Printed in the transcript.
we're at it, we ought to start registering
women, too. Do you agree?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think I agree.
If we register persons for future use in
some form in our country, it would prob-
ably be inevitable that we'd register both.
But that doesn't mean that women will
be drafted, or that men will be drafted
to go into the Armed Forces. Secretary
Brown gave me a brief memorandum and
said that we ought to explore the advis-
ability in some way of having a record for
possible drafting during any emergency
of people in certain age groups. And I
think if we register men, that the women
should be registered as well. But I don't
anticipate this happening.
FEDERAL AID TO CITIES
Q. Mr. President, Rick Beyer, from
Gary, Indiana. Gary and other mid-sized
American cities are in an economically
depressed time. And they have a feeling
that because while their costs rise, they
have very little control over taxes and
control over their revenues, that they are
very dependent upon the Federal Gov-
ernment. And this is particularly true in
Indiana, where the State has imposed a
tax-
THE PRESIDENT. You're talking about
the city government officials now?
Q. Yes, I am—for instance, the mayor
and deputy mayor of Gary. They feel it's
especially true in Indiana now, where
there's a State-imposed tax freeze, and
the city cannot raise its income from any
sort of taxes. They feel that they are
dependent upon the Federal Government
and that when the Federal Government
gives a lot of money to cities, that they
are better off when the money stays the
same or increases in real terms, and you
still have inflation, that they become
somewhat worse off.
249
