Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
power to keep this precious peace. But let
there be no mistake, our will and our
determination are firm; our commitment
to protecting our vital interest is unshak-
able. We must, therefore, be very clear
about where our true interests lie.
In Iran, our interest is to see its people
independent, able to develop, according
to their own design, free from outside
interference either by us or from any
other power. In Southeast Asia, our in-
terest is to promote peace and the with-
drawal of outside forces and not to be-
come embroiled in conflict among Asian
Communist nations. And, in general, our
interest is to promote the health and the
development of individual societies, not
to a pattern cut exactly like ours in the
United States, but tailored rather to the
hopes and the needs and the desires of
the peoples involved.
To these ends we will broaden our co-
operation with our friends in the Middle
East and Southeast Asia, supporting their
efforts to maintain national stability and
independence. We'll consult closely with
Congress to determine the need for addi-
tional military aid in this troubled region
of the Middle East, to be used where it
can be most effective. And we have called
and will call on our allies to help when-
ever they can or will, working in partner-
ship with us.
We are working hard for peace be-
tween Israel and her neighbors and also
in other troubled areas of the world. In
the future, I feel sure we will find de-
mands on the United States to be increas-
ing and not diminishing. We continue to
bear the burdens of maintaining a strong
defense, of supporting traditional allies
who depend upon us, and working to re-
duce the spread of conventional and
nuclear weapons.
But we also face a twilight world of
change and sometimes of turmoil. We
will increasingly be called upon to deal
with events that do not represent basic
challenges to our security, but still which
require the responsible use of American
influence and American power.
We have the strength and the will to
act where need be, and I'm confident
that as a nation we have the wisdom to
act wisely.
That's my responsibility in brief terms,
a responsibility which you share with me.
Now, I'd like to answer any questions
that you might have for a few minutes.
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, my name is Croskery,
from Cincinnati. I'd like to know what
we're going to do to ensure the stability
of small oil-producing states in the Mid-
dle East during this time of instability in
that part of the world?
THE PRESIDENT. I've just sent Secre-
tary of Defense Brown into that region,
as you know, to meet with the leaders of
four nations: Saudi Arabia, Jordan,
Egypt, and Israel. We have the top of-
ficials of Oman here consulting this last
few days with Secretary Vance. And in
the Emirates, in Bahrain, and other small
countries we've assured them that our
influence, our power as a nation will be
used to preserve the basic security of that
region free from any outside political or
military power.
We are trying to bring them together in
a spirit of peace and harmony and a rec-
ognition that their own national inde-
pendence ought to be preserved by them
and also preserved by us.
As I said in my brief remarks earlier,
I am consulting with the Congress now,
based on the reports that Harold Brown
brought back, about how we might in-
crease to some degree our military assist-
312
