Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Higher Education
Last year, I signed into law the Middle
Income Student Assistance Act, which ex-
tends Federal student aid to middle in-
come families facing rising college tuition
costs. I propose to fully fund the Basic
Grants program and to continue funding
for the other college student aid programs.
This year I will propose reauthorization
of our omnibus higher education legisla-
tion-the Higher Education Act and
the National Defense Education Act.
Through renewal of these acts, we can
help enormously to ensure the continua-
tion of strong higher education institu-
tions and equal educational opportunities
for all students.
Our Nation owes a debt of gratitude to
the historically black colleges, which in
the past were the only source of college
education for talented blacks, and which
today retain a critical importance to the
production of college-educated black citi-
zens. One-half of all college-educated
blacks earned their degrees at black col-
leges. I have vowed that I would enhance
the role of black colleges during my term
in office. I recently directed all Federal
agencies to utilize more fully the resources
at black colleges. And, in my FY '80
budget I have increased funding for
Howard University, and asked for $120
million to fully fund the Developing Insti-
tutions Program, which strengthens col-
leges with high concentrations of minority
students.
Science and Technology
When I came into office, I found Fed-
eral efforts to promote basic research and
development lagging. I was determined
to change this situation and develop a
sounder scientific and technological foun-
dation for the future. Basic scientific re-
search and development is an investment
in the Nation's future, essential for all
fields, from health, agriculture, and envi-
ronment to energy, space, and defense. We
are enhancing the search for the causes
of disease; we are undertaking research to
anticipate and prevent significant envi-
ronmental hazards; we are increasing re-
search in astronomy; we will maintain our
leadership in space science; and we are
pushing back the frontiers in basic re-
search for energy, defense and other criti-
cal national needs. Despite the severe
budgetary constraints this year, we will
continue to increase Federal support for
basic research with a request for a 13%
increase in outlays for FY '80.
Even though Federal funding for basic
research is being increased, I believe that
the government's role in demonstration
and commercialization pilot projects
should be more selective, with greater re-
liance upon private sector financing. We
are enhancing our high technology ap-
proach to defense to counter the growth
of Soviet forces. We have a broad energy
research program that emphasizes long-
term applications of solar, coal, geo-
thermal, biomass and alternate nuclear
technologies. But we will rely on industry
to do its full part in the demonstration of
new technologies in energy and in other
fields.
Rather than government funding of
their research and development, com-
panies need more favorable investment
climates, better economic growth, better
trade prospects, and sound policies about
patents, antitrust, procurement, and en-
vironmental regulation. Under the direc-
tion of the Department of Commerce, we
are also engaged in a major Cabinet-level
review of these aspects of technological
innovation, with participation of numer-
ous individuals from various industrial
sectors.
140
