Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
rate pieces of legislation—which can be
stored, of course, and must be stored in
a safe condition.
But those questions that you raised have
been with us for three decades at least,
and they've become much more acute. I
think the aroused public opinion about
nuclear power is beneficial, because it has
caused scientists, engineers, operators, and
politicians to pay much closer attention
to questions that in the past were not
addressed adequately or were addressed in
private. In 1976, during the Presidential
campaign, I think there were 22 States
that had nuclear power referenda on the
ballot when I was running for office. And
I think that intense interest is going to
continue.
My guess is that we'll have a much more
accurate assessment of a need for nuclear
power and how it can be made more safe
because of this incident and because of in-
terest of people like you.
INTEREST RATES
Q. I am Leon Gaidmore from Dover,
a retired toolmaker from the naval yard.
Mr. President, why have interest rates
been allowed to climb to the present rec-
ord high level? Isn't this high interest
most unfair to our young people? They
haven't lived long enough to accumulate
money, so they must borrow to buy homes
and raise their kids. Older people have
money to lend but need it the least. Their
lives are behind them. Isn't this all
wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a good ques-
tion-[laughter]-and my answer to you
is, yes, it is all wrong. I think we
ought-
Q. It is.
THE PRESIDENT. I remember when I
was Governor of Georgia back in '73 and
'74, interest rates got up to 18 or 20 per-
cent on short-term borrowings. And
Georgia had surplus money under my
superb administration-[laughter]—and
we were investing our money at that high
interest rate. And now they've crept up
again.
Interest rates are determined, as you
know, directly by the inflation rate. When
the inflation rate is, say, 8 percent and
someone lends money at 8 percent, they
merely break even. In order to make a
profit on their money above and beyond
inflation, they have to get more than 8
percent. So, the best way to control in-
terest rates in the long run is to bring
the inflation rate down.
In our country more than 100 years
ago, the Congress decided that interest
rates would basically be controlled by the
Federal Reserve Board. And the Federal
Reserve does modify the tightness of
money by various means to control the
interest rates. But I have to say in com-
plete frankness that the President and the
Congress also have a role to play in in-
terest rates.
The President has a direct role by pro-
posing budget deficits. If the President
can cut the budget deficit down, then, of
course, the interest rates and inflation rate
ultimately will go down. If the Congress
is extremely liberal on cutting taxes, then,
of course, that creates more money in the
economy and money becomes much more
available, and of course, that affects the
interest rates as well.
So, the Federal Reserve is directly re-
sponsible. The President and the Congress
are also responsible. But basically the in-
terest rates are determined by the infla-
tion rate. We are doing all we can to
hold down Federal deficits and to con-
trol spending and to eliminate unneces-
sary regulations. But we've got a long way
to go.
The only thing I can add is what I said
earlier to Mary with the question about
707
