Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 12
The treaty between Egypt and Israel
that we hope may be placed before you
for approval promises to be the corner-
stone of a comprehensive structure of
peace for this entire region.
We all recognize that this structure will
be incomplete until the peace can be ex-
tended to include all the people who have
been involved in the conflict. I know and
I understand the concerns you feel as you
consider the magnitude of the choices that
will remain to be faced even after a peace
treaty is concluded between Israel and
Egypt. And as the time for these choices
approaches, remember this pledge that I
make to you again today: The United
States will never support any agreement
or any action that places Israel's security
in jeopardy.
We must proceed with due caution. I
understand that. But we must proceed.
As recently as 2 years ago, after all, these
present steps that have already been taken
seemed absolutely unthinkable. We know
that confrontation magnifies differences.
But the process of negotiation circum-
scribes differences, defines the differences,
isolates them from the larger regions of
common interests, and so makes the gaps
which do exist more bridgeable. We've
seen the proof of that in the last 16
months.
At Camp David, Prime Minister Begin
and President Sadat forged two frame-
works for the building of that compre-
hensive peace. The genius of that accom-
plishment is that negotiations under these
frameworks can go forward independ-
ently of each other, without destroying
the obvious relationship between them.
They are designed to be mutually rein-
forcing, with the intrinsic flexibility neces-
sary to promote the comprehensive peace
that we all desire. Both will be fulfilled
only when others of your Arab neighbors
follow the visionary example of President
Sadat, when they put ancient animosities
behind them and agree to negotiate, as
you desire, as you've already done with
President Sadat, an honorable solution to
the differences between you.
It's important that the door be kept
open to all the parties to the conflict, in-
cluding the Palestinians, with whom,
above all, Israel shares a common interest
in living in peace and living with mutual
respect.
Peace in the Middle East, always im-
portant to the security of the entire region,
in recent weeks has become an even more
urgent concern.
Israel's security will rest not only on
how the negotiations affect the situation
on your own borders but also on how it
affects the forces of stability and modera-
tion beyond your borders.
I'm convinced that nothing can do
more to create a hospitable atmosphere
for those more distant forces in the long
run than an equitable peace treaty be-
tween Israel and Egypt.
The risks of peace between you and
your Egyptian neighbors are real. But
America is ready to reduce any risks and
to balance them within the bounds of our
strength and our influence.
I came to Israel representing the most
powerful country on Earth. And I can
assure you that the United States intends
to use that power in the pursuit of a
stable and a peaceful Middle East.
We've been centrally involved in this
region, and we will stay involved polit-
ically, economically, and militarily. We
will stand by our friends. We are ready
to place our strength at Israel's side when
you want it to ensure Israel's security and
well-being.
We know Israel's concern about many
issues. We know your concern for an ade-
quate oil supply. In the context of peace,
we are ready to guarantee that supply.
427
