Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
industry to accelerate the demonstration
of commercial-scale technologies that
show promise of entering the commercial
market. Such demonstrations will test
technical feasibility and the economics
of conversion processes. They will give us
needed information on the environmental
and institutional impact of the technol-
ogies involved.
For the longer-term, there are many
options. Technologies such as solar energy
and fusion, promise virtually inexhaust-
ible supplies of electricity in the future.
But if these technologies are to be a sig-
nificant factor, we must invest now in
developing them. And we are doing so, as
illustrated in solar research and technol-
ogy development. Our national invest-
ment in this field has grown from almost
nothing five years ago to $850 million in
FY 1980.
In working with the private sector, it is
particularly important that the govern-
ment does not displace the resources of
industry devoted to new energy technol-
ogy. We must be mindful that appreciable
energy producing capacity will be devel-
oped only if the private sector is actively
involved and committed to our research
and development efforts. We must care-
fully structure the Federal programs in a
way that will lead industry to invest in,
and ultimately commercialize, new energy
technologies.
Nonfuel Minerals
In the area of nonfuel minerals, we
must recognize the importance of new
technology and understanding of earth
sciences and chemical processing to per-
mit us to find, produce, and utilize scarce
and lower grade ores without degrading
the environment. A major study of non-
fuel minerals is being conducted by the
Secretary of the Interior under the Do-
mestic Policy Review process managed
by the Domestic Policy Staff. The ade-
quacy and orientation of private sector
and government investment in minerals
research and development are being ex-
amined. I will report on the Secretary's
recommendations later this year.
Agriculture
Our agricultural science and technology
have made us preeminent in the world.
Our ability to maximize yield from agri-
cultural land, to develop pest-resistant,
productive crop strains, and to improve
animal husbandry is unsurpassed. We are
able to produce sufficient quantities of
agricultural products to meet the basic
needs of Americans and simultaneously
supply much of the rest of the world.
Agricultural products form the largest
category of our civil exports. A key ele-
ment in our success is our traditional sys-
tem of cooperation among all levels of
government, universities, producers, and
rural communities.
My Administration has strengthened
agricultural research and development by
focusing attention on basic plant and
animal sciences; integrated pest manage-
ment; human nutrition and food safety;
land and water use and conservation;
energy research, especially production of
biomass for energy, and production of al-
cohols from agricultural residues. We also
are working to strengthen Federal re-
search, development, transfer, and assist-
ance programs in freshwater and marine
aquaculture. We have supplemented these
activities with a competitive research
grant program. This program will attract
533
