Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
brother, Billy, from any allegations of re-
marks that might be anti-Semitic in
nature.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, you have outlined
now the authority you'd like Congress to
give you for mandatory conservation of
fuel, but could you outline for us which
steps you would take first and just how
serious you regard the situation right
now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Congress
has 60 days during which time they can
decide whether or not to approve the
standby authority that I have requested.
What might be done first would remain to
be seen. We don't have any present inten-
tions of implementing any of those meas-
ures. We are asking for a complete ration-
ing system on gasoline as a standby meas-
ure which I think is a substantial im-
provement over the ones previously pro-
posed the right to prohibit the sale of
gasoline on weekends, the right to control
public advertising, and so forth. But I
can't say at this point, not knowing the
degree of shortage in the future of energy,
and particularly gasoline, what I would
do. But I think those standby rights that
I could exercise if necessary are impor-
tant, and I'll just have to make a judg-
ment when the time comes.
PUBLIC BROADCASTING
Q. Mr. President, you were generally
complimentary in your reaction to the
Carnegie II report, which was released
on public broadcasting recently. Specifi-
cally, I'd like to know, do you support
the concept of a spectrum fee, of asking
broadcasters to pay for their fair share
of the use of the public's airwaves?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I've not
studied the issue well enough to answer
the question.
AIR AND WATER POLLUTION STANDARDS
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Schultze was
testifying before Congress today about
proposals to change pending regulations.
I'm wondering, have you decided to delay
or postpone major air and water pollu-
tion regulations?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is no. We
have an excellent record on the enforce-
ment of the air and water pollution stand-
ards and, also, on the strengthening of
those standards. It's important, however,
that the regulations be administered in
the most effective way and that economic
considerations be taken into account
when necessary. The regulators, Doug
Costle and others, know that they have
authority to consider that item and then
to make their judgments accordingly.
I have not interfered in that process. I
have a statutory responsibility and right
to do so, but I think it would be a very
rare occasion whenever I would want to
do so. But we are certainly not going to
abrogate nor to cancel the enforcement
of the air and water pollution standards.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Q. Mr. President, recently Secretary
Brown was in the Middle East and met
with the leaders of those countries, par-
ticularly Saudi Arabia. And you have
expressed the need and the desire for the
United States to strengthen the defensive
perimeter of that part of the world to safe-
guard the flow of oil. There have been
public reports that the Saudi Arabian
Government has refused an offer by the
United States for the stationing of U.S.
troops. I can't vouch for that report, but
could you tell us what your plans are for
349
