Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 9
Q. You expect it's possible that you
may arrive in Israel 24 hours late?
PRESIDENT CARTER. No. I think we'll
get to Israel on time.
Q. Even though you are having more
difficulties here than perhaps
perhaps you'd
imagined?
PRESIDENT CARTER. Well, as I said, I
have not been surprised after I got here.
I've not been disappointed nor pleasantly
surprised. It's about what we anticipated.
But my expectation is that we'll get to
Israel on time.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. Presi-
dent.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Thank you.
Q. President Sadat, could we just ask
you a question, sir? Could you character-
ize the talks for us so far? How do you
think they've been doing, sir?
PRESIDENT SADAT. Well, let me say this:
We had a 3-hours' talk yesterday, very
in-
tensive talks. I think there are progress,
for sure there are progress. And I think it
is time now that we can say that the sign-
ing of the agreement is not so far at all.
From my side, as you know, I'm doing my
best, and I shall be doing my best. But
in all candor, without the intensive effort
by President Carter and the American
people and the Congress behind him, we
would have never reached this. Let me
hope that everything will be clear in this
visit.
Q. What is the greatest problem, sir?
What is the biggest difficulty?
PRESIDENT SADAT. Well, you know, I
commented last night after the 3-hours'
talk with President Carter, Vance, and
Brzezinski, and the Vice President and
the Prime Minister was with me. Let me
tell you this: We must get rid of the dis-
trust, because, unfortunately, there are
still some shades of distrust until this mo-
ment, and it is not from the Egyptian side.
We have dropped all complexes and
everything through my visit to Jerusalem.
It is a word here, a word, but I don't see
any difficulty in reaching an agreement
upon the main principal issues.
And, as I told you, if it was not the
effort and the perseverance of President
Carter, we couldn't have achieved this.
And it is needed now in this precise mo-
ment to reach the final result.
Q. President Sadat, on the basis of your
discussions with President Sadat [Carter]
and what you know from him of the Israeli
position, are you now ready to sign an
agreement?
PRESIDENT SADAT. I am ready to sign
the agreement, yes.
Q. There will be nothing more required
for Egypt to do or for Israel to do before
an agreement can be consummated?
PRESIDENT SADAT. I can speak for my-
self, not for the Israelis. For myself, I am
ready.
Q. Without making any significant
changes in your basic position?
PRESIDENT SADAT. I beg your pardon?
Q. Without making any changes in the
positions you held before President Carter
came here?
President SadaT. Well, let me tell you
this: In the very frank discussions we had
last night, I found, really, that there is no
obstacles in the way, because there is only
a misunderstanding about the main issues.
But apart from this-and this will be
President Carter's, I mean, goal to do-
I think we are on the verge of an
agreement.
yes,
Q. For example, sir, are you now satis-
fied with the question of full Palestinian
autonomy in the occupied territories?
PRESIDENT SADAT. Well, let me tell you
this: Let us always put emphasis on the
Camp David documents. This is a great
achievement, and maybe you heard me
before saying that let us try and defuse the
explosive situation. Camp David docu-
409
