Apr. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
deductions of the excise tax and gain from
disallowance of percentage depletion)
will equal $0.2 billion in fiscal year 1980,
$1.3 billion in fiscal year 1981, and $2.0
billion in fiscal year 1982.
THE ENERGY SECURITY TRUST FUND
SUMMARY OF THE ENERGY SECURITY
TRUST FUND
The Energy Security Trust Fund is pro-
posed to be established by statute in the
Treasury of the United States to receive
on a regular basis the revenues from the
windfall profits tax and to receive for fis-
cal years 1980, 81, and 82, an additional
amount to be appropriated from general
revenues which will be based on an esti-
mate of additional income taxes paid in
1980, 81, and 82 resulting from decontrol.
The Administration will request an ap-
propriation as soon as the windfall profits
tax is enacted. The revenues in the Trust
Fund will be used for three basic
purposes:
• not to exceed $800 million annually
for assistance to low-income households;
• not to exceed $350 million annually
for additional funds for energy efficient
mass transit purposes; and
•
a range of energy program initiatives,
including those set forth in the White
House Fact Sheet issued on April 5, 1979,
and additional initiatives, for long-term
energy R&D, conservation, and energy-re-
lated environmental R&D, which Trust
Fund revenues will support.
The Energy Security Trust Fund pro-
grams will be undertaken only if the wind-
fall profits tax is enacted and provides
(along with the additional corporate in-
come taxes for fiscal years 1980, 81, and
82) revenues adequate to cover full costs.
The Trust Fund is being proposed to in-
sure that all revenues resulting from de-
control are used for the specified purposes.
TRUST FUND STRUCTURE AND OPERATION
The Energy Security Trust Fund will
be established by statute and will be cred-
ited with revenue from two sources:
• all revenues actually received from
the windfall profits tax on domestic crude
petroleum less tax credit reimbursement;
and
• additional income taxes that are esti-
mated by Treasury to be collected as a
result of phased decontrol during fiscal
years 1980, 81, and 82.
The assistance to low-income house-
holds will be given priority on Trust Fund
resources.
The total estimated costs for approved
Trust Fund initiatives will not be permit-
ted to exceed available resources within
the Trust Fund. Total cost estimates by
fiscal year will be developed for the ex-
pected life of each proposed initiative. The
total for all proposed uses of the Trust
Fund shall not exceed expected revenue
estimates under constant world oil price
assumptions.
The estimated out-year costs of ap-
proved initiatives will be calculated by
year from the first year of the Trust
Fund's operation to insure that revenues
are adequate to meet commitments. This
is necessary because of the substantial out-
year costs of certain initiatives such as the
shale oil tax credit and the uncertainty
about revenues beyond 1985. To the ex-
tent that projected resources are in excess
of projected commitments, additional en-
ergy initiatives which contribute to reduc-
ing United States dependence on im-
ported oil may be undertaken. Purposes
may include: energy research, develop-
ment, demonstration, energy related envi-
ronmental R&D, conservation, etc. All
spending from the Trust Fund will be
subject to authorization and appropriation
in the annual budget process.
726
