Mar. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
all the states and all the peoples of this
troubled region.
Doubts are the stuff of great decisions,
but so are dreams. We are now at the very
edge of turning Israel's eternal dream of
peace into reality. I will not pretend that
this reality will be free from further chal-
lenges. It will not. And better than most,
the Jewish people know that life is seldom
easy. But we must make this beginning.
We must seize this precious opportunity.
Fifty-seven years ago, the Congress of
the United States of America commit-
ted itself to a Jewish homeland. Twenty-
six years later, President Harry Truman
recognized the new State of Israel 11
minutes after your nation was born.
Seven Presidents have believed and dem-
onstrated that America's relationship with
Israel is more than just a special relation-
ship. It has been and it is a unique rela-
tionship. And it's a relationship which is
indestructible, because it is rooted in the
consciousness and the morals and the re-
ligion and the beliefs of the American
people themselves.
Let me repeat what I said to Prime
Minister Begin last year on the lawn of
the White House, on the anniversary of
the founding of the modern State of Is-
rael, and I quote: "For 30 years we have
stood at the side of the proud and inde-
pendent nation of Israel. I can say with-
out reservation, as President of the United
States, that we will continue to do so, not
just for another 30 years but forever."
We recognize the advantages to the
United States of this partnership. You
know that America deeply desires peace
between Israel and Egypt, and that we will
do everything we can to make peace
possible.
The people of the two nations are ready
now for peace. The people of the two na-
tions are ready now for peace. The leaders
have not yet proven that we are also ready
for peace, enough to take a chance. We
must persevere. But with or without a
peace treaty, the United States will al-
ways be at Israel's side.
Meeting in this hall of liberty reminds
us that we are bound more than in any
other way by instinctive, common ideals
and common commitments and beliefs.
This Knesset itself is a temple to the prin-
ciple and the practice of open debate.
Democracy is an essential element to the
very nationhood of Israel, as it is to the
United States.
You've proven that democracy can be
a stable form of government in a nation
of great diversity and in a time and a place
of danger and instability. But Israel and
the United States were shaped by pio-
neers my nation is also a nation of im-
migrants and refugees by peoples gather-
ed in both nations from many lands, by
dreamers who, and I quote, "by the work
of their hands and the sweat of their
brows" transformed their dreams into the
reality of nationhood.
We share the heritage of the Bible, the
worship of God, of individual freedom,
and we share a belief in cooperative en-
deavor, even in the face of apparently in-
surmountable obstacles.
In nations around the world where
governments deny these values, millions
look to us to uphold the right to freedom
of speech, freedom of the press, the right
to emigrate, the right to express one's po-
litical views, the right to move from one
place to another, the right for families to
be reunited, the right to a decent standard
of material life.
These are the kinds of unbreakable ties
that bind Israel and the United States
together. These are the values that we of-
fer to the whole world. Our mutual dedi-
cation to these ideals is an indispensable
resource in our search for peace.
426
