Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Thank you.
So we thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I have to say that I
approached the Conference with a great
deal of trepidation [laughter] and
concern. But the more we got into these
analyses, the more we saw that we're all
in the same boat together. And the early
confrontations that did exist among dis-
puting groups were very quickly resolved
in a constructive way, in many instances
even before the groups got to Washington,
with a broad range of regional conferences
throughout the country.
And I think this feeding back of local
opinion and local experience into the Fed-
eral Government itself has been a single
factor among many. But that single factor
has made the White House Conference of
much more benefit than all the cost and
effort that went into it.
Senator Jennings Randolph, please.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Mr. President,
Mr. Chairman, Secretary Kreps, I shall
say only that we do believe that the Con-
ference was constructive. The more than
1,000 persons who were there were not
only there to listen but to participate and
to bring their ideas and convictions and
commitments and to form them into rec-
ommendations which have helped you,
Mr. President, and others, to come now,
at this point, not to-as the Governor of
West Virginia has said-put something on
the shelf, but to put something into being,
into action. And in a sense, I speak for the
colleagues who are here today, the Senate
and House-the chairman over here, Bizz
Johnson of California, and of course,
Quentin Burdick, who chairs our Subcom-
mittee on Economic Development, Chair-
man Williams, all who are here, of course,
Huddleston, and many others, Apple-
gate-I will not call the roll. But we do
feel that what was done was an invest-
ment in America, in a coordinated effort
of, let's say, moving forward, not to de-
stroy but to build and even to rebuild.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
I noticed that the key Members of the
Congress who helped with the White
House Conference, I believe without ex-
ception, were reelected last November-
[laughter]-which is a good indication
that participation was at least not politi-
cally fatal. [Laughter]
Thank you very much, Senator.
SENATOR RANDOLPH. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Juanita
Kreps.
SECRETARY KREPS. Well, it's my func-
tion later to sign the agreement for the
three new regional commissions. But I
would like to say to the members of the
White House Conference Committee, and
to Jay Rockefeller, in particular, that we
are very grateful to them for their hard
work, and to say also, Mr. President, that
I think you have today written a new
chapter in the history of intergovern-
mental relations. And I shall look forward
to working with the Governors and with
the White House in pushing ahead these
recommendations.
THE PRESIDENT. Anyone assembled on
this side of the table could very well make
a fine presentation about their own con-
tribution and their own ideas for the fu-
ture. But I'd like to conclude the state-
ments by saying that this is just the be-
ginning of a long process. This gives us
an outline or a plan for the future, and
that's the purpose of the White House
Conference. It was not to solve all the
problems or to even assess the progress
that had been made in the past, but to
make sure that as we reach for the future,
for a greater and more vital and more
prosperous America, that every person
who lives in our great country could have
a better quality of life, not only 2 years
in
the future but 20 or 30 or even 50 years in
the future.
68
