Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 21
systems. In 1977 he was appointed Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary of Defense. In
that capacity, he has represented the
United States on the NATO Command
and Control and Data Processing Com-
mittee and the NATO Joint Com-
munications and Electronic Committee.
Comprehensive Test Ban
Negotiations
Nomination of Herbert F. York for the Rank
of Ambassador While Serving as U.S.
Representative. June 21, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Herbert F. York, of La
Jolla, Calif., for the rank of Ambassador
during his assignment as the United States
Representative to the Comprehensive Test
Ban negotiations.
York was accorded the personal rank
of Ambassador on February 1, 1979. The
validity of personal ranks of Ambassador,
accorded without Senate confirmation, is
limited to 6 months.
York, 57, has been head of the U.S. Del-
egation to the CTB negotiations since
earlier this year. Previously, he was a pro-
fessor of physics at the University of Cali-
fornia at San Diego. He has also served as
Director of Defense Research and Engi-
neering in the Office of the Secretary of
Defense and as director of the Lawrence
Radiation Laboratory, Livermore.
Mississippi River Commission
Nomination of Sam Epstein Angel To Be a
Member. June 21, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Sam Epstein Angel, of Lake
Village, Ark., to be a member of the
Mississippi River Commission for a 9-
year term. He would replace the late
James Yancey.
Angel, 40, is manager of Sam Epstein
Estate, Gin and Farm. He is a commis-
sioner of the Southeast Arkansas Levee
District and the Chicot County Water-
shed District. He also serves as a member
of the Chicot County Rural Develop-
ment Authority.
Independent Truckers' Strikes
Remarks to Reporters on the Situation.
June 21, 1979
In recent days, we've seen truckers'
strikes throughout our Nation. We all
know that independent truckers do play
a vital role in the economy of our coun-
try, and my administration is trying to
work with them to meet their legitimate
grievances. Some action has already been
announced. Other decisions will be an-
nounced soon. At that time, the striking
truckers should go back to work and end
the interruption of delivery of food and
fuel and other goods to American
citizens.
Most important, however, I want to
stress in the strongest possible terms that
violence and lawlessness will not be tol-
erated under any circumstances. Murder,
vandalism, and physical intimidation are
criminal acts, and they will be treated as
such.
I've asked for and received from
Director William Webster of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation a report on the
death of the young trucker in Alabama.
And I have also instructed the FBI to
provide all appropriate assistance for
1129
