Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
each year, over $22 billion worth of rural
water and sewage programs. Instead of
6 sets of 16 different Federal require-
ments, we've reduced it down to 1. And
as a result of these cost-cutting re-
forms, I'm able to announce water and
sewage grant awards of $62 million across
the State of Iowa. And I might add that
we're getting OSHA under control for the
first time, and letting it serve its proper
role of protecting the safety and health of
American workers.
Well, to conclude, let me say that all of
these initiatives directly address prob-
lems which are all too prevalent today in
our country. But the knowledge that we
can deal with these special problems, us-
ing proven, sometimes ancient principles
which our ancestors would understand
very well, gives me confidence that we can
control the enormous, overall problems of
energy and inflation.
Together we can overcome real obsta-
cles instead of just promising simple
answers.
Together we can meet challenges not
by pretending that a cry of pain is a cure
for a problem, but by drawing once again
on the strength that we Americans have
within us.
We've done it in our space programs.
We've done it in our search for world
peace. And we can do it in the toughest
fight of all-finding new energy for our-
selves here at home, because the greatest
energy sources in the world are right
here-in our country, in our towns, on
our farms, in ourselves.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:35 a.m. in
the Grand Ballroom at the Airport Hilton Inn.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Alvin Ohrt, president, and Lynn Cut-
ler, board member, Iowa State Association of
Counties; Representatives Neal Smith and
Thomas R. Harkin of Iowa; and former Iowa
Sentor Dick Clark, Ambassador at Large and
U.S. Coordinator for Refugee Affairs.
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
MAY 4, 1979
Held in Des Moines, Iowa
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. It's
good to be back in Iowa. I have one brief
statement to make before I answer ques-
tions.
CLINCH RIVER BREEDER REACTOR
Today, I spoke to the Iowa county offi-
cials about the need to develop new and
innovative approaches to our serious en-
ergy problem. No one feels more strongly
than I do about the need to harness cost-
effective technology to solve our energy
problems, but we must never allow our-
selves to become the victim of our own
technology.
If we've learned anything about the re-
cent accident at Three Mile Island, it
should be this: As we develop our Na-
tion's energy policy, the safety of every
American must be uppermost in our
minds.
More than 2 years before the accident
in Pennsylvania, I began an effort to kill
the Clinch River breeder reactor, so that
this country could have a rational, safe,
and responsible nuclear energy policy.
This is no time to change America into a
plutonium society.
The recent vote by the House Science
and Technology Committee to proceed
with the Clinch River fast breeder reac-
tor over my consistent opposition is a ma-
jor, potential setback to this effort. The
Clinch River breeder reactor is a techno-
logical dinosaur. It's a waste of more than
$12 billion of taxpayers' money. It's an
assault on our attempts to control the
795
