Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
quences of inflation on low-income fami-
lies' budgets are also severe.
The Conference also served, however,
to remind the Nation that, despite record
growth in overall employment and a sub-
stantial drop in unemployment since
January 1977, there are groups of Ameri-
cans and places still experiencing Depres-
sion levels of joblessness. For these dis-
tressed peoples and places, carefully tar-
geted remedies must be applied. The pri-
mary emphasis of employment and eco-
nomic development programs should be
on retaining and creating jobs where un-
employed people live, although some
relocation assistance may be needed for
those who desire it.
The private sector must be at the core
of any national effort to achieve full em-
ployment. Two major points of consensus
were expressed:
permanent, private sector jobs are
more desirable than temporary, pub-
lic service employment, and
government incentives to business are
needed to leverage private expansion
of job opportunities for disadvan-
taged workers.
The Conference recognized that public
monies must be used, not simply as ex-
penditures, but as investments, linking
Federal programs and local plans to
stimulate private action.
EFFECTIVE GOVERNMENT
The Conference participants expressed
the view that there is need to take a fresh
look at the present roles of the different
levels of government to make them more
effective and responsive. The "fair and
flexible Federalism" proposed by the
by the
Conferees will require some reassign-
ment of functions and responsibilities and
reexamination of outmoded systems of
revenue allocation injurious to distressed
communities. The Conference urged the
Federal Government to provide incentives
to states to assume more responsibility
for the problems of their local govern-
ments by modernizing local governmental
structures and reforming inequitable reve-
nue systems and state expenditure pat-
terns.
The Conference recognized that uni-
formly applied national practices and
rules ignore substantial regional differ-
ences. The Federal Government must
begin to fine tune national policy and
programs, taking into account substantial
diversity among regions, states and locali-
ties, and encouraging through incentives
more shared responsibility in the achieve-
ment of national objectives. Thus, a
stronger role for states and localities in
the design and management of Federally-
assisted programs and greater decentral-
ization in their administration is needed.
As former Massachusetts Governor Du-
kakis said: "We cannot leave to chance
the role of state governments in the im-
plementation of a national economic pol-
icy . . . Unless the states are involved,
and involved deeply, it is doomed to
failure."
In return for greater state involvement,
the Conference recommended that state
governments assume increased respon-
sibility for local education costs, while the
Federal Government assumes more re-
sponsibility for welfare costs.
GROWTH POLICY
The Conference recognized the need for
greater coherence in policy-making at all
levels of government. Henry Ford said,
"We must know how each action affects
another, and be willing to change or
eliminate those that are counterproduc-
tive." The processes that shape energy, en-
vironmental, business, community, and
economic growth policies in particular
71
