Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 2
productive days in my own diplomatic tory, will be the host for a multinational
life.
The economic problems are well on the
way to being resolved. And I believe that
I can state without concern to the Ameri-
can people that we have made tremen-
dous progress and that the hopes for suc-
cess are very good, thanks to the states-
manship of Prime Minister Ohira and
thanks to the common purpose that binds
our nations so tightly together, that I can't
think of any predictable problem that
could possibly separate us for more than
a few months.
This is a powerful nation. Japan is
emerging, as you well know, as one of
those countries on Earth bound most
closely to us because of their commitment
to democratic principles; because of their
deep commitment to peace; because of
their concern, based on experience, about
the proliferation of nuclear explosives; a
nation of great economic achievement,
based on the dedication, the hard work,
the innovation, the scientific knowledge,
the cohesiveness of their society, the in-
dividual workers; intense competitors
who keep us all on our toes; but still a
nation comprised of people who are gentle
and who are polite and modest, who are
cultural in their inclinations, dedicated
to the finest, most sensitive exhibitions of
artistic achievement.
I have never talked to a diplomat, a
public official, or an average American
tourist who came back from Japan dis-
appointed. But there's always been a
sense of compatibility and a realization
of hospitality and of a mutual destiny.
This is important to us, as you well know.
I will be going to Japan next month, at
the end of the month, for an official state
visit to return this one. My wife and Amy
will go with us. And I look forward to
that opportunity.
summit meeting, where the leaders of sev-
eral of the great democratic nations will
meet to discuss mutual problems and
mutual opportunities.
My prediction is that this will be one
of the most exciting visits that I myself
have ever made to a foreign country. And
I look forward to it with a great deal of
anticipation and pleasure.
Japan is a nation, too, that's been able
to accommodate extremely rapid change,
which has aroused the legitimate admira-
tion of the world. But at the same time,
the Japanese people have been able to
preserve the cohesiveness and the unity of
their society, their nation, and the co-
hesiveness and unity of communities, and
I think perhaps even more importantly,
the cohesiveness and unity of the Japanese
family.
We have a great future together, and
I think all of you realize that with the
explosion of technology and communica-
tions and population, the shortage of food,
the intense competition in trade, the po-
tential divisiveness between developed
nations and nations still struggling for the
basic elements of life, the vast advance-
ment in the quality of weapons, the con-
tentiousness of regional arguments spread-
ing instantaneously throughout the
world-it's become increasingly difficult
for nations to live in harmony, but it's
become increasingly imperative for na-
tions to live in harmony.
And I believe that our own experience
with Japan is a very good pattern or
model for other nations to emulate in the
future, not only distant nations but our
Nation in its relationship with other coun-
tries. When we have differences which are
profound and of great importance, we
are absolutely dedicated to resolving
those differences without delay. And the
And Japan, for the first time in its his- negotiators, the Presidents, the Prime
769
