Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 23
in the companies which you serve. Like
Federal support of basic research, indus-
trial development and investment in re-
search, both basic and applied, in new
products and new processes, is a practical
testament of faith in our own future.
Since Kepler's day and before, scien-
tists have been perhaps the most interna-
tional of all professions in their outlook.
In our own time, the explosion of com-
munications and technology has made in-
ternational scientific communication both
easier and more urgent than ever before.
Albert Einstein himself operated on
what even then was a very modest budget.
He needed little more than a few sharp-
ened pencils and a quiet place to think.
But as you know, the task of building upon
his work can be much more expensive.
Many of the key experiments yet to be
done-in both basic and applied technol-
ogy—are on a monumental scale.
Our choice in the years ahead will be
between carrying out the few large proj-
ects we can afford on our own, as Amer-
icans or by doing many more projects,
perhaps even more effectively, in coop-
eration with other nations. We must con-
tinue to choose cooperation-for reasons
that go beyond the considerable benefits
of sharing the costs and sharing ideas.
With our traditional friends, scientific
and technological cooperation can
strengthen existing bonds. With others,
who may not be quite so friendly, it can
help to bridge political and ideological
and cultural divisions.
One of the most important purposes of
international cooperation in technology
and science is to meet the developing
needs of the poorer countries of the world.
The future of the advanced countries
is increasingly tied up with that of the
developing world. Yet, only about 1 per-
cent of the world's civilian research and
development is devoted directly to the
problems of the poorer half of human-
ity-problems such as poverty, disease,
hunger, education, and resource develop-
ment. We should be doing more.
A year ago, I proposed the creation of
a new Institute for Scientific and Tech-
nological Cooperation to mobilize the
talents of scientists and engineers in this
country and in the developing world to
address these critical problems. Instead of
providing relief, we would aid the Third
World in building its own corps of de-
velopment scientists and decisionmakers.
And we would join them in mutually
beneficial projects in agriculture, medi-
cine, industrialization, and appropriate
energy systems.
The Institute for Scientific and Tech-
nological Cooperation has been approved
already by the House of Representatives
and is now before the Senate for consid-
eration. It needs your full support.
Let me turn now to the use and ex-
ploration in space where, as on Earth, our
purpose is human betterment—material,
intellectual, and spiritual.
In the coming era, we will reap a good
return on the more than $100 billion the
United States has invested in space. From
platforms in space, we can indeed con-
tinue to improve our world. Every year,
satellites make new contributions in such
areas as agriculture, environmental mon-
itoring, land use, resource discovery, cli-
matology, and communications.
With the advent of the space shuttle,
we will have an unmatchable ability to
work in space. We will see a flowering of
research and industrial activities in space,
and we will make quantum jumps in in-
ternational cooperation, advancing the
causes of peace and human development.
Mankind's leap into space has changed
human consciousness forever. The era of
manned exploration of deep space is still
well in the future, but our senses are al-
681
