Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 19
tional system for the protection of trade-
marks. The revised Agreement would,
thereby, benefit American trademark
owners and the administration of the
United States trademark system. I there-
fore recommend that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to the revised
Agreement and advise and consent to its
ratification.
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Federal Republic of
Germany Treaty on Extradition
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. January 19, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty on Extradi-
tion Between the United States of Amer-
ica and the Federal Republic of Germany,
signed at Bonn on June 20, 1978.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the treaty.
The treaty is one of a series of modern
extradition treaties being negotiated by
the United States. It expands the list of
extraditable offenses to include aircraft
hijacking and narcotics offenses, as well as
several other offenses not now covered by
our existing Extradition Treaty with the
Federal Republic of Germany. Upon
entry into force, it will terminate and
supersede the existing Extradition
Treaty between the United States and the
Federal Republic of Germany.
This treaty will make a significant
contribution to international cooperation
in law enforcement. I recommend that
the Senate give early and favorable con-
sideration to the treaty and give its advice
and consent to ratification.
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Convention on Pollution
From Ships
Message to the Senate Transmitting a
Protocol to the Convention.
January 19, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, a
certified copy of the Protocol of 1978 Re-
lating to the International Convention for
the Prevention of Pollution from Ships,
with its Annexes I and II, and Protocols
I and II, 1973, done at London Febru-
ary 17, 1978 (the MARPOL Protocol). I
send along with it, for the Senate's con-
sideration, the State Department's report.
The MARPOL Protocol results from
proposals the United States made last year
following a series of tanker incidents in
or near United States waters. It aims to
reduce accidental and operational pollu-
tion from tankers. The Protocol applies
many new operating and construction
standards to more tankers than are cov-
ered by the International Convention for
the Prevention of Pollution from Ships,
1973 (the MARPOL Convention). The
MARPOL Convention has not been rati-
fied by the United States, and has not
entered into force.
The MARPOL Protocol incorporates,
with modifications, the MARPOL Con-
vention transmitted to the Senate on
March 22, 1977 for advice and consent
to ratification. Ratification of the Proto-
col will, therefore, constitute acceptance
of the provisions of the Convention, sub-
ject to the modifications and additions
85
