Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 27
of State. But I may change my mind. I
really haven't gone into that, exactly who
will be in my entourage.
Q. Do you accept Mr. Schlesinger's
position that the United States is not will-
ing to pay the world price for oil to
Mexico and ties it in with Canada?
THE PRESIDENT. You mean gas?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think at this
time Mexico is charging at least a dollar
more than the world price on oil. But on
natural gas, at this time we don't need to
bid a very high price for Mexican gas.
That's why I said it's so important to
distinguish between short-term needs,
which are being met by domestic supplies,
and long-term needs, looking several years
into the future, when we probably will
not have adequate supplies in our own
country.
We've had an additional complication
created by the passage by Congress, the
signing of an agreement between myself
and the Prime Minister of Canada in con-
structing a natural gas pipeline to bring
our own gas from Alaska down to this
country. And the construction of that
pipeline and the quantity of gas that's
brought through it obviously is dependent
upon the price that we can afford to pay.
And we cannot afford to pay, any time in
the near future, a much higher price for
Mexican gas than we pay for our own
domestic gas or that gas that's brought
from Alaska down here. That's just the
facts of the matter.
But I don't want to get involved in
deciding exactly what the price levels shall
be. It's obviously a factor to be considered.
And as the supplies of natural gas become
more stringent in the future, we'll have a
completely different perspective than we
have for the immediate next 24 months or
36 months. But they are interrelated. And
I don't think Secretary Kissinger [Schles-
inger] insinuated that on a long-term basis
we wouldn't need and value the right to
negotiate with Mexico on buying natural
gas from them. But the immediate price
for Mexican gas is affected, from our
point of view, by domestic prices, and
also by the price of natural gas projected
for the Alaskan sources.
UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS
Q. Mr. President, are you going to
resubmit your proposals for dealing with
the problem of undocumented aliens, in-
cluding the amnesty provisions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the proposal is
in the Congress, in the Judiciary Commit-
tees of the House and Senate. And we've
not modified those proposals since we
sent them up. But I've told several of my
advisers that I will refresh my own mem-
ory about the details of those proposals,
which I helped draft personally, before
I go to Mexico. That'll be one of the
items that I will discuss with President
López Portillo. And there'll be parallel
discussions at the Cabinet level that'll be
more definitive in nature.
And then if, after that visit to Mexico,
we see that some of our recommendations
ought to be modified to accommodate
Mexican interests without violating the
laws of our own country, then we'll cer-
tainly recommend those changes to the
Congress.
I might say that I'm constrained by my
oath, as are all other officials in the Gov-
ernment, to enforce United States law.
And we cannot condone a violation of
United States law. And the legality or ille-
gality of those who come into our country
has to be addressed in those terms. But we
want to be humane about it, want to be
consistent about it, if possible. We want
to meet the subject of real value that we
have from Mexican immigrants who come
into our country either temporarily or
permanently. But we want to make their
185
