Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
have worked fairly well. They've certainly
been an improvement over arbitrary selec-
tions on a political basis or without ade-
quate assessment of merit.
We have tried to induce the Members
of the Senate to do two things: One is to
choose a list of potential judge appointees
on the basis of merit, but also to take into
consideration the fact that for many years
there have been discriminatory practices
in the appointment of judges against
minority groups, those who speak Spanish,
for instance, those who are black, and also
against women. And those two, that com-
bination of efforts, merit and a correction
of past discrimination, are the bases on
which we're trying to make these appoint-
ments. I hope that the Senators will coop-
erate. In some instances they have, not yet
enough.
PRESIDENT'S 1980 CANDIDACY; THE
NEW FOUNDATION
Q. Mr. President, a couple of related
political questions, since a lot of people
are trying to jump in already to run
against you in 1980. Will you promise now
to debate your Republican opponent in
1980, on television as you did in 1976,
assuming you run and that you are the
nominee of your party? And second, who
thought up the slogan "New Founda-
tion"? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. On the first question,
I really don't want to get involved in
answering questions about the 1980 cam-
paign. I think it's too early for me to do
it. I would rather address my attention.
and the attention on me on my present
duties, not some future campaign.
Secondly, I think the new foundations
question or basis for the State of the
Union speech is a good one. We got into a
discussion about what theme we should
pursue during the preparation of that
speech. Many of the decisions that we
have made and are making do not pay
off in immediate political benefits, but it's
an investment at the present time for
future dividends for America. And some
of the decisions that Congress has made
in approving the programs that I advo-
cated were really difficult for them politi-
cally.
Some of the decisions that I am making
right now, in having a tough and stringent
budget for 1980, may not be politically
popular, but I think in the long run the
control of inflation will pay rich dividends
for our country. And the fact that we are
building a foundation for future progress
was the reason we chose that as a theme
for the speech.
Q. Mr. President, to follow up on the
previous question, sir. For 2 years you
avoided the use of a slogan similar to New
Frontier or Great Society or whatever.
And now you've used it often enough this
week to indicate that you'd like to make
this your motto. Why did you make that
change, and, secondly, do you think this
slogan will survive the way some of the
others did?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt if it will sur-
vive. [Laughter] We are not trying to
establish this as a permanent slogan. It
was the theme that we established because
of extreme logic, which I've just described
in the previous question, for one State of
the Union speech. I think it accurately de-
scribes what I wanted to project to the
American people. I think we did it very
well.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, have U.S.-Soviet re-
lations been impaired in any way by the
Deng visit? Any unhappiness being ex-
pressed by the Soviets over the visit?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't believe so.
My own belief is that the Deng visit and
the normalization of relations between
172
