Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
pursue a vigorous program of re-
search and development in cruise missiles,
aircraft and other systems to ensure the
continued technological superiority of
America's nuclear deterrent.
In addition, the defense budget I have
submitted this week will strengthen our
conventional capabilities to fulfill our
commitments to our major allies and
friends and retain a credible military
presence in both the Atlantic and the
Pacific. We will continue to add armor
and firepower to our infantry and build a
more modern, smaller aircraft carrier
which, together with more frigates and
destroyers, will improve the effectiveness
and flexibility of our surface fleet.
In NATO, we have already achieved
important progress toward making the
Alliance more effective in the changing
security environment.
• We helped launch the Alliance's
Long-Term Defense Program to offset
growing Soviet modernization of its de-
ployment in Europe. The LTDP will
increase NATO military capabilities
through better coordination of defense ef-
forts, increased investment, and more
modern equipment.
We removed, with the support of
Congress, a serious obstacle to strengthen-
ing Turkey's defensive capabilities and
made further progress toward the reinte-
gration of Greek armed forces into
NATO's military structure; both these
efforts helped repair a serious deficiency
on NATO's southern flank.
• We neared final agreement with the
Portuguese on the renewal of our base
rights in the Azores.
The provision of adequate military as
well as economic assistance to Turkey,
Portugal and other allies and friends in
need will be a matter of high priority dur-
ing the coming year.
NATO's strength is growing. In 1979,
we can further that encouraging process
by standardizing more of the Alliance's
equipment and improving Allied readi-
ness. The proposal I will soon put before
the 96th Congress calls for the authoriza-
tion of intergovernmental agreements to
simplify logistical problems both in peace-
time and during any period of hostilities.
Such agreements will permit the U.S. to
reinforce NATO more rapidly and pro-
vide more effective defense at lower cost.
We also intend to maintain a vigorous
American military presence in the Pacific.
Successful completion of a revised mili-
tary base agreement in the Philippines,
following ten years of negotiations, pro-
vides an essential underpinning for our
military capability in Asia.
Congressional authorization for the
transfer of military equipment to the Re-
public of Korea was another contribution
to assuring the security of Korea and
Japan. Both actions unmistakably signal
not only our desire to promote East Asian
stability but our intention to remain a
concerned, involved and responsible
power in the Pacific.
The essential task of improving our
military posture must also be accompanied
by increased efficiency. I take this oppor-
tunity to thank the Congress for its sup-
port last year of our actions to reduce
waste and needless duplication in our
defense budget. Vigorous cost-saving ef-
forts will continue this year in order to
assure that the United States will possess
strong military forces at the lowest pos-
sible cost.
BUILDING THE COMMUNITY OF NATIONS
Military strength is essential to peace
but cannot alone guarantee it. The system
of cooperation we have with the rest of
the world is part of the foundation for
our own security. Our best hope for a
safer America and a peaceful world re-
156
