Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
myself, we stand together. And we vow
to continue to be always together and
work for peace.
And therefore, I raise my glass. I raise
my glass to President Carter, President of
the United States of America, the mighty
democracy which saved the world twice
from the danger of tyranny, militarism,
and totalitarianism, and which is still the
guarantee for human liberty; and to
President Sadat, whom I met for the first
time in Jerusalem. And since then-as it
is true, it comes from my heart—I have
a deep sentiment for him. And under any
circumstances, I will guard it in the
depths of my heart.
And let us raise a toast to friendship
between America, Egypt, and Israel, for-
ever. Thank you.
PRESIDENT SADAT. Ladies and gentle-
men, until last night, whenever I meet
with Premier Begin, we seldom come in
conformity. [Laughter] The miracle was
achieved today. And let me say this in all
candor: I am in full conformity with
Premier Begin, and let us hope that we
shall continue. I support his proposal that
our dear friend, President Carter, be
elected as the man of peace of '79. Thank
you.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Thank you.
I might point out to President Sadat
and to Prime Minister Begin that if the
next 9 months of negotiations are com-
pletely harmonious, constructive, coopera-
tive, and in a spirit of friendship, and if
we meet all the requirements of the Camp
David agreements and the peace treaty we
signed today, then I might consider ac-
cepting their nomination. Otherwise, they
have made their toasts in vain.
I think we've proven today, and in the
last 18 months or so, that there can be
peace between our three nations and an
inspiration for the whole world. I can feel
a certain sense of satisfaction and grati-
tude, of harmony, friendship, inspiration,
kind of an electrical current of common
purpose in this group tonight. And I think
it extends to Egypt and to Israel and, in-
deed, throughout the world.
Political achievement has been wonder-
ful. But now I think it's time for us to
shift our attention to another sense of har-
mony, to show that superb talent can in-
deed transcend national boundaries. Each
of our nations, through the leaders, have
suggested for tonight's program superb
performers. President Sadat has requested
Omar Khorshed to come to represent
Egypt; a superb musician, a superb com-
poser, and a superb actor. Prime Minister
Begin, to represent Israel, has asked Itz-
hak Perlman, a very well-known and be-
loved performer, and Pinchas Zukerman,
who will accompany him, two of the most
talented men who have ever lived. And
my wife and I have requested Leontyne
Price to sing to represent the United
States of America.
We will witness, without further intro-
ductions, a higher reality of human
achievement, beauty, excellence, high am-
bition, reached by human beings.
Some of the performers had to over-
come great handicaps, physical handicaps,
racial handicaps. But they will all show
tonight that what they are is the exempli-
fication of humanity that can indeed be
an inspiration to us all.
Now for a few minutes, I think we will
enjoy some of the finest examples of
achievement from our three countries.
I am indeed grateful that you've come
tonight. It's a wonderful and historic eve-
ning. And I believe it will be an exciting
and enjoyable evening as well. And you
will certify that, I am sure, with your own
applause after these performers give us
526
