Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
economic challenge. Inflation is the per-
sistent, historic enemy of a free society.
It saps our confidence and faith in the
future. It undermines our trust.
I am determined to meet the challenge
now before us. Last October I announced
an anti-inflation program which can aid
significantly in the effort to reduce infla-
tion. It is a tough and responsible volun-
tary program.
Throughout this year, we will be work-
ing to implement our anti-inflation pro-
gram. Part of the program requires new
legislation, and we intend to work closely
with you in developing and enacting that
legislation.
The effort to reduce inflation will be
one of the most difficult battles our gov-
ernment has undertaken in many years.
But it is not a battle we can afford to lose.
Government cannot solve the problem of
inflation alone. But we can and must lead
the way. With your cooperation, we can
and will win.
The 1980 Budget
In announcing my anti-inflation pro-
gram last year, I made a commitment to
the American people to reduce the budget
deficit for fiscal year 1980 to $30 billion
or less. The budget I submitted to the
Congress honors that commitment. The
FY '80 budget projects a deficit of $29
billion, which is less than half the deficit
the Nation had when I ran for office and
represents the smallest budget deficit in
the last six fiscal years.
The FY '80 budget has $531.6 billion
in projected budget outlays, which is an
increase of only 7.7% above the previous
year. That is the smallest annual increase
in Federal spending in the last seven
years.
The $531.6 billion spending total also
means that we will be meeting my goal
of reducing Federal spending to about
21% of Gross National Product one year
ahead of schedule.
The decisions I had to make in re-
straining spending were difficult. But if
we are to succeed in breaking the back
of inflation, Federal spending must be
restrained to set an example for the pri-
vate sector. If there were easier solutions,
they would have been taken by now.
Finally, I want to emphasize that my
FY '80 budget does not neglect the basic
needs of the disadvantaged, the
poor, and
the unemployed. For instance, the budget
will provide $4.5 billion in increased as-
sistance to the poor. It also will provide
a total of $11.2 billion for adult and youth
employment and training programs,
which will be especially targeted to the
disadvantaged and long-term unem-
ployed. Moreover there are significant in-
creases for education programs for the
disadvantaged and a new fiscal assistance
program for our Nation's cities.
In short, this budget is austere, but it
also maintains our commitment to help
those in our country who most need it.
Hospital Cost Containment
One of my highest legislative priorities
for this year is hospital cost containment.
It will be one of the clearest tests of the
seriousness of the Congress in dealing
with the problem of inflation. Clearly the
most inflationary part of health care costs
in recent years has been in the hospital in-
dustry. Last year, hospital charges grew at
the rate of about 13 percent. Experience
in several States has shown that through
programs such as the one I will propose,
hospitals can save money and reduce costs
through sound cost containment prac-
tices. I expect to shortly propose hospital
cost containment legislation which will
123
