May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Business Administration shall provide an
Executive Director and adequate staff
and administrative support for the Com-
mittee. The staff shall be located in the
Office of the Chief Counsel for Advocacy
of the Small Business Administration, or
in such other office as may be established
specifically to further the policies ex-
pressed herein. Nothing in this Section
prohibits the use of other properly avail-
able funds and resources in support of the
Committee.
1-3. Functions of the Committee. The
Committee shall in a manner consistent
with law:
1-301. Promote, coordinate and moni-
tor the plans, programs and operations
of the departments and agencies of the
Executive Branch which may contribute
to the establishment, preservation and
strengthening of women's business enter-
prise. It may, as appropriate, develop
comprehensive interagency plans and spe-
cific program goals for women's business
enterprise with the cooperation of the de-
partments and agencies.
1-302. Establish such policies, defini-
tions, procedures and guidelines to gov-
ern the implementation, interpretation
and application of this order, and gen-
erally perform such functions and take
such steps as the Committee may deem
to be necessary or appropriate to achieve
the purposes and carry out the provisions
hereof.
1-303. Promote the mobilization of ac-
tivities and resources of State and local
governments, business and trade associa-
tions, private industry, colleges and uni-
versities, foundations, professional orga-
nizations, and volunteer and other groups
toward the growth of women's business
enterprise, and facilitate the coordination
of the efforts of these groups with those
of the departments and agencies.
1-304. Make an annual assessment of
the progress made in the Federal Gov-
ernment toward assisting women's busi-
ness enterprise to enter the mainstream
of business ownership and to provide rec-
ommendations for future actions to the
President.
1-305. Convene and consult as neces-
sary with persons inside and outside gov-
ernment to develop and promote new
ideas concerning the development of
women's business enterprise.
1-306. Consider the findings and rec-
ommendations of government and pri-
vate sector investigations and studies of
the problems of women entrepreneurs,
and promote further research into such
problems.
1-307. Design a comprehensive and in-
novative plan for a joint Federal and
private sector effort to develop increased
numbers of new women-owned businesses
and larger and more successful women-
owned businesses. The plan should set
specific reasonable targets which can be
achieved at reasonable and identifiable
costs and should provide for the measure-
ment of progress towards these targets at
the end of two and five years. Related
outcomes such as income and tax reve-
nues generated, jobs created, new prod-
ucts and services introduced or new do-
mestic or foreign markets created should
also be projected and measured in rela-
tion to costs wherever possible. The
Committee should submit the plan to the
President for approval within six months
of the effective date of this Order.
1-4. Other Responsibilities of the Federal
Departments and Agencies.
1-401. The head of each department
and agency shall designate a high level
official to have the responsibility for the
participation and cooperation of that de-
partment or agency in carrying out this
892
