Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 1
which assesses the economic impacts of approval a Standby Gasoline Rationing
the plan.
The procedures for approval by Con-
gress of a contingency plan are detailed
in Section 552 of the EPCA, and require
among other things that a resolution of
approval be passed by each House of
Congress within 60 days of submittal of
the plan. The EPCA does not specify the
form which the resolution of approval is
to take. It is my view and that of the
Attorney General that actions of the Con-
gress purporting to have binding legal
effect must be presented to the President
for his approval under Article I, Section
7 of the Constitution. Therefore, I
strongly recommend that Congressional
approval of these plans be in the form
of a joint resolution. If this procedure is
followed, the plans themselves, agreed to
by Congress and the President, will not
later be subject to possible judicial in-
validation on the ground that the Presi-
dent did not approve the resolution.
I urge the prompt and favorable con-
sideration by the Congress of these plans.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 1, 1979.
NOTE: The plans and accompanying analyses
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March
8, 1979.
Standby Gasoline Rationing
Plan
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Plan. March 1, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Section 201 of the
Energy Policy and Conservation Act
(EPCA), 42 U.S.C. 6261, I am hereby
transmitting to the Congress for its
Plan. I have also today directed the Sec-
retary of Energy to publish the Plan in
the FEDERAL REGISTER, as the final step
in my prescribing a gasoline rationing
plan by rule, as required by Sections 203
and 523 of the EPCA.
The Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan
which I am transmitting today is the re-
sult of an extensive rulemaking proceed-
ing in which over 1,100 comments from
citizens throughout the United States
were received and considered. I believe
this plan, which would be implemented
only in a severe energy supply emergency,
would equitably allocate gasoline sup-
plies and minimize economic hardships
to the maximum extent possible without
undue administrative costs and complex-
ity.
Together with the energy conservation
contingency plans which I am also trans-
mitting to the Congress today under
separate letter, the Standby Gasoline Ra-
tioning Plan would help mitigate the
impact of a severe energy supply interrup-
tion. These measures, along with volun-
tary conservation efforts and other meas-
ures contained in existing legislation and
the Department of Energy's present con-
tingency programs, will provide the gov-
ernment with several options to deal with
energy emergencies of varying types and
degrees of severity. Such flexibility is es-
sential if we are to prevent unnecessary
hardship to our citizens and harm to our
economy in the event of future curtail-
ments of our energy supplies.
As required by Section 201 (f) of the
EPCA, the Standby Gasoline Rationing
Plan is accompanied by an analysis which
assesses the economic impacts of the Plan.
The procedures for approval by Con-
gress of a contingency plan are detailed
in Section 552 of the EPCA, and require
among other things that a resolution of
371
