Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
That's the best answer I can give you.
I don't think it's possible to destroy
OPEC. The best way to do it is to cut
down on our dependence on imported
oil.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. Mr. President, you have just an-
nounced you are planning to form a
Cabinet-level department of education.
And educators that I've talked to this
past week tell me that they think this is
going to just be more government control
over education and more paperwork for
them. What's your thinking behind this?
THE PRESIDENT. That's not the case.
Obviously, I wouldn't do that if I
thought that. I've been a Governor for 4
years, and before that I was on the local
school board, the county school board,
for 7 years. I've had a deep interest in
education.
I think it's important to have a depart-
ment in the Federal Government respon-
sible for education and not have it buried
in a much larger department that's
dominated by interests of a welfare and
health nature. I sit around this table and
meet with my Cabinet every week or
every 2 weeks, and I would say that out-
side of hotly disputed segregation law-
suits and things of that kind, we don't
spend half of 1 percent of our time dis-
cussing what we can legitimately do to
make education of our children and
adults in this country better.
And I believe that it will be very help-
ful to have a single person that's identi-
fied by students, parents, county, State
officials as the person responsible for edu-
cation in this country working with me.
We've eliminated enormous quantities of
unnecessary paperwork, reports, forms, at
the suggestion of and with the coopera-
tion of both college presidents, who have
met in this room with me, and the repre-
sentatives of the States, State school
superintendents, who've met over in the
larger room with me for that particular
purpose. I believe it'll be a much cleaner
relationship in eliminating confusion and
overlapping and redtape and the duplica-
tion of reports if we can have a separate
department.
We've been very careful in drafting the
legislation. We've not tried to abuse any-
one. But for those reasons, I think it
would be a step in the right direction, not
backwards. As you know, the NEA, the
largest organization of teachers, thinks
it'd be very good. And although Joe
Califano has not been an enthusiastic
supporter of it, he agrees with my deci-
sion. [Laughter]
Q. Do you have anybody in mind to
head the department?
THE PRESIDENT. Not yet. But I think
the Congress is very likely to pass that
legislation, and when they do, I think it'll
be a step in having better education for
anything as President to usurp the clear
our children. I would certainly never do
responsibility for the curriculum and for
other aspects of education away from the
local officials primarily and, obviously,
the State officials secondarily. And I
would put the Federal Government as a
level of educational administration that
ought to be removed from decisions con-
cerning the students themselves as much
as possible.
GAMBLING
Q. Mr. President, there are now at
least five States considering legalized
gaming to alleviate their financial condi-
tions. Have you or will you consider a
national gaming policy, or would you
consider intervening in gaming in any
way?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not in favor of it.
When I was Governor, I opposed any
form of legalized gambling, and I still
246
