Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 24
America must and always will speak out in
the defense of human rights, not only in
our own country but around the world.
That commitment imposes special re-
sponsibilities on us to uphold the highest
possible standards of human justice and
human rights here at home. I applaud the
Congress in calling for this day of remem-
brance of the Holocaust. And I renew my
call to the Senate to take a long overdue
step this year by ratifying the Interna-
tional Treaty on the Prevention and the
Punishment of Genocide. Without con-
crete action, our words are hollow. Let us
signify by deed as well as by word that the
American people will never forget.
It is, perhaps, ironic that we meet today
in a season of rebirth and renewal to re-
call a time of darkness and destruction
that has no parallel in human history.
And yet it's also fitting that we do so in
this Rotunda, along with actual survivors
of the Holocaust itself. For the Holocaust
is also a story of renewal and a testament
to the power of the human spirit to
prevail.
People who saw their homes destroyed
helped build a new homeland in the State
of Israel. People like Elie Wiesel, the
Chairman of my Holocaust Commission,
who witnessed the collapse of all vision,
created and shared with us a new vision.
It's an incredible story of a people who
refused to allow despair to triumph, who,
after having lost their children, brought
new families into the world.
It is our collective task as well to learn
from this process of renewal the roots of
hope—a hope not based on illusion or ig-
norance, but hope grounded in the rebirth
of the human spirit and a reaffirmation of
the sacredness of life.
With that hope, we will strive to build
out of our memories of the Holocaust a
world joined by a true fellowship of hu-
man understanding, a world of tolerance
and diversity in which all peoples can live
in dignity and in peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:43 p.m. in
the Rotunda of the Capitol.
Non-Proliferation Treaty
Review Conference
Accordance of Rank of Ambassador to
Charles N. Van Doren While Serving as
Head of the U.S. Delegation to the
Preparatory Committee Meetings.
April 24, 1979
The President today announced that he
has accorded Charles N. Van Doren, the
Assistant Director of the United States
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,
the rank of Ambassador while serving as
Head of the United States Delegation to
the Preparatory Committee meetings of
the second Non-Proliferation Treaty Re-
view Conference.
United States Ambassador
to Iran
Nomination of Walter L. Cutler.
April 24, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Walter L. Cutler, of
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
Alexandria, Va., to be Ambassador Ex-
United States to Iran. He would replace
William H. Sullivan, who has resigned.
Cutler has been a Foreign Service officer
since 1956 and has served as Ambassador
to the Republic of Zaire since 1975.
He was born November 25, 1931, in
Boston, Mass. He received an A.B. from
Wesleyan University in 1953 and an M.A.
from the Fletcher School of Law and Di-
plomacy in 1954. He served in the U.S.
Army from 1954 to 1956.
685
