Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
in other advanced countries. Throughout
Western Europe, as well as in Canada,
Australia, and Japan, records of personal
data have grown at explosive rates. Our
concerns about privacy are shared by
many other governments.
International information flows, how-
ever, are increasingly important to the
world's economy. We are, therefore, work-
ing with other governments in several in-
ternational organizations to develop prin-
ciples to protect personal data crossing
international borders and to harmonize
each country's rules to avoid needless dis-
ruption of international communications.
Enactment of the proposals I have out-
lined will help speed this process by assur-
ing other countries that the U.S. is com-
mitted to the protection of personal data.
Privacy is a permanent public issue. Its
preservation requires constant attention to
social and technological changes, and
those changes demand action now.
I ask the Congress and the public to
join me in establishing a comprehensive
framework of reasonable privacy protec-
tions. Together we can preserve the right
to privacy in the information age.
The White House,
April 2, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Wiretapping and Electronic
Surveillance
Message to the Congress Reporting on
Recommendations of the National Commission
for the Review of Federal and State Laws.
April 2, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 6(b) of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act (PL 92-
463), I am pleased to report to the Con-
gress my views concerning the recom-
mendations contained in the "Report of
the National Commission For The Re-
view of Federal and State Laws Relating
to Wiretapping and Electronic Surveil-
lance."
The Commission was charged by the
Congress to study and evaluate the effec-
tiveness of Title III of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (PL
90-351; 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2510-2520) which
governs the use of electronic surveillance
of wire and oral communications, except
in matters involving foreign intelligence
and counterintelligence.
From my viewpoint, the most signifi-
cant findings of the Commission in carry-
ing out this Congressional mandate are
that the provisions of Title III are an
indispensable aid to law enforcement,
particularly in obtaining evidence of of-
fenses committed by organized criminals;
that the procedural requirements of Title
III have effectively minimized the inva-
sion of individual privacy in electronic
surveillance investigations by law enforce-
ment officers; and that Title III has re-
duced the incidence of illegal intercep-
tions through its controls on the manufac-
ture, sale, and advertising of wiretapping
devices and its criminal sanctions for their
use.
It is particularly reassuring to note the
Commission's finding that the carefully
designed Title III controls and proced-
ures have effectively minimized the in-
vasion of individual privacy in electronic
surveillance investigations by law enforce-
ment officers, and that there were no
cases among the many studied by the
Commission in which law enforcement
authorities sought a Title III court order
for an apparently corrupt purpose. From
the very inception of its use in criminal
cases, the Department of Justice has de-
veloped a highly centralized review sys-
tem for the approval of Title III au-
thorization requests as well as detailed
587
