Jan. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
JANUARY 17, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. I have a brief opening statement to
make.
FISCAL YEAR 1980 BUDGET
Last fall, when I outlined the adminis-
tration's commitment to control inflation,
I set as a goal for ourselves the submission
of a budget for 1980 fiscal year with a
deficit of less than $30 billion, which
would be substantially more than a 50-
percent cut compared to the deficit that
I inherited.
The budget will be submitted to Con-
gress this coming Tuesday. I have more
than met that goal. As a matter of fact,
the fiscal year 1976 budget deficit was
more than 4 percent of our gross national
product. In 1980, we will have cut it down
to 1.2 percent of our gross national prod-
uct. We had an earlier commitment also
to reduce total Federal spending down to
21 percent of our GNP by fiscal year 1981.
We will have met that commitment 1 year
earlier.
This has been a very difficult budget to
prepare because of those stringent goals.
But I felt it was necessary, and I believe
the Nation agrees with me that it is nec-
essary, to restrain Federal spending.
We have not neglected the needs of the
disadvantaged Americans, poor Ameri-
cans, and those who are unemployed. As a
matter of fact, the total allocation of funds
for the poor will be increased by $42
billion by 1980 fiscal year, and we will
have a total of about $11 billion designed
for jobs and job training to sustain the
high employment rate in our country.
So, to summarize, the budget commit-
ment will be to control inflation. It will be
very austere, stringent, tough, fiscal policy,
but fair to the American people and
oriented to help those who are most dis-
advantaged have a better quality of life.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associ-
ated Press].
QUESTIONS
IRAN
Q. Mr. President, what will the posture
of our Government be now toward the
various contending factions in Iran that
even continue to vie for power over there?
THE PRESIDENT. We have very im-
portant relationships with Iran-past,
present, and I hope, in the future—and I
expect in the future. They have been good
allies of ours, and I expect this to continue
in the future.
In accordance with the provisions of
the Iranian Constitution, a change in gov-
ernment has now been accomplished.
Under Mr. Bahktiar, whose government
we do support, the Majles, the lower house
of parliament, and the upper house, the
Senate, have approved his government
and his Cabinet.
We have encouraged to the limited ex-
tent of our own ability the public support
for the Bahktiar government, for the
restoration of stability, for an end of
bloodshed, and for the return of normal
life in Iran.
As you know, the Shah has left Iran;
he says for a vacation. How long he will
be out of Iran, we have no way to deter-
mine. Future events and his own desires
will determine that. He's now in Egypt,
and he will later come to our own coun-
try. But we would anticipate and would
certainly hope that our good relationships
with Iran will continue in the future.
Q. Mr. President, a month ago at a
news conference, you said the Shah would
maintain power. How could you be so
wrong, and is it typical of our intelligence
50
