Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
announced a program of wage and price
standards to slow the rate of inflation.
This program is voluntary. But it also has
teeth, and we are already having some
very important successes. Most businesses,
most working people, and most consumers
are cooperating. But their efforts have
been obscured by inflationary forces
beyond our control, such as OPEC oil
prices, which have risen much higher than
anybody could have anticipated or in-
fluenced, and by severe winter weather 2
years in a row.
In the past few months though, the
rate of inflation in the parts of the econ-
omy that we can control has slowed sig-
nificantly. The producer price index, a
very good indicator, shows these changes.
It has dropped by more than 40 percent
already this year from 13 percent in
January to 72 percent in March. This is
an important sign that we are beginning
to get a grip on inflation.
Other evidence which we can already
detect very clearly suggests that food
prices will stop going through the roof as
well. But I'm not going to kid you about
this: Our number one domestic problem,
inflation, is bad, and it will be months, at
the very least, before it gets substantially
better. Frankly, we will continue to see
discouraging price figures coming out for
some time to come.
Too often in the past, Presidents have
tried to improve their political fortunes
by coming up with sudden gimmicks that
produce misleading, temporary paper
gains in the inflation figures. The trouble
is that this just led to bigger spurts of in-
flation down the road, and it ended up
doing long-term economic damage to our
country. It's a temptation, but I refuse to
play politics with the economic health of
the United States of America.
That's why I am calling on every one
of
you and on all Americans throughout
our country to cooperate with a steady,
solid anti-inflation effort. Only a tena-
cious, long-term approach can solve the
tenacious, long-term problem of inflation.
But I will persevere. And I ask for your
understanding about the deep-rooted na-
ture of the problem, and I ask for your
patience to give our efforts time to suc-
ceed. And most of all, I ask for your de-
termination and your dedication to the
common good in sticking to this fight until
it is won.
Again, in New Hampshire, in Concord,
more than 4 years ago, as a candidate dur-
ing one of my first visits to New Hamp-
shire, I told you the truth about our
energy problems. I said then, and I repeat
today, and I quote, "There is no work-
able plan that does not require sacrifice
and self-restraint from the American
people."
New Hampshire, like the rest of New
England, knows that it is not a good situ-
ation to be dependent on a long, thin line
of oil tankers stretched all the way from
the Middle East to these shores. Foreign
oil is expensive and getting more so. And
we cannot control it. In an uncertain
world, our growing appetite for foreign
oil makes us dependent on the whims of
foreign powers.
The days of cheap energy are over.
Only demagogs deny the unpleasant
truth: We must pay more and we must
use less.
In order to increase production of
American oil, we will soon begin to de-
control slowly, predictably, in a phased
way, domestic oil prices. It's a step that
has to be taken if we are ever going to
conserve energy and have a rational en-
ergy policy.
The choice is not between cheap or ex-
pensive domestic oil. It's between some
inconvenience now that's controllable, and
717
