Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
respective research and studies on this
issue.
President López Portillo reiterated that
Mexico does not wish to export workers
but goods, and also noted that the phe-
nomenon of migrant workers is part of
the employment problem whose solution
is a priority concern of the Mexican State
in a constitutional category and which is
looked upon in Mexico's development
programs. He added, however, that it is
necessary to take into consideration that
this is a matter of bilateral nature, of
long history, that it is stimulated by a real
demand, and that, in any event, it de-
serves respect with regard to its human
aspect and requires a clear and objective
analysis, taking into consideration that re-
strictive measures in other areas slow
down the solution that both countries
wish for this problem.
President Carter expressed concern
about the problem of unlawful immigra-
tion into the United States and its impact
on the United States. He took note of
the responsibility of the United States
Government to enforce the laws respect-
ing immigration and the need to bring
to justice those who traffic in undocu-
mented migrants.
The Presidents discussed the status of
border relations, reaffirming their goals
to promote an adequate flow of goods and
people, to fight all kinds of contraband
which adversely affect the economies of
both countries, and to strengthen coop-
eration between the authorities of both
countries.
They noted with satisfaction the suc-
cess of current programs in sharply re-
ducing the traffic in dangerous drugs and
pledged to continue to strengthen and ex-
pand their efforts to suppress the pro-
duction and trafficking of illicit narcotics.
President Carter took special note of the
effective record of Mexican authorities in
suppressing the traffic in narcotics. The
two Presidents agreed to explore with
neighboring countries the possibility of
multilateral programs assisting them in
strengthening narcotics control arrange-
ments.
Both leaders reaffirmed the importance
of having good quality and abundant
water for the health and well-being of
citizens on both sides of the border. They
instructed the International Boundary
and Water Commission, in the context of
existing agreements, to make immediate
recommendations for further progress to-
wards a permanent solution to the sanita-
tion of waters along the border.
The Presidents agreed to continue their
consultations over a wide range of inter-
national political and economic matters,
and reaffirmed their intention to maintain
close contact and to give their personal
and continuous attention to the reinforce-
ment and broadening of the numerous
areas of cooperation existing between
their nations.
President Carter suggested that both
Presidents meet again in the summer to
examine the report of the Consultative
Mechanism and to assess progress on the
issues discussed in Mexico City. President
López Portillo gladly accepted this sug-
gestion.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Presi-
dent's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
February 11
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David, Md.
292
