Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 18
extended by way of grant, cooperative
agreement, loan or contract other than a
contract of insurance or guaranty. These
regulations shall prescribe sanctions for
noncompliance. Unless otherwise specified
by law, no agency sanctions shall be ap-
plied until the agency or department con-
cerned has advised the appropriate person
or persons of the failure to comply with
its regulations and has determined that
compliance cannot be secured by volun-
tary means.
1-102. For purposes of this Order, af-
firmative action may include, but is not
limited to, creating or supporting new
programs responsive to the special needs
of women's business enterprise, establish-
ing incentives to promote business or busi-
ness-related opportunities for women's
business enterprise, collecting and dissem-
inating information in support of wom-
en's business enterprise, and insuring to
women's business enterprise knowledge of
and ready access to business-related serv-
ices and resources. If, in implementing
this Order, an agency undertakes to use
or to require compliance with numerical
set-asides, or similar measures, it shall
state the purpose of such measure, and
the measure shall be designed on the basis
of pertinent factual findings of discrimi-
nation against women's business enter-
prise and the need for such measure.
1-103. In carrying out their responsi-
bilities under Section 1-1, the depart-
ments and agencies shall consult the De-
partment of Justice, and the Department
of Justice shall provide legal guidance
concerning these responsibilities.
1-2. Establishment of the Interagency
Committee on Women's Business
Enterprise.
1-201. To help insure that the actions
ordered above are carried out in an effec-
tive manner, I hereby establish the Inter-
agency Committee on Women's Business
Enterprise (hereinafter called the Com-
mittee).
1-202. The Chairperson of the Com-
mittee (hereinafter called the Chairper-
son) shall be appointed by the President.
The Chairperson shall be the presiding
officer of the Committee and shall have
such duties as prescribed in this Order or
by the Committee in its rules of procedure.
The Chairperson may also represent his
or her department, agency or office on the
Committee.
1-203. The Committee shall be com-
posed of the Chairperson and other mem-
bers appointed by the heads of depart-
ments and agencies from among high level
policy-making officials. In making these
appointments, the recommendations of
the Chairperson shall be taken into con-
sideration. The following departments
and agencies and such other departments
and agencies as the Chairperson shall se-
lect shall be members of the Committee:
the Departments of Agriculture; Com-
merce; Defense; Energy; Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare; Housing and Urban
Development; Interior; Justice; Labor;
Transportation; Treasury; the Federal
Trade Commission; General Services
Administration; National Science Foun-
dation; Office of Federal Procurement
Policy; and the Small Business Adminis-
tration. These members shall have a vote.
Nonvoting members shall include the Ex-
ecutive Director of the Committee and at
least one but no more than three repre-
sentatives from the Executive Office of the
President appointed by the President.
1-204. The Committee shall meet at
least quarterly at the call of the Chair-
person, and at such other times as may be
determined to be useful according to the
rules of procedure adopted by the Com-
mittee.
1–205. The Administrator of the Small
891
