Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
that area and what we would be willing to
do to safeguard the world's oil supply?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no desire to
open military bases in that area or to sta-
tion American troops in Saudi Arabia.
And this proposal has not been made.
That part of the report was erroneous.
However, we do want to strengthen the
combined responsibility and capability of
our friends and allies who seek modera-
tion and peace and stability to preserve
the integrity of that region. Secretary
Brown visited Saudi Arabia, Jordan,
Egypt, and Israel for this purpose, and his
trip was very successful.
It's important also for those nations
and for others in that region to know that
we have a real interest, a real national
interest in the stability and peace of that
region and, particularly, for the supply of
oil, the routes through which the oil is
delivered to ourselves and to our allies and
friends throughout the world.
But any sort of action that we take
would be contributory to peace, would
not encroach on the prerogatives of indi-
vidual nations. And we do not intend to
become involved in the internal affairs of
another country. We have no plans to
establish military bases in that region.
PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
Q. Mr. President, is Governor Brown
talking sense or is he talking nonsense
when he advocates his constitutional
amendment to require a balanced Federal
budget?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the convening
of a constitutional convention to pass such
an amendment would be very ill-advised,
contrary to the best interests of our coun-
try. It would be a radical departure from
the historic procedures that we have
always used to amend our Constitution
and might result in unlimited amend-
ments which would change the basic
thrust, the philosophy, and the structure
of our Government itself. So, I would op-
pose very strongly any call of a constitu-
tional amendment [convention] for that
purpose.
I might say that there are other ways
to do this. I have been a strong advocate
for a balanced budget, and I'm doing all
I can this year and will do it in subse-
quent years to reach a balanced budget.
In my opinion, that's a subject that ought
to be addressed through this kind of ac-
tion and not through a very restrictive
constitutional amendment.
Another thing that I would like to
point out is that there would be a neces-
sity for the careful drafting in such a con-
stitutional amendment for exceptions.
We would, obviously, have to deal with
very serious economic circumstances if
they did prevail, extremely high unem-
ployment rate, or an extremely deep de-
pression. In addition to that, we would
have to meet the needs for national secu-
rity if our Nation was threatened.
So, I consider the balancing of the
budget to be best addressed by those of
us who are working for it, within statu-
tory limits that presently exist. If a con-
stitutional amendment should take place,
the constitutional convention process
would be the worst imaginable route to
that goal.
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN
Q. If I may follow, do you think that
Governor Brown would be a worthy ad-
versary for you next year?
for
THE PRESIDENT. If I were looking
adversary [laughter]-then I
350
