Feb. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
But I also know from experience as a
State senator, as a Governor, as a candi-
date, and as President, that the needs and
the problems of our age, our era, are too
challenging and too complex to permit
simple answers.
The same is obviously true at the na-
tional level, as at the State level. When
the Founders wrote our Constitution, they
didn't promise us that governing ourselves
would be easy or that freedom would pro-
vide an automatic answer to every prob-
lem. They didn't promise us that democ-
racy would be stagnant or easy or conven-
ient. They talked instead about eternal
vigilance, about duty, about sacrifice, and
they made provisions in the Constitution
for beneficial change.
Most of the amendments to our Con-
stitution over the generations have been
designed to extend and perfect rights and
liberties for individual citizens of this
Nation.
The Bill of Rights was the first major
change setting forth our most basic safe-
guards for personal liberty. Later, former
slaves were liberated, and they were
granted their full rights as citizens. The
people were allowed to vote directly for
United States Senators, and later, women
were brought into the electorate.
Continuing this trend, there are now
two constitutional amendments which I
hope you will ratify. They are politically
controversial and difficult.
One of them will grant voting rights to
almost a million people who live in the
District of Columbia. This is a proposed
amendment which I take to be appealing
both to liberals and conservatives, one
which received broad support from the
Georgia delegation. It was supported by
Senator Talmadge, Senator Nunn, and all
but two of the members of the Georgia
congressional delegation. This granting of
fundamental rights was also supported by
conservative Republicans like Strom
Thurmond, Barry Goldwater.
And I would like to also remind you
that half our people are still not guar-
anteed their full rights in the Constitution.
We owe the women of Georgia and the
people of the United States no less than
the ratification of the equal rights amend-
ment.
I've been told that you will not consider
either one of these amendments this year.
But I hope you will consider the passage
of those amendments in the same spirit
that the trend and the evolution of the
United States Constitution has exhibited
under even more difficult times in years
gone by.
These decisions and many others are
challenges for you. And there are chal-
lenges also for the President and the Con-
gress. Let me just mention one of those
major difficult issues that face me as Presi-
dent, which you share with me in a spe-
cial way.
Because of problems that have devel-
oped over a long period of time, both at
home and abroad, our Nation now faces
increasingly complex and challenging
tasks in the area of economics. The time
ahead will be difficult, requiring us to
draw out the best that's within us—our
idealism, our willingness to face unpleas-
ant realities, our readiness to put the long-
term interest of all above the short-term
interest of a few, sometimes above the
interest of our own selves.
Later on today, at Georgia Tech, I'll
discuss our responsibilities as a world
power in the international-military,
diplomatic, and political-arena. But we
face equally grave tasks here at home.
And the most difficult of these responsi-
bilities is to control the persistent high in-
flation which threatens the health of our
economy and the economic well-being of
our people. And as President I pledge to
298
