Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 20
Thursday, I met in the White House
with several hundred black leaders, dozens
of whom were instrumental in bringing
about the Supreme Court decision, Brown
versus the Board of Education, which oc-
curred 25 years ago on that date, which
struck down the separate but equal doc-
trine that had perpetuated segregation in
the schools of a nation which has always
claimed to be free and to provide equality
of opportunity.
Not long ago, when I was in Memphis,
I went with Mrs. Martin Luther King,
Jr., to the balcony of a motel to visit the
spot where her own husband was assassi-
nated.
These events and others like them are
profoundly moving, personal experiences.
But I also feel a sense of history as I stand
here today.
Many of you are the first in your family
who ever had a chance to go to college.
Neither my father nor any of his ancestors
ever had a chance to finish high school
or to go to college. So, I share the pride
that you feel. And I also know the hard-
ship that has gone into this achievement
which is taking place today.
Ours, yours and mine, is a very special
generation, the generation that Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr., was thinking of when
he expressed his dream for America with
an eloquence and a moral power that
never will be forgotten.
One part of Dr. King's dream had a
special meaning for me because of the
State where he and I were born. He said,
"I have a dream that one day on the red
hills of Georgia, sons of former slaves and
sons of former slaveholders will be able
to sit down at the table of brotherhood."
And now when Andrew Young and I,
two Georgians, sit down in the White
House with other Cabinet members to
hammer out foreign policy for the United
States of America, it truly is a table of
brotherhood.
I'm proud that we are working together
for human rights around the world and
for a majority rule, equality, and the end
of racism and apartheid in southern
Africa.
But I have not come to Cheyney State
to boast about what my administration
has done in foreign policy or civil rights
or any other field. I'm not here to soothe
you with promises that everything is go-
ing to be all right just because I happen
to be in the White House or just because
almost 200 superb black leaders now work
with me to establish the policies of our
Nation's Government. Instead, I'm here
to talk to you very briefly today about
some problems and to offer a challenge.
Our country does face extremely diffi-
energy shortages, inequality, discrimina-
cult problems-problems like inflation,
tion, unemployment, and worldwide
brings with it a tendency toward with-
threats to peace. Each of these problems
drawal from responsibility and sometimes
crippling fears, fears that stand in the
doorway between us and needed solutions.
These fears of an uncertain future affect
our daily lives. All of us, for instance—
consumers, public officials, students, work-
ing people, business executives hesitate
to make individual sacrifices that we know
are needed to fight inflation, because we
are afraid that someone else may get a
better deal.
We've seen the panic gasoline buying
in California when everyone knows that
this only makes our energy problems
worse. Some people are afraid of losing
their jobs. And this gives rise to racial
bigotry and hatred.
All of us, if we are sane, are afraid of
nuclear war,
but the horror of the thought
that mankind might actually be destroyed
does not yet bring us together in a spirit
909
