Mar. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
national artists. But from the point of view
of the timing and the substance, I feel it
fortunate that it worked out this way, be-
cause I am meeting President Carter at a
very important time in the development
of international relations-in the midst of
his meetings with the Prime Minister of
Israel, following shortly after his meeting
with the Vice Premier of China and on
the eve, I hope, of the successful conclu-
sion of SALT II, to which Canada and,
I'm sure, all peace-loving peoples attach
very, very great importance. And we're
very supportive of the initiatives taken by
the President and by Mr. Brezhnev in
bringing the SALT II treaty, hopefully,
close to a successful conclusion.
As the President said, apart from these
international problems-in which I was
mainly the listener and a willing listener-
we did discuss a number of bilateral issues
which are of great importance to both
countries.
I feel that those discussions were well in
the direction that we had set together a
couple of years ago at our first meeting, in
ensuring the political will of solving many
of these issues. And we talked about the
very ones which are coming now to a suc-
cessful conclusion-the MTN negotia-
tions, many of the environmental border
issues, the fisheries dispute, which then
seemed almost unsoluble and which we
have solved in a successful way, at least
on the east coast; and the fact that the
areas which remain unsolved, particularly
the border areas, have been referred or
will be referred to arbitration as an indi-
cation of the confidence that exists be-
tween our two countries and administra-
tions, that we trust each other enough to
sort of say, "Well, if we can't agree, let's
get a third party to agree for us." There's
no browbeating and pushing around. It's
a fair bargain between friends.
So, on all these issues, we have seen
progress between our countries in the past
few years.
I'm very grateful for the understanding
of the Canadian points of view. We feel
in some cases they got a better deal, but
the President was telling me that he
thought it was the contrary. So, it means
both sides are pretty happy, I think, with
the way in which we've settled the dis-
putes in the MTN and the fisheries areas,
in particular.
On energy, there is the major question
of the Foothills Pipeline. And I was re-
assured that President Carter insisted that
there was a desire on the part of the U.S.
Government that it be proceeded with
and that no one, certainly in his adminis-
tration, had any doubts about that.
But there are a lot of secondary but im-
portant issues which have to be solved,
having to do with our excess capacity in
the east coast of refining capacity, hav-
ing to do with what we do with the sur-
plus of gas which was found in the West
and Canada, the eventual disposition of
the liquefied natural gas that we are plan-
ning for the Arctic, and so on.
And these issues do call for a much
more direct and ongoing consultation be-
tween the two administrations. And I
think the proposition was made to have
an ongoing group of officials monitor it
and report to us on a more frequent basis.
It's a very good one, and I think in the
short time ahead, it will prove of signifi-
cant benefit to both our countries.
So, everything that I had hoped to talk
about, including the Auto Pact, was cov-
ered in our talks. And I think it's fair to
say that the lunch was pleasant, not only
for the food but for the friendship be-
tween us and the results which were
achieved, hopefully, to the benefit of our
two countries.
380
