Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
versial that its purposes were lost, or so
sterile that its function came to no avail.
Both extremes were successfully avoided.
I commend the Congress, Secretaries
Kreps, Harris and Bergland, Governor
Rockefeller, members of the Advisory
Committee and the 700 individuals and
organizations who participated, and I
congratulate the Governors who helped
design the preparatory state and regional
conferences.
As a participant who has already made
innumerable decisions affecting balanced
growth and economic development, I can
say with conviction that this White House
Conference has proven invaluable in
shaping my Administration's policies. I
am in substantial agreement with the
philosophies expressed in the Conference
reports, and note with satisfaction that
the Conference findings closely paralleled
many of the major domestic policy ini-
tiatives underway or being planned by my
Administration. I shall first describe the
Conference findings, and then indicate
how we have already acted and how we
propose to act to implement the Confer-
ence recommendations.
II. CONFERENCE FINDINGS
Two overriding principles and growth
policy directions arose simultaneously and
independently among the Conference par-
ticipants. They are:
Effective national growth and devel-
opment policies must be "balanced," ad-
dressing the issues of growth as well as
decline, seeking the equitable distribution
of economic opportunities among
all peo-
ple and places and capitalizing on local
and regional advantages for our collective
betterment.
recognizing the special characteristics of
particular geographic areas, and provid-
ing regions, states, and localities greater
responsibility for deciding how to attain
those objectives.
These principles reflect a significant
change in the way America perceives the
question of national economic growth.
They mark a shift from a predominant
concern with the economic health of the
Nation as a whole to greater attention to
the economic vitality of subnational units,
be they regions, states, or localities. The
Conference found the question of the dis-
tributional impacts of Federal policy to be
of critical importance. The Conference
urged improvements in the processes by
which growth policy is developed. In ex-
ercising its responsibility for setting the
general directions of such policies, the
Federal Government should bring to-
gether and involve regions, states, locali-
ties and the private sector in a shared
responsibility for planning and imple-
menting them.
Consistent with these policy directions,
the Conference identified four major is-
sues around which their recommendations
clustered. They are: Employment and In-
flation; Governmental Effectiveness;
Growth Policy Process; and Urban and
Rural Policy.
EMPLOYMENT AND INFLATION
The Conference recognized both the
necessity and the limitations of macro-eco-
nomic policies. Controlling inflation and
achieving full employment are national
goals of paramount importance. The
Conference urged Federal policies to as-
sure a growing economy with an expand-
• A "fair and flexible Federalism" is ing employment base. Although unem-
needed. The Federal Government must
play a more sensitive role in the Federal
system, setting national objectives while
ployment problems are generally assumed
to be the greatest concern of low-income
and minority groups, the negative conse-
70
