May 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
involved in politics, about the amount of
national wealth, the actual holding of
cash or reserves or bonds or stocks by
women; I think perhaps more than 50
percent, even. But as far as the ownership
and control of the business community,
the active business opportunities in our
Nation, women only hold about 4.6 per-
cent of the businesses. And more than half
those are tiny, having an annual income,
gross income, of less than $5,000. So,
we've only scratched the surface, really, in
opening up legitimate opportunities for
women who are equally competent, some-
times more competent than the men who
are present or future competitors.
of
On my staff, Anne Wexler, Sarah Wed-
dington are very eager to work with you.
Pat Cloherty, as you know, headed up the
previous study group. All of you have par-
ticipated. Some of you, many of you I
know personally as being extremely ef-
fective in politics, in government, in social
service, in benevolent work. And many
you are at least equally as competent al-
ready, proven by your actions and
achievements in the business world.
Others among you who have a high pro-
file, who are well recognized, who are in-
tensely competitive, highly competent,
knowledgeable, have not been as success-
ful in business perhaps as you should have
been.
Today, I'm signing an Executive order
that has been very carefully prepared by
highly interested people and approved by
my legal staff in the Justice Department,
Office of Management and Budget, that
will direct-[laughter]—all of the agencies
in the Federal Government to set a high
priority for themselves of seeking in an in-
novative fashion to find opportunities for
enhancing the achievements of women in
the business field, in contracts directly
with Federal Government agencies, to
seek out an affirmative action attitude, op-
portunities to increase business or trade
with women. Some agencies are already
taking action. They are to be congratu-
lated. But others will now be directed to
take the first steps, and those that already
have experience are encouraged or di-
rected to take additional steps.
I would like to recruit all of you to join
in with me in ensuring that this Executive
order is carried out with enthusiasm. And
I hope that you will bring to the attention
of Anne or Sarah directly or me, if you
see fit, Jack Watson, anyone else who
works with me, any evidence of discrim-
ination or any absence of enthusiastic
compliance with this Executive order.
Don't just take for granted that the sign-
ing of an Executive order is an accom-
plishment or an end in itself. It's the first
tentative step toward what can be sub-
stantial achievement. We've experienced
this already in the last 2 years.
We passed the first legislation that re-
quired, for instance, in local public works
contracts, that 10 percent of those con-
tracts should go to minority-owned busi-
nesses. Almost every one of my Cabinet
officers, when they first saw that proposal
from me, said this will be very difficult to
achieve. Most of them have exceeded that
requirement. We set as a goal for our-
selves to triple purchases by the Govern-
ment from minority-owned businesses, of
file cabinets, paper, other things that the
Government uses. And we set as a goal for
ourselves in 1980, $3 billion worth of
Government purchases from minority-
owned businesses. Almost everyone said,
"Can't do it." We will meet that goal.
I would like to make one final com-
ment. It would be a mistake to think that
the enhancement of women business op-
portunities will interfere in the enhance-
ment of opportunities for minorities in
our country, who also have the same
problem. I think the two will be mutually
888
