June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and
Other Weapons of Mass Destruction on
the Seabed and the Ocean Floor and in
the Subsoil Thereof.
Common Understanding to subparagraph
(c). The provisions of subparagraph 1(c)
of Article IX of the Treaty do not require
the dismantling or destruction of any
existing launchers of either Party.
First Agreed Statement to subparagraphs
(e) and (f). The launch-weight of an
SLBM or of an ASBM is the weight of the
fully loaded missile itself at the time of
launch.
Second Agreed Statement to subpara-
graphs (e) and (f). The throw-weight
of an SLBM or of an ASBM is the sum of
the weight of:
(a) its reentry vehicle or reentry ve-
hicles;
(b) any
self-contained dispensing
mechanisms or other appropriate
devices for targeting one reentry
vehicle, or for releasing or for dis-
pensing and targeting two or more
reentry vehicles; and
(c) its penetration aids, including de-
vices for their release.
Common Understanding to subpara-
graphs (e) and (f). The term "other ap-
propriate devices," as used in the defini-
tion of the throw-weight of an SLBM or
of an ASBM in the Second Agreed State-
ment to subparagraphs 1(e) and 1(f) of
Article IX of the Treaty, means any
de-
vices for dispensing and targeting two or
more reentry vehicles; and any devices for
releasing two or more reentry vehicles or
for targeting one reentry vehicle, which
cannot provide their reentry vehicles or
reentry vehicle with additional velocity of
more than 1,000 meters per second.
To Paragraph 2 of Article IX of the
Treaty
Agreed Statement. Warheads of a cruise
missile are independently targetable if
maneuvering or targeting of the warheads
to separate aim points along ballistic tra-
jectories or any other flight paths, which
are unrelated to each other, is accom-
plished during a flight of a cruise missile.
To Paragraph 3 of Article XV of the
Treaty
First Agreed Statement. Deliberate con-
cealment measures, as referred to in par-
agraph 3 of Article XV of the Treaty, are
measures carried out deliberately to hin-
der or deliberately to impede verification
by national technical means of compli-
ance with the provisions of the Treaty.
Second Agreed Statement. The obligation
not to use deliberate concealment meas-
ures, provided for in paragraph 3 of
Article XV of the Treaty, does not pre-
clude the testing of anti-missile defense
penetration aids.
First Common Understanding. The pro-
visions of paragraph 3 of Article XV of
the Treaty and the First Agreed State-
ment thereto apply to all provisions of the
Treaty, including provisions associated
with testing. In this connection, the obli-
gation not to use deliberate concealment
measures includes the obligation not to
use deliberate concealment measures asso-
ciated with testing, including those meas-
ures aimed at concealing the association
between ICBMs and launchers during
testing.
Second Common Understanding. Each
Party is free to use various methods of
transmitting telemetric information dur-
ing testing, including its encryption, ex-
cept that, in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph 3 of Article XV of the
Treaty, neither Party shall engage in de-
1074
