Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 16
ple of my own country: We understand
clearly that the Mexican oil resources are
the national patrimony of the Mexican
people, to be developed and used and
sold as Mexico sees fit.
We respect the decision that Mexico
will produce at a rate suited to its develop-
ment objectives. As a good customer, we
are prepared to pay a fair and just price
for the gas and oil that you may wish to
sell.
Mexico's rapidly growing economic
strength will help to provide many thou-
sands of new jobs, a long-term answer to
the difficult problem of unlawful migra-
tion.
As President, I am responsible for up-
holding the laws of my country, includ-
ing its immigration laws. I will meet that
responsibility as fairly and as humanely
as I can. My consultations held here will
help me to make the right decisions. I am
deeply and personally determined to pro-
tect the basic human rights of all people
within the borders of my country whether
or not they are citizens of the United
States.
enrich the cultures of both our countries
as our peoples become increasingly bilin-
gual.
Let us set the basis for our relations
upon the words of one of the greatest
figures in the history of human liberty,
Benito Juarez. These words are embla-
zoned above, on the walls of this chamber:
"Among its individuals, as among its
nations, the respect of the rights of others
is peace."
These words are so important that I
wish to repeat them in my own language:
[In English] "Between individuals, as
between nations, respect for the rights of
others is peace."
[In Spanish] Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:25 a.m.
in the Chamber of Deputies of the Congress.
He spoke in Spanish, except where noted
above, and the translation follows the White
House press release.
Earlier in the day, President Carter met at
Los Pinos with President López Portillo.
Following his address, the President left the
Chamber of Deputies for departure ceremonies
at Licenciado Benito Juarez International Air-
port.
You can be sure that I will meet that
commitment. My country welcomes
the growing strength of its great southern Mexico City, Mexico
neighbor. We will not always agree, just
as we do not always agree with other close
friends and allies. But we are convinced
that our own strength is enhanced by hav-
ing strong and independent friends.
Our common problems will not be re-
solved without patient work over many
years. But in our conversations, President
López Portillo and I have begun to define
a common vision of a better future.
It will be a future in which more trade
flows freely between our countries,
greater legal migration in both direc-
tions, greater cooperation between our
economists, planners, and scientists, and a
future in which we shall preserve and
Joint Communique Issued at the Conclusion
of Meetings Between President Carter and
President López Portillo. February 16, 1979
At the invitation of the President of the
United Mexican States, Licenciado José
López Portillo, the President of the
United States of America, Jimmy Carter,
made a visit to Mexico from the four-
teenth to the sixteenth of February, 1979.
Both Presidents held extensive discus-
sions in an atmosphere of sincerity,
friendship, and mutual understanding.
They reviewed international issues, hemi-
spheric problems and bilateral matters,
from the time when President López
287
