Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 5
1862 when the battle was finally won, free-
dom from foreign domination had not
been achieved. It was 5 years more before
Mexicans had control of their own land.
The shots that were fired in our country
in Lexington and Concord, shots heard
around the world, not because the Ameri-
can colonists at that time achieved their
independence, but because they had made
clear their irrevocable determination to
be free.
The victory at Puebla proved the Mex-
ican people's staying power and love of
freedom and their irrevocable will and
determination to be free.
The United States of America is a na-
tion of immigrants. We're a nation of
refugees. We've always been a people of
many backgrounds, with a varied cultural
heritage. We've come together from all
parts of the world, speaking many lan-
guages of the Earth, drawn by a common
belief in human freedom, human justice
and opportunity.
Spanish settlements not far from my
own hometown in Georgia were already
100
years old when the first English set-
tlers arrived on this continent at Plymouth
Rock. Spanish roots are an important part
of our diverse heritage. But quite often
this fact is obscured, because the history
books were written by the English.
Spanish-speaking people in this modern
day must share more of the responsibilities
of government. I have not accomplished
all I hope to do; neither has any other
public official in our land. And I have not
accomplished all I plan to do. But I have
increased the participation in the Federal
Government by Spanish-speaking Amer-
icans.
I've appointed more than 150 Hispan-
ics to high levels of position in my admin-
istration-in positions where their sensi-
tivity to the needs of Chicanos and others
who speak Spanish can be brought to my
attention on a daily basis-in my own
staff in the White House, Rick Hernandez.
Ernie Camacho heads the White House
Conference on Small Business, to bring
together businessmen from all over the
nation, no matter what their nationality.
Ernie Camacho will coordinate this effort.
Lou Moret has served as Deputy to SBA,
Small Business Administration, Office of
Minority Economic Impact, to be sure
that minority-owned businesses have their
just rights fulfilled.
I'm happy to announce my intention to
appoint Lou Moret as an Assistant Secre-
tary of Energy. And he will help to answer
some of the signs I see, as the energy short-
ages, which are inevitable, might impact
on the minority community in our country.
As you know, he was formerly executive
director of the Chicano caucus in the leg-
islature here.
I want job opportunities for Hispanics
at all levels of government. Unfortunately,
the Congress did not fully go along with
my recommendations in civil service re-
form, which would have opened up many
other opportunities. But we are not yet
through. They have helped tremendously,
and we are making all the people in Gov-
ernment service sensitive to the needs of
a people who have long been deprived of
their just rights, the people of the United
States who speak Spanish, or whose par-
ents or ancestors did speak Spanish.
The situation for many Mexican immi-
grants is somewhat different, as you know,
from immigrants from other lands, either
in the early days of our Nation or in mod-
ern times. Those from Mexico do not
come here fleeing for their lives or be-
cause their basic liberties are being denied
in Mexico. Immigrants from Mexico do
not have to cross any formidable ocean,
but they walk here across a 2,000-mile
open border between friendly nations.
They do not come seeking escape, but
811
