Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
One was a very severe winter, which cut
down on the production of things like
fresh vegetables and fruits and which
made it very difficult to produce poultry
and pork and also which made energy
very scarce. The other thing that we didn't
anticipate was the crisis in Iran, which
caused a shortage of oil and OPEC prices
to go very high. And the other thing is
the result of previous mandatory price
controls, and that is very small beef herds.
So, these things—I'm not trying to make
any excuses-but these are some of the
causes over which we did not have control.
But with tight government constraint
on spending, tight monetary constraint to
prevent unnecessary demand for goods,
increased productivity, increased sound-
ness of the dollar, increased export of
American goods, and voluntary price and
wage constraints, I believe that all of us
together can turn this inflation spiral
around. If we can level it off in the next 3
or 4 months and start it downhill, you and
I can celebrate together.
GASOLINE AND OIL SUPPLIES
Q. Welcome, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. I'm Susan Hedman from Hampton.
And my question is, I would like to know
if the situation with the shortage of gas
is really true, or is it being built out of
proportion? And also, would you ever
consider rationing gas?
THE PRESIDENT. When you said short-
age of gas, you meant gasoline for the cars,
right?
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. We anticipate a short-
age of gasoline in the summer and an even
greater shortage of gasoline next year. Al-
though we have held down and even re-
duced in the last 3 months our total con-
sumption of oil, the American motorists
have continued to increase the amount of
gasoline they are burning. I would ask
any of you as you go to and from work in
the morning or to and from the shopping
center, to see how many automobiles only
have one person in them. And there has
never yet been embedded in the con-
sciousness of America the fact that we
might actually have permanent shortages
of gasoline.
I have had to mandate to the Secretary
of Energy that a certain amount of oil
products be set aside to heat your homes
next winter. That's going to mean that
not quite so much gasoline is going to be
produced, because you either produce
heating oil or you produce gasoline.
In 1975, the Congress required the
President and the executive branch of
Government to come forward with a
standby rationing program. It would not
go
into effect unless the President and the
Congress later approved it, but to give the
President authority to initiate rationing
after a program was developed.
Today, in a very sad mistake, the com-
merce committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives, after we developed the proposal
and presented it to the Congress, recom-
mended that it not be approved. This
means that if we do have a shortage in the
future, rather than having a standby ra-
tioning plan that could be implemented
only if the President and the Congress ap-
prove it, we would have to wait 6 or 7
additional months even before a rationing
plan could be evolved.
So, we're trying to take precautionary
measures now so that if we do have a
shortage in the future, because of an ab-
sence of conservation or an interruption
in our supplies, we can move immediately
to minimize any disruption in the lives of
the American people. The shortage is real.
It's not going to leave. But if we can work
together to prepare for it, we can prevail
and minimize any damage to us. I'm will-
705
