Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
light. He was a great technologist who de-
voted his life to the creation of new prod-
ucts to meet human needs.
The world was changed by the work of
these two men. The vast changes that have
grown out of their work are part of the
reason that the forces these two men rep-
resent, science and technology, have be-
come increasingly important in our lives
over the last century. We look to the fruits
of science and technology to improve our
health by curing illness and preventing
disease and disability. We expect science
and technology to find new sources of en-
ergy, to feed the world's growing popula-
tion, to provide new tools for our national
security, and to prevent unwise applica-
tions of science and technology. The
health of our economy has been especially
tied to science and technology; they have
been key factors in generating growth,
jobs, and productivity through innova-
tion. Indeed, most of the great undertak-
ings we face today as a Nation have a
scientific or technological component.
Yet, despite the centrality of science and
technology in our lives, the Federal gov-
ernment has rarely articulated a science
and technology policy for the future. This
Message sets forth that policy. The thesis
is that new technologies can aid in the
solution of many of our Nation's problems.
These technologies in turn depend upon
a fund of knowledge derived from basic
research. The Federal government should
therefore increase its support both for ba-
sic research and, where appropriate, for
the application of new technologies. My
Administration has done just that.
Within the coming months, the Con-
gress and I must work together on stra-
tegic arms limitation, national health care,
energy supply, industrial innovation, and
economic growth-all of which have
significant scientific and technological
dimensions.
This message to the Congress:
-describes the Administration's policy
perspective on science and technology
and the roles of government, indus-
try, universities, and the public in
support of science and technology;
-highlights some of the most impor-
tant science and technology initia-
tives undertaken in my Administra-
tion in domestic, national security,
and international arenas;
-outlines the potential effects of sci-
ence and technology on our Nation
for the decade of the 1980s and be-
yond; and
-assists the Congress in its task of con-
sidering the research and develop-
ment programs of our Departments
and agencies as recommended in my
1980 budget.
In transmitting this message, I call on
the Congress to join my Administration in
its commitment to nonpartisan investment
in science and technology for our future.
OVERVIEW OF RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
The Federal government's support of
research and development is critical to
the overall advance of science and tech-
nology. Federal responsibility lies in three
major categories:
1. The largest fraction of the Federal
investment serves the government's direct
needs and responsibilities, such as defense,
space, and air traffic control. Because of
the technical challenges involved in meet-
ing these national needs, there is a rela-
tively large and broad Federal investment
in research and development.
2. The Federal government undertakes
research and development where there is
a national need to accelerate the rate of
development of new technologies in the
private sector. This is especially true when
529
