Feb. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
International Exchange-of-Persons
Program
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. February 23, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In response to Section 203 of the For-
eign Relations Authorization Act (P.L.
95–426), I take this opportunity to in-
form you of the Administration's current
plans to increase exchange-of-persons ac-
tivities administered by the International
Communications Agency (USICA). A
significant expansion of financial support
for these activities is contained in the FY
1980 budget submission for USICA. The
Administration's review of the USICA-
administered cultural and educational ex-
change programs has also produced an
agenda of important questions to be ad-
dressed in the year ahead. I enclose a de-
tailed report on these matters provided
to me by the Director of USICA.
As I stated in my message transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1977:
"Only by knowing and understanding
each other's experiences can we find com-
mon ground on which we can examine
and resolve our differences . . . As the
world becomes more and more interde-
pendent, such mutual understanding be-
comes increasingly vital." Because direct
personal contact is such an effective and
lasting form of communication, exchange-
of-persons activities are fundamental to
the achievement of these objectives.
Unfortunately, the vital long-term role
played by these programs in our interna-
tional affairs is too often obscured by
more visible, more immediate, but fre-
quently less fundamental matters. The re-
cent administrative reorganization which
established USICA affords an excellent
opportunity to reexamine this important
dimension of our international relations.
The reassessment is complex and dif-
ficult, but nonetheless essential to the de-
velopment of a sound program. Because
some critical data will require more time
to collect, our reassessment will require a
good deal of work beyond that already ac-
complished. However, some preliminary
conclusions are reflected, already, in
USICA's plans for FY 1979, its proposed
budget for FY 1980, and planning levels
for subsequent years.
Including domestic and overseas staff
costs, the USICA FY 1979 budget for ex-
change programs is approximately $75
million. The FY 1979 allocation repre-
sents a program increase of $4,350,000
over FY 1978. Over sixty percent of the
increase is allocated to already established
programs with particular emphasis on
projects involving African and Middle
Eastern Countries. Initiatives being fi-
nanced from increased funds include new
projects with the People's Republic of
China, the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellow-
ship program, and additional counseling
services for foreign students seeking ad-
mission to, or already attending, U.S.
universities.
For FY 1980, an additional $4,450,000
is being proposed for the first full year of
the Humphrey Fellowship program; an
increase of $800,000 is being requested to
extend and improve student counseling
services; and an additional $350,000 is
planned for exchanges with China.
For the period FY 1981-83, annual
program increases of $5 million are cur-
rently being projected. The plan, thus,
calls for a total increase in exchange pro-
grams of approximately $25 million over
the period FY 1979-83. For this same
period, further increases of over $30 mil-
lion are projected to cover overseas costs
increases.
This plan will, of course, be reevaluated
on an annual basis. Final budget propos-
324
