May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
plans. The difficulty is the dental coverage
is very expensive, and health coverage in
general is becoming much more expensive.
We hope hospital cost containment will
help in that regard.
But in order to include dental cover-
age, there would have to be a very sub-
stantial increase in cost of health insur-
ance to both the employees and to the
Government.
We are now looking very hard to see if
there can be some cutback in some of the
medical coverage in order to include den-
tal, and then the employee can make a
choice of the kind of package that he or
she may want. We're very aware of it. We
hope very much we will be able to ac-
complish it. But within what we think are
reasonable costs, it's going to be very diffi-
cult.
THE PRESIDENT. And the choice would
be made by the employee?
MR. CAMPBELL. Yes, the choice would
be made by the employee.
MERIT PAY SYSTEM
Ms. GARCIA. I'd like to get back to civil
service reform, which I agree is an effec-
tive step forward. One major concern I've
run into is the merit pay implementation.
As a personnel director, I'm responsible
for seeing that it's implemented effec-
tively. But I don't think the employees feel
that it can be done fair and equitably. I'd
like to know your views. And following
on that, do you plan to extend recom-
mending merit pay to grade levels other
than 13 through 15 supervisory and man-
agerial levels?
in different agencies. And I think that the
idea was to try it at those particular pay
levels first and make sure that we did have
a smoothly functioning program before
we extended it to other pay levels.
I think Scotty Campbell, again who
sits in a biased position, might very well
comment on what he sees as the problems
in the implementation, in prospect and al-
ready discerned. And maybe you could
meet with Scotty later to see if you have
any particular cases where you don't think
it has worked effectively. You could dis-
cuss them with him. Scotty, would you
respond to that?
MR. CAMPBELL. Yes, very briefly. First,
may I say, to reinforce what you said, Mr.
President, about the Senior Executive
Service, we are delighted that of the over
3,000 who already have agreed to join,
only 7 had said no. This is in contrast to
the predictions we got during the period
of passage and, I think, speaks very well
for the Federal employees at the top.
They are willing to take risks. They are
willing to be measured against their per-
formance. And on the whole, I would
argue that that is demonstration to the
public and to all of us that we have a
group of top managers in this Govern-
ment that are willing to put their jobs on
the line.
In relation to merit pay, there's no
question that since we've not had per-
formance appraisal in the Federal Gov-
ernment that amounted to anything,
there is a great deal of concern among
those at grades 13 through 15. My own
judgment is that we are making good
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll let Scotty progress. Many of the agencies are now
Campbell comment after I do.
The concept of the civil service reform
laws was understood by me fairly well
when we had the debates and when I met
with congressional committees and when
I went out and met with all the employees
giving training in how you do perform-
ance appraisal. And my guess is that,
like the Senior Executive Service, after
people get through the first fear of
change, that there will be a general ac-
ceptance of it.
926
