Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 22
ance efforts for those small countries that
feel insecure, so that through their own
strength they might feel better able to
withstand any internal and outside dis-
turbances that are unwarranted.
There are some nations that provide
major stabilizing efforts. Egypt is a strong,
powerful nation in the Arab world;
Israel's strength is part of our own secu-
rity. Iran, we hope and pray, in the future
will still be a factor for stability in their
region-in a different character, ob-
viously, than it was under the Shah, but
we hope will be independent and deter-
mined to maintain kind of a rock of
stability in that region, impervious to out-
side influence and attack.
So, I'd say, working with individual
nations, working collectively to reduce
tensions among them and making sure
they have adequate military capabilities
and using our own influence to prevent
some major outside power from having
an inordinate influence-those are some
of the things that we can do.
The last one, obviously, is to try to
bring some peace between Israel and her
own neighbors. I think if the Arab world,
in a united way, working with us, perhaps
with Israel in a peaceful pursuit, could
face any outside disturbance rather than
to focus their animosity, as it has been in
the past, on Israel, it would certainly be
a very stabilizing factor.
We derive great benefit from free ac-
cess to oil from that region. Some of our
allies and friends in Europe and Japan
rely much more heavily, and we are try-
ing to get them to use their own influence
to parallel ours in maintaining the inde-
pendence of individual nations and the
stability therein.
There are a few instances in that re-
gion where economic aid, either through
direct grants, which are fairly rare, or
through guaranteed loans on a multilat-
eral basis or through international lend-
ing institutions can also help. That's kind
of a gamut of things that we explore and
use with varying degrees of priority and
emphasis.
EGYPTIAN-ISRAELI PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, many observers of
the Middle Eastern situation believe that
the failure of Egypt and Israel to sign the
Camp David agreements as originally
conceived this fall, and, in fact, the sub-
sequent delays in signing any agreement,
are directly related to the lack of pressure
by the United States not on Israel and
Egypt, but on Jordan and Saudi Arabia
to join the talks or at least to lend sup-
port to the negotiating process. Would
you please comment on this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think in a
spirit of complete candor we have ap-
proached our limit on legitimate influ-
ence, perhaps even pressure in a proper
way, on the countries in that entire region
to support the Camp David accords and
to participate in future discussions.
We have sent delegations to Jordan, to
Saudi Arabia, even this past week, to en-
courage their tacit or public or active sup-
port of these accords. And I've used my
own personal influence to a maximum
degree within the bounds of propriety in
the same pursuit.
As you know, my own involvement in
the Camp David negotiations has been
substantial. There is no other single item
that has addressed my attention as Presi-
dent, on which I've spent more time, more
effort, more study, more prayer, than to
bring peace between Israel and her neigh-
bors. We believe the Camp David accords
are a very firm and well-advised founda-
tion on which to predicate, first of all, an
agreement between Israel and Egypt,
combined with a comprehensive settle-
313
