Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 20
you that I am determined to bring infla-
tion under control.
The importance of this task is hard to
overemphasize. We must grapple with
inflation in a context that is far different
from the expansive, free-spending days of
the 1960's.
When I became President, I inherited
both a huge budget deficit and an econ-
omy wracked by stagflation. We had the
worst unemployment rate since the Great
Depression. And at the same time, infla-
tion for the 3 years before I became Presi-
dent had averaged over 8 percent.
We've moved forward firmly and
strongly to tackle these problems. We have
created in less than 2 years more than
7 million net new jobs, and we have cut
the unemployment rate down already by
more than 25 percent. We've set forth
now an anti-inflation program that rec-
ognizes the basic causes of inflation and
attacks this problem on a broad front.
Some of the causes of inflation, frankly,
are beyond the control of the Federal
Government. I'm determined to carry out
the lessons that I learned here to keep our
free enterprise system free.
I'm trying to reduce the amount of un-
warranted intrusion of the Federal Gov-
ernment in personal lives, in the life of
business—employers and employees. Also,
of course, we cannot control the weather,
which is demonstrated amply in Wash-
ington this week. And weather, of course,
has an important impact on food prices.
We cannot determine the nations' actions
throughout the world which affect the
prices of energy and other commodities,
although we use our influence to some de-
gree in a beneficial way. Nor can we erase
the fiscal excesses of the 1960's and the
early 1970's. But we can act ourselves, and
by planning wisely, we can mitigate the
adverse effect of these uncontrollable fac-
tors.
Because inflation is our most serious do-
mestic problem, I have really taken it
seriously in preparing my budget. The
budget I proposed to the Congress cuts the
Federal deficit. In fiscal year 1980, if my
budget is adopted—and I expect it will
be, in its overall commitment-the deficit
will be $36 billion lower than it was when
I was running for President; we have al-
ready cut the deficit more than 55 per-
cent.
My budget also reduces the proportion
of the total Nation's income that's col-
lected and spent by the Federal Govern-
ment to the lowest level it's been in over
7 years. And although in the past that
trend was upward, we've turned that
around, and the trend is now in the right
direction. It's falling.
I set forth a goal in my campaign, and
I'm using the powers of my office to move
our Nation toward it, the goal of a bal-
anced Federal budget. We can achieve
this goal by sensible, sensitive, and well-
considered public policy which will at the
same time protect the strength of the
American economy.
I've proposed a substantial increase for
national defense. This afternoon, I'll
analyze our international commitments in
Europe, in the Middle East, and other
parts of the world. We must have the
muscle to meet these commitments.
The President of the United States has
no greater responsibility and the Congress
of the United States has no greater re-
sponsibility than to provide for the assur-
ance of the defense of this Nation. To-
gether, the Congress and I will meet this
responsibility, and we will keep a strong
America.
We must, of course, also meet the other
needs of our Nation, such as those of the
poor and the elderly. But there's a clear
limit on the ability of the American peo-
ple to pay higher and higher taxes to
299
