May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
during the coming months. You received
an intense briefing on SALT, and I would
hope that this would be escalated to a
very high degree of priority in your own
hearts and minds and that your influence
might be felt strongly as the debate begins
in the next few weeks.
I don't know if you've had an oppor-
tunity to get my own personal beliefs, but
I hope that, Sarah,ยน perhaps you can get
a copy of the speech that I made to the
National Newspaper Publishers conven-
tion in New York recently, which encap-
sulates in a fairly brief form the need for
strategic arms limitation, the elimination
of nuclear weapons as a threat to our lives
in the finest and clearest way that I can
express it at this moment.
We are at the final stages of negotiating
the terms of a SALT agreement. And my
guess is that following that agreement, I
would meet with President Brezhnev and
discuss a broad range of issues that are im-
portant to all of us, because the future
peace and stability of the world might
very well depend upon this relationship.
You've been supportive, and I thank
you for it. And I believe that one of the
basic reasons for the tremendous influence
of the League is that Americans have a
sure sense that before you take a stand on
a controversial issue, that you do your
homework. It's not just an emotional, in-
stantaneous, aroused group which can be
effective. But I think there's a stability
there and a soundness there and a cau-
tion there that provides integrity and be-
lief and confidence and trust in you.
I'm also grateful that you've been will-
ing to help with the problem of inflation
and also the problem of energy. We have
finally come to the point of realizing, I
1
ยน Sarah C. Weddington, Special Assistant to
the President.
think, to an increasing degree, that we
do indeed have an energy crisis, that it's
not something that's going to pass away.
If anything, it's going to get worse. And
unless the American people are prepared
for it psychologically, and unless the
bureaucracy is prepared to deal with an
impending deterioration in the energy
part of Americans' life, then whatever
eventuality does materialize, it's going to
have a much more severe adverse impact
on the American family, which is least
able to deal with it and most vulnerable
to rapid changes in prices or perhaps even
shortages.
No matter how well intentioned Ameri-
cans are, when a crisis does occur, the
powerful and the influential always suffer
least, and the weak and dependent and
the inarticulate always suffer most. And
to the extent that we can make careful
preparations ahead of time for as many
possibilities as possible in the energy field,
we can have fairness and justice and
equity in dealing with inevitable short-
ages and inevitable increases in price.
I'm doing the best I can to work with
you also in the selection and appointment
of women to positions as U.S. attorneys
and judges. We are starting from scratch.
As you know, I think, when I took over as
President, there were, I think, zero U.S.
attorneys in the United States, and we
are trying now to find and to put them
into office.
We've had good luck on circuit judge-
ships, a little more difficulty in dealing
with district judgeships, because, in effect,
both the Senator involved and I have to
be unanimous in our support. And we've
had a problem with getting minorities.
and women recommended to us by
Senators.
I think in this area, you can work with
772
