Jan. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mr. Kriangsak will be coming here to
visit with me, and during that time, we
will reassure him that our interests are
in a stable and secure and peaceful Thai-
land. We have continuing trade relation-
ships with Thailand. We provide them
with some military arms for defensive
purposes, as have been negotiated for a
long period of time.
We don't detect any immediate threat
to the borders of Thailand. In some in-
stances, the invading forces into Cambo-
dia have deliberately stayed away from
the border itself. And, of course, the Chi-
nese give Thailand very strong support.
The Soviet Union has expressed their
support for Vietnam, as you know. And in
our efforts, along with others in the
United Nations, we have warned both the
Vietnamese, and also the Soviets, who
supply them and who support them,
against any danger that they might ex-
hibit toward Thailand.
FORMER PRESIDENT RICHARD NIXON
Q. You have invited former President
Richard Nixon to the White House for
the dinner for Chinese leader Deng Xia-
oping. During your campaign, you said
Mr. Nixon had disgraced this country,
and about a year ago, you said that you
thought he had indeed committed im-
peachable offenses. Why are you honor-
ing him in this way now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you know,
the consequences of the Watergate ac-
tions by President Nixon have already
been determined by the Congress and by
the actions of Mr. Nixon himself, having
been pardoned by President Ford.
In preparing for the upcoming visit by
Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping, I felt that it
was a fair thing and a proper thing to in-
vite both President Nixon and President
Ford to the White House for the banquet
at which Mr. Deng will be honored. As
you know, as President, one of the major
achievements of President Nixon was to
open up an avenue of communications
and consultation and negotiation with the
Chinese, which resulted ultimately in
normal relationships.
I think it's entirely proper that he be
there. In addition to that, the Chinese
officials, including Vice Premier Deng
himself, had asked for an opportunity to
meet with President Nixon and to express
their thanks personally to him for the role
he played in opening up Chinese-United
States relationships.
So, I have no apology to make. I think
it was a proper thing to do, and I'm very
pleased that President Nixon has accepted
our invitation.
FISCAL YEAR 1980 BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, in your opening state-
ment you mentioned that you had suc-
ceeded in your goal of holding the budget
deficit to $30 billion. Some critics of your
budget policy say that goal was set rather
arbitrarily early in the budget process and
that, in fact, if the deficit had been a little
higher, say $35 billion, that a lot of the
current cutbacks could have been avoided
and with only a marginal impact on the
war on inflation, maybe, perhaps two-
tenths of 1 percent.
How was that figure set? And why did
you not choose to make such a decision,
knowing that there would be a great deal
of opposition to the budget cuts among
many constituencies on which you will
have to depend next year in the election?
THE PRESIDENT. That commitment
that I made, I think in October, to hold
the budget deficit down to $30 billion or
less was very carefully considered and,
as a matter of fact, was hotly debated
among us when I was getting ready to
present to the American people a program
54
