Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
from among the regional directors of the
major domestic agencies and serve for 1
year.
Federal Regional Councils work with
the Office of Management and Budget
and the Interagency Coordinating Coun-
cil to implement intergovernmental pro-
grams and resolve State and local issues
at the regional level.
The 10 persons are:
Region I (Boston)-Joe Grandmaison, Federal
Cochairman of the New England Regional
Development Commission;
Region II (New York City)-Tom Appleby,
Regional Director of HUD;
Region III (Philadelphia)-Tom Maloney,
Regional Director of HUD;
Region IV (Atlanta)-Sara Craig, Principal
Regional Official of HEW;
Region V (Chicago)-Doug Kelm, Regional
Representative of DOT;
Region VI (Dallas)-Ed Coker, Secretary's
Representative of Commerce;
Region VII (Kansas City)-John Kemp, Re-
gional Representative of DOT;
Region VIII (Denver)-Betty Miller, Re-
gional Director of HUD;
Region IX (San Francisco)-Bill Arntz, Re-
gional Representative of Energy;
Region X (Seattle)-Bernard Kelly, Principal
Regional Official of HEW.
Executive Schedule
Executive Order 12119. February 14, 1979
LEVELS IV and V of the Executive
SCHEDULE
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent of the United States of America by
Section 5317 of Title 5 of the United
States Code, and in order to place the
position of Counselor on Legislative and
Intergovernmental Policy, Department of
the Treasury in level IV of the Executive
Schedule, Executive Order No. 12076, as
amended, is further amended by deleting
"Assistant Attorney General, United
States Attorneys and Trial Advocacy, De-
partment of Justice." from Section 1-101
(f) and by inserting in lieu thereof
"Counselor on Legislative and Intergov-
ernmental Policy, Department of the
Treasury.".
The White House,
February 14, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:37 p.m., February 14, 1979]
Communications Systems for
Rural Areas
Announcement of New Measures Under the
Rural Development Initiatives Program.
February 14, 1979
The President today announced initia-
tives designed to overcome isolation in
rural areas through modern communica-
tions technology.
The communications initiatives include
FCC regulatory changes, a loan program
to encourage telephone companies to pro-
vide television and associated broadband
services to rural residents, and a number
of demonstration grants. They are in-
tended to encourage the use of modern
communications systems in bringing
health, education, information, and en-
tertainment services to small towns and
rural areas.
The communications initiatives are the
latest to be announced in conjunction with
the White House Rural Development Ini-
tiatives program. Along with recently an-
nounced measures dealing with health
care and water and sewer programs, to-
day's announcement is part of the admin-
istration's effort, articulated in the State
of the Union message sent to Congress
last month, to address the problems to
rural America.
Coordination of the communications
initiatives will be carried out by the Inter-
agency Committee on Telecommunica-
tions.
270
