Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 28
Whatever gas and oil they desire to sell,
we are ready to be good customers. We
already buy about 85 percent of all the
oil that Mexico exports. And we have an
advantage as a customer because of the
proximity of our country to Mexico.
As they produce oil, because of the con-
figuration of their oil and gas deposits,
they inevitably produce more gas. They
need a market for this gas. And we want
to treat Mexico fairly in the price. The
original proposal by Mexico on how to
price gas, I did not think was the best
for American consumers. As a result of
deregulation of natural gas, brought about
by the energy legislation last year, we
now have a very good supply of natural
in our own country. We did not need
gas
to buy Mexican gas on a crash basis at a
price that would have greatly escalated
not only [the price of] ¹ the gas from Mex-
ico but all the gas produced in our
country.
So, we are now negotiating on a daily
basis in a spirit of harmony and coop-
eration with Mexico for contracts to buy
increasing supplies of Mexican gas in the
future. So far as I know, and I've had
reports almost every day, these negotia-
tions are on track. We want to buy their
gas in a way that protects the interests
of American consumers; Mexico certainly
wants to get as high a price as they can
for it.
But I've got a problem in that the price
we pay for Mexican gas will heavily in-
fluence the price demanded for domes-
tically produced gas and, also, the price
for natural gas that we buy from Canada,
and the price for gas that we will ulti-
mately bring down through Canada into
our country from Alaska.
So, it's a complicated problem, and
the fact that we didn't yield and imme-
diately accept the highly favorable price
¹ Printed in the transcript.
of natural gas, looking at it from a Mex-
ican perspective, was strongly condemned
in our own country. I was protecting the
American consumers, and I think our
judgment was right. And now we have a
very good, continuing relationship with
Mexico on this and many other issues.
RHODESIAN ELECTIONS
Q. Mr. President, on the recent Rho-
desian elections, do you consider that they
were a step in the right direction? And do
you see any possible recommendation on
your part if there's a change in what you
have not recommended?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that I
think it was a step in the right direction,
I would rather not comment on the
yes.
elections yet, because we are still assess-
ing how they were conducted and whether
or not the extant legislation, primarily
the Case-Javits amendment, has been
honored or not.
The law requires me to wait until the
new government is installed before I
make a judgment to the Congress and to
the American people on whether the new
election results were adequate. So, let me
defer that question, because the law re-
quires me to do so. But it was certainly
a step in the right direction.
PRESIDENT'S HEALTH AND EXERCISE
Q. Sir, with all these problems, I am
curious to know how you find time to go
jogging [laughter]—what time of day
you do it, and how often, and how
far have you gotten up to now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'll be brief.
The most I jog in one day is 10 miles. Or-
dinarily, I jog 4 miles. When I'm on va-
cation-down in Georgia, I averaged
about 6 miles.
When I'm in Jerusalem, or Cairo, or
Mexico City, or Alexandria, or Guade-
737
