Feb. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
this concern is the Certificate of Merit,
which is presented to our fellow Ameri-
cans who have saved or sustained a hu-
man life with the skills learned in a Red
Cross first aid, small craft or water safety
training program. Since 1928, well over
6,000 persons have received this award.
The Red Cross also operates its Blood
Services, which collects and processes half
of the supply of blood needed by the Na-
tion's medical facilities. Red Cross is con-
tinuously seeking new and more economi-
cal uses for blood and blood products.
And there is always a need for more vol-
generous support to the work of their
local Red Cross chapter.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this first day of Febru-
ary, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:31 p.m., February 1, 1979]
unteer blood donors to meet the ever-in- Red Cross Month, 1979
creasing need for this lifesaving gift.
The Red Cross serves members of the
armed forces, their families and veterans
through financial assistance, counselling
and emergency communications. Thou-
sands of disaster victims each year receive
a variety of Red Cross services, including
emergency food, shelter and clothing, first
aid and medical help, replacement of oc-
cupational tools and other vital services.
And Red Cross volunteers may be
found each day performing compassion-
ate, personal tasks to aid the elderly, the
handicapped and the homebound. Young
people develop leadership skills as they
assist in Red Cross programs in their
schools and communities.
Each year, March is observed as Red
Cross Month. Although the American
Red Cross works closely with government,
there are no Federal funds appropriated
for its support. The Red Cross depends
upon the American people for member-
ship and voluntary contributions to carry
out the functions of its Congressional
Charter.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America
and Honorary Chairman of the American
Red Cross, designate March 1979, as Red
Cross Month. I urge all Americans to give
Memorandum From the President.
February 1, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
I have just signed a Presidential Proc-
lamation designating the month of March
as Red Cross Month.
For almost 100 years the American
people have been counting on the Red
Cross for disaster relief, the collection and
distribution of blood, services to members
of the armed forces, their families and
veterans, first aid and water safety in-
struction and a wide variety of community
health programs.
There are three things we can do to
help the Red Cross during March:
1. Become a Red Cross volunteer
2. Donate blood
3. Support our Red Cross chapter's
membership enrollment efforts.
The Red Cross is a part of the Com-
bined Federal Campaign for Federal em-
ployees, but more than half of its 3,000
chapters raise all their funds in March.
All chapters use the month to inform the
public of Red Cross services available to
citizens and to recruit new blood donors
and volunteers.
214
