Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 24
nuclear arms control and a stronger and
more sure worldwide peace.
Americans once had an unquestioned
faith in science as a savior. We've grown
more skeptical of science, as of so much
else in our lives. But we still look to our
scientists and to our engineers, our medi-
cal researchers and to our doctors, to our
inventors and to our thinkers, to improve
our lives and to improve the lives of our
children.
My concern for the state of American
science and technology has made our
present efforts a keystone in building a
new and a more solid foundation for our
common future. I look to the members of
this Academy, to the entire scientific and
engineering community, to the Members
of the Congress, and to the people of our
country, to join these efforts through sci-
ence for a greater America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:32 p.m. in the
auditorium of the National Academy of Sci-
ences building. Philip Handler is president of
the Academy.
United States Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. April 23, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
There is no more important responsi-
bility for me as President than ensuring
the safety and security of our nation. Like
Presidents before me, I am meeting this
responsibility: (1) by maintaining suffi-
cient military forces to protect ourselves
and our Allies; and (2) by seeking equi-
table and verifiable arms control measures
to reduce the risk of war. The attached
report is a summary of the actions taken
through the U.S. Arms Control and Dis-
armament Agency in 1978 toward this
latter goal.
The SALT process, which has been
carried forward by four Administrations
since 1967, is the most fundamental of
our arms control efforts. A SALT II
agreement to limit strategic offensive
weapons will serve as the linchpin of all
of our other arms control efforts, includ-
ing: SALT III, where we hope to achieve
further strategic arms limitations; a ban
on tests of nuclear explosives; mutual and
balanced force reductions in Europe; lim-
itations on antisatellite capabilities, chemi-
cal weaponry, and conventional arms
transfers; and prevention of nuclear
weapons proliferation.
To prevent war-and to redirect the
resources of nations from arsenals of war
to human needs-will be a formidable
challenge to all mankind in this last quar-
ter of the 20th Century. It is a challenge
that I am determined to meet.
The White House,
April 23, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 151-page report is entitled "Annu-
al Report 1978, U.S. Arms Control and Dis-
armament Agency."
The text of the message was released on
April 24.
Meeting With President Aristides
Royo of Panama
Announcement of President Royo's
Forthcoming Visit. April 24, 1979
President Carter will meet with the
President of the Republic of Panama, Dr.
Aristides Royo, in Washington on May 10.
The President extended an invitation
to President Royo on April 9 to meet in
an informal working session to discuss the
progress both countries have made in
683
