Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 26
We have, I think, a good opportunity,
however, with the new relations between
China and our own country to influence
those troubled areas toward a more
peaceful existence, to prevent the spread
of violence to adjacent areas, and to let
people live in harmony, one with another.
So, I think, in general, the world is in
a peaceful state. The trouble spots can
be brought to peace with our combined
efforts. And we'll be working with China
and other nations to let this influence be
as great as possible for peace.
MR. ZHAO. This is the first opportunity
for the Central TV of the People's Re-
public of China to have an interview with
a U.S. President. We would like to ex-
press once again our appreciation. Do you
have any message to convey to the
Chinese TV audience?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. This is my op-
portunity to speak to the largest audience
I've ever had. And I'm very delighted, on
behalf of the 220 million people in our
Nation, to extend my personal thanks for
the new, friendly relations between our
people.
I might point out that this opportunity
has not just resulted from the last few
weeks of negotiation between myself, as
President of our country, and Premier
Hua and Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping in
China. It's a culmination of years of nego-
tiation between Chairman Mao and
Premier Zhou Enlai of China and my
predecessors, Presidents Nixon and Ford,
in this country. And this represents a
broad degree of support from many great
leaders and also the people ourselves.
I know there's a great feeling of grati-
tude in China and the United States for
this new, wonderful relationship. And
that gratitude is expressed not only from
our own people but from the nations
around the world who see our new friend-
ship as a basis for increased friendship,
harmony, and peace throughout the
world.
So, best wishes to all the people of
China, and we are very grateful for this
new opportunity for increasing friendship
and peace in the years ahead.
MR. ZHAO. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:45 a.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Mr. Zhao spoke in Chinese, and his remarks
were translated by an interpreter. The inter-
view was taped for later broadcast in the
People's Republic of China.
The transcript of the interview was released
on January 26.
United States Relations With the
People on Taiwan
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. January 26, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
The United States of America has rec-
ognized the Government of the People's
Republic of China as the sole legal gov-
ernment of China and is establishing dip-
lomatic relations with that government.
The Joint Communique issued by the
United States and the People's Republic
of China was the culmination of a long
process begun by President Nixon and
continued by President Ford and me.
I have also announced that, in the fu-
ture, the American people will maintain
commercial, cultural, and other relations
with the people on Taiwan without offi-
cial government representation and with-
out diplomatic relations. In furtherance
165
