Apr. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
example, has surveyed all of its 172 hos-
pitals and has earmarked $1.2 million for
86 barrier-removal projects in fiscal year
1979. The General Services Administra-
tion intends to obligate $26 million be-
tween now and 1982 to retrofit many of
its properties. I will continue to support
such efforts.
But many barriers that block people
from opportunity and fulfillment need the
attention of State and local governments
and the private sector. I herewith call
upon all State and local governments and
the private sector to join with the Fed-
eral Government in a partnership to elim-
inate barriers which limit full social par-
United States International
Development Cooperation Agency
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1979.
April 10, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1979, to consolidate certain
foreign assistance activities of the United
States Government. I am acting under
the authority vested in me by the Reor-
ganization Act, chapter 9 of title 5 of the
United States Code, and pursuant to title
III of the International Development and
Food Assistance Act of 1978, which re-
ticipation by our disabled citizens. Only quires that I report to the Congress my
by working together as a Nation can we
promote and provide full access to all of
our citizens.
To encourage this national commit-
ment, the Ninety-fifth Congress adopted
House Joint Resolution 578 authorizing
the President to proclaim the third weeks
of May of 1978 and 1979 as National
Architectural Barrier Awareness Week
and to call for its appropriate observance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby designate the third week
of May 1979 as National Architectural
Barrier Awareness Week and ask all
Americans to do all that lies within their
power to remove all barriers-architec-
tural, social, and psychological. Together
we can make access a reality for all
Americans.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this tenth day of April,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-nine, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two
hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:16 p.m., April 10, 1979]
decisions on reorganization in this area.
The purposes of this reorganization are to
make more coherent our economic poli-
cies and programs affecting the develop-
ing nations and to improve the effective-
ness of United States foreign develop-
ment activities.
This Nation is committed-not only in
the interest of the people of developing
countries, but in our own interest as well-
to help those countries in their efforts to
achieve better lives for their citizens. To
this end, we conduct a number of bilateral
development assistance programs, partici-
pate in a number of multilateral develop-
ment assistance programs, and engage in a
variety of other economic activities that
affect developing countries.
When this Administration took office,
United States support of international de-
velopment suffered from four major prob-
lems. First, no single U.S. official was
charged with responsibility for establish-
ing a comprehensive and coherent strat-
egy for our Nation's efforts in this field.
Second, no agency or official had the au-
thority to ensure that the various U.S.
programs affecting development were
642
