Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 6
(a) Department of the Interior.
(b) Department of Agriculture.
(c) Department of Commerce.
(d) Department of Transportation.
(e) Department of Energy.
(f) Environmental Protection Agency.
(g) Council on Environmental Quality.
(h) Department of the Army.
1-104. Each Executive agency in the
Program shall submit such data and infor-
mation as the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget may require
with respect to a critical energy facility,
including:
(a) Date a completed application is ex-
pected to be received from the sponsors
of a critical energy facility project.
(b) Targeted final decision date for
each significant permit or
permit or statutory
review.
(c) Compilation of the actions required
of other Executive agencies before a par-
ticipating Executive agency may make a
final decision.
(d) Compilation of the actions required
of non-Federal authorities before a par-
ticipating Executive agency may make a
final decision.
(e) Compilation of significant actions
required of the applicant before a final
decision may be made.
(f) Progress reports, including reasons
for any changes in any targeted final de-
cision dates.
1-105. On the basis of information re-
ceived pursuant to Section 1-104, the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget will provide to the President, to
the participating Executive agencies, to
the Governor of any affected State, and to
the applicant a schedule of deadlines for
Federal actions concerning each critical
energy facility.
1-106. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall provide for
appropriate interagency mechanisms for
the conduct of multiple agency reviews;
but, only where such reviews are consist-
ent with the statutory obligations of the
agencies, and only when such reviews will
assist in the expeditious processing of fa-
cility permits.
1-107. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall assist par-
ticipating Executive agencies with the es-
tablishment of joint Federal and State
and local agency reviews. Such assistance
shall be limited to those circumstances
which are consistent with the legal obliga-
tions of the reviewing Federal and State
and local agencies, and which will result
in the expeditious processing of facility
permits.
1-108. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall keep the
President informed on agency perform-
ance in meeting scheduled decision dead-
lines.
1-109. The Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall, where ap-
propriate, coordinate the procedures es-
tablished herein with those procedures
adopted by the Council on Environmental
Quality pursuant to Executive Order No.
11991 (40 CFR Parts 1500-1508).
1-110. Nothing in this Order is in-
tended to modify in any way (a) the re-
view and decision-making responsibilities
imposed by Federal or State statutes, or
(b) the opportunity for timely State and
local
government and public participation
in agency decision-making.
The White House,
April 5, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:21 a.m., April 6, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the Executive order was
released on April 6.
615
