June 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tered areas, and field work will be in those
areas within the next few days.
The USDA will, of course, continue to
monitor the needs of farmers throughout
the nation who face different planting and
harvesting cycles. Farmers' needs will be
met through the regular supply channels.
In suspending Rule #9, only the prior-
ity allocation for mass transit operations
will be retained. During a period of short-
ages of both gasoline and diesel fuel, it
would be self-defeating to allow diesel
shortages to divert commuters from
energy efficient buses to automobiles. Be-
cause transit utilizes only 2% of the na-
tion's diesel, this allocation should not
significantly impact on other diesel users.
STANDARD NATIONAL LENGTH AND WEIGHT
REQUIREMENTS
One particularly important aspect of
differing state regulatory requirements is
the inconsistency in allowable truck
weights and lengths permitted on the
nation's highways. Although federal law
sets maximum truck weights, it allows the
states the right to set limits below these
levels. Obviously, in different states the
question of truck weights involves com-
plex issues of road capacity, cost alloca-
tion, and safety. I believe that the states
ernment in Washington cannot solve
every problem with a law or a ruling but
working together we can accomplish a
great deal.
While all these efforts go forward, I am
calling upon independent truckers to con-
tinue to provide the nation with vitally
needed transportation services. These are
times for cooperation and sharing, not
confrontation. Only by acting together
with common sense and persistence will
we be able to solve the nation's serious
and pressing energy problems.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission
Executive Order 12144. June 22, 1979
TRANSFER OF CERTAIN EQUAL PAY AND
AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT
ENFORCEMENT FUNCTIONS
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent of the United States of America by
the Constitution and laws of the United
should continue to make the final judg- States, including Section 9 of Reorgani-
ments on these difficult issues.
There would be, however, a substantial
benefit to the nation's transportation sys-
tem if allowable truck weights were stand-
ardized nationwide. I am urging all the
governors and state legislatures to con-
sider this potential benefit and to review
carefully their decisions on truck weight
and size limits in light of the current
situation.
On these and other longer-term prob-
lems I intend to work with the Congress,
the governors, the truckers, and others to
devise sound solutions. The Federal gov-
zation Plan No. 1 of 1978 (43 FR
19807), in order to effectuate the trans-
fer of certain functions relating to the
enforcement of equal pay and age dis-
crimination in employment programs
from the Department of Labor to the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commis-
sion, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. Sections 1 and 2 of Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 1 of 1978 (43 FR 19807)
shall become effective on July 1, 1979,
with the exception of the transfer of func-
tions from the Civil Service Commission,
1140
