Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 28
the representatives of labor groups, to try
to discern at first hand not only the tre-
mendous accomplishments of our free
enterprise system in this country but also
the problems, the needs, the concerns, the
advice, and the opportunities for enhanc-
ing it even in the future.
When I became President one of my
own initiatives was to pursue the idea
with Congressman Smith, with Senator
Nelson, later with Vernon Weaver, for a
White House conference for small busi-
ness leaders and for small business as an
entity in our economic system.
This will be, by far, the largest White
House conference ever held. It will also
be the first, so far as I am able to deter-
mine, where the delegates will be chosen
from the individual States. And, of
course, it will also be preceded by re-
gional meetings wherein there can be a
great magnification of the knowledge,
experience, influence, and information
brought here by delegates who actually
attend the conference at the White
House.
We have a lot to learn from one an-
other-I, as President, the members of
my own administration, the Members of
the Congress, and the general public
from the small business community. And,
of course, it will be mutually instructive
for small business leaders of all kinds to
learn from one another.
Quite often, a superb accomplishment
in a certain field of effort economically,
of necessity, narrows the focus even of
the most broadminded and enlightened
leader, to concentrate on particular day-
by-day problems of organization, man-
agement, financing, production, delivery
of the goods that make our Nation so
great.
Obviously, you will be interested in
seeing a reduction in unnecessary paper-
work, an enlightenment of the Federal
Government's attitude toward basic reg-
ulations, the enforcement of those regula-
tions in an effective and nonburdensome
way, an enhancement of the word "free"
in our free enterprise system, the proper
relationship between the business com-
munity and the Government itself.
Your voice will be listened to very
carefully during the preparatory days and
also the days of the White House con-
ference as such.
In addition, I think foreign exports
and the influence of small business spokes-
men and spokeswomen on a broad gamut
of decisions made here in Washington
will be very beneficial. It would be im-
possible for me to say, "These are the areas
where small business influence will be
beneficial, but these other areas will not
be beneficial." Obviously, in basic employ-
ment schemes, financing, Government
loans, community development, almost
every realm of American life can benefit
from the sound advice and experience
and enlightenment and proven success of
leaders of the small business community.
Vernon Weaver is obviously one of
you. He's a man who is a strong and able
leader. He's made great progress in the
Small Business Administration. But even
there, that agency of Government has a
very limited realm of influence and re-
sponsibility by law that will be far ex-
ceeded by the gamut of issues that you
will discuss and assess as the White House
conference is concluded.
As you know, Mr. Levitt will be the
Chairman of this advisory group, respon-
sible, with these fine other leaders behind
me, for the evolution of the basic prem-
ises on which the Small Business Confer-
ence will be concluded and arranged for
here at the White House.
I would like to say in closing that you
are welcome here. We'll learn in our
daily contacts with you, and I hope that
369
