Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
One of my earliest friends in Wisconsin
is your former Governor, Pat Lucey. I
asked Pat to take a very major responsi-
bility on his shoulders a few months ago,
as you know.
I have visited a lot of foreign countries.
I have been with a lot of our own diplo-
matic leaders. I've had assessments made
by many heads of state, Presidents, Prime
Ministers, Kings. I have never been to a
country since I've been President and had
more repetitive and enthusiastic congratu-
lations on the superb service of an Am-
bassador, than I did when I went to Mex-
ico City recently and talked to the For-
eign Minister of Mexico, Roel, and the
President of Mexico, López Portillo, when
they told me that they had never had an
Ambassador in Mexico as good as Pat
Lucey, and they hoped that I would keep
him there. And I will keep him there as
long as he wants to stay, because I have
the utmost confidence in him.
You know what he did for Wisconsin.
I don't think any State has ever had a
better Governor. He was an adviser for
me, a partner with me, and a personal
friend when we were Governors together.
And this afternoon as I flew up toward
your State, I looked down the list of
achievements in one area only, that of
energy, and found that the programs that
he initiated as Governor are now paying
rich dividends not only for Wisconsin but
for the rest of the Nation.
In spite of the fact that your State ranks
12th in industrial commitment, and in
spite of the fact that Wisconsin has very
severe climatic conditions that require
extra heat during the winter, the average
person in Wisconsin used 20 percent less
energy than the rest of the Nation.
You have inventories and assessments
made of homes to cut down on the waste
of fuels, and the business community in
Wisconsin, almost without exception, have
committed themselves to a program which
I hope the rest of the Nation will emulate,
thanks to the superb leadership of Pat
Lucey when he was your Governor. And I
want to thank you, Pat, and the people
of Wisconsin for setting an example for
the rest of the people.
It's good to come and speak to a Demo-
cratic organization that also has set an
example for the rest of the Nation for
many years of openness, honesty, and a
progressive commitment. I also have a
personal appreciation for the superb, over-
whelming victory you gave me in the Wis-
consin primary. I'll never forget that eve-
ning—[laughter]—and I thank you again
for your sound judgment then, and also
in the general election.
Our country is comprised of people with
widely divergent backgrounds. When I
was in Israel recently and spoke to the
Knesset there, I reminded those friends of
ours that the United States of America is
a country of immigrants. It's a country of
refugees.
We will never be a homogeneous popu-
lation. We pride ourselves on individu-
ality. We pride ourselves on maintaining
our ethnic ties. It gives us an opportunity
to lead the rest of the world in many areas
of life, because we can understand the
other regions of the world.
special sensitivities of those who live in
We are tied to them because of com-
mon commitments of philosophy. Our se-
curity is often interrelated with that of
people of other countries, and we have a
blood-kin relationship with the people of
almost every nation on Earth.
We are a country which has never been
afraid of challenge. We are still a country
of pioneers. We have the strongest nation
on Earth economically, militarily, politi-
cally, and, I believe, also ethically and
morally.
574
