May 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
perhaps, on the part of our employees. I
wish you could perhaps comment gener-
ally on this, and do you see new positive
programs on the horizon that will be
favorable to the Federal employee area?
THE PRESIDENT. I think many of the
things that we've already done have been
indeed favorable. I don't think anybody
would deny that the new civil service leg-
islation is favorable. It does provide more
competition and it does provide, at the
same time, a higher incentive for superb
performance. But those are the kinds of
characteristics that ought to pervade the
feeling and the attitude of every em-
ployee, including the President of the
United States. And it commensurately
provides a higher degree of reward for
those who are highly qualified and who
are highly motivated and who do supe-
rior work. In my opinion, that is a major
step in the right direction.
As I said before, I don't believe that the
little more than 6-percent increase in pay,
plus fringe benefits, is too great a sacrifice
to ask among the civil servants who work
with me in government. When I checked
among my own Cabinet officers and with-
in the White House staff, the top staff
members, they were completely willing not
to have any increase in their salaries dur-
ing the time of very high inflation when
we need to address this issue in a forceful
fashion and also set an example for the
rest of the country. And as I said, the 7-
percent limit is the maximum limit. There
have been many settlements around the
country at a much lower level than this.
I can't do anything other than disavow
the inaccurate reports that have been
made about minimum age for retirement
and so forth.
I forgot to mention a few minutes ago
about the elimination of the right for free
parking- —as you know, this was a priv-
ilege that will be enjoyed until October,
when it'll begin to be phased out-that
has been enjoyed by just a very small por-
tion of the Federal employees.
And in a time of energy shortages, in a
time of need for the conservation of
energy, in a time of very high air pollu-
tion, I believe it's a proper decision to have
the Federal employees on the same basis
as private employees, paying a very modest
amount of parking fees, which will be an
instigation to the sharing of an automobile
by several employees, where most of them
now come in, as you know, one person in
an automobile. And also, it'll tend to
make the use of the new rapid transit sys-
tem more effective and more attractive.
But I don't have any apology to make for
that. It's something that's not highly
popular, but I don't think it's an unwar-
ranted sacrifice to ask.
MR. WILLIAMS. In the pay area, Mr.
President, do you foresee that in the years
ahead that Federal employees will be
treated as well as employees in the private
sector in terms of the cost of living?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I believe that if
we can pass the reform compensation
legislation that's now in preparation, the
idea there is to have the Federal em-
ployees, in a very predictable way, have
pay schedules that are accurately com-
parable to those paid in the private sector.
It also permits some flexibility from one
community in our Nation to another, so
that the salaries are indeed comparable.
I think that's the goal that we want to
achieve.
MR. WILLIAMS. Thank you very much.
MR. CAMPBELL. Other questions? Mr.
McDuffie.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
MR. MCDUFFIE. Last year, in January,
my people extended you an invitation to
visit our establishment at Fort Belvoir. As
920
