Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 25
not interpreted that legislation to want to
channel those funds into social programs,
however.
We've not yet taken a position on it.
I've not seen a detailed analysis of what
they have proposed. So, I really can't an-
swer your question any better than that.
We will monitor it. I'll listen to my ad-
visers. I'll certainly hear from you, I'm
sure, and we want to make certain that the
legislation is not onerous on you.
I believe that there are some tradeoffs
that might have been proposed in the leg-
islation, which you did not mention. There
may be some fees assessed for the use of
spectra, but on the other hand, there will
be an additional freedom for your own
industry to operate in. And I believe, in
addition, there were some more extended
times for the licenses to be prevailing,
that sort of thing.
But I'm not trying to say what my po-
sition is. I've just read about it very
briefly in preparation for this visit. We've
not yet taken an administrative position,
and I doubt if I will take one until the
hearings have been completed and we
see more clearly the attitude of the Con-
gress and the attitude of this organization
as well.
Maybe one more question, and then
they tell me my time is up.
Q. Len Hensel, WSM in Nashville,
Tennessee. Sir, Mr. Amsden stepped on
my question. But while considering that
same proposal, I would appreciate it, sir,
if you would consider what we call the
repugnance of commercial broadcasting
financing public broadcasting from taxes
as opposed to the general fund.
THE PRESIDENT. I will certainly con-
sider that. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you.
INFLATION
Q. Mr. President, I'm Carol Rosen-
weig, and I'm here with my husband,
Saul, who is also a president. He's presi-
dent of ATO Communications, which
owns WILX-TV in Lansing, Michigan.
He also was in your Naval ROTC class at
Georgia Tech.
My question deals also with inflation.
Washington places much of the blame
for inflation on business and labor. But
since the Government controls the print-
ing press and is by far the biggest spender
in the Nation, I'd like to ask you, doesn't
the primary responsibility for inflation
really lie with the Federal Government
and just filter down to the rest of us?
[Applause]
THE PRESIDENT. That seems to be the
most popular question so far. [Laughter]
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I would say the an-
swer is no. [Laughter] But let me explain.
One of the causes for continued infla-
tionary pressures, which have existed at an
extraordinary level for the last 10 years or
more, is a natural inclination on the part
of Americans to find a scapegoat.
I felt, when I ran for President in 1975
and 1976, that the Federal deficit was en-
tirely too high. I established then as one
of
my major goals the balancing of the
Federal budget. We've made a great deal
of progress. By the 1980 fiscal year budget,
if it's adopted the way I presented it—
and it may be even better when the Con-
gress and I get through with it—we will
have cut the deficit by over 55 percent.
This is major progress in times of heavy
demand for governmental services.
And, as you know, I have taken the
step of strengthening our own Nation's
security commitment and defense commit-
ment in NATO and other places.
489
