Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 5
Corporation for Public
Broadcasting
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. April 5, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Enclosed is the "Annual Report of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting for
FY 1978," prepared in accordance with
the requirement of the Public Broadcast-
ing Act of 1967 (Public Law 90-129) as
amended.
The Corporation has again prepared a
thoughtful report which highlights its
efforts for the past fiscal year.
The accom-
plishments of public broadcasting are well
articulated with emphasis on television
and radio programming, technological
innovation, and human development
services.
It should be noted that the projections
of long range Federal financial contribu-
tions from the Federal Government
exceed levels contained in the Administra-
tion's legislative proposal to reauthorize
the Corporation for the period FY 1981-
85.
The Annual Report is being forwarded
so that it is available to the Congress for
its deliberations.
The White House,
April 5, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Those funds are desperately needed by
our cities. They are highly targeted to
bring relief to those areas of our country
and to those segments of our society who
have not profited from the overall im-
provement in employment and the eco-
nomic situation in our country, as have
the rest of us over the past few years.
We will be working to get these funds
restored. We hope, as a matter of fact,
that even some of those who were some-
what critical of the President in the past,
because they thought and felt that he had
not proposed enough in appropriations for
these programs, will join with us and help
to restore these funds.
As you know, some several weeks ago
when the Black Caucus was here, as I told
many of you, the President told them that
while he understood the differences that
we had they feeling that we should be
budgeting more money in these areas—he
warned that he feared that the big fight
would be to maintain in the Congress
those funds and those programs which we
had proposed.
I think this is an indication that his
concern was correct at that time, and we
will be making every effort to restore these
badly needed funds for our urban areas.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell made the
statement at approximately 12:10 p.m. during
the regular news briefing held in the Briefing
Room at the White House.
Urban Aid Program Funds
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. April 5, 1979
I would like to express, on behalf of the
President, his concern over the action of
the House Budget Committee in elimi-
nating funds for the Urban Aid program.
Energy
Address to the Nation. April 5, 1979
Good evening.
Our Nation's energy problem is very
serious-and it's getting worse. We're
wasting too much energy, we're buying
far too much oil from foreign countries,
609
