Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
these general subject matters, and we
would hope to handle this legislation as a
very high priority in our Senate Judiciary
Committee.
THE PRESIDENT. How would you assess
the chances of passage?
My proposals are intended to increase the
efficiency, cut the cost, and maintain the
integrity of our Federal courts. I hope
that the same spirit of cooperation which
led to the 95th Congress' passage of his-
toric civil service reform legislation, which
SENATOR KENNEDY. I think they're had similar goals for the Executive
good. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Very fine.
Before I introduce the Attorney General
to answer your questions, I would like par-
ticularly to commend Dan Meador, who
has been instrumental in the evolution of
these proposals, which are historic in na-
ture and very far-reaching and beneficial
to all the American people.
I might say that we have stayed in close
contact with the Supreme Court Justices
and other advisers. This morning, the At-
torney General talked to the Chief Justice.
He fully supports these proposals. And I
think they will be noted in every magis-
trate's court, district court, circuit court,
all the way up to the court of appeals and
to the Supreme Court of our country as a
major step forward in the proper admin-
istration of justice. But I particularly want
to thank Dan Meador.
And now I'd like to turn over the meet-
ing to the Attorney General, who will add
some further remarks and answer your
specific questions.
Mr. Attorney General.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:16 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Federal Civil Justice System
Message to the Congress on Proposed
Legislation. February 27, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am announcing my program to
reform the Federal civil justice system.
Branch, will mark Congressional-Admin-
istration efforts in reforming the Judicial
Branch.
The American system of justice—and
the part our Federal courts play in it-
has long been the envy of people through-
out the world. An impartial and talented
judiciary protects the rights of all Amer-
icans, ensuring due process guarantees
and fair adjudication of disputes. But the
courts cannot perform their traditional
and essential function if they are required
to operate with inadequate resources, sad-
dled with outmoded procedures, and
burdened with more business than they
can fairly dispose of within a reasonable
time. Nor can our citizens avail them-
selves of their "day in court" if, as is too
often true in these days of rising litigation
expenses, the price of participation in liti-
gation is beyond their means.
Delay and expense play a part in our
civil justice system. We have long recog-
nized that justice delayed is justice denied.
For many injured parties, having to wait
a year or two to obtain legal relief in the
courts is extremely harmful. The benefits
of a legal victory are sometimes out-
weighed by the costs of achieving it. As
litigation expenses and the size of court
dockets increase, this seems to be happen-
ing with increasing frequency. Legal re-
dress should not consume years of time
and thousands of dollars.
These problems are not merely the spe-
cial concern of a particular economic
class or racial group, nor are they limited
to certain geographic regions; they affect
342
