Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tary of Treasury-and the Congress is
dealing with legislation to implement the
Panama Canal treaties and to continue
our trade and cultural relationships with
the people of Taiwan. If the Congress does
not act on this legislation by the first of
March, there will be problems in continu-
ing Eximbank loans and OPIC insurance
guarantees and other official functions of
our Government with the corporations
that we are establishing to represent our
two peoples. Those are just a few items
that are on the foreign affairs agenda.
I would say the overwhelming problem
and question, domestically speaking, is to
control inflation. This is a serious chal-
lenge. It has been with us for 10 years or
more. It is not getting better. Recent
price index changes are of deep concern
to us and, I think, emphasize dramatically
the necessity for the special interest groups
and the doubting Members of Congress,
the local and State officials, those who
represent industry and labor, to cooperate
as completely as possible in controlling
inflation. It is a burning issue, an impor-
tant issue, and the overriding issue on the
domestic scene.
I think at this time I'll just answer your
questions, and I'll try to be as brief as
possible.
QUESTIONS
ETHNIC AND MINORITY GROUPS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Mike
Krajsa. I publish Slovak-Amerike, which
is the oldest Slovak newspaper in the
country and very active in ethnic affairs.
The Democratic National Committee
did a survey polling 500 ethnic editors last
year, which represents a circulation of
about 5 million, and frankly, they're quite
displeased, myself included, by your elimi-
nation of the Office of Ethnic Affairs in
the White House, which your predecessors
had, and the attentions that you have paid
to the ethnics of this country.
Speaking as a Democrat from Pennsyl-
vania, I was very supportive of your cam-
paign, as well as the heavy ethnic concen-
tration of that State, but in last year's
gubernatorial election, the ethnic votes
swung dramatically to the Republican
side.
As the elections approach, the ethnics
again are going to continue to ask you to
reestablish that office and, if at all pos-
sible, to also establish some sort of council
comparable to what you have with the
feminists and with the black movement,
to begin to advise you and have some in-
put into a lot of the foreign policy that
has escalated, especially in your adminis-
tration, dealing, in my case, particularly
with Central Europe.
Do you have any intention of reestab-
lishing that? We would like to be very
helpful, frankly. We represent 17 percent
of the vote, and there's a number of peo-
ple-my publication goes abroad, and
frankly, the people behind the Iron Cur-
tain look for us to continue to spearhead
your human rights issue. And it's becom-
ing increasingly difficult, as the polls have
shown.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as you undoubt-
edly recognize, our country is a nation of
immigrants, and even refugees, including
my own ancestors, a couple hundred years
or more ago.
Yes, I am deeply concerned, and inter-
ested in the special problems that relate to
ethnic Americans. I've always taken the
position, however, in dealing with any
particular group of Americans, whether
it be the elderly or blacks or Spanish-
speaking or women, that it's better for
them to have a President and a Vice Presi-
dent, and a complete Cabinet, and also a
complete White House staff, members who
are both interested in and sensitive to the
244
