Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 6
Visit of Prime Minister Kriangsak
Chomanan of Thailand
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
February 6, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. It's a delight for me, on
behalf of the people of the United States
of America, to welcome back to our Na-
tion a very distinguished international
leader and a friend of our people, Prime
Minister Kriangsak of the Kingdom of
Thailand.
Our friendly relationships have been
historically very important to our country.
One hundred and forty-three years ago
this month, for the first time with any na-
tion in Asia, our country signed a treaty
of peace with the people of Thailand,
then known as Siam. This was the first
peace treaty that we signed with any peo-
ples of Asia. Since then, we've experi-
enced years, even generations of friend-
ship, growth, and change. And through-
out all these years-sometimes years of
testing and trial-the friendship between
our two countries has been very valuable
to the people of the United States.
We've been allies in times of peace and
war. Our distinguished visitor fought
alongside American troops in Korea. And
I understand from one of my staff mem-
bers who recently visited your home, that
on your private home walls, there are
photographs of you and American GI's as
one of the dear possessions in your per-
sonal life.
Our Nation is intensely interested and
deeply committed to the integrity and to
the freedom and the security of Thailand,
that your borders stay inviolate. And as
you well know, the bilateral commitment
and the multilateral commitments made
in the Manila Pact are the bases for our
security agreements with you and with
your people, Mr. Prime Minister.
You come here at a very important
time, when your own region of the world
is again witnessing conflict at your very
shores and borders, a time of mutual con-
cern. Following the visit of Vice Premier
Deng of the People's Republic of China,
my conversations with you will be very
valuable to me and to the people of the
Nation that I represent.
You come not only representing a great
country but also the Association of South-
east Asian Nations, ASEAN countries,
within which you are an acknowledged
and respected leader.
We are very deeply interested in the
independence and the security of the peo-
ple of Southeast Asia. We believe in a
stable system of governments, joined in
peace, with independence of each nation
preserved and inviolate.
So, in politics and in security affairs,
our relationships have been of great
mutual importance. In addition, econom-
ic interrelationships have been dear to
our own people and to yours. Heavy
American business investments and inter-
ests in Thailand have been very profit-
able for both our people.
We witness under your own benevolent
administration, with great appreciation,
a strong example of the preservation of
human rights. Your country has, through
great difficulty, welcomed and helped to
care for 140,000 or more refugees. Our
country has received a like number. And,
as you know, this is important to the peo-
ple of the United States, because our
country is a nation originally formed by
and built by refugees.
Later on this spring, in April, demo-
cratic elections will be held under your
leadership to establish a parliamentary
form of government based on the prin-
ciples of democracy. And the improve-
ments in your judicial system and in the
general benevolent attitude toward the
221
