Mar. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
minimum rate for GS-16 of the General
Schedule and EL-IV of the Executive
Schedule. After consulting with the Di-
rector of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment I have determined that there shall
be six salary rates for SES. Agency heads
will, subject to the requirements of law,
set the rate to be paid to each individual.
In doing so agencies should be aware that
the amounts payable to an individual be-
fore October 1, 1979, may be limited to
the pay cap contained in Public Law 95-
391. I am establishing the following as
the initial SES Schedule:
ES-1=$44,756
ES-2=$46,470
ES-3=$48,250
ES-4=$50,100
ES-5=$51,450
ES-6=$52,800
The Director of the Office of Person-
nel Management will issue guidance and
prescribe regulations for the administra-
tion of SES pay.
JIMMY CARTER
The President's Trip to
Egypt and Israel
Remarks on Departure From the White House.
March 7, 1979
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President,
Rosalynn, and friends:
You leave tonight, Mr. President, on
perhaps the most important and difficult
mission of your Presidency. You seek a
peace vital not only to the people of the
Middle East but to the people of our
own Nation and to all mankind.
There is no challenge more urgent than
seeking that peace, for as the Bible tells
us, it is the peacemakers who are blessed.
And you, Mr. President, Prime Minister
Begin, and President Sadat are three such
peacemakers.
Your efforts are even more than a
pivotal moment in the history of the Mid-
dle East, for as a poet once put it, “Peace
hath her victories no less renowned than
war."
Each generation bears two funda-
mental responsibilities to the next: One
is to lay down our lives, if need be, for the
things that we treasure; the other is to
work ceaselessly so that our children will
not be asked to make that sacrifice. Both
duties are sacred. Both require courage.
Both are filled with grave risks.
There are statesmen whose tasks it is
to go to the brink of war. For others, their
courage is tested by the challenge to go to
the brink for peace. In the end, the truest
measure of our humanity is how we rise
to the second challenge.
Mr. President, tonight, as 6 months ago,
you meet that demanding measure. Please
know that you have our love, our prayers.
The prayers of all humanity are with you
this evening as you search for that nobler
victory, the victory of peace.
THE PRESIDENT. Nothing could give
me more encouragement and a more
gratifying sense than to have surround
me here not only the Vice President but
the distinguished Members of Congress.
I leave tonight on a new mission in the
service of the oldest of human dreams-
the dream of peace. And nowhere is this
hope for peace more fervent, more alive
than in the Middle East; nowhere is the
path to its realization more difficult; no-
where might the price of failure be more
terrible.
Peace remains the goal of President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin and of
394
