Feb. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
In today's world, it is vital to match
the pursuit of ideals with the responsible
use of force and of power. The United
States is a source of both, ideals and
power. Our ideals have inspired the world
for more than two centuries; and for three
generations, since World War II, our
power has helped other nations to realize
their own ideals.
The determination and strength of pur-
pose of the American people are crucial
for stability in a turbulent world. If we
stand together in maintaining a steady
course, America can protect its principles
and interests and also be a force for peace.
Americans have always accepted the
challenge of leadership. And I am confi-
dent that we will do so now.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. in
Alexander Memorial Coliseum. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Milton Jones, chair-
man of the Board of Regents of the University
System of Georgia, George L. Simpson, Jr.,
Chancellor of the University System, Joseph
M. Pettit, president of the Georgia Institute of
Technology, and Bernard Kroll, president of
the institute's National Alumni Association.
Prior to the President's remarks, Mr. Simp-
son conferred upon him the honorary degree
of doctor of engineering, and at the conclusion
of his remarks, Mr. Kroll presented him with
the Alumni Distinguished Service Award.
Anti-Inflation Program
Remarks at a White House Briefing for State
and Local Officials. February 21, 1979
I'm glad to notice that in spite of the
weather, the room is packed with people
who are intensely interested in one of the
most significant subjects for our country
that I have to face.
Obviously, you as State officials and
local officials bear on your own shoulders
tremendous responsibilities for serving
the public, and so do I. And in this mod-
ern, fast-moving, technological age, the
issues that in the past were adequately
difficult are now much more complex,
much more confused, and much more
challenging. But when our country was
founded, we never anticipated that in a
democracy with freedom for everyone,
with shared responsibilities-local, State,
Federal, President, Congress, the court
system-that our task would be easy.
I think the most serious problem that
I face as President on the domestic scene
is to control inflation and to ensure for
our country in the future a sound, stable,
strong economy. This will tax the cour-
age of the American people. It will tax
the vision and sound judgment of the
American people, and it will even tax
the idealism of the American people, be-
cause in controlling inflation, there is no
clear, identifiable victory when an
achievement is realized. And in almost
every event or decision when progress is
made, it's almost always made for the
general good at the expense of some in-
dividual benefit.
There's an element of unselfishness in
it that's not present in all the subjects
that we, you and I together, have to
address. I'm absolutely determined to
bring inflation under control in our
country. It's a commitment that I've
made on my personal convictions. It's a
commitment that I've made jointly with
congressional leaders here in our Nation's
capital city. It's a conviction and a com-
mitment that I've made in harmony with
many of you who helped me evolve the
programs that we are now attempting to
carry out together.
I presented my 1980 fiscal year budget
to the Congress. It's lean and tough. It's
not going to be easy to protect the prin-
ciples described in that budget. But I
don't intend to yield its general thrust.
306
