Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 12
ness have been a practical and a moral
necessity for survival. And yet, in these
past months, you've made enormous sac-
rifices and you've taken great risks for
peace.
This sacred dedication to peace, born
and fostered in Jerusalem and in Cairo,
has given to men and women everywhere
renewed sense of hope that human rea-
son, good will, and faith can succeed,
can break down barriers between peoples
who, in our lifetimes, have only known
war.
As Prime Minister Begin said after
the Camp David summit, the agreements
reached there proved that any problem
can be solved if there is some-and he re-
peated, just some wisdom. Those are
truthful and also reassuring words. I
know from my intense, personal involve-
ment in these negotiations that President
Sadat and Prime Minister Begin have not
wavered from their often-expressed com-
mitment to peace.
President Sadat told me in Cairo that
he will let nothing stand in the way of our
shared goal of finishing the treaty of peace
between Israel and Egypt and of making
it a living testament of friendship between
the two neighboring peoples. I believe
him, and I know in my heart that Prime
Minister Begin and the Government of
Israel are no less fervently committed to
the same noble objective.
But we've not yet fully met our chal-
lenge. Despite our unflagging determina-
tion, despite the extraordinary progress
of the past 6 months, we still fall short.
It's now the somber responsibility of us
all to exert our energies and our imagina-
tions once again to contemplate the trag-
edy of failure and the legitimate exulta-
tion if we bring peace.
In this effort, the support of the mem-
bers of the Knesset will obviously be cru-
cial. Our vision must be as great as our
goal. Wisdom and courage are required
of us all, and so, too, are practicality and
realism. We must not lose this moment.
We must pray as if everything depended
on God, and we must act as if everything
depends on ourselves.
What kind of peace do we seek?
Spinoza said that peace is not an absence
of war; it is a virtue, a state of mind, a
disposition for benevolence, for confi-
dence, for justice. Americans share that
vision and will stand beside Israel to be
sure that that vision is fulfilled.
In Egypt, I saw vivid evidence of this
deep longing for peace among the Egyp-
tian people, millions of them. But like
you, they worry about the uncertainties
of that first crucial stage in the broad task
of pounding Middle East swords into
plowshares. Like you, they hope to ban-
ish forever the enmity that has existed
between the neighbors, the permanent
neighbors of Egypt and of Israel. Like
you, they want this peace, and like you,
they want it to be real and not just a
sham peace.
My friends, from my own experience
as President of the United States, I under-
stand all too well that historic decisions
are seldom easy, seldom without pain.
Benjamin Franklin, who negotiated the
treaty of peace between England and
America after our own War of Independ-
ence, once said that he had never seen a
peace made, even the most advantageous,
that was not censured as inadequate.
Throughout the peace process, both Is-
rael and Egypt have understood that no
treaty can embody every aim of both na-
tions. What a treaty can do, what it can
do far better than the fragile status quo,
and infinitely better than the insidious
tensions that will build if our efforts are
further stalled or fail, is to protect the
vital interests of both Israel and Egypt
and open up the possibility of peace for
425
