Feb. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
recognized as inevitable that the uncer-
tainty and the turmoil that come with
change can have its darker side as well.
We saw this in a senseless act of violence
last week in Afghanistan, when a brave
and good man-Ambassador Adolph
Dubs gave his life in the performance
of his duty as a representative of the
United States.
As we meet here today at Georgia
Tech-enjoying the blessings of freedom
and peace-we must remember that we
are indebted for those blessings to the
sacrifice of men and women like Spike
Dubs.
We also see the darker side of change
when countries in turbulence provide op-
portunities for exploitation by outsiders
who seek not to advance human aims,
but rather to extend their own power and
their own position at the expense of
others.
As I speak to you today, the country of
Iran-with which we have had close
relations for the last 30 years-is in
revolution. It's been our hope that Iran
could modernize without deep internal
conflicts, and we sought to encourage
that effort by supporting its government,
by urging internal change toward prog-
ress and democracy, and by helping to
provide a background of regional stabil-
ity.
The revolution in Iran is a product of
deep social, political, religious, and eco-
nomic factors growing out of the history
of Iran itself. Those who argue that the
United States should or could intervene
directly to thwart these events are wrong
about the realities of Iran. So, too, are
those who spout propaganda that pro-
tecting our own citizens is tantamount to
direct intervention.
We have not and we will not intervene
in Iran, yet the future of Iran continues
to be of deep concern to us and to our
friends and allies. It's an important na-
tion in a critical part of the world, an
immediate neighbor of the Soviet Union,
a major oil producer that also sits beside
the principal artery for most of the
world's trade in oil. And it is still a sig-
nificant potential force for stability and
progress in the region.
Iran is a proud nation with a long
history-more than 2,000 years—of
struggle to establish and to guarantee its
own freedom. The independence of Iran
is also in our own vital interest and in
the interest of our closest allies-and we
will support the independence of Iran.
Out of today's turmoil, it is our hope
that these troubled people will create a
stable government which can meet the
needs of the Iranian people and which
can enable that great nation not only to
remain independent but to regain its in-
ternal strength and balance.
We are prepared to support that effort
as appropriate and to work with the
Iranian Government and the people as
a nation which shares common interests
and common aspirations with us.
But just as we respect Iran's independ-
ence and integrity, other nations must do
so as well. If others interfere, directly or
indirectly, they are on notice that this
will have serious consequences and will
affect our broader relationships with
them.
At the same time, we are intensifying
our efforts to promote stability through-
out the Middle East so that the security
and the independence of the nations of
that part of the world will be maintained.
At my direction, the Secretary of De-
fense recently carried out comprehensive
consultations in Israel, Egypt, Jordan,
and Saudi Arabia, concerning the secur-
ity of that region. We are determined to
work with these nations and with others
to put the peaceful development of the
302
