Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 7
afford to pay it. And we will develop a
better mass transit system. We will fi-
nance an all-out effort by American sci-
ence and technology to meet our long-
term energy needs-with everything from
gasification and liquefaction of coal to
harnessing the power of the Sun.
But we must face facts. The oil lobby
does not like the idea of the American
[energy]¹ security fund for the Ameri-
can people. The oil lobby is going to be
all over Capitol Hill like a chicken on a
june bug. [Laughter] It's certain, and you
know it. And we are being told by them
that we should just turn all the money
over to them; they will wisely know how
to spend it for the benefit of the American
consumer. Now, I don't question their
sincerity [laughter]—and I certainly do
not question their enormous political in-
fluence.
They've blocked the energy legislation
in the Congress now for more than 2
years. But the American people know
that they are wrong. And I refuse to be-
lieve that the Congress of the United
States will vote to make a few, already
rich companies billions of dollars richer
off the necessary sacrifices of Americans
who are struggling to make ends meet.
Some people are already urging and
wringing their hands and saying that this
windfall profits tax and the energy se-
curity fund will never pass. They say
that the oil lobby has more influence on
the Congress than the American people.
Even some Members of Congress say so.
I
say to
you, let's prove them wrong. I
say, let's prove that the Government of
the United States belongs to the people
of the United States.
Now, I'm not looking for a fight; I've
got enough to keep me busy. But I'll
promise you this: I am prepared to fight,
1
¹ Printed in the transcript.
if that's what it takes. And with your
help, I do not intend to lose this fight.
Coal. Coal, which is one of the Na-
tion's and Virginia's-most abundant
resources, is a significant part of the plan
that I outlined 2 nights ago. We are al-
ready in the first part of the program,
passed by Congress, restoring the health
and the vitality of the coal industry, and
Virginia is sharing in this renewed pros-
perity.
The energy security fund, derived
from the windfall profits tax, will allow
us to develop more quickly new alterna-
tives of energy at affordable prices. Then
we can rely on coal liquefaction and coal
gasification and the purification of coal in
a solid form, to light the way toward a
more self-reliant future. I know that you
in Virginia will be especially eager to give
me your help on this facet of the energy
problem.
I'd like to cover now very briefly with
you a basic question. What kind of gov-
ernment do we need in Washington?
Thomas Jefferson declared in his first In-
augural Address, and I'd like to quote
from him, "A wise and a frugal govern-
ment, which shall restrain men from in-
juring one another, which shall leave
them otherwise free to regulate their own
pursuits of industry and improvement,
and shall not take from the mouth of labor
the bread it has earned. That," he said,
"is the sum of government."
When I campaigned for the Presidency
in all our States for more than 2 years,
everywhere I went, I heard how sick and
tired the American people were of bu-
reaucracy, redtape, and government in-
efficiency. Since taking office, I have
worked hard to do something about it.
We have restored our system of feder-
alism, forming a new partnership, an
eager productive partnership, between
county governments, city governments,
633
