Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 9
want to come to our country for a dif-
ferent life.
At the same time, I think we're begin-
ning to see, with this large number of
Americans who speak Spanish, the bene-
fits of shared history and shared culture,
and we can derive the best of the habits
and the customs of one another. So, in
every possible way that I can detect in our
own country, this large number of Mexi-
can immigrants and others who speak
Spanish has been very helpful to us.
I have directed our own Attorney Gen-
eral and the law enforcement agencies
throughout our country to stamp out in-
stantly and very severely any violation of
basic human rights and any discrimina-
tory practices that might formerly have
existed in our border States or through-
out our country against those who might
speak Spanish.
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. When I inter-
viewed you during your election cam-
paign in 1976, we spoke a little Spanish.
How is your Spanish now? Would you
comment on the value of the Spanish lan-
guage TV broadcasting in the United
States, too, please?
THE PRESIDENT. In addition to having
20 million Spanish-speaking Americans,
we have about 450 TV and radio stations
that broadcast, as you know, either full-
time or part-time in Spanish.
Mi esposa y yo estudiamos español. No
hay mucha oportunidad de practicar
español en Washington. Será una grande
oportunidad para nosotros visitar al gran
país de México y para mí consultar con su
Presidente, López Portillo. [My wife and
I study Spanish. There is not much op-
portunity to practice Spanish in Washing-
ton. It will be a great opportunity for us
to visit the great country of Mexico and
for me to consult with your President,
López Portillo.]
I hope when I arrive there to have a
chance to practice more Spanish. And
this is a language that we find to be very
precious. We enjoy speaking it, I'm sure,
more than the people enjoy hearing us as
we learn. But it's a language that I hope
to share with many people in the future.
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. Mr. President, in
the name of Televisa, whom I am repre-
senting now here, I give you my thank
you. And I hope you will have a nice trip
to Mexico and a nice time there.
THE PRESIDENT. Muchas gracias.
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. Gracias, Señor
Presidente.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:30 p.m. in
the Map Room at the White House. It was
taped for later broadcast in Mexico.
National Defense Transportation
Day and National
Transportation Week, 1979
Proclamation 4639. February 9, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Transportation is a vital force in our
society. It moves the Nation's goods, de-
livers the products of our farms and fac-
tories, and enables us to live and work
where we choose and travel where we
please. Transportation enriches our econ-
omy and strengthens our defense.
Because of transportation's importance,
and to encourage greater safety and effi-
ciency in the ways we develop and use
it, Congress has requested the President
to proclaim annually the third Friday in
May as National Defense Transportation
Day, and the week in which that day falls
as National Transportation Week (71
237
