Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
what we do, why we make certain deci-
sions, take certain actions. But it's impor-
tant that Presidents listen to people also,
not just the ones that are able to come to
Washington to express their concerns but
also to the farmers and the housewives,
the storeclerks, the schoolteachers who
never have a chance to get to Washington.
Sometimes, the very size of our coun-
try and the complexity of the issues makes
people feel that just one person doesn't
make a difference. I think that those who
live in relatively small cities like Elk City
can clearly see how your own attitudes,
how your own lives do affect those who
live around you. You can see at first hand
that unselfish participation and coopera-
tion are essential to the success of your
schools and your churches and your town.
We need the same sort of cooperation,
the same recognition that every person
matters if we're going to solve the diffi-
cult problems which our Nation faces
today.
We've always been able, in a time of
crisis, to muster that sense of common
purpose, particularly in wartime, but it's
just as crucial in times of peace. President
Franklin Roosevelt said in 1933, and I'd
like to quote, "It is a mistake to assume
that the virtues of war differ essentially
from the virtues of peace. All life is a
battle against the mistakes and the human
limitations of man, against the forces of
selfishness and inertia, and laziness and
fear."
We especially need that spirit that
Franklin Roosevelt called upon us to as-
sume in 1933 in our current battle against
inflation. The decisions and actions of all
of us-government, business, labor, con-
sumers contribute to inflation. It's not
a problem that government can solve
alone while everyone else continues busi-
ness as usual. All Americans will either
win the battle against inflation, or we will
all lose the battle against inflation
together.
I believe that in a few weeks, we will
begin to see the results of this common
battle. I need your total support in this
fight.
I was deeply disturbed yesterday at the
Consumer Price Index figures. A large
part of that increase was obviously due to
international commodity items, to world
oil prices, to severe late winter weather,
and other factors which were beyond our
control. But those factors do not account
for the sharp increase in prices for many
goods and services. That inflation level is
unacceptable. And those figures are a
warning and a message to government,
business, labor, and consumers: This must
be a time of restraint.
I've been very encouraged by the will-
ingness of working people to join in this
battle, but we still face a series of crucial
labor negotiations. It's vitally important
that those who are responsible for the out-
come of those negotiations recognize their
obligation to show moderation and con-
cern for the economic well-being of our
country. I expect restraint, and the Amer-
ican people expect restraint. Fueling infla-
tion is not in the long-term interest of any
American.
On the price side, many of our very
largest corporations, whom we monitor
every day, seem to be complying with the
program. But I'm very disappointed that
many medium-sized and smaller busi-
nesses are not showing the same sort of
restraint. Too many business leaders seem
to feel that the anti-inflation program just
doesn't apply to them. And the result is
higher prices for everybody.
I will take very firm steps to deal with
this problem in the immediate days ahead.
I intend to substantially increase the staff
responsible for monitoring these prices,
and we will also be working with labor
470
