Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
relations and represents a joint contribu-
tion of the two countries to strengthening
détente, international security and peace.
JIMMY CARTER
President of the United States
of America
L. BREZHNEV
General Secretary of the CPSU,
Chairman of the Presidium of
the Supreme Soviet of the USSR
June 18, 1979
Vienna Summit Meeting
Address Delivered Before a Joint Session of the
Congress. June 18, 1979
Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of
the Congress of the United States of
America, and my fellow citizens:
The truth of the nuclear age is that
the United States and the Soviet Union
must live in peace, or we may not live at
all.
From the beginning of history, the
fortunes of men and nations were made
and unmade in unending cycles of war
and peace. Combat was often the measure
of human courage. Willingness to risk
war was the mark of statecraft. My fel-
low Americans, that pattern of war must
now be broken forever.
Between nations armed with thousands
of thermonuclear weapons-each one
capable of causing unimaginable destruc-
tion-there can be no more cycles of both
war and peace. There can only be peace.
About 2 hours ago, I returned from 3
days of intensive talks with President
Leonid Brezhnev of the Soviet Union. I
come here tonight to meet with you in a
spirit of patience, of hope, and of reason
and responsibility.
Patience—because the way is long and
hard, and the obstacles ahead are at least
as great as those that have been over-
come in the last 30 years of diligent and
dedicated work.
Hope because I'm thankful to be able
to report to you tonight that real progress
has been made.
Reason and responsibility—because
both will be needed in full measure if the
promise which has been awakened in
Vienna is to be fulfilled and the way is
to be opened for the next phase in the
struggle for a safe and a sane Earth.
Nothing will more strongly affect the
outcome of that struggle than the rela-
tionship between the two predominant
military powers in the world, the United
States of America and the Soviet Union.
The talks in Vienna were important in
themselves. But their truest significance
was as a part of a process-a process that,
as you well know, began long before I
became President.
This is the 10th time since the end of
World War II when the leader of the
United States and the leader of the Soviet
Union have met at a summit conference.
During these past 3 days, we've moved
closer to a goal of stability and security
in Soviet-American relationships.
That has been the purpose of American
policy ever since the rivalry between the
United States and the Soviet Union be-
came a central fact in international re-
lations more than a generation ago at the
end of World War II.
With the support of the Congress of
the United States and with the support
of the people of this Nation, every Presi-
dent throughout this period has sought to
reduce the most dangerous elements of
the Soviet-American competition.
While the United States still had an
absolute nuclear monopoly, President
Truman sought to place control of the
atomic bomb under international au-
1087
