Mar. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
approval be passed by each House of
Congress within 60 days of submittal of
the plan. The EPCA does not specify the
form which the resolution of approval is
to take. It is my view and that of the
Attorney General that actions of the Con-
gress purporting to have binding legal
effect must be presented to the President
for his approval under Article I, Section 7
of the Constitution. Therefore, I strongly
urge that Congressional approval of this
plan be in the form of a joint resolution.
If this procedure is followed, the plan
itself, agreed to by Congress and the
President, will not later be subject to pos-
sible judicial invalidation on the ground
that the President did not approve the
resolution.
I urge the prompt and favorable con-
sideration by the Congress of this plan.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
March 1, 1979.
NOTE: The plan and accompanying analysis
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of March
14, 1979.
Meeting With Prime Minister
Menahem Begin of Israel
White House Statement. March 1, 1979
The President and the Prime Minister
met in the President's office from 6:30
to 8:30 p.m.
The President and Prime Minister
agreed that their meeting this evening,
which was conducted in a most friendly
atmosphere, was a useful prelude to the
extensive talks they will be having over
the next days. The President and Prime
Minister will be having extensive ex-
changes on a whole range of issues of key
importance to Israel and the United
States, to the peace process in the Middle
East, and to the stability of that troubled
region.
Democratic Fundraising Dinner
Remarks by Videotape to the Dinner in Los
Angeles, California. February 28, 1979
Good evening.
I'm very sorry that I can't be with you
tonight. Nothing would have kept me
away but the most urgent concerns of our
country. And there is no concern more im-
portant to our Nation and, I know, to you
and to me than our search for a lasting
peace in the Middle East.
It was a Democratic President, Harry
Truman, who first recognized the newly
created State of Israel in the first min-
utes of its birth. Today, we carry on that
legacy as we seek a secure and a peaceful
future for Israel.
In my 2 years as President, I've devoted
more time and invested more personal
effort in the Middle East peace negotia-
tions than in any other international
problem. During the last 6 months, we
have bridged chasms of suspicion and
mistrust that have built for generations.
We've now come within inches of
reaching a final agreement between
Israel and Egypt. I'm determined to
carry on this effort.
Prime Minister Begin and I are meet-
ing now to discuss our goal of a lasting
peace agreement. I need your prayers and
your support. Throughout the peace proc-
ess, one constant remains-America's un-
shakable commitment to the security of
Israel will always be assured.
For 30 years, the people of Israel and
Egypt have known suffering and war.
372
