Apr. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
That's the feeling that I have about Bob
Strauss.
Bob agreed reluctantly to come into
government and to serve in my adminis-
tration, in the Cabinet as a Special Trade
Representative. He's done a magnificent
job negotiating on behalf of our country.
And we hope to have action on the Mul-
tilateral Trade Negotiations before the
summer congressional recess.
After congressional action on MTN is
completed, Bob had planned to leave gov-
ernment and to return to private life.
However, I am proud to announce today
that Secretary Vance and I have pre-
vailed on Bob Strauss to remain in gov-
ernment in the special and unique role as
Ambassador at Large, responsible for our
country's participation in the crucial, up-
coming Middle East peace talks.
By accepting this difficult but very im-
portant challenge, Bob Strauss will be re-
lieving Secretary Vance and me of our
time-consuming and heavy personal role
in the peace talks, which we have experi-
enced over the past 2 years.
Although the Egypt-Israeli peace treaty
stands as a demonstration of the ability
of leaders and people to rise above the
conflicts and hostility of the past, it is
more than a monument to past efforts; it's
a promise for a comprehensive peace in
the Middle East in the future. That prom-
ise must be kept.
Next month, negotiations will begin on
the complex issues involving the West
Bank and the Gaza Strip. I have person-
ally promised President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin that the United States will
contribute our good offices to see that
those negotiations are as successful as
those which resulted in the treaty which
was signed between Israel and Egypt last
month.
No one believes that the road to peace
in the future will be any less arduous than
the path which we have already fol-
lowed. But we've learned that persever-
ance, patience, faith, and trust can over-
come what appear to be impossible ob-
stacles. Those are the objectives which
guided me and the Secretary of State in
choosing a distinguished American to be
the personal representative of our Nation
during the next phase of negotiations.
Secretary Vance and I welcome Bob
Strauss in this effort as a partner, as do
President Sadat and Prime Minister Be-
gin, with whom I spoke today. Their re-
sponse was positive and enthusiastic. I'm
sure that Bob Strauss' special friendship
and relationship with me and Secretary
Vance and his close relationship with the
Members of the Congress, his knowledge
of our Nation, his close relationship with
leaders in both parties will give him the
support and strength that he will need to
undertake and to successfully complete
this very important assignment on behalf
of our country and on behalf of world
peace.
SECRETARY OF STATE VANCE. Our coun-
try and all of us are fortunate indeed that
Bob Strauss has agreed to take on this new
and terribly important responsibility.
There is nobody that I know of who is bet-
ter qualified than Bob Strauss to take on
the complex and difficult negotiations that
lie before us. And all of us know that he
will handle his new responsibilities in this
area with the distinction that Bob has al-
ways shown in every job that he's taken on.
So, I personally want to say from the
bottom of my heart how thankful I am to
Bob for what he is doing and how grate-
ful all of our country is to him for being
willing to do this.
Thank you, Bob.
AMBASSADOR STRAUSS. Thank you, Mr.
Secretary.
I usually have something glib to say
688
