Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to Kentucky in 60 days, after you've got
the results from the three agencies on the
implementation of coal, and launch a
Manhattan Project and do, likewise, to
resolve the question of 10,000 miners be-
ing unemployed, hundreds of mines being
shut down, and having this 400-year coal
opportunity.
And, frankly, at the Hill and elsewhere,
we feel that with all the 26 pages in the
fact sheet last night, there are about three
graphs on coal. How much is too much?
This may not be enough. Can you help
us in this area?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Obviously, we
want to have more coal production, un-
der the presently existing state of tech-
nology, and to expand sales not only
within our own country but overseas.
Secondly, the new technology to give us
clean burning gas, liquid, and solids from
fuel-from coal, will depend heavily on
whether or not we get passed the wind-
fall profits tax. The oil companies are go-
ing to fight it, I'm sure, tooth and nail.
But I'm determined to see this put on
the books. And I'm willing to go to the
wall and use my utmost influence among
the public and in the Congress to get this
tax passed. Otherwise, there will be tre-
mendous, unwarranted profits going to the
oil companies, and we won't have avail-
able the major coal solvent refining plants,
one of which would be constructed, un-
doubtedly, in Kentucky.
We've got, as I said last night in my
talk, tremendous reservoirs of coal. We're
not going to back off on the safety and
health standards for coal miners. But
within those bounds, and also within the
bound of not destroying the environment,
I think that coal has a wonderful oppor-
tunity in the future for increased growth
in production and increased prosperity for
those regions that produce it.
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES;
OIL PRICE DEREGULATION
Q. Mr. President, are the wage-price
profit guidelines completely ineffective as
applied to these windfall profits? Is there
no way that it could be brought into play
in some effective way?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the wage-price
guidelines, as you know, are voluntary.
And I think, in general, wages have been
within the guidelines-some few excep-
tions, but on the average, within. And as
we've monitored the major corporations-
the 500 top ones, the Fortune 500, so-
called-they've complied fairly well.
The application of that to oil would be
a difficult proposition. I think that we
have assessed the inflationary impact of
deregulation fairly carefully-and the
statistics are available to you in the hand-
out sheets-one- or two-tenths of a per-
centage point. This has been one of the
reasons for the quandary that I've had to
face that any deregulation of any prod-
uct that presently has its price constrained
would be inflationary in nature.
But to artificially hold down the price
of domestic oil and to, therefore, encour-
age the importation of expensive foreign
oil and to have this vast Federal bureauc-
racy that's getting more and more compli-
cated, I think, is a burden that we can no
longer bear.
There's an additional factor, also, in
that coal and oil and gas are not replen-
ishable. And we have excessive consump-
tion of these increasingly scarce materials,
not only in our country but around the
world, because of artificially low prices.
So, I think it's better to go ahead and
let the prices go up on a carefully scaled
basis, in accordance with the present law,
and accept the temporary adverse effect
on the inflation rate. And as I said last
622
