Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
ing and broadening of U.S.-China rela-
tions which will contribute to the welfare
of our two peoples and to peace in the
world.
I wish to express my appreciation to
the Congress for the speed and diligence
with which it has acted. I believe a dif-
ferent treatment of the issue of diploma-
tic properties belonging to China would
have been preferable, and my action to-
day is without prejudice to any subse-
quent adjudication of the legal status of
these properties. In most respects, how-
ever, the Congress and the executive
branch have cooperated effectively in
this matter.
In a number of sections of this legisla-
tion, the Congress has wisely granted dis-
cretion to the President. In all instances,
I will exercise that discretion in a man-
ner consistent with our interest, in the
well-being of the people on Taiwan, and
with the understandings we reached on
the normalization of relations with the
People's Republic of China, as expressed
in our Joint Communique of January 1,
1979, on Establishment of Diplomatic
Relations.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 2479 is Public Law
96-8, approved April 10.
National Architectural Barrier
Awareness Week, 1979
Proclamation 4656. April 10, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Architectural and other barriers often
keep millions of Americans from partici-
pating in and contributing to our society.
These barriers come in all shapes and
sizes from a six-inch curb and inacces-
sible bus to an unbrailled menu and un-
captioned news broadcast.
These physical and other kinds of bar-
riers deny daily access for millions of
America's elderly and handicapped citi-
zens to jobs, transportation, recreation
and public service. Attitudes and customs
contribute to this problem.
Physical access often determines
whether people can enjoy their rights and
freedoms and exercise their responsibil-
ities. Most of us take such access for
granted. However, many disabled and dis-
abled elderly cannot.
The first Federal legislation to elimi-
nate barriers was the Architectural Bar-
riers Act of 1968. To help implement that
law, Congress created-within Section
502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973-
the Architectural and Transportation
Barriers Compliance Board.
The Board has worked to remove and
prevent environmental barriers in this
country. By doing so it helps ensure that
disabled persons can enter and use facil-
ities that their tax dollars support. And it
helps inform Federal agencies that these
facilities must be accessible from the time
United States dollars are used to design,
build, alter or lease them.
The Board has mounted a national
media campaign about barriers under its
slogan, "Access America." In May 1979
it will launch a series of national seminars
on barriers for leaders in business, indus-
try and education. The Board is also sur-
veying more than 1,000 federally-owned
and funded facilities in the ten federal
regions to assess compliance with Federal
law.
A number of agencies have already
taken important steps to eliminate bar-
riers. The Veterans Administration, for
641
