Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
As Thomas Jefferson wrote to Andrew
Jackson in 1806, Americans must con-
vince the world that we are just friends
and we are also brave enemies. This is
still an excellent summary of the goals of
American foreign policy.
The purpose of America's military
forces is not to wage war but to preserve
peace. And to do that, we must make sure
that no nation seriously doubts our ability
or our will to meet any challenge to the
country which we love. We must continue
to improve our ability to respond quickly
and to respond effectively to military
threats.
In 1818, looking back on his long years
of service to our Nation, Thomas Jeffer-
son noted with pride, and I quote, "Dur-
ing the period of my administration,”
he said, "not a drop of the blood of a single
fellow citizen was shed by the sword of
war.'
I am also proud that no drop of Ameri-
can blood has been shed in war during
my own administration. And I pray, liter-
ally, several times a day, that when my
years as President are over, that I can
still share Jefferson's achievement of
peace for our people.
Jefferson predicted that we would one
day have greater power than the Euro-
pean empires which were so powerful
when he lived. But he also cautioned, and
I quote again, "I hope our wisdom will
grow with our power and teach us that
the less we use our power, the greater it
will be."
Our military strength and our national
will are abundantly clear now to all na-
tions. We do not need to prove our
strength through rash and reckless mili-
tary adventures. Rather, our military
capacity gives us a rare opportunity to
lead the world toward peace.
I promised, when I was campaigning
among the American people, that when
I took office, that I would make our
foreign policy reflect our own highest
ideals and standards.
Here in the home of George Wash-
ington and Patrick Henry, it's well to re-
member who we are. Here the age-old
dreams of mankind grew into the ideas
that have made our Declaration of In-
dependence a statement-not just of the
goals and beliefs of our Nation but of the
hopes and dreams of all the world's
people.
When I promised this country a gov-
ernment as good as our own people, some
critics dismissed it as meaningless rhetoric.
But they missed what I was really talking
about. But I guess, looking at the results
of the election, that a majority of the
voters must have understood.
Our foreign policy is as good as our
people when we speak out for human
rights around the world, and we will. Our
foreign policy is as good as the American
people when we work to bring peace to
ancient enemies, and we have done so.
A victory for this kind of foreign policy
was won when the peace treaty was signed
last week by Egypt and Israel, and now
we must make the full hopes and dreams
that went into the signing of that treaty
be realized for the people of the Middle
East who yearn for peace.
The United States was able to perform
a crucial role at a critical point to help
make that possible. But that treaty was
not a personal accomplishment, though I
was proud and grateful to be a part of it.
The treaty was a tribute to two coura-
geous men, and also it was a triumph of
moral strength and leadership of our
Nation.
Whatever I'm able to do in easing the
tensions of our world is based on the
strength of the American people and how
much support I have from you and on the
636
