Feb. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
vacy so that the negotiators don't have
to go out and repeat to the news media
and to the public every day what their
latest negotiating position might be.
I read your articles, by the way, very
carefully, relating to the United Nations
and other matters, and I enjoy them.
Let me say this in closing: I'm very
grateful that you could come. I think the
breadth and variety of your own questions
is indicative of the kind of decisions that I
ture of what we do here at the White
House for you.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:15 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Patricia Y. Bario is an Associate Press Secretary
and Barry P. Bosworth is Director of the Coun-
cil on Wage and Price Stability.
The transcript of the interview was released
on February 10.
have to make every day. I've enjoyed the Interview With the President
job very much. I've learned in the process.
I think one of the things that gets lost
because we deal with daily crises and de-
bates and disharmonies and arguments is
the basic strength and soundness of our
country militarily, economically, political-
ly, I hope, ethically. There is no country
as strong as ours no other country as
strong as ours-and I think that we some-
times lose a sense of the cohesiveness that's
so crucial to us.
We've learned a great deal from the
visits of editors and other executives from
around the country who come here. You
have a different perspective from the per-
spective of news media representatives
who stay in Washington full-time, and it's
a good educational process for me to have
to listen to your questions and to try to
think of an accurate answer. But I'm
grateful that you could come.
If you have no objection, I would like
to get an individual photograph with
each one of you. And I see some around
the room that I've known for a long time;
and I'd like to thank you for coming
again. So, if you'd come by, and let me
just shake hands, we'll get a photograph.
I don't have time for another question as
you go by though, that's the only thing.
I think you'll be meeting this afternoon
with Barry Bosworth. I think you'll be
impressed with him. We hope that when
you leave you'll have a little clearer pic-
Question-and-Answer Session With
Joaquin Lopez-Doriga of Channel 13,
Government of Mexico Television.
February 8, 1979
MR. LOPEZ-DORIGA. Mr. President, in
a few days you will be visiting Mexico. In
view of developments in Mexico's oil
production and the problem of illegal
workers, how do you see relations be-
tween the two countries?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the last 2
years, since I've been in office and since
President López Portillo has been Presi-
dent, the relations have improved con-
siderably. For a number of decades, there
have been strains between Mexico and
the United States and a lack of adequate
consultation and the sharing of mutual
problems. I think President López
Portillo and I have both recognized that
problem when we became Presidents, and
we've made great strides to relieve those
challenges.
In the field of trade, border problems,
agriculture, fisheries, maritime problems,
exchange of prisoners, the control of
narcotics, the enforcement of customs
laws, the holding down of smuggling, in
many other hemispheric problems, the
control of arms, the enhancement of
peace, the control of nuclear weapons, we
have seen the admirable leadership of
President López Portillo in working with
us to reach agreement on how we can ap-
proach these problems as partners.
252
