Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 18
Executive order. This person may be the
same person who is the department or
agency's representative to the Committee.
1-402. To the extent permitted by law,
each department and agency upon re-
quest by the Chairperson shall furnish
information, assistance and reports and
otherwise cooperate with the Chairperson
and the Committee in the performance
of their functions hereunder. Each de-
partment or agency shall ensure that sys-
tematic data collection processes are
capable of providing the Committee
current data helpful in evaluating and
promoting the efforts herein described.
1-403. The officials designated under
Section 1-401, when so requested, shall
review the policies and programs of the
women's business enterprise program, and
shall keep the Chairperson informed of
proposed budget, plans and programs of
their departments or agencies affecting
women's business enterprise.
1-404. Each Federal department or
agency, within constraints of law, shall
continue current efforts to foster and pro-
mote women's business enterprise and to
support the program herein set forth, and
shall cooperate with the Chairperson and
the Committee in increasing the total
Federal effort.
1-5. Reports.
1-501. The Chairperson shall,
promptly after the close of the fiscal year,
submit to the President a full report of
the activities of the Committee hereunder
during the previous fiscal year. Further,
the Chairperson shall, from time to time,
submit to the President the Committee's
recommendations for legislation or other
action to promote the purposes of this
Order.
1-502. Each Federal department and
agency shall report to the Chairperson as
hereinabove provided on a timely basis
so that the Chairperson and the Com-
mittee can consider such reports for the
Committee report to the President.
1-6. Definitions. For the purposes of this
Order, the following definitions shall
apply:
1-601.
"Women-owned business"
means a business that is at least 51 per-
cent owned by a woman or women who
also control and operate it. "Control" in
this context means exercising the power
to make policy decisions. "Operate" in
this context means being actively involved
in the day-to-day management.
1-602. "Women's business enterprise"
means a woman-owned business or busi-
nesses or the efforts of a woman or women
to establish, maintain or develop such a
business or businesses.
1-603. Nothing in subsections 1-601 or
1-602 of this Section (1-6) should be
construed to prohibit the use of other defi-
nitions of a woman-owned business or
women's business enterprise by depart-
ments and agencies of the Executive
Branch where other definitions are
deemed reasonable and useful for any
purpose not inconsistent with the pur-
poses of this Order. Wherever feasible, de-
partments and agencies should use the
definition of a woman-owned business in
subsection 1-601 above for monitoring
performance with respect to women's
business enterprise in order to assure com-
parability of data throughout the Federal
Government.
1-7. Construction. Nothing in this Order
shall be construed as limiting the mean-
ing or effect of any existing Executive
order.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
May 18, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:25 p.m., May 18, 1979]
893
