June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ence, but to express on behalf of the 220
million people in our country my thanks
to superb black musicians throughout the
history of our country and my congratu-
lations to the Black Music Association for
spending your first birthday party here at
the White House with us.
Thank you and congratulations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:45 p.m. on
the South Grounds of the White House.
Deployment of the MX
Missile
Remarks by the Deputy Press Secretary on the
President's Decision. June 8, 1979
MR. GRANUM. After prolonged study and
analysis, the President has decided that
we will pursue a full-scale MX. Some of
the key points on this are, of course, that
the decision will continue the longstand-
ing U.S. policy of maintaining a triad of
three survivable strategic force compo-
nents: intercontinental ballistic missiles,
submarine-launched ballistic missiles, and
heavy bombers.
In order to do this, we will deploy a
new ICBM in a mobile basing mode that
is both survivable and verifiable. The new
ICBM, as I said, will be a full-scale MX,
which is permitted under SALT II and
is as capable as any missile the Soviets can
deploy.
The final characteristics of the basing
system will be worked out during the sum-
mer months. This decision will take into
account costs, security, and environ-
mental concerns, and the requirement
that the system be adequately verifiable.
REPORTER. The President doesn't con-
sider this a destabilizing weapon in the
sense that you're now building a first-
strike counterforce of your own?
MR. GRANUM. He does not. He believes
very strongly that this decision will
strengthen the possibilities of significant
reductions and controls in SALT III. It
stabilizes the strategic balance. And with-
out that, of course, serious negotiations
are not possible.
It also means that there can be no So-
viet advantage in an arms race. Third,
by stressing survivability through mobility
and shelters, we can consider a significant
reduction in strategic forces with no loss
in security. And finally, the ultimate scale
of this deployment can be adjusted to the
progress that is made in the SALT III
process.
NOTE: Deputy Press Secretary Rex Granum
made the remarks in response to a question
from a reporter at the regular news briefing
which began at 11:44 a.m. in the Briefing
Room at the White House.
Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation System
Nomination of John T. Rhett To Be Federal
Inspector. June 8, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate John T. Rhett, of Arling-
ton, Va., to be Federal Inspector for the
Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Sys-
tem. This is a new position created by Re-
organization Plan No. 1 of 1979. Rhett
has been Deputy Assistant Administrator
for Water Program Operations at the En-
vironmental Protection Agency since
1973.
He was born February 20, 1925, in Ft.
Benning, Ga. He received a B.S. from the
U.S. Military Academy in 1945, a masters
degree in engineering from the Univer-
sity of California in 1952, and a masters
in international relations from George
Washington University in 1965.
1016
