Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
technical assistance to groups who are en-
gaged in building cooperative enterprises
to reduce costs in key consumer goods
and services.
This year, my Administration and Con-
gress will receive the final report of the
National Commission on Neighborhoods.
We look forward to working with the
Congress on many of the Commission's
recommendations. With your help, we
can make the Federal government in-
creasingly more responsive to the needs
of neighborhood people who are working
together to meet basic needs in housing
and community development, health
care, nutrition, and energy conservation.
Urban Policy
Last year, I proposed the Nation's first
comprehensive urban policy. That policy
involved more than one hundred im-
provements in existing Federal programs,
four new Executive Orders and nineteen
pieces of urban-oriented legislation. With
Congress' cooperation, thirteen of these
bills passed last year.
I will again propose to the Congress
several important parts of the urban pol-
icy not adopted last year. The two princi-
pal proposals are: an urban fiscal assist-
ance program, and the National Devel-
opment Bank.
My fiscal assistance proposal will in-
clude two principal components. The first,
a standby countercyclical fiscal assist-
ance program, will protect State and local
governments against unexpected changes
in the national economy. It would trigger
into place if the national unemployment
rate rises above 6.5 percent and would
provide fiscal aid to many needy govern-
ments. The second component is a transi-
tional, highly targeted fiscal assistance
program that provides fiscal aid to only
the most fiscally-distressed local govern-
ments. Relatively few cities and counties
will be eligible for this highly targeted
program; but those eligible will be truly
in need. I will seek a $250 million supple-
mental in FY '79 and $150 million in FY
'80 for this targeted fiscal assistance
program.
I also will propose a National Develop-
ment Bank to provide financing for local
economic development projects which
will aid the revitalization of our Nation's
communities. As part of the Bank, I will
propose a significant increase in economic
development funding-$550 million in
new economic development capital grants
to business and $2.65 billion in new loan
guarantee authority for FY '80.
This Bank will be the central engine for
the economic development in the govern-
ment. We will propose the consolidation
of many economic development loan pro-
grams into the Bank as part of the eco-
nomic development reorganization. This
will add over $1 billion in additional loan
authority.
Social Security Changes
In 1977 the Congress worked with the
Administration to take the difficult but
necessary action to make the Social
Security system financially sound for
the next fifty years. In so doing, we helped
protect the benefits of current recipients
and of those now working. However, the
Social Security system from time to time
needs adaptation to changing conditions,
so the Administration this year will make
proposals which will reduce somewhat
the cost of the program by trimming the
costs of certain benefits. These proposals
will be sent to the Social Security Ad-
visory Council, which is representative of
the contributing employers, employees
and the public, and to the National Com-
mission on Social Security, appointed in
part by the Congress and in part by me,
so they can have an ample opportunity to
137
