June 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We have never failed our country, and
we Democrats will certainly not fail our
country now.
We do have problems. We can solve
those problems. We can be strong and also
at peace. We can make our economy
work. But we cannot do it with slogans or
gimmicks or magic or by trying to put
the responsibility on someone else.
America must solve her problems the
same way each of us solves our own prob-
lems with hard work and persistence
and courage and, occasionally, some pain
and some sacrifice. But we must not con-
fuse difficulty with defeat. The actions we
take to get through our current problems
will enhance our strength for a future that
will be even brighter than our past.
I look forward to those years-next
year, the next decade, the next century-
because I know that the people of the
United States have the will and the
strength of character to make those years
even better in the greatest nation on
Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:15 p.m. in
Convention Hall B at the Indianapolis Con-
vention Center.
A. Philip Randolph
Remarks at Memorial Services for the Late
Civil Rights Leader. June 3, 1979
The President of the United States has
many invitations to speak, a thousand in-
vitations for each one that I can accept.
But when I heard about this memorial
for A. Philip Randolph, I did not hesi-
tate. I told my staff to cancel my other
requests, and I wanted to be here person-
ally.
I've had a chance to know some of the
people who have already spoken. Bayard
Rustin's words moved me deeply. And as
I listened to him and thought about our
country, I realized even more vividly that
we are in a time of change, of doubt, of
fear, of division, of uncertainty. When
standards are transient and when we seek
as individual human beings for some life
which can inspire us, I doubt that there
is a mother or a father in this Nation who,
knowing A. Philip Randolph and what he
was, would not want our sons and daugh-
ters to be like him.
It's not an accident that Mr. Rustin and
the other members of his brotherhood
called him "The Chief." That didn't
mean that he was a domineering master,
that he imposed his will on others, that he
was an autocratic driver of those who
worked under him and who looked to him
for leadership. It meant that he was an
object of admiration, of respect, even per-
haps, of reverence.
When there was hardly any detectable
civil rights movement in our country back
in 1941, A. Philip Randolph led the
march on Washington. As has been
pointed out, he was scorned by those in
power. And he was even feared somewhat
by those who were oppressed, because his
strong voice might create some disturb-
ance in their own quiet lives if their own
rights were pushed forward too loudly
and too strongly. But he was not deterred.
He was a man of dignity; he was a man
of tenacity; he was a man of eloquence;
and he was a man of gentleness and of
constant idealism. But the words "gentle-
ness" and "idealism" don't quite describe
what A. Philip Randolph was, because he
was able to combine idealism with hard
work and sweat.
He was a working man. His father was
a tailor and a preacher. And he combined
gentleness with kind of a brash courage
in a time when it was not done. He stood
up strongly, face to face, with four great
Presidents: Woodrow Wilson, Franklin
Roosevelt, Harry Truman, John Ken-
996
