May 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ment in the policymaking positions, in-
cluding the regulatory agencies, of minori-
ties that have-in the past, have been
excluded.
HEATING OIL RESERVES
Q. Mr. President, I'm Merrill Lock-
hard from Nashua, New Hampshire. This
100-percent allocation of diesel fuel for
the fishing industry and farmers, is this
going to have an adverse effect on the
supplies of heating oil-
THE PRESIDENT. No.
Q.
fect at all?
or is it going to have any ef-
THE PRESIDENT. No, the heating oil re-
serves by next October will be adequate
to supply New Hampshire, New England,
and the other colder regions of our coun-
try with their full needs throughout the
winter of 1979, 1980.
ENERGY SECURITY TRUST FUND
Q. Mr. President, my name is Mick
De Rienzo. I'm from New Jersey. And in
the northwestern part of New Jersey, we
have no mass transit. People depend on
their car to get to and from work and
do shopping and things of that type. Does
the Government have to plan anything in
the fields of mass transit?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. In addition to
substantial increases in the allocation of
funds for rapid transit, mass transit, that's
already been put into effect, under the
windfall profits tax, which I now expect to
pass through the Congress, we will estab-
lish an energy security fund designed to do
three things. One is to meet the needs of
very low income families who are ad-
versely impacted by increases in oil price;
secondly, to set up a research and devel-
opment program for the development of
alternate supplies of energy; and, thirdly,
to improve rapid transit or mass transit.
So, those three basic functions of the
reserve fund will be implemented in addi-
tion to the funds already allocated for
that purpose.
SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY
Q. Fremont Power, Indianapolis. Mr.
President, I can imagine several quick
answers you could give to this one. I
wonder if you'd give us your candid opin-
ion as to whether or not Ted Kennedy is
going to go for the nomination in '80 or
not?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so. Sena-
tor Kennedy has announced many times
that he did not have any intention to run,
that if I ran, that he would give me his
support.
ASSISTANCE FOR PRIVATE SCHOOLS;
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. Sir, Paul Wright from Greenville,
South Carolina. Assuming we do have a
Cabinet-level office for education, what
will be your position on the private school
movement on the secondary level in this
country, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Well, my position
wouldn't change. I served as Governor
of Georgia and, obviously, treated the
private schools as a necessary part of the
educational program. I have set aside, as
Governor of Georgia, an allocation of fi-
nancial resources for the private colleges
of Georgia that began with $400 per stu-
dent allocated out of State funds and then
increased while I was Governor to $600
per student per year for tuition at the
higher level.
I'm not in favor of the Federal Govern-
ment helping to finance the routine opera-
tion of private schools. But I think there's
a very strong role for them to play, and,
of course, in some areas where the con-
stitutional requirements permit it, we
848
