Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 20
out these limits, the Soviets could vastly
increase the number of warheads on their
large land-based missiles-with grave im-
plications to the strategic balance. SALT
II will therefore contribute to our ability
to deal with the growing vulnerability of
our land-based missiles. Without it, the
Soviet Union could continue to increase
the number of their warheads, tending to
nullify our effort to protect our missiles.
The agreement will also permit us and
our allies to pursue all the defense pro-
grams that we believe might eventually
be needed the MX missile; the Trident
submarine and its missiles; air, ground,
and sea-launched cruise missiles; cruise
missile carrier aircraft; and a new pene-
trating bomber. These would be per-
mitted.
Thus SALT II would allow our own
prudent programs to move ahead and also
will place important limits on what the
Soviets might otherwise do. And this
SALT II agreement will be a basis for
further negotiations for additional sub-
stantial cuts in the level of nuclear
armaments.
Without the SALT II agreement, the
Soviet Union could have nearly one-third
more strategic forces by 1985 than with
SALT II. We would, of necessity, as a
nation, match such a buildup. The costs
would be enormous, the risks self-evident.
And both nations would wind up less
secure.
The stakes in SALT are too high to rely
on trust. Any SALT II treaty that I sign
will be adequately verifiable, using our
own independent means of guaranteeing
Soviet compliance with terms of the
agreement.
SALT II will specifically forbid
any in-
terference that would impede our ability
to verify compliance with the treaty. Any
effort on the part of the Soviet Union to
interfere with our verification activities
would be a detectable violation of the
agreement itself, and an early signal of
any possible cheating.
Finally, let me put this agreement in
the context of our overall relations with
the Soviet Union and the turbulence that
exists in many parts of the world. The
question is not whether SALT can be
divorced from this complicated context.
It cannot. As I have often said, our re-
lationship with the Soviet Union is a mix-
ture of cooperation and competition. And
as President of the United States, I have
no more difficult and delicate task than
to balance these two. I cannot and I will
not let the pressures of inevitable compe-
tition overwhelm possibilities for cooper-
ation, any more than I will let cooperation
blind us to the realities of competition,
which we are fully prepared to meet.
Because this carefully negotiated and
responsible arms control agreement will
make the world safer and more secure, it
is in our national interest to pursue it, even
as we continue competition with the So-
viet Union elsewhere in the world. There-
fore, I will seek both to conclude this new
SALT agreement and to respond to any
Soviet behavior which adversely affects
our interests.
To reject SALT II would mean that
the inevitable competition in strategic nu-
clear arms would grow even more dan-
gerous. Each crisis, each confrontation,
each point of friction-as serious as it may
be in its own right-would take on an
added measure of significance and an
added dimension of danger, for it would
occur in an atmosphere of unbridled stra-
tegic competition and deteriorating stra-
tegic stability. It is precisely because we
have fundamental differences with the
Soviet Union that we are determined to
bring this dangerous dimension of our
military competition under control.
305
