Jan. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
questions, and I look forward to this visit
as well.
Later on, we anticipate Crown Prince
Fahd will come here, along with Prime
Minister Kriangsak from Thailand. So, in
the next few weeks I've got a broad com-
bination of both domestic issues to ad-
dress with the Congress, primarily, and
foreign affairs visits, which will help to
cement our ties with very important
people in other nations.
I think perhaps the best way to spend
our time outside of this opening statement
would be to turn the questions over to you.
I'll try to be brief and, obviously, try to be
accurate.
QUESTIONS
RADIOACTIVITY EXPOSURE IN UTAH AND
NEVADA
Q. Mr. President, the citizens of Utah,
my State, are quite concerned about re-
cent discoveries of extremely high cancer
death rates in the southern part of the
State due, it appears, to atmospheric nu-
clear testing in the 1950's and 60's in
Nevada. Regarding the Federal Govern-
ment's role, and your administration,
where do we stand now? What can or will
the administration do for the victims in
southern Utah and Nevada?
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in Utah
recently, I discussed this with your Gov-
ernor, and also with some of the church
officials there, and have directed that the
Department of Energy and also the De-
partment of HEW proceed with an anal-
ysis of the statistics available to see what
patterns do exist and what we can do to
have an equitable solution of problems
that have already occurred there, and ob-
viously to prevent any future recurrences.
No one knows the outcome of these
discussions. But I think it's accurate to
say that we are working very harmoni-
ously with the Utah officials, and they
agreed with my assessment when I was
there. But I hope that you will relate—if
there is any problem with cooperation as
I've outlined, I would like to hear from
you directly after you return to Utah, or
let the Governor call me directly.
MEXICAN ENERGY SUPPLIES
Q. Mr. President, I'm sure there will be
interest here in the Deng visit, but be-
fore you get to that, could you talk a little
bit about our relationship with Mexico
and how it may change in light of the
increasing Mexican economic leverage be-
cause of their oil discoveries? What kind
of a longer range relationship do you see
between two countries that are so close
together, cheek by jowl along the border,
and with Mexico growing so fast?
THE PRESIDENT. I'd say that there are
three brief things. First of all, the control
of Mexico's natural resources, obviously
including oil and gas, is completely up to
them. Mexico is highly independent in
their resolution of how to proceed with
exploration and production, and of course,
they have wide options on customers to be
served and, also, the prices to be charged.
We understand that. We sympathize with
it. We certainly have no quarrel with it.
Secondly, we look upon Mexico as a
very valuable, present and future source
of needed energy supplies for our country.
We want to negotiate with them in good
faith and provide for ourselves this very
valuable source of oil and natural gas in
the future. That'll be done by private and
official negotiations over a long period of
time. I'm not going down to Mexico to
negotiate the price, the spot price of nat-
ural gas and so forth.
And thirdly, I think we have to distin-
guish between immediate needs and long-
range needs. My understanding of the
Mexican recent oil and gas discoveries is
182
