Apr. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
"marginal well" will be defined in the
same manner as those terms are defined
by current Department of Energy regula-
tions.
(b) Effective date
The tax is to be effective on January 1,
1980. It is a permanent tax.
(c) Tax bases
Lower tier. Under the President's de-
control schedule, lower tier oil will be re-
leased to the upper tier price in accord-
ance with a decline rate applied to the
producer's base period control level
(BPCL). The BPCL is determined as of
January 1, 1979 under recently issued De-
partment of Energy regulations. For de-
control purposes, the decline rate is 12
percent per month during 1979, and 3
percent per month thereafter.
The taxable volume of lower tier oil
will be the volume of lower tier oil freed
to the upper tier under decontrol which
exceeds the volume of oil which would
be freed by reducing the January 1, 1980
volume of lower tier oil by 2 percent of
the BPCL per month.
For purposes of computing taxable
volume, the 2 percent reduction continues
even after price controls expire on Sep-
tember 30, 1981. Consequently, the tax-
able volume of lower tier oil equals zero
at the end of May, 1983.
For purposes of computing the tax on
lower tier oil, the base price is the con-
trolled price of lower tier oil. Thus, oil
which is now selling below its controlled
price will be taxed only on the difference
between the former controlled price and
the price at which it is sold when freed to
the upper
tier.
For the period following the termina-
tion of controls, a constructive lower tier
controlled price, generally based upon the
present Department of Energy regula-
tions, will be used in computing the lower
tier base price. The constructive lower
tier base price will be adjusted for infla-
tion (as measured by the GNP deflator)
by the Secretary of the Treasury in the
same manner as the controlled price is
currently adjusted for inflation under De-
partment of Energy regulations.
Any lower tier oil released to the upper
tier under decontrol and not includible in
the lower tier taxable volume will be in-
cluded in the upper tier taxable volume
and will be taxed at that level.
The computation of the windfall profits
tax at the lower tier level is illustrated by
the following example:
Producer A's BPCL for lower tier oil
as of January 1, 1979 is 100X barrels per
day. Under the Department of Energy
decontrol schedule the volume of oil sub-
ject to lower tier prices on December 31,
1979 will be 82X barrels per day (100X
barrels per day less 18X barrels per day
representing a 12 percent decline for the
12 months of 1979). During January,
1980 A produces 83X barrels per day. Of
that production, 4X barrels can be sold
as upper tier oil, since the lower tier
volume for January 1980 is 79X barrels
per day. One X barrels per day, the differ-
ence between the application of the 3 per-
cent decline permitted under the Depart-
ment of Energy decontrol schedule and
the 2 percent decline permitted for pur-
poses of computing the lower tier taxable
volume, is the taxable volume of oil. Thus,
if the controlled price of lower tier oil in
January 1980 is $6 per barrel and the 1X
taxable barrels per day are sold at the
wellhead for $13 per barrel, the amount
of tax would be equal to 50 percent
× (1X barrels per day X 31 days) X
($13 per barrel-$6 per barrel)
$108.50X. The other decontrolled oil pro-
duced in January 1980 (31 days × 3X
barrels per day) will be included in the
upper tier taxable volume.
724
