Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ment as part of the same procedure that
relates to Israel and her neighbors. And
whatever we can do to use the word
again within the bounds of propriety,
recognizing the independence of other
nations, we have done, are doing, and
will do to bring about peace between Is-
rael and her neighbors.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Q. Mr. President, if the Soviet troops
decide to help Vietnam in their struggle,
how will this affect normalization and the
Taiwan question, which is also being
questioned as to its defenses?
THE PRESIDENT. The normalization of
relations between our country and the
People's Republic of China is an accom-
plished fact. It will not be affected one
way or the other by combat among the
Asian Communist countries. We have
used every bit of influence that we could
with Vietnam, with China, with the So-
viet Union to bring about a withdrawal
of attacking forces whenever they've
crossed an international border, and to
bring about an end to combat there.
My hope is that this combat will rap-
idly be concluded. And even today we
introduced to the United Nations a re-
quest for a complete analysis or debate
of this question, calling upon Vietnam to
withdraw their troops after they have in-
vaded Kampuchea, and also calling upon
China to withdraw her troops from Viet-
nam.
But I would say that the recognition
of the Beijing government as the Govern-
ment of China is already an accomplished
fact and will not be abrogated, nor will
there be any interference with it.
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
Q. Mr. President, some columnists and
commentators have come to regard the
implementation of your foreign policy as
a failure. They point specifically to the
lack of a clear direction, a steady course.
Aside from those areas covered in your
opening remarks, what do you think has
created that perception? Do you think it's
possible that you yourself may have con-
tributed to that problem? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I think that this alle-
gation is to be anticipated. It's not unex-
pected for us.
There is a marshaling of public sup-
port in almost every instance when a
President takes forceful action at a time
when our Nation's security itself is endan-
gered-obviously, in time of a war. When
people feel that our Nation's security is
challenged, there's a patriotic response to
a President in a time of forceful action.
It's not quite so easy to marshal over-
whelming, enthusiastic, dedicated sup-
port in a time when a President's been
able to search out a path and maintain
peace. But I hope that that will be my
achievement throughout the rest of my
term.
In retrospect, I can't see that we should
have done anything differently in the
basic questions from what we have done.
We have had some notable challenges.
I think that on a worldwide basis we've
increased our friendships substantially
with nations that are emerging as leaders.
We have greatly repaired the dispirited
nature and the relative weakness of
NATO. I think there's now a renewed
commitment to the strength of our alli-
ance there.
Zealand in the ANZUS agreement are
Our relationships with Australia, New
very strong. For the first time in my life-
time, as a matter of fact, we now have
better relationships with the three lead-
ing Asian countries than do the Soviet
Union leaders, that is, India, Japan, and
the People's Republic of China.
314
