Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 9
President Sadat and I, in the car to-
gether, repledged ourselves not to dis-
appoint those here, in Israel, among the
Palestinians, among the countries also
presently in a state of war, who depend on
us and others to bring the long unrealized
but deeply desired state of peace to this
region.
Like you, Mr. President, I am dedi-
cated to the cause of peace. Like you, Mr.
President, I'm determined to persevere.
Our common dedication, our common
determination is rooted in the soil of
common religious truth. Many signs said,
“We believe in God.” You and I, Mr.
President, believe in God. We believe in
truth, that truth takes different forms. But
its underlying message is the same—it's a
message of love, of faith, and of peace.
As we work together in the crucial dis-
cussions that are about to begin, let us
pray God, in the words of the Christian
Gospel, "to guide our feet into the way of
peace."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 3:30 p.m. on
the terrace of Qubba Palace, where the Presi-
dent stayed during his visit to Cairo.
Earlier in the day, President Sadat met the
President at Cairo International Airport, and
the two Presidents traveled by motorcade to
the palace for the ceremony.
Cairo, Egypt
White House Statement Following a Meeting
Between President Carter and President
Sadat. March 8, 1979
The discussions tonight began at 6:40
p.m. between President Carter and Presi-
dent Sadat. At about 7:10 p.m., the two
Presidents were joined by Vice President
Mubarak and Prime Minister Khalil on
the Egyptian side and Secretary of State
Cyrus Vance and Assistant to the Presi-
dent for National Security Affairs, Dr.
Zbigniew Brzezinski, on the American
side. These discussions concluded at 9:05
p.m.
The talks this evening focused almost
entirely upon the unresolved issues and
the negotiation of a treaty of peace be-
tween Egypt and Israel.
NOTE: The meeting was held at Tahra Palace.
Following the meeting, the President returned
to Qubba Palace.
Train Trip From Cairo to
Alexandria, Egypt
Informal Exchange With American Television
Correspondents. March 9, 1979
PRESIDENT SADAT. This is my Georgia.
Q. It is what?
PRESIDENT SADAT. My Georgia.
PRESIDENT CARTER. This is President
Sadat's home province.
Q. He says it is his Georgia.
PRESIDENT CARTER. That is right. He
lives about a half hour from here.
I think it's obvious that these people
want peace.
Q. How are the talks going, sir?
PRESIDENT CARTER. I think very well.
We still have some problems, obviously.
But President Sadat genuinely wants
peace. So do I. So does Prime Minister
Begin. We don't know yet what will hap-
pen until we get through with the talks.
Q. Do you have a feeling that you can
wrap up this end of it on the scheduled
trip?
Q. Will you be able to leave on sched-
ule, sir?
PRESIDENT CARTER. I don't know.
Q. Maybe stay another day?
PRESIDENT CARTER. I don't know. I
really don't know.
407
