Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 23
The spirit of cooperation exemplified
by these efforts is an essential ingredient
in establishing a new foundation for re-
sponsible and responsive Government.
JFMIP has pioneered the cooperative ap-
proach and produced major improve-
ments in Federal financial management
during the past 30 years.
Every anniversary is a time to look back
and a time to look ahead. This anniver-
sary reminds us not only of progress made,
but also that improved financial manage-
ment must be a continuous effort, and one
that involves every agency
of government.
I look to the future with great confidence
as we put in place many new innovative
techniques to make better use of our re-
sources-everything from our cash to our
human resources. The objectives of the
Joint Program are clearly compatible with
and reinforce those of my Administration
to attain greater efficiency and effective-
ness in Government operations. There-
fore, I urge all of you to renew your com-
mitment to the Joint Program and to bet-
ter financial management in Government.
JIMMY CARTER
Federal Advisory Committees
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 23, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of
Section 6(c) of the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (Public Law 92-463), I
am transmitting the seventh annual re-
port on the status of Federal advisory
committees.
This report reflects further progress to-
ward accomplishing the objectives I set in
1977: to assure that unnecessary commit-
tees are terminated, and new committees
are established only when they are essen-
tial to meet the responsibilities of the
government. At the end of 1978:
-The total number of committees was
816, 59 fewer than at the beginning
of the year; and
-Since the beginning of 1977 the total
number of committees has been
reduced by 343 (from 1,159).
The White House,
March 23, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The report is entitled "Federal Ad-
visory Committees, Seventh Annual Report of
the President Covering the Calendar Year
1978 March 1979" (Government Printing
Office, 154 pages).
Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations
Appointment of Richard W. Riley as a
Member. March 23, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Richard W. Riley, Gover-
nor of the State of South Carolina, as a
member of the Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations for a 2-year
term. He replaces Reubin Askew, former
Governor of Florida.
President's Committee on
Employment of the
Handicapped
Appointment of Three Members.
March 23, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of three persons as members of
the President's Committee on Employ-
ment of the Handicapped. They are:
463
