Apr. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Emergency Weekend Gasoline
Sales Restrictions
Message to the Congress Transmitting an
Amendment to Standby Conservation Plan
No. 1. April 5, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Sections 201 (d) (1) and
552 of the Energy Policy and Conserva-
tion Act (EPCA), 42 U.S.C. 6261 (d) (1)
and 6422, I am hereby transmitting to the
Congress for its approval an amendment
to Emergency Weekend Gasoline Sales
Restrictions (Standby Conservation Plan
No. 1) which I transmitted on March 1,
1979.
The purpose of the amendment is to
expand the scope of "comparable pro-
grams" which a state may develop in order
to qualify for an exemption from the Fed-
eral plan. The amendment will further
encourage states, or political subdivisions
thereof, to develop conservation programs
which will qualify them for an exemption
from the operation of Federal energy con-
servation contingency plans should those
plans ever be put into effect. Such exemp-
tions for "comparable programs" are au-
thorized under Section 202(b) of the
ЕРСА.
The amendment reflects my belief that
states should be given the flexibility to
meet their share of any energy shortfall
prior to the adoption of nationwide meas-
ures. The amendment would expand the
size of allowable comparable state pro-
grams in two ways. First, it would elimi-
nate the requirement that any alternative
state plan be a mandatory one. If a state
is able to achieve comparable energy sav-
ings through a voluntary plan, this should
be permissible. Second, the language in
the plan requiring that state alternatives
deal with "the same subject matter" as the
Federal plan would be eliminated and a
requirement that savings be of the same
fuel would be substituted. This would
allow states to propose any alternative
approach so long as it achieved compar-
able savings of the same fuel.
The procedures for approval by Con-
gress of an amendment to a contingency
plan are detailed in Section 552 of the
EPCA, and require among other things
that a resolution of approval be passed by
each House of Congress within 60 days of
submittal of the amendment. Inasmuch as
the subject of this amendment has been
considered thoroughly by the Congress in
its deliberations on the conservation con-
tingency plans, I urge the Congress to give
this amendment expedited consideration
so that it may be approved together with
the Emergency Weekend Sales Restric-
tions plan.
The EPCA does not specify in Section
552 the form which the resolution of ap-
proval is to take. As I noted in my submis-
sion of the conservation contingency plans
on March 1, 1979, it is my view and that
of the Attorney General that actions of the
Congress purporting to have binding legal
effect must be presented to the President
for his approval under Article I, Section 7
of the Constitution. Therefore, I strongly
recommend that Congressional approval
of the amendment be in the form of a joint
resolution. If this procedure is followed,
the amendment itself, agreed to by the
Congress and the President, will not later
be subject to possible judicial invalidation
on the ground that the President did not
approve the resolution.
I urge the prompt and favorable
consideration by the Congress of this
amendment.
The White House,
April 5, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the amendment is printed in
the FEDERAL REGISTER of May 1, 1979.
608
