Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
MEETING DOMESTIC NEEDS
The United States is acutely aware of
its energy problems, its need for natural
resources, the deleterious effects of infla-
tion on all Americans, and suffering from
disease. Our future as a democratic society
depends on our ability to confront these
challenges successfully.
While science and technology alone
will not solve all our domestic problems,
they hold the key to many aspects of the
solutions. During this century, the United
States has built a system of industrial, uni-
versity, and government research labora-
tories that is unparalleled in the world.
We have the national capacity to generate
new basic knowledge, and to apply this
knowledge to a broad range of problems.
In this context I want to explain how my
Administration is marshalling science and
technology in terms of six domestic ob-
jectives:
-stimulating innovation in industry to
sustain economic growth and im-
prove productivity;
-meeting our energy, natural resource,
and food needs;
-promoting better health for all;
-improving the regulatory process;
-expanding the beneficial use of space;
and
-understanding the forces of nature,
natural disasters, and changes in-
duced by man.
STIMULATING INNOVATION IN INDUSTRY
As a Nation, we face problems of in-
flation, unemployment, foreign competi-
tion, and a decline in the growth of na-
tional productivity. Yet, traditionally we
have been an innovative society. Our eco-
nomic growth depends on an ability to
produce and market new goods. Between
30 and 40 percent of the Nation's eco-
nomic growth in the last three decades re-
sulted from technological innovation. In-
novative industries are our most produc-
tive, create more new jobs, and are the
most competitive in world markets. When
too few new industries are established, or
older ones do not develop enough new
products and more efficient operations,
the stagnation is reflected in our economy.
A lag in productivity worsens inflation.
Innovation is essential to our battle
against inflation.
More and more countries are industrial-
izing, building industries in which this
country once was preeminent. These are
countries whose competition is healthy.
We welcome their prosperity. We do not
seek to limit their growth through tariffs
and other trade barriers. Rather, we must
seek to improve our own performance
through renewed innovation in fields
where we excel-such as agriculture,
drugs, microelectronics, computers, air-
craft, space satellite systems and many
other technologies. We also need to make
our lower-technology industries more
competitive through innovation.
Americans have not lost their ability to
innovate. But there are restrictive ele-
ments at work. I began a domestic policy
review of the factors affecting industrial
innovation. This study, which will be
completed in the near future, is headed by
the Secretary of Commerce. It involves
thirty Federal agencies and many advisory
groups from private industry, labor, uni-
versities, and public interest. I expect
many practical recommendations to help
make our industries more innovative.
I also have established a Productivity
Council consisting of many of the senior
members of my Administration. The
Council is examining how science and
technology can
technology can improve Federal, State
and local government productivity, as well
as the productivity of the private sector.
531
