Feb. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
duction and sale of energy supplies in
Mexico should be made by the Mexican
people. This is not something in which
we ought to be involved. We recognize
this responsibility as being uniquely on
the shoulders of the people and the lead-
ers of Mexico.
We want to be customers, to purchase
both oil and natural gas, and we want
to be good customers. We want to pay
a fair price, and those prices will be
negotiated in good faith, with very care-
ful attention paid to the sensitivities and
the needs of the people of Mexico and to
the needs of our own country as well. I
see no reason for this to be anything
other than a very good development for
Mexico and for the people of our country
as well.
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. Mr. President, re-
garding illegal immigration, what do
you
see as the next step in facing this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. My knowledge of the
Mexican people is that they share our
commitment to the honoring of law. And
I'm sure they recognize that I, as Presi-
dent, have taken an oath to carry out
laws of our country.
What I think we ought to do is to have
a legal arrangement, new laws passed by
the Congress, that would deal effectively
with the problem of illegal immigration.
We want to be very careful that all the
20 million Mexican Americans who live
here, plus even those who have come into
our country in contravention of the law,
are treated with respect and treated
fairly.
year
I submitted to the Congress last
proposal for a new immigration law. That
legislation may be resubmitted to me for
this new Congress, but before I decide
whether to submit the law to Congress
again, or the form that the law takes, the
specifics of it, I want to consult with Presi-
dent López Portillo first, to be sure that
the advice that he might give to me and
the counsel that I might receive from him
and other Mexican leaders is fully accom-
modated in the proposal that I make to
Congress.
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. Are you satisfied
with the United States and Mexican
efforts to halt the traffic of illegal drugs
into the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. This has been one of
the most exciting and gratifying experi-
ences that I've had since I've been Presi-
dent. The cooperation there has been
superb, and there has been a drastic re-
duction in the trafficking of drugs across
the border. Also, we've helped each other
by having a much more effective control
of smuggling and other violation of
border law and customs. This permits a
great enhancement of mutual trust, also
helps to control crime and, at the same
time, promotes the benefits of legitimate
trade and commerce. So, I'm very pleased.
MR. ZABLUDOVSKY. As you know, Mr.
President, Mexican Americans are one of
the fastest growing segments of the
United States population. What are your
views of the progress as a group? What
can you say about the reports of mistreat-
ment and discrimination against them?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that in the
past, there have been very serious in-
stances of mistreatment and discrimina-
tion. We now have about 20 million
Spanish-speaking residents, citizens of our
country. They are making a great bene-
ficial impact on the life of America.
As you undoubtedly know, our whole
population is made up of immigrants
from different countries in the world,
sometimes even refugees who came here
to save their own lives, including my own
ancestors, earlier. So, we are a country
that's accustomed to receiving with an
open heart and with open arms those who
236
