Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 23
these hopes that have been described in
the agreements reached could be realized
very quickly.
MR. ANDRAWES. Mr. President, how do
you see Prime Minister Begin's recent
statements in the Knesset that Israel will
not allow a Palestinian state or will not go
back to the borders of '67? Are these use-
ful at that time?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't want to char-
acterize either the statements made by
Prime Minister Begin nor Prime Minister
Khalil, and so forth. You know, we're in
the process now of completing the first
step in a long process that will lead to a
comprehensive peace. These treaties,
which have now been concluded after
laborious negotiation, will just be a cor-
nerstone, as President Sadat and I have
said, for that comprehensive peace that
we desire.
We've specified a negotiating process.
And the differences that presently exist
between, say, Egypt and Israel on the
definition of full autonomy are substan-
tial, substantial differences. But they're
not nearly as wide as the differences that
existed before the Camp David agree-
ments.
So, you know, it's inevitable that both
nations, both negotiating parties, will ex-
press their own point of view in the strong-
est possible terms originally. But after a
while, as they get to understand one an-
other and see the mutual advantages of
agreement, I hope and expect that both
positions will be moderated to some degree
and an agreement can be reached. And
we'll add our good offices as a negotiating
partner. But I can't approve specifically
what one leader or another says at the
beginning. We'll be there to try to help
them reach agreement.
MR. ANDRAWES.. Are you prepared, Mr.
President, to invest as much time and la-
bor as you have with the Egyptian-Israeli
peace treaty on the second phase?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope that my
personal involvement would be much less
and that the negotiating teams could make
substantial progress.
MR. ANDRAWES. Do you think they can,
without your personal intervention from
time to time as you've-
THE PRESIDENT. I believe so, because
the terms of the agreement and the ulti-
mate goal of the agreement have now been
spelled out between myself, Prime Minis-
ter Begin, and President Sadat. And this
gives kind of a framework or a guideline
for the negotiators in the future. We didn't
have any such document, we didn't have
any agreements to start with less than a
year ago when we went to Camp David.
And I think the results of what we've done
now will make it much easier in the future
for subordinates to negotiate than has
been the case in the past.
MR. ANDRAWES. Are the talks going to
be in Washington?
THE PRESIDENT. I would presume that
the talks would be in the Middle East.
I hope that 3 months from now, that
Egypt will be the sovereign power over
El Arish and will have control of this
region. And it could be that that beauti-
ful seacoast town, as a part of Egypt, with
no Israeli occupying forces, somewhere
like that might be a good place to nego-
tiate.
I never had a chance to visit El Arish
or Mount Sinai and so forth, but I've told
President Sadat that when it's under
Egyptian control, I'd like to come back
sometime.
MR. ANDRAWES. Very good. Mr. Presi-
dent, you visited Egypt and you've seen
the Egyptian people.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. ANDRAWES. What impression did
you leave with?
457
