June 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
HARRY L. RIETZE, of Juneau, Alaska, Regional
Director for the Alaska Region of the Na-
tional Marine Fisheries Service.
Federal Pay System Reform
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. June 6, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting to the Congress today
legislation to reform the Federal civilian
employee compensation system. The pro-
posals I am making will insure that Fed-
eral employees are rewarded fairly for
their work and that taxpayers' dollars for
such compensation are well spent. This
legislation is part of my continuing efforts
to make the operation of the Federal
government more efficient, effective and
equitable.
The Federal pay system has been
governed under the principle of compar-
ability since 1962. The comparability prin-
ciple requires that annual Federal em-
ployee pay increases be based upon a sur-
vey comparison with pay levels of em-
ployees with similar jobs in the non-
Federal sector. By determining pay raises
through an objective, annual survey, the
pay setting process is depoliticized, em-
ployee expectations are stabilized, and the
government is better able to plan the tim-
ing and approximate size of pay adjust-
ments. This comparability principle is
equitable to Federal employees and tax-
payers alike.
Despite the soundness of the principle
of comparability, significant problems
have developed in the way the compara-
bility principle is implemented. The exist-
ing comparability system, by excluding
consideration of such factors as employee
fringe benefits, has distorted the compari-
sons between the Federal and non-Federal
sectors. In addition, other structural and
procedural problems have developed with
parts of our Federal employee compensa-
tion system. The blue-collar pay system,
for example, has statutory requirements
that result in unjustified salary levels for
these workers.
The Federal Employees Compensation
Reform Act of 1979 will remedy these
problems. Its objectives are to:
-insure that Federal employees are
paid fairly;
-make the comparability system more
accurate;
-improve management flexibility in
the compensation area so that needed
employees can be better recruited
and retained;
-make sure that taxpayers' money for
Federal employee compensation is
efficiently spent; and,
-eventually reduce the annual budg-
etary cost of the Federal payroll.
TOTAL COMPENSATION COMPARABILITY
At present, comparability between the
the Federal and non-Federal sectors is
measured only in terms of pay rates. How-
ever, a large part of compensation for both
Federal and non-Federal employees con-
sists of benefits aside from pay such as re-
tirement and health plans. If we are to
have a truly comparable Federal employee
compensation system, such fringe benefits
cannot be ignored. Under my proposal the
value of benefits plus pay in the non-
Federal sector would be compared with
benefits plus pay in the Federal sector.
This concept, known as total compensa-
tion comparability, would allow for a real-
istic assessment of whether the total com-
pensation of Federal employees is ahead,
comparable with, or behind that of their
non-Federal counterparts.
1002
