Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
paycheck in a bank account; automatic
payment of a mortgage installment; cash
dispensing machines; and so on. EFT
terminals have the potential to supplant
cash, checks and credit cards in a broad
range of consumer transactions, from su-
permarket purchases to auto rentals. Such
systems are efficient, but they pose major
privacy problems. Not only do they con-
tain extensive personal data on individ-
uals, but they can be used to keep track
of people's movements and activities. This
legislation will erect safeguards against
misuse of these systems while allowing
flexibility for commercial and technolog-
ical innovation.
RESEARCH RECORDS
Federally-supported research collection
is vital for improved medical care, for
cost-effective regulations, for economic
analysis, and for many other purposes. In
most cases, the information collected for
these purposes is submitted voluntarily,
is quite personal, and is collected on an
express or implied pledge of confidential-
ity. That pledge is often essential to ob-
tain individuals' cooperation in providing
the information and ensuring its accuracy
and completeness. However, in most cases
there is no legal basis at present to guar-
antee the promise of confidentiality.
The "Privacy of Research Records Act"
is being submitted today. This bill will
ensure that personal information collected
or maintained for a research purpose may
not be used or disclosed in individually
identifiable form for an action that ad-
versely affects the individual.
We are also developing separate legis-
lation to reduce the amount of informa-
tion government collects in the first place
through improved oversight and through
carefully controlled sharing arrange-
ments.
OTHER RECORD SYSTEMS
The Privacy Commission recommended
against Federal legislation on employment
records and proposed instead that em-
ployers be asked to establish voluntary
policies to protect their employees' pri-
vacy. I agree.
Many employers are already adopting
the standards established by the Commis-
sion. Business groups, including the Busi-
ness Roundtable, the Chamber of Com-
merce, and the National Association of
Manufacturers, are encouraging such vol-
untary action. I urge other employers to
take similar action, and I have instructed
the Secretary of Labor to work with em-
ployer and employee groups in the imple-
mentation of these standards.
The Commission did urge one piece of
legislation in the employment area-
limits on the use of lie detectors in private
employment. Such legislation already has
been introduced in this Congress, and I
urge you to proceed favorably with it.
I also urge commercial credit grantors
and reporting services to adopt voluntary
fair information standards, to avoid any
need for Federal legislation in this area.
It is critical that the privacy of those
who receive public assistance and social
services be adequately protected. I call
upon the states to move forward with leg-
islation to provide such protections, con-
sistent with the Privacy Commission's
recommendations and the need to prevent
fraud in these programs. I have instructed
the Secretary of Health, Education and
Welfare to develop minimum privacy
standards for these Federally funded pro-
grams.
I also urge the states to act on other
state and local record systems, particularly
those of criminal justice agencies.
584
