Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 30
Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise for an 8-
year term.
Mishkin, 52, of Oakland, Calif., is the
Emanuel S. Heller professor of constitu-
tional law at the University of California
at Berkeley. He is a member of the Su-
preme Court Historical Society.
The Committee was established by Pub-
lic Law 84-246, of August 5, 1955, to
administer the fund bequeathed to the
Treasury by Justice Holmes. The fund is
to be used for the preparation of a history
of the Supreme Court by distinguished
scholars and financing annual Oliver
Wendell Holmes Lectures.
Father's Day, 1979
Proclamation 4659. April 30, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
We live in a time of transition for the
American family, but the strength and
stability of a healthy, loving family life
continues to remain the bedrock on which
our society is organized.
The evolving roles of men and women
in our society have posed new challenges
and opened new opportunities, for fath-
ers as well as mothers. To the degree that
mothers are assuming a more active role
in the nation's workforce, fathers are be-
ing asked to play an even greater role in
the upbringing of their children. At the
same time, they continue to carry out
their traditional duties of helping to sup-
port their families financially, emotion-
ally and spiritually.
Traditionally, our nation each year sets
aside Father's Day as a special time to
honor America's fathers.
The character of each of us has been
molded and shaped in part by our own
fathers. Father's Day is a time for all of us
to reflect on the sacrifices our fathers have
made on our behalf. It also is a time for
fathers to receive that most precious gift,
the love and gratitude of those they have
nurtured and protected for so many years.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby request that Sunday, June
17, 1979, be observed as Father's Day. I
direct Government officials to display the
flag of the United States on all Govern-
ment buildings on this day and I urge all
citizens to display the flag at their homes
and other suitable places.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord, nineteen
hundred and seventy-nine, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of
America the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:30 p.m., April 30, 1979]
THE PRESIDENT'S
NEWS CONFERENCE OF
APRIL 30, 1979
ENERGY CONSERVATION
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body. I have a brief opening statement
concerning one of our most important
domestic issues, and that is energy.
Last month, I sent to the Congress, as
requested by the Congress, a standby
gasoline rationing plan. This plan would
give us the opportunity to anticipate and
to plan for possible gasoline shortages in
the future. Without the plan, it would
take us 6 or 7 months to prepare such a
plan if we were faced with a severe short-
747
