Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 10
nization, or those of you who volunteer
to help with it, exact details to the limit
of your desire.
Rejection of this treaty, now that it
has been negotiated, would be a devastat-
ing blow to the United States of America
and to the Soviet Union. It would harm
our Nation's security, and it would be a
massive destructive blow to world peace.
I won't go into any further detail, but
I would like to say this: Ours is a nation
that believes in peace. Ours is a nation
that values human life. Ours is a nation
that has taken the leadership, since the
evolution of nuclear power itself, to put
constraints on the evolution of nuclear
weaponry, not only in our own country
and the Soviet Union but among other
nations who are not presently nuclear
powers.
We are struggling to have the image in
the nonaligned countries of a nation
that's admirable and which has, as our
present policy, the implementation of
principles and ideals on which our coun-
try was founded in its initial days.
All of those efforts, which have been
shared not only by me but by every
President since President Eisenhower,
would be endangered if we now reject
this treaty. We would be looked upon as
a warmonger, not as a peaceloving nation
by many other people of the world. Our
own NATO Allies would be severely
shaken in their confidence in us as a na-
tion determined to have détente with the
Soviet Union and not to initiate a nuclear
conflict whose effect might first fall on
Europe and only later, perhaps, cause
death and destruction in our own coun-
try.
We've been working-I have person-
ally been working among 10 or 12 nations
who have complete capability to develop
nuclear weapons, but who have so far
refrained. We have aired our voice and
added our influence to continue their re-
fraining from going into the development
of nuclear weapons.
If we show now that we reject this mu-
tually advantageous voluntary constraint
on our own nuclear weaponry and initi-
ate the prospect of a massive nuclear arms
race, those countries-like Pakistan, In-
dia, Taiwan, South Korea, South Africa,
and others that I won't name here-
would feel that there was no longer any
constraint on them-"Why should we lis-
ten to the voice of the United States en-
couraging us not to develop nuclear
weapons when they themselves will not
approve a treaty designed for the same
purpose?"--still leaving the nation with
massive and superior
massive and superior nuclear weapons
ourselves.
In our own hemisphere, we've been
working to have the complete ratification
of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which leaves
the southern half of this hemisphere free
of nuclear weapon development or de-
ployment.
We are now down to the last two or
three countries. We've been working very
closely with Argentina and Brazil, two
countries who have the capability, scien-
tifically and technologically, to have nu-
clear explosives, and we are trying to set
an example for them. But this example
would be wiped out completely if we did
not ratify the now negotiated SALT
treaty.
I'd like to ask you to take this on as a
project for yourselves, collectively and in-
dividually, to help me sell to the American
people and directly to the U.S. Senate the
advantages of ratification and the devas-
tating disadvantage if the treaties are
rejected.
The treaty's complicated; some Sena-
tors will study every word in it, as have I.
Some will listen primarily to the voice of
America, as represented by you and those
835
