Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 17
dolph was one of those giants. His leader-
ship in the trade union and civil rights
movements has left an indelible mark on
almost every area of our national life. A.
Philip Randolph helped sweep away
longstanding barriers of discrimination
and segregation in industry and labor
unions, in our schools and armed services,
in politics and
government.
For each new generation of civil rights
leaders, he was an inspiration and an ex-
ample. His dignity and integrity, his elo-
quence, his devotion to nonviolence, and
his unshakable commitment to justice all
helped shape the ideals and spirit of the
civil rights movement.
His voice and inspiration will long be
missed, but America will always be a more
just, more humane, and more decent na-
tion because A. Philip Randolph lived
among us.
25th Anniversary of
Brown v. Board of Education
Remarks at a White House Observance of the
Supreme Court Decision. May 17, 1979
I did not want to discriminate against
Andy Young by interrupting his com-
ments. [Laughter]
Although we meet today to remember
a great civil rights victory, this is also a
time of loss for the civil rights movement,
because, as you know, A. Philip Randolph
is no longer with us.
At a time when America was a com-
pletely segregated society, when there was
hardly any civil rights movement that
could be detected, Philip Randolph was
a voice for justice and equal rights for all
Americans.
His impact has been profound and far-
reaching. It's staggering to think that one
man could have done so much to trans-
form our Nation. I'm certain that there's
no one in this room-certainly including
the President-whose life has not been
profoundly influenced by Philip Ran-
dolph's example.
His accomplishments are known to all
of you. He organized the first black trade
union in 1925. He organized and led the
first march on Washington in 1941. He
was probably the most instrumental fig-
ure during the Second World War in
opening up industries, when our Nation
was fighting for freedom, to give employ-
ment to black people.
But what he gave us most of all was
the power
of his example, his great per-
sonal dignity, his absolute integrity, his
eloquence, his unshakable commitment to
justice and equal rights, combined with a
remarkable gentleness and humanity and
commitment to nonviolence. His values
and his ideals have been the guiding spirit
of the modern civil rights movement. And
even the equally famous leaders who have
lived, I'm sure, would agree with that
statement.
A. Philip Randolph is no longer with
us, but his vision and his example, his
inspiration still guides all of us today. Be-
fore I begin my own remarks, I would
like for us to observe just a moment of
silence in his memory.
Thank you very
you very much.
I come today to meet with this distin-
guished group, with a sense of family, a
sense of binding ourselves together as a
family should, in times of celebration, in
times of challenge, in times of achieve-
ment, in times of disappointment.
Twenty-five years ago, the legal basis
for segregation was struck down in this
Republic by the Supreme Court in Brown
v. Board of Education. This was the most
important of all civil rights cases, and
there have been many important ones.
883
