Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
tral mechanism to enforce compliance
with our equal opportunity laws.
As we have done in recent cases before
the Supreme Court, my Administration
will continue to strongly support affirma-
tive action programs to help bring minori-
ties into the mainstream of American life,
while opposing rigid and inflexible quotas
which have no place in our laws.
Beyond existing laws, however, as I
state elsewhere in this Message, we need
to ratify two Amendments to the Con-
stitution which will significantly clarify
and enhance the liberties and rights of
Americans: The Equal Rights Amend-
ment and the District of Columbia Vot-
ing Rights Amendment.
The Equal Rights Amendment will pro-
vide women with equal legal status in our
country. We cannot effectively champion
human rights throughout the world until
we have given to women the full rights
they are entitled to as citizens.
We must also work to ratify the amend-
ment that will finally give the citizens of
the District of Columbia the rights other
Americans have to elect voting represen-
tation in Congress.
In addition, we need to correct a weak-
ness in an existing civil rights law. Title
VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968,
which prohibits discrimination in housing,
remains largely an empty promise because
of the lack of an adequate enforcement
mechanism.
I will soon propose to the Congress that
this problem be alleviated by providing
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development with cease and desist
powers. That Department, which now in-
vestigates and makes findings upon in-
dividual complaints, would then be able
to enjoin further discriminatory acts and
to direct an appropriate remedy. My
Administration will work with the Con-
gress to see that this proposal is given
prompt and favorable consideration.
Women
One of the overriding concerns of my
Administration is ensuring equal oppor-
tunity for women. Last
tunity for women. Last year we worked
closely with the Congress to extend the
deadline for ratification of the Equal
Rights Amendment until June 30, 1982.
That extension will provide a greater op-
portunity to ensure ratification of this
long-overdue Amendment. I will continue
to dedicate myself, as well as the full re-
sources of my Administration, to the rati-
fication effort.
This is not a battle that we can afford
to lose. I am determined to win. The op-
position to the Amendment cannot be
solidly based on an understanding of its
legal effect. The Amendment will do noth-
ing more-nor less-than provide equal-
ity to more than one-half of America's
population. I am confident that with the
active support of the members of Congress
from States which have not yet ratified,
we can achieve ratification of ERA. I urge
you to join the effort to provide women,
at long last, with equal rights under the
law.
My Administration has championed,
and will continue to champion, the right
of women to choose their roles in society.
To protect those who have chosen the role
of full-time homemaker:
• We have succeeded in enacting leg-
islation that provides assistance for dis-
placed homemakers and we supported the
legislation that has now reduced from 20
to 10 years the marriage requirement for
a former wife to claim against her hus-
band's social security entitlement.
We are facilitating the choice of many
women to combine family and work re-
sponsibilities. To accomplish this goal:
143
