Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 26
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
April 26, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the defer-
rals are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
May 1, 1979.
Windfall Profits Tax and
Energy Security Trust Fund
Message to the Congress. April 26, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
On April 5, I announced the phased de-
control of oil prices beginning on June 1
of this year, and ending with the expira-
tion of price control authority on October
1, 1981. The decontrol program I have
established will increase domestic oil pro-
duction, encourage conservation of exist-
ing energy supplies, and make it possible
to accelerate development of alternative
energy supplies and thereby lessen our
dangerously heavy reliance on imported
foreign oil.
To prevent unearned, excessive profits
which the oil companies would receive as
a result of decontrol and possible future
OPEC price increases, I proposed a wind-
fall profits tax. I further proposed that the
revenues generated by that tax be used to
establish an Energy Security Trust Fund
which will have three major purposes:
• to provide assistance to low-income
households who can least afford energy
price increases;
• to increase funding for mass transit;
and
• to undertake a major program of new
energy initiatives and investments which
will permit us to develop critically needed
alternatives to imported oil.
This Message sets out the detailed spec-
ifications of the windfall profits tax and
the Energy Security Trust Fund. I look
forward to working closely with you to act
on this proposal as quickly as possible.
THE WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
SUMMARY OF THE WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
Under the Energy Policy and Conserva-
tion Act of 1975 (EPCA), which amends
the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act
(EPAA), all authority to control the price
of domestically-produced crude oil expires
on September 30, 1981. However, as of
June 1, 1979, the amount by which oil
prices may increase becomes discretionary
with the President.
The Department of Energy has been di-
rected to undertake administrative actions
designed to phase out controls on all do-
mestic crude oil by September 30, 1981.
Department of Energy regulations imple-
menting some of these changes were pub-
lished in the FEDERAL REGISTER on
April 12, 1979 (44 FR 22012). The
phased decontrol program will begin as of
June 1, 1979 and will extend through Sep-
tember 30, 1981.
In order to prevent oil producers from
reaping excessive profits from decontrol a
windfall profits tax is proposed. This tax
would apply to windfall revenues from
sales of lower and upper tier oil which are
attributable to decontrol and to revenues
from the sales of domestic crude oil which
are attributable to any future OPEC price
increases in excess of adjustments for
inflation.
The gradual deregulation of domestic
oil prices will bring the price of oil to
world oil price levels, with the following
benefits: First, it will eliminate the cur-
rent subsidy provided to imported oil,
which has increased consumption and de-
721
