Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 10
able diplomats, fully attuned to Egypt's
national interests and continually mind-
ful of Egypt's responsibilities to the rest
of the Arab world.
Last September, the course of neogtia-
tions took the President of Egypt and the
Prime Minister of Israel to Camp David,
in the wooded mountains near the Capi-
tal of the United States of America.
Out of our discussion there came two
agreements: A framework within which
peace between Israel and all her neigh-
bors might be achieved, and the legiti-
mate rights of the Palestinian people real-
ized-and also an outline for a peace
treaty between Egypt and Israel, in the
context of a comprehensive peace for the
Middle East.
Those agreements were rooted in
United Nations Security Council Reso-
lution 242, which established the basic
equation between an Arab commitment
to peace and Israeli withdrawal in the
context of security. The treaty which is
now being negotiated between Egypt and
Israel reflects those principles.
Since the two agreements were signed,
we have been working to bring both of
them to fruition. The United States has
served as a mediator, working to solve
problems—not to press either party to
accept provisions that are inconsistent
with its basic interests.
In these negotiations, a crucial ques-
tion has involved the relationship between
an Egyptian-Israeli treaty and the
broader peace envisioned and committed
at Camp David. I believe that this body
and the people of Egypt deserve to know
my thinking on this subject.
When two nations conclude a treaty
with one another, they have every right to
expect that the terms of that treaty will
be carried out faithfully and steadfastly.
At the same time, there can be little
doubt that the two agreements reached at
Camp David-negotiated together and
signed together—are related, and that a
comprehensive peace remains a common
objective.
Just in recent days, both Prime Minis-
ter Begin in Washington and President
Sadat here in Egypt have again pledged
to carry out every commitment made at
Camp David.
Both leaders have reaffirmed that they
do not want a separate peace between
their two nations. Therefore, our current
efforts to complete the treaty negotiations
represent not the end of a process, but
the beginning of one, for a treaty be-
tween Egypt and Israel is an indispensable
part of a comprehensive peace.
I pledge to you today that I also remain
personally committed to move on to nego-
tiations concerning the West Bank and
the Gaza Strip and other issues of concern
to the Palestinians and also to future
negotiations between Israel and all her
neighbors. I feel a personal obligation in
this regard.
Only the path of negotiation and ac-
commodation can lead to the fulfillment
of the hopes of the Palestinian people for
peaceful self-expression. The negotiations
proposed in the Camp David agreements
will provide them with an opportunity to
participate in the determination of their
own future. We urge representative Pales-
tinians to take part in these negotiations.
We are ready to work with any who
are willing to talk peace. Those who at-
tack these efforts are opposing the only
realistic prospect that can bring real peace
to the Middle East.
Let no one be deceived. The effect of
their warlike slogans and their rhetoric
is to make them in reality advocates of
the status quo, not change; advocates of
war, not peace; advocates of further suf-
fering, not of achieving the human dignity
413
