Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
friendship and cooperation to foreign na-
tions, but it also gives you an opportunity
and a renewed responsibility to deal with
foreign affairs as such.
Obviously, you can't negotiate for our
Nation, you can't take the place of a Presi-
dent's constitutional responsibilities, but I
thought tonight, in about 5 minutes,
would like to outline for you some of the
foreign affairs considerations that affect
me as a President. And I thought I'd go
back to my early notes when I first was
elected President. And the 10 goals that
I set for myself then are still kind of guid-
ing lights for me in these deliberations.
Obviously, this is an oversimplistic ver-
sion, but I thought, following that, I would
take about 10 minutes more time-and
I'll time us so we won't go over-to
answer a few questions that you might
have on foreign policy. This has never
been done before at a Governors confer-
ence, and I thought it might be a little bit
different, since your own concepts and
your own responsibilities and interests
have been expanded in that direction.
The first thing that I wanted to do, of
course, was to maintain the strength of
our own Nation around the world, and
particularly to align toward mutual con-
cepts our European allies and Japan.
We've had a very good evolutionary
process going on now, which is still con-
tinuing, and I think the basic Western
democracies, including Japan in that
stretched definition, is kind of core of the
sense of democracy, commitment, free-
dom, idealism, and a beneficent influence
that needs to be both strengthened and
expanded.
We have a very good, personal friend-
ship extant among those of us who are
responsible for leadership in those coun-
tries, and I think that's one of the ele-
ments of our foreign policy that has, in
the past, sometimes been overlooked.
The second thing, obviously, that is
important for us is to deal with changing
times. We can't control change. We don't
want to prevent change. But we have to
understand it and accommodate it and
try to use it in an evolutionary way toward
the goals and the ideals, the aspirations,
the principles of our own country.
We also have to identify newly emerg-
ing leaders and try to make sure that our
own relationships with them in key parts
of the world are sound and strong and
that there's a mutual benefit to be derived.
Countries like Indonesia or Brazil or
Venezuela, Nigeria, or India, obviously,
are strong, vibrant nations, some of them
very firmly committed to democracy. In
the past, many of those have not been
friends of ours at all, and we've tried to
change that circumstance. And we've de-
liberately visited those countries either I
or the Secretary of State or Vice President
Mondale or my wife, Rosalynn-to try to
get firm relationships built with those
newly emerging regional leaders.
Four or 5 years ago, for instance, when
the Secretary of State wanted to visit
Nigeria, he was not permitted to come
into the country. Now Nigeria, which is
the strongest, most vigorous, most popu-
lous, wealthiest black nation in Africa, is
one of our soundest and most valued
friends.
Another thing that we tried to do in
this first few months is to strengthen our
ties and our understanding with the de-
veloping nations of the world. There are
people who have an average per capita
income of only $90 or $95 or $100 a year.
And the burgeoning sense of realization
and aspirations on their part is and can
be an overwhelming worldwide trend. Just
in the last-in our generation, we've had
a hundred new nations formed. And they
go through a traumatic experience when
355
