Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
economic climate in which the wage and
price standards have good prospects for
success. The labor force will continue to
expand strongly and most new workers
will find jobs.
Further progress in reducing inflation
can be expected in 1980 as the effects of
the anti-inflation program begin to cu-
mulate. Moderate growth in the year
ahead, combined with substantial prog-
ress against inflation, will lay the basis
for an enduring prosperity.
In the years beyond 1980, as we are
successful in containing the growth in
Federal spending and bringing down the
rate of inflation, we can look toward re-
ductions in Federal taxes. Rising real in-
come and inflation, even at a reduced
pace, push taxpayers into higher tax
brackets and thereby raise the average
effective tax rate. Both to sustain eco-
nomic growth and to relieve citizens from
unwarranted tax burdens, tax reductions
will, from time to time, be highly desirable.
It would be unwise-and, indeed, very
dangerous to commit ourselves now to
any mechanical formula for future re-
ductions. No such formula will pass the
test of budgetary responsibility. Our
knowledge of future economic conditions
and developments affecting the rate of in-
flation is too limited to make such deci-
sions at this time. There is simply no sub-
stitute for the difficult process of match-
ing our overall budgetary policies year by
year to the economic requirements of the
Nation.
POLICIES TO MEET THE NATION'S NEEDS
In a period when the overall growth of
budgetary resources must be tightly re-
strained, budget decisions take on special
importance. Some real growth in our de-
fense budget is essential to meet our na-
tional security needs and keep our inter-
national commitments in the face of the
growing military strength of our potential
adversaries.
Within the domestic budget I have
given special priority to the needs of the
poor and the disadvantaged. I have
recommended substantial funding for
programs that address their needs for as-
sistance in health care, education, em-
ployment and training, and basic subsist-
ence. The 1980 budget directs the re-
sources of those programs more carefully
toward those most in need. Similarly I
have sought to maintain and, in some
cases, expand the assistance provided to
our financially troubled cities and coun-
ties. I have paid particular attention to
the need to move ahead with the develop-
ment of alternative energy sources, in-
cluding solar energy, and to spur basic
research and development, which has been
lagging in our country.
We cannot be satisfied with the condi-
tion of our economy while many of our
disadvantaged citizens, especially among
minorities, are unable to find work even
in periods of prosperity. In 1978, the Con-
gress enacted with my support the Full
Employment and Balanced Growth Act.
That act restates and amplifies the respon-
sibilities of economic policy that have
faced our Nation in recent decades. The
act challenges us to provide the fullest
possible opportunities for useful employ-
ment, to rely on the private sector as the
principal provider of jobs, and to create
an environment of price stability that will
make it possible to sustain prosperity.
These are very ambitious goals that chal-
lenge us as a Nation to set our sights high.
The act also establishes important new
procedures for moving toward the realiza-
tion of full employment and price
stability.
Neither can we rest while large num-
bers of Americans still live in poverty.
116
