Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 11, 1979
Des Moines, Iowa
Remarks to the Iowa State Association of
Counties. May 4, 1979
President Al Ohrt; distinguished members
of the Iowa State Association of Counties;
my friend Lynn Cutler, who brings to the
deliberations of our National Government
a constant, forceful, experienced, and
effective voice for Iowa. No matter what
the subject may be-taxation, welfare,
agriculture, education, local develop-
ment-Lynn Cutler has been one of the
very few, but leading county officials who
has been involved in every decision made
which impacts on municipal and county
government. You are fortunate to have
her and so am I. Congressman Smith, a
strong, forceful voice for this district and
for the State; Tom Harkin, an outstand-
ing man who has his feet firmly planted in
the soil of Iowa, but whose effective and
practical representation of American
ideals has given him a nationwide reputa-
tion; and Ambassador Dick Clark, who is
one of the finest men I have ever known;
guests, friends:
I'm very glad to be back here in Iowa.
My political life began in county govern-
ment. And I and my father before me, my
father's only brother have all served for
many years in local county government. I
feel a kinship with you.
There are many difficulties involved in
public administration, particularly in
these last few years. Sometimes the con-
troversial issues are such that there's no
way to win, no matter how hard you try.
When food prices go up, the city dwellers
are raising Cain; if food prices go down,
the farmers are extremely unhappy.
Sometimes I don't know whether it's
harder for a President to try to establish
peace in the Middle East or peace in the
Middle West. [Laughter]
But I think there is an interesting, I
think encouraging sign that among the
farm families of this State, the Secretary
of Agriculture is more popular than the
President. [Laughter] So this, I think,
bodes well for the status of the Iowa farm
family and for those you represent in the
cities as well.
Today I want to discuss two very im-
portant and major issues from a perspec-
tive which I think would suit you. There's
no doubt that Americans are afraid that
we're going to wind up with worthless
money and no gas. And as these fears
grow, based on daily headlines and based
on daily experiences, so do the demands
grow for some quick, simple, and painless
789
