Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 12
in paying for welfare, in addition to the
countercyclical and other aid we've allo-
cated already to local governments.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
U.S. RELATIONS WITH IRAN
Q. Mr. President, do you think that this
Government should have been better pre-
pared for the takeover by the Khomeini
forces in Iran? And, also, in retrospect,
do you think it was a mistake for you to
embrace the Bakhtiar government as you
did?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, obviously, had
we had an exact prediction of what was
going to happen. It's not the policy of our
Government to go into the internal affairs
of another people or country and try to
determine who should be their leaders.
This is contrary to the philosophy of our
people. I think we've tried it once in the
past in Vietnam and failed abominably.
I think no one in this country of any re-
sponsibility wants to do that to a coun-
try, including Iran.
We have worked with the existing gov-
ernment. We worked closely with the
Shah when he was in his office. We have
worked with Bakhtiar, who was chosen,
as you know, by the Iranian Parliament
in accordance with constitutional provi-
sions. Now Mr. Bakhtiar has resigned, and
Mr. Bazargan is their Prime Minister. And
the Majles, the parliament, has also re-
signed.
We will attempt to work closely with
the existing government. But we have
never tried to decide or to determine for
the Iranian people or any other people
on Earth who their leaders ought to be
or what form of government they should
have since I've been in office.
Q. But why did we have to make any
statements of support for the Bakhtiar
government? Why couldn't we just say
nothing?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have state-
ments of support and recognition for 150
nations on Earth. When we establish re-
lationships with a government or a peo-
ple, this is part of the diplomatic process.
And when the governments change, quite
often without delay, sometimes with a few
days delay until the situation is clarified,
we very quickly establish relations with
the new government. But this is something
that's historically been the case, and it's
what we have pursued in Iran and what
we will pursue in the future.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, when Vice Premier
Deng of China was in the United States,
he made a number of anti-Soviet state-
ments. In particular, on several occasions
he said that the Soviets are seeking world
domination. I wonder if you agree with
that statement, and if you don't, I wonder
what is your view of the Soviets' global
intentions?
THE PRESIDENT. I have never tried to
exercise censorship on a head of state or
major official who came to our country. I
didn't try to tell Mr. Deng what to say
when he had press conferences. I didn't
try to tell him what to say when he was
meeting with the Members of Congress.
I did not try to write his banquet toasts
for him. And I think it's accurate to say
that Mr. Deng's statements in our country
are certainly no more noteworthy than
the statements that he's made within his
own country and that he's made in other
nations. The position and attitude of the
Chinese towards the Soviet Union have
been very apparent to all of us for many
years.
We have some areas where we disagree
with the assessment of the Soviet Union
259
