Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 15
to contractors, local governments, and
others, on building regulations and
techniques.
National Council on the Arts
Nomination of Six Members.
January 15, 1979
The President today announced six
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Council on the
Arts. They are:
NORMAN B. CHAMP, JR., a St. Louis, Mo., busi-
nessman, a trustee of the St. Louis Art Mu-
seum, and a member of the Commission for
the Preservation of the White House;
MARTIN FRIEDMAN, of Minneapolis, director of
the Walker Art Center;
BERNARD B. LÓPEZ, executive director of the
New Mexico Arts Commission in Sante Fe,
past chairman of the Western States Arts
Foundation;
ROBERT L. SHAW, music director and conduc-
tor of the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra;
JESSIE A. WOODS, executive director of Urban
Gateways in Chicago and a member of the
executive committee of the Chicago Council
on Fine Arts and the community arts coun-
cils panel of the Illinois Arts Council;
ROSALIND W. WYMAN, of Los Angeles, execu-
tive chairperson of the Producers Guild of
America.
Institute of American Indian Arts in
Santa Fe. He has also served as Acting
Director of Education Programs for the
Bureau of Indian Affairs. He is the au-
thor of numerous articles.
National Commission on
Social Security
Nomination of Elizabeth Duskin To Be a
Member. January 15, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Elizabeth Duskin, of
Chevy Chase, Md., to be a member of
the National Commission on Social
Security.
Duskin, 43, is director of research for
the National Council of Senior Citizens.
She has also served as an economic con-
sultant to the Federal Council on Aging,
where she prepared congressionally man-
dated studies. Her professional back-
ground has emphasized programs and pol-
icies affecting U.S. income distribution,
particularly social and private insurance
policies, income-conditioned programs,
and health-related financing mechanisms.
National Council on the
Humanities
Nomination of Dave Warren To Be a
Member. January 15, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Dave Warren, of Santa
Fe, N. Mex., to be a member of the Na-
tional Council on the Humanities.
Nominations to
Government Positions
Announcement of 45 Nominations To Be
Submitted to the Senate. January 15, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate the following persons
for positions for which they received
recess appointments during the last
recess :
GEORGE M. SEIGNIOUS II to be Director of the
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency;
Warren, 46, is Director of the Division
of Research and Cultural Studies Devel- JOHN W. MCGARRY to be a member of the
opment of the Bureau of Indian Affairs'
Federal Election Commission;
45
