Apr. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
pendence on foreign supplies. Second, it
will encourage producers of oil to seek out
additional supplies and to continue pro-
duction from marginally economic opera-
tions. Third, decontrol will phase out the
complex system of controls which pres-
ently produces inequities and ineffi-
ciencies. Fourth, through replacement cost
pricing, new sources of energy will come
into commercial use, further reducing
U.S. dependence on foreign oil. Fifth, it
will strengthen the stability of the dollar
and reduce balance of payment flows, both
directly through reduced oil payments
abroad and indirectly through confidence
that the U.S. is attacking its energy
problem.
However, deregulation of domestic oil
prices will also provide enormous windfall
gains for domestic producers of oil. These
windfall gains will be generated by two
aspects of deregulation: First, there are
those gains which will result from the lift-
ing of price controls on lower and upper
tier oil. Producers of lower tier oil (con-
trolled at an average price of $5.75 per
barrel in January of 1979) will be able to
sell increasing volumes of their oil at upper
tier prices (controlled at an average price
of $12.66 per barrel in January of 1979).
At the same time, the controlled price of
upper tier oil will be allowed to rise grad-
ually to the world price.
Second, there are those gains that may
result from the future actions of the
OPEC cartel.
It is estimated that deregulation will in-
crease domestic oil producer income be-
fore tax by $1.0 billion in 1979, $5.0 billion
in 1980 and $9.3 billion in 1981. In order
to capture the windfall portion of these
increased revenues, a windfall profits tax
of 50 percent is proposed. The proceeds of
the tax and of increased income tax reve-
nues attributable to higher producer prof-
its during the deregulation period will be
allocated to an Energy Security Trust
Fund, described later in this Message.
The tax is designed to reduce to the
greatest possible extent the complexity
and excessive regulation associated with
the existing price control mechanism. The
entitlements program will be phased out.
For purposes of administering the tax it
will no longer be necessary to police the
price at which oil and oil products are
sold. The records that are to be kept will,
in large part, be the same records that tax-
payers are required to retain for income
tax purposes. Finally, because the volume
of oil at the lower tier and the upper tier
base price will both phase out, only a sim-
ple tax will remain in place permanently.
THE DECONTROL SCHEDULE
The phased decontrol schedule is as
follows:
• As of June 1, 1979, newly discovered
oil will be permitted to receive the world
market price.
• The Department of Energy has pro-
mulgated a rule under which, as of June
1, 1979, a substantial percentage of pro-
duction from marginal properties may be
sold at the upper tier price. The base pro-
duction control level against which cur-
rent production volumes are measured to
determine upper tier volumes each month
for marginal properties are set at 20 per-
cent of the average monthly production
and sale of lower tier crude oil from mar-
ginal properties. Marginal properties are
those properties which produced below a
certain volume of oil per well per day
depending upon the average completion
depth of all crude oil producing wells on
such properties. The schedule of average
well depths and average daily production
volumes used to determine a marginal
property are:
722
