Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 29
want to express my thanks again, for
willingness to come.
your
Have you already met with Brzezinski
this morning?
EDITORS. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. I think this afternoon
you'll be meeting with Bob Pastor, who is
our specialist in the White House on
Latin American affairs, and you can pur-
sue additional questions with him that I
was not able to answer because of the
press of time. But I appreciate it very
much. I understand you'll be attending
the press conference this afternoon as
well. That's good.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The interview began at 11 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Walter W.
Wurfel is a Deputy Press Secretary.
The transcript of the interview was released
on January 27.
Nelson A. Rockefeller
Statement on the Death of the Former Vice
President. January 27, 1979
Today the Nation mourns one of its
most distinguished public men, Nelson
Rockefeller. Rosalynn and I extend our
deepest sympathy to Mrs. Rockefeller and
his family.
Nelson Rockefeller was born to privi-
lege and accepted his privilege as an ob-
ligation to serve his State and Nation.
He sought the highest service, but will-
ingly and ably performed whatever tasks
were asked of him by his country. He was
a strong and popular Governor. He served
unstintingly under many Presidents of
both parties whenever there was a special
task to be done.
At a time when our people's trust in
their Government had been deeply shak-
en, he accepted appointment to the Vice
Presidency, helping to reassure the Nation
with his own integrity and vigorous
optimism.
But Nelson Rockefeller did not limit
himself to tasks others assigned him. He
had special concern for the less fortunate,
for the arts, for the processes of govern-
ment itself, and most of all, for the vision
that guided this Nation. When he saw a
need, he marshaled the necessary re-
sources and talent to set about meeting
it.
A warm and generous friend, he knew
how to lose with grace and win with en-
thusiasm. He drank deeply of life from
a full cup.
We knew him by his good works.
NOTE: The President attended memorial serv-
ices for Mr. Rockefeller at the Riverside Bap-
tist Church in New York City on February 2.
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
Xiaoping of the People's
Republic of China
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
January 29, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Vice Premier Deng,
Madame Zhuo Lin, distinguished Chinese
guests, fellow Americans, and friends:
On behalf of the people of my country,
I welcome you, Mr. Vice Premier, to the
United States of America.
Today we take another step in the his-
toric normalization of relations which we
have begun this year. We share in the hope
which springs from reconciliation and the
anticipation of a common journey.
The United States of America has
major interests in the Asian and in the
Pacific regions. We expect that normali-
zation of relations between our two coun-
tries will help to produce an atmosphere
in the Asian and Pacific area in which the
right of all peoples to live in peace will be
enhanced.
We expect that normalization will help
to move us together toward a world of
189
