Administration
Mar. 14
of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Members of the Congress-members of
my Cabinet, friends, and fellow citizens:
You are looking at a tired but a grateful
man. [Laughter]
All of us who made this journey appre-
ciate the opportunity that we have had
to render some service in the cause of
peace. Now the journey is done and we
are glad to be home, back in our own
country, our beloved United States of
America.
It's good to see so many familiar and
welcome faces, and I want to thank you
for being out here in the middle of the
night to greet us and to give us one of the
best welcomes I have ever known. Thank
you from the bottom of my heart.
As you know, we did not go to Egypt
and to Israel in order to confirm what was
already a guaranteed result. We went
there to use our influence and our good
offices to help the leaders of those two
great nations move decisively toward that
peace that is so ardently desired by the
people whom they serve.
There were risks involved. They were
pointed out to me by many people, polit-
ical risks to me as President, therefore
perhaps a risk even to the prestige of the
United States.
Fortunately, our work has had a happy
result. But I want to stress that the effort
would have been worth making regard-
less of the outcome of this trip. Risk of
failure should never deter us from a
worthy goal. And no goal is higher than
that of genuine peace.
In war, we offer our very lives as a
matter of routine. And we must be no less
daring, no less steadfast in the pursuit
of peace.
For more than 30 years, the nations of
Egypt and Israel, who have been and who
will be perpetual neighbors, have existed
in a continual state of hostility. That hos-
tility has exploded into combat four times.
And each war has brought with it suf-
fering and pain and the loss of life, re-
newed fear and hatred and great danger
for that entire region and for the world
far beyond. But in the last 16 months the
way has finally been opened to peace.
When I decided to make this trip, the
peace negotiations, as you know, seemed
to have reached a stalemate. After long
hours of discussion in both Egypt and in
Israel, proposals were made for resolving
all the outstanding issues. All but two of
these issues have been resolved with Prime
Minister Begin and the Israeli Cabinet.
Less than 3 hours from now the Prime
Minister will present the remaining pro-
posals to the Israeli Cabinet for consider-
ation. I have even left instructions to
wake me up if the news is good-[laugh-
ter]—and I believe it will be. As you also
know, President Sadat has already ac-
cepted all of the proposals.
Therefore, we have now defined the
major components of a peace treaty be-
tween the largest and most powerful Arab
former enemy, Israel. There may be sharp
country, Egypt, and her neighbor and
internal debates before this process is com-
plete. But the treaty that emerges can be
the cornerstone of a comprehensive set-
tlement, one that can bless with peace all
the people who have suffered from the
long, enduring conflict in the Middle
East.
The leaders of Egypt and Israel are now
daring to break the pattern of bitterness
and war. They are following the advice of
the Biblical proverb, "When a man's way
please the Lord, he maketh even his ene-
mies to be at peace with Him."
In choosing peace, President Sadat and
the Prime Minister of Israel, Prime Min-
ister Begin, are venturing into the un-
known. But they know that the United
States of America will be with them as
431
