Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 4
grams in the energy security fund will
be financed.
On energy, just as inflation, we have to
help ourselves more directly, more indi-
vidually and, particularly, I'd like to dis-
cuss today, more locally.
One of the most frequent questions that
I hear people ask is, "If we can put men
on the Moon, why can't we figure out a
way to furnish cheap energy?"
Well, that is just a dream if it means
there is some dramatic, single solution to
energy shortages. But it's a good thought
if it means that thousands of smaller steps
by individual people, by scientists, by re-
searchers, by local officials, business, can
lead to an eventual goal of energy self-
sufficiency for our country.
Now, I know that small towns and rural
counties and farms have a special series of
problems that the rest of the country does
not always understand. It's hard for many
Americans to understand, for instance-
but I know, as a farmer-that the produc-
tion of corn crops in Iowa is greatly af-
fected by the demands of distant Arab
nations and giant oil companies for ex-
cessive profits on the very energy that
you
must have for crop-drying and for fertil-
izer and, also, for transportation and
cultivation.
Last year, for example, Iowa agricul-
ture consumed 360 million gallons of gas-
oline and an additional 200 million gal-
lons of diesel fuel. But I also know that
American agriculture provides for export
revenues to pay for 18 times as much en-
ergy as the farmers use. Our Nation can
indeed be thankful for Iowa farmers.
Shortly before we landed, a few min-
utes ago, Neal Smith proposed that we
arrange with our friends in Mexico an
exchange of corn for oil. It sounds like
a darned good idea to me.
Tomorrow, coincidentally, I'll be meet-
ing with the Foreign Minister of Mexico,
Mr. Roel. I'll discuss this with him, Neal,
and if we can't get an exact swap, which
is what you proposed, then we will take
action and are negotiating very enthusi-
astically to get an energy agreement with
Mexico.
We already buy about 85 percent of all
the oil that Mexico exports, and now, as
you know, we are working out an agree-
ment on natural gas. But I intend to take
other firm steps to guarantee that you
will have adequate supplies of gasoline
and other fuel during this very difficult
farm season. And you can depend on that.
Let me explain these steps very quickly.
First, I want to announce today that
Secretary Bergland has determined, un-
der the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978,
that 100 percent of current requirements
for natural gas in Iowa agriculture will be
maintained.
Second, we will have given authority
to State energy offices to set aside 4 per-
cent of the total diesel fuel supplies in
every State to alleviate possible hardship
cases in agriculture. And we've asked sup-
pliers of diesel fuel to give first priority
to agriculture.
And third, we are now reallocating pro-
portionately larger amounts of oil to sup-
pliers who serve rural and agricultural
markets. This obviously applies to small
towns. I will not allow agricultural pro-
duction to be disrupted by a shortage of
petroleum. And I will not allow rural
America to run dry.
We will also authorize users and local
suppliers to borrow temporarily during
the planting and cultivating season
against future allocations of oil and diesel
fuel and, if necessary, I will use my stand-
by authority to provide 100 percent not
only of the natural gas requirements but
also of other fuel requirements for
farmers.
791
