May 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
health needs of the nation. The federal
government has already sought to imple-
ment many of the recommendations of the
Commission in other ways:
-To increase the development of new
knowledge about mental illness, the 1980
budget provides additional funding for re-
search into disabling mental illness, and
for determining ways to improve the de-
livery of mental health care.
To increase the availability of mental
health services for the elderly, changes
have been proposed increasing the Medi-
care reimbursement ceiling for outpatient
mental health services and decreasing the
beneficiary's co-payment requirement.
Also, the Child Health Assurance Program
will mandate that states provide mental
health services for Medicaid-eligible
children.
-To assist the chronically mentally ill
to function effectively outside of institu-
tions, the Departments of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare and Housing and Urban
Development have initiated a joint dem-
onstration project which provides both
housing and support services.
-To promote protection of the rights
of the mentally ill, the Administration is
funding demonstration projects which de-
liver advocacy services to the mentally ill
and is studying existing advocacy pro-
grams to determine the appropriate role
for the federal government in this area.
I am convinced that these actions and
the passage of the Mental Health Systems
Act will reduce the number of Americans
robbed of vital and satisfying lives by
mental illness. I ask the Congress to join
with me in developing a new system of
mental health care designed to deal more
effectively with our nation's unmet mental
health needs.
The White House,
May 15, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Energy
Remarks at a White House Briefing
for Community and Civic Leaders.
May 15, 1979
A couple of weeks ago, I was in New
Hampshire. And the primary concern of
the people in that State, I believe, above
every other issue, was the prospect of
entering next winter without an adequate
supply of home heating oil. Eighty per-
cent of the homes in New England use oil
for heating, and more than 80 percent of
their oil comes from overseas.
Last weekend, I was in Iowa, and no
matter what I wanted to talk about, the
number one consideration of a county offi-
cials' convention and the press conference
was what the farmers were going to do
when they finally got in the fields to
plant-they're about 3 weeks behind—
without an adequate supply of tractor
fuel, diesel fuel, and gasoline for tractors.
And they were equally concerned that
when their crops were harvested in the
fall, that they may not have enough nat-
ural gas or propane to dry their crops.
And then I went to California directly.
[Laughter] And there was a situation
bordering on panic with just 2- or 3-per-
cent shortage of gasoline. They had
evolved panic buying-those with tanks
three-quarters full were sitting in line for
hours and hours to buy $2, $3 worth of
gas. The average purchase of gasoline
during the preceding week had been less
than $3 per purchase.
This puts a very sobering responsibility
on my shoulder and on yours. More than
2 years ago, I informed the American peo-
ple, in a speech on television—the next
night I spoke directly to the Congress, one
of my few appearances before the Con-
gress-that we faced an energy crisis with
"the moral equivalent of war." There was
a lot of frivolity about the alarmist ap-
862
