May 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
proceedings that may have substantial im-
pacts on their health, safety, or economic
well-being.
In recognition of the cost problems
faced by many citizen groups, several
agencies have established programs to pro-
vide financial assistance to persons (1)
whose participation in a proceeding could
reasonably be expected to contribute to a
fair disposition of the issues and (2) who
would be unable to participate effectively
in the proceeding in the absence of such
assistance. These programs have improved
agency decisionmaking, and I believe they
should be utilized in other agencies.
Accordingly, I direct each Executive
Department and Agency to take the fol-
lowing steps:
1. Each department and agency that
has not already established a public par-
ticipation funding program should deter-
mine whether it has statutory authority to
do so. I note in this regard that the De-
partment of Justice has advised Federal
agencies that they may determine for
themselves whether they have explicit or
implicit authority to fund such programs.
In the event that an agency concludes
that it does not have this authority, it
should immediately apprise my Special
Assistant for Consumer Affairs of that con-
clusion and of the grounds upon which it
is based.
2. Each department and agency that
finds it has authority to establish a public
participation funding program should
assess the extent of its need for such a pro-
gram. A preliminary evaluation, as well as
a tentative timetable for the development
of program regulations, should be for-
warded to my Special Assistant for Con-
sumer Affairs within 60 days of the issu-
ance of this memorandum. After appro-
priate consultation with other White
House and Executive Office of the Presi-
dent officials, my Special Assistant will
report to me on these evaluations.
I have supported, and will continue to
support, legislation to create, standardize,
and adequately finance public participa-
tion funding programs government-wide.
Independent of these legislative efforts,
there is a current need for public partic-
ipation funding and I strongly encourage
each department and agency with the req-
uisite authority to institute a public par-
ticipation funding program. Until new
legislation is enacted, however, additional
programs
of this sort will have to rely upon
agency funds already allocated. My
Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs
and her staff will be available to provide
technical assistance and advice regarding
the structure and standards of such
programs.
JIMMY CARTER
National Small Business
Person of the Year
Remarks at the Presentation Ceremony for
Gary L. McDaniel. May 16, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. To Vernon Weaver,
who manages very effectively the Small
Business Administration, and to the dis-
tinguished honorees here this afternoon,
to their wives or husbands, and to the
guests who've come to represent the small
business community, I want to say wel-
come.
I guess if there's one group in the Nation
with whom I feel most closely associated
because of my past experience, my trials
and tribulations and worries and prob-
lems, it would be with the small business
community of the Nation.
This is the third year that I have par-
ticipated in the award for the outstanding
868
