Apr. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare
Nomination of Richard B. Lowe III To Be
Deputy Inspector General. April 6, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Richard B. Lowe III, of
New York City, to be Deputy Inspector
General at the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. He would re-
place Charles Ruff, resigned.
Lowe was born July 26, 1941, in New
York City. He received a B.S. from the
University of Wisconsin in 1964 and a
J.D. from St. John's University in 1967.
Lowe has been with the New York
County District Attorney's Office since
1967. He has served as a trial attorney
and as chief of the major felony program,
the Complaint Bureau, the Early Care
Assessment Bureau, and the Trial Bureau.
Since 1976 he has been chief of the Trials
Division.
World Trade Week, 1979
Proclamation 4654. April 6, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
A strong position in world trade is one
of the foundations of the American econ-
omy. By expanding our trade, we enlarge
the opportunities for U.S. companies to
prosper under our free enterprise system
and for U.S. workers to find employment
throughout the American industrial com-
plex.
Trade also joins us with other nations
of the world in a partnership of peace and
trust that advances the well-being of peo-
ple everywhere. It encourages the inter-
national exchange of ideas, knowledge and
experience, and assists in developing fuller
and more fruitful use of the world's
resources.
We in the United States are dedicated
to policies that promote freer, wider trade
and that avoid the destructive conse-
quences of protectionism. We believe our
economy is best protected, and our citi-
zens better served, when barriers to trade
between nations are lowered rather than
raised.
We are the world's largest trading na-
tion. Yet compared to many of our trad-
ing partners, we export less of our rich
and varied production than we should.
World Trade Week gives us the oppor-
tunity to pledge ourselves to exporting as
a national priority and renew our deter-
mination to succeed in the world market-
place.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the week beginning
May 20, 1979, as World Trade Week, and
I request all Federal, State and local offi-
cials to cooperate in the observance of
that week.
I urge business, labor, agricultural, ed-
ucational, professional and civic groups,
and all the people of the United States to
observe World Trade Week with gather-
ings, discussions, exhibits, ceremonies and
other appropriate activities that promote
awareness of the importance of world
trade to our economy and our relations
with other nations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of April,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-nine, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two hun-
dred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:58 p.m., April 6, 1979]
616
