Feb. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
request that President Sadat has recently
made. But he certainly wouldn't be
unique in that respect.
As you know, the two nations that re-
ceive the most aid from our country at
this time, and for many years in the past,
has been Israel and Egypt. And I think
that the greatest single step we could take
to preserving stability and peace in the
Mideast, although it might be unpopular
with some other Arab countries, would be
a peace treaty between Israel and Egypt.
That's our top priority, and we'll con-
tinue with that pursuit.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, Gary Schuster from
the Detroit News. How strained is the re-
lationship now between the United States
and Russia because of the recent events
in Afghanistan, Iran, Rhodesia, and Viet-
nam? And, two, how does that strain, if
there is any, translate into how easily the
Senate might accept a SALT agreement,
if and when it gets there?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's inevitable
for the foreseeable future that we will
have competition with the Soviet Union
for influence in nations who are either un-
aligned or who don't want to be com-
pletely under the domination of any other
country. We have no desire to dominate
another nation. But we would like to see
each nation be independent, to be at
peace, and to see the legitimate aspira-
tions of those people be realized.
There have been changes made in the
last 15 years or less that affect both our
countries. I think it is true that in Af-
ghanistan, a Communist nation* was re-
*What the President meant to say was that
the regime in Afghanistan, a nation under So-
viet influence, was replaced by a regime more
closely aligned with the Soviet Union. [White
House Press Office correction.]
placed
placed by another Communist regime
more closely aligned with the Soviet Un-
ion. Angola, it was completely under the
domination and influence of the Soviet
Union. And perhaps Cuba is now reach-
ing out feelers or a hand of friendship to
some of the Western nations. I think the
same thing might apply to Mozambique,
Tanzania.
This, I think, is a normal, evolutionary
process. In the past under Mrs. Gandhi,
India was very closely aligned with the
Soviet Union. Their relationships with
our country were strained. I would say
that under Prime Minister Desai this has
changed considerably. It wasn't too long
ago that China and the Soviet Union were
the closest of political and military allies.
Now China has normal relationships with
us and are very sharply estranged from
the Soviet Union.
In the past, Egypt, the most powerful
Arab nation, was an ally almost exclu-
sively with the Soviet Union. Now they
have an equally close friendship with us
and are estranged from the Soviet Union.
I think NATO in the past, immediately
following the Vietnam war, was weak-
ened. I know that some of our great
Members of Congress, Mike Mansfield
was calling for the withdrawal of all U.S.
troops from Europe. Now I think
there's been a revitalization of NATO, a
strengthening of our alliance there which
is very crucial to our own security.
I think, in balance, the trends in the
last number of years have not been ad-
verse to our country. But it's easy to single
out one or two individual places like Af-
ghanistan where those trends have been
against our best interests. The point I'm
trying to make is that the fluidity of this
situation over a period of years is inevi-
table, and we can't freeze the world situa-
tion at any particular time or any partic-
ular region or country where it might be
316
