Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tinct goals and objectives and special in-
stitutional qualities. Yet each can work
with the others in a lively process of co-
operation, so long as some independence
is assured and our policies are adaptable
to each.
The partnership between the Federal
government and universities needs
renewed attention. Many leaders of
university research centers believe the
government has intervened too deeply in
university affairs to the point of affecting
institutional independence and diversity.
The problem stems from the need to en-
sure accountability of research funds. On
the one hand accountability is important
to me, to Congress, and to the taxpayers;
we must improve the government's ability
to manage and account for public funds.
On the other hand it is equally important
that the pendulum not swing so far that
we stifle progress. We must allow flexibil-
ity both for the government agencies and
for the research institutions. We should
not confuse excess paperwork with proper
accountability. Both the National Science
Foundation and the National Institutes of
Health have taken significant steps to re-
duce unnecessary demands on their
grantees. These initiatives follow from my
interest in reducing needless paperwork
throughout the government. Moreover, in
the recent development of the cost prin-
ciples that govern the financial relations
between the government and universities
in research, we sought to the maximum
extent possible to solicit and incorporate
the views of the academic community. It
is clear, however, that our partnership
with universities needs further strengthen-
ing. We must continue to experiment with
new approaches.
Another partnership in science and
technology is with State and local govern-
ments. Throughout the Nation there is
public resistance to the increasing costs of
public services. If we are to avoid the re-
duction or elimination of such services,
then we must develop better ways to re-
duce costs. The Federal government has
a large stake in the effectiveness of State
and local government: $80 billion are
transferred annually to meet a range of
national, State, and local needs.
Few State and local governments alone
can support the research and development
needed to mount a broad-scale effort at
problem-solving. Within the budgets I
have proposed for Federal research and
development, I expect the needs of State
and local governments to be addressed.
Federal research and development pro-
grams should be formulated with partici-
pation by State and local governments.
The Intergovernmental Science, Engi-
neering, and Technology Advisory Panel,
co-chaired by Dr. Frank Press and Gov-
ernor James Hunt of North Carolina, is
helping Federal agencies identify re-
search and development to meet State and
local needs. This intergovernmental
group already has focused attention on
satellite remote sensing data, US Fire
Administration research, the National
Technical Information Service, the prob-
lems of the elderly, and disposal of chem-
ical wastes. I am directing the Panel to
increase its efforts in planning technical
assistance and research and development
for problem-solving.
A better awareness of partnership also
is needed among the Federal agencies. We
must have coordinated policy and pro-
gram planning, implementation, and
evaluation. Through a variety of formal
and ad hoc mechanisms, I have stimu-
lated interagency cooperation in space ap-
plication, earthquake hazard mitigation,
dam safety, ocean pollutions research and
monitoring, aquaculture, nutrition, man-
544
