June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
2. Submarine-launched ballistic mis-
sile (SLBM) launchers are launchers of
ballistic missiles installed on any nuclear-
powered submarine or launchers of mod-
ern ballistic missiles installed on any sub-
marine, regardless of its type.
3. Heavy bombers are considered to be:
(a) currently, for the United States of
America, bombers of the B-52
and B-1 types, and for the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics,
bombers of the Tupolev-95 and
Myasishchev types;
(b) in the future, types of bombers
which can carry out the mission
of a heavy bomber in a manner
similar or superior to that of
bombers listed in subparagraph
(a) above;
(c) types of bombers equipped for
cruise missiles capable of a range
in excess of 600 kilometers; and
(d) types of bombers equipped for
ASBMs.
4. Air-to-surface ballistic missiles
(ASBMs) are any such missiles capable
of a range in excess of 600 kilometers and
installed in an aircraft or on its external
mountings.
5. Launchers of ICBMs and SLBMs
equipped with multiple independently
targetable reentry vehicles (MIRVs) are
launchers of the types developed and
tested for launching ICBMs or SLBMs
equipped with MIRVS.
6. ASBMs equipped with MIRVs are
ASBMS of the types which have been
flight-tested with MIRVS.
7. Heavy ICBMs are ICBMs which
have a launch-weight greater or a throw-
weight greater than that of the heaviest,
in terms of either launch-weight or
throw-weight, respectively, of the light
ICBMs deployed by either Party as of
the date of signature of this Treaty.
8. Cruise missiles are unmanned, self-
propelled, guided, weapon-delivery ve-
hicles which sustain flight through the use
of aerodynamic lift over most of their
flight path and which are flight-tested
from or deployed on aircraft, that is, air-
launched cruise missiles, or such vehicles
which are referred to as cruise missiles in
subparagraph 1(b) of Article IX.
ARTICLE III
1. Upon entry into force of this Treaty,
each Party undertakes to limit ICBM
launchers, SLBM launchers, heavy
bombers, and ASBMS to an aggregate
number not to exceed 2,400.
2. Each Party undertakes to limit, from
January 1, 1981, strategic offensive arms
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article
to an aggregate number not to exceed
2,250, and to initiate reductions of those
arms which as of that date would be in
excess of this aggregate number.
3. Within the aggregate numbers pro-
vided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
Article and subject to the provisions of
this Treaty, each Party has the right to
determine the composition of these
aggregates.
4. For each bomber of a type equipped
for ASBMS, the aggregate numbers pro-
vided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
Article shall include the maximum num-
ber of such missiles for which a bomber
of that type is equipped for one opera-
tional mission.
5. A heavy bomber equipped only for
ASBMS shall not itself be included in the
aggregate numbers provided for in para-
graphs 1 and 2 of this Article.
6. Reductions of the numbers of stra-
tegic offensive arms required to comply
with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2
of this Article shall be carried out as pro-
vided for in Article XI.
1052
