Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
contained in the Protocol. Accordingly, I
request that the Senate give advice and
consent to the Protocol in place of the
Convention. The MARPOL Convention
contains three optional Annexes, Annexes
III, IV and V, which deal with pollution
from packaged harmful substances, sew-
age and garbage. I am not now seeking
the Senate's advice and consent to these
optional annexes.
The entry into force of the MARPOL
Protocol will be an important step in con-
trolling and preventing pollution from
vessel discharges. I recommend that the
Senate give early consideration to this
Protocol and advise and consent to its
ratification.
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Convention for the Safety
of Life at Sea
Message to the Senate Transmitting a
Protocol to the Convention.
January 19, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, the
Protocol of 1978 Relating to the Interna-
tional Convention for the Safety of Life
at Sea, 1974, done at London, Febru-
ary 17, 1978. The report of the Depart-
ment of State is enclosed for the informa-
tion of the Senate.
The Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS)
Protocol is an international response to
proposals which we made last year to im-
prove the construction requirements for
tankers, and the system for inspecting and
certifying them. It deals with measures
that, when they take effect, will reduce
deficiencies in the physical condition of
cargo ships, especially tankers, minimize
steering gear failures, enhance the ability
to detect collision situations and avoid
collisions, and diminish the possibility of
explosions.
The SOLAS Protocol, which is a sepa-
rate treaty, modifies and adds to the 1974
SOLAS Convention, to which the Senate
gave its advice and consent to ratification
on July 12, 1978. The Protocol requires
the deposit of an instrument of ratifica-
tion distinct from that of the related Con-
vention. The Conference, as advocated
by the U.S. delegation, set a target date
of June 1979 for the entry into force of
the SOLAS Convention and as soon as
possible thereafter for the SOLAS
Protocol.
The United States has been in the fore-
front of the drive for the adoption of
both the Convention and the Protocol
and would like to encourage other coun-
tries to act expeditiously on this matter.
I therefore recommend that the Senate
give prompt consideration to the SOLAS
Protocol.
The White House,
January 19, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Maritime Boundary Treaties
With Mexico, Venezuela,
and Cuba
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaties. January 19, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, three
treaties establishing maritime boundaries:
the Treaty on Maritime Boundaries be-
tween the United States of America and
the United Mexican States, signed at
Mexico City on May 4, 1978; the Mari-
86
