June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Carter and I have also had to do a good have done here today in Vienna in signing
deal of work.
this treaty.
To act in such a way as to prevent an
outbreak of nuclear war is an obligation
that the Soviet Union and the United
States have jointly assumed. The treaty
that has been signed today reaffirms our
desire to fulfill that obligation. In terms of
both quantitative and qualitative limita-
tions of strategic arms, it goes far beyond
the SALT I agreement.
The entry into force of this treaty opens
up the possibility to begin elaborating sub-
sequent measures to not only limit but also
reduce strategic arms. By concluding the
SALT II treaty, we are making a major
step forward along the road of an overall
improvement of Soviet-American rela-
tions and, consequently, of the entire in-
ternational climate.
For the Soviet Union, this is a logical
continuation of the peaceful foreign policy
line defined by our Party Congresses, a
line that we intend to go on following.
Today, the threat of nuclear holocaust
still hangs over us, as it has for more than
30 years. Our two nations are now armed
with thousands of nuclear weapons, each
capable of causing devastation beyond
measure and beyond imagination. Several
other nations now have nuclear arms, and
even more have the ability to develop the
same destructive weapons. Weapons tech-
nology has continued to advance and so
have the dangers and the obvious need to
control and
this arms
to regulate this
competition.
The strategic arms limitation talks,
which have gone on for nearly 10 years
without interruption, represent the real-
ization that a nuclear arms competition
without shared rules and without veri-
fiable limits and without a continuing
dialog would be an invitation to disaster.
Such an unrestrained competition would
tempt fate in the future and would insult
our intelligence and threaten the very ex-
istence of humanity.
This prospect is a challenge to our
courage and to our creativity. If we can-
not control the power to destroy, we can
neither guide our own fate nor preserve
our own future.
The signing of the treaty has appropri-
ately crowned the Soviet-American sum-
mit meeting here in Vienna. On this
auspicious occasion, we express our sin-
cere gratitude to the President, the Chan-
cellor and the Government of the Aus-
trian Republic, and to the people of
Austria for the warm hospitality and cor-
Like SALT I, the Anti-Ballistic Missile
diality extended to us.
Treaty, and the Limited Test Ban before
it, this SALT II treaty is based on the real
PRESIDENT CARTER. Mr. President, fel- security needs of our two nations. It will
low citizens of the world:
Unfortunately, in the past the most
powerful currents of history have often
been the ones which swept nations to war.
Yet as we look back on the causes of so
many wars, we can see times when a more
watchful course, even a small careful shift,
might have guided nations that much bet-
ter, that much further in the ways of
peace. That is the purpose of what we
not end the continuing need for military
strength and for readiness on both sides.
But SALT II does place important,
new limits on both the number and the
quality of nuclear arms. And it has al-
lowed us to continue on course toward a
safer world with even more substantial
limitations and reductions in SALT III.
We cannot interrupt nor endanger this
process.
1080
