Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 16
ment, not only for countries who have
them, but for countries that do not have
them, and because of this, an economic
order should be sensitive to the necessity
to provide for the needs of the poor, and
investment should be directed so as to
encourage their industrialization.
Taking into consideration Mexico's po-
tential as an energy-producing country,
President López Portillo reiterated that
energy resources must be considered as
the patrimony of mankind, so that the
production, distribution and consumption
of these resources be made in an orderly
and rational fashion, and so that all al-
ternative sources of energy be developed,
including the financing and transfer of
technologies that are accessible to all de-
veloping countries. President Carter ex-
pressed interest in this idea and willing-
ness to explore these subjects further.
The two Presidents decided to start
immediately the design of plans to col-
laborate in the field of energy, with a
strict observance of their respective na-
tional policies, and to initiate or expand,
whatever might be the case, trade in
hydrocarbon products, electricity and
other energy resources.
Both Presidents agreed to plan a joint
Mexican-U.S. study on the possibilities
of exchange of electric energy on a ra-
tional basis along their common border.
With regard to nuclear energy, Presi-
dent Carter noted the need to speed up
the export of enriched uranium to Mexi-
co to put in operation the electric-gen-
erating plants that the Mexican Govern-
ment is planning.
Both Presidents also agreed to support
and promote scientific and technological
cooperation in the field of energy, includ-
ing solar and geothermal energy. Presi-
dent Carter said that his government
would be helpful in cooperating to en-
hance the technological capabilities in
Mexico.
The results of these agreements, studies
and talks would be included in the report
of the Consultative Mechanism.
With regard to the eventual sale of sur-
pluses of Mexican natural gas to the
United States, the Presidents discussed the
future possibility of such transactions.
On the part of the United States, Presi-
dent Carter pledged to develop means for
expediting sales by Petroleos Méxicanos
to purchasing companies.
On the part of Mexico, the government
will re-evaluate the amount of the pos-
sible surpluses, taking into consideration
the needs to be generated with the estab-
lishment of the National Gas Pipeline
Network.
On this basis the two Presidents agreed
to have their governmental representa-
tives meet as soon as possible and begin
discussing the best means to facilitate de-
cisions on these matters.
The two Presidents agreed to examine
jointly the prospects of future sales of
crude oil and petroleum products from
Mexico to the United States.
The phenomenon of the Mexican mi-
grant workers was discussed within the
overall context of social and economic re-
lations between both countries. The two
Presidents committed themselves to carry
out a close bilateral cooperation in order
to find an integral, realistic and long-term
solution which would respect the dignity
and the human rights of these workers,
and which would also respect the many
social, economic and development prob-
lems that are involved in this matter.
In this context, they agreed that their
governments would continue to consult
closely on all aspects of the migration
question, including its economic and so-
cial implications in both countries, and
agreed that the Joint Consultative
Mechanism should meet promptly to
share fully and jointly the results of their
291
