Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
I, as President, am entrusted with the
security of the United States of America.
I would never take any action that would
jeopardize that sacred trust. President
Brezhnev, you and I both have children
and grandchildren, and we want them to
live and to live in peace. We have both
worked hard to give our own and our
own nations' children that security.
pledge now, all together, to use this treaty
as we continue our passage to peace.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:02 p.m. in
the Redoutensäle at the Hofburg, the imperial
palace. President Brezhnev spoke in Russian,
and his remarks were translated by an inter-
preter.
Earlier in the day, President Carter and
President Brezhnev met privately at the U.S.
Embassy. They then went to the Soviet Em-
bassy for a meeting with their delegations.
We realize that no one treaty, no one
meeting can guarantee the future safety
of our nations. In the end, peace can be
won only if we have pursued it and
struggled tenaciously to keep the peace
all along. Yet, this fight for peace has
often seemed the most difficult victory Vienna Summit Meeting
Joint U.S.-U.S.S.R. Communique.
June 18, 1979
Following the signing ceremony, President
Carter went to the Vienna Airport for de-
parture ceremonies.
to win.
Here today, as we set very careful limits
on our power, we draw boundaries
around our fears of one another. As we
begin to control our fears, we can better
ensure our future.
We can now continue to explore the
planets. We can discover the essence of
matter. We can find the power to preserve
ourselves and to preserve our Earth.
Each of us has only one nation. We both
share the same world. Not one nation on
this Earth, not one people, not one single
human being is harmed or threatened or
deprived by this victory in the battle for
peace. Indeed, a victory is here today for
all.
In our lifetime, we have learned to
make war by unlocking the atom-the
power of creation itself. To make peace,
we must limit our use of that power by
sharing our courage, our wisdom, and our
faith. These fundamental strengths of
humankind have brought us to this very
table today.
In setting our hands to this treaty, we
set our nations on a safer course. We've
labored long to make SALT II a safe and
useful chart toward the future. Let us
By mutual agreement, President of the
United States of America Jimmy Carter
and General Secretary of the CPSU Cen-
tral Committee and President of the
Presidium of the USSR Supreme Soviet
Leonid I. Brezhnev held meetings in
Vienna, Austria, from June 15 to June 18,
1979. President Carter and President
Brezhnev conducted their discussions with
the participation of:
On the American side, Cyrus Vance,
Secretary of State of the United States of
America; Harold Brown, Secretary of De-
fense of the United States of America;
Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs;
and General David Jones, Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
On the Soviet side, A. A. Gromyko,
Member of the Politburo of the CPSU
and Minister of Foreign Affairs; D. F.
Ustinov, Member of the Politburo of the
CPSU and Minister of Defense; K. U.
Chernenko, Member of the Politburo of
the CPSU and Secretary of the Central
Committee of the CPSU; and Marshal
1081
