June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
structed or undergo significant changes to
their principal observable structural de-
sign features after entry into force of the
Treaty, any such launchers which are
launchers of missiles equipped with
MIRVS shall be distinguishable from
launchers of missiles not equipped with
MIRVs, and any such launchers which
are launchers of missiles not equipped
with MIRVS shall be distinguishable from
launchers of missiles equipped with
MIRVS, on the basis of externally observ-
able design features of the launchers. Sub-
marines with launchers of SLBMs
equipped with MIRVS shall be distin-
guishable from submarines with launch-
ers of SLBMs not equipped with MIRVS
on the basis of externally observable de-
sign features of the submarines.
This Common Understanding does not
require changes to launcher conversion
or construction programs, or to programs
including significant changes to the prin-
cipal observable structural design features
of launchers, underway as of the date of
signature of the Treaty.
To Paragraph 6 of Article II of the
Treaty
First Agreed Statement. ASBMs of the
types which have been flight-tested with
MIRVS are all ASBMS of the types which
have been flight-tested with two or more
independently targetable reentry vehi-
cles, regardless of whether or not they
have also been flight-tested with a single
reentry vehicle or with multiple reentry
vehicles which are not independently
targetable.
Second Agreed Statement. Reentry vehi-
cles are independently targetable:
(a) if, after separation from the
booster, maneuvering and target-
ing of the reentry vehicles to sepa-
rate aim points along trajectories
which are unrelated to each other
are accomplished by means of de-
vices which are installed in a self-
contained dispensing mechanism
or on the reentry vehicles, and
which are based on the use of elec-
tronic or other computers in com-
bination with devices using jet en-
gines, including rocket engines, or
aerodynamic systems;
(b) if maneuvering and targeting of
the reentry vehicles to separate aim
points along trajectories which are
unrelated to each other are accom-
plished by means of other devices
which may be developed in the
future.
To Paragraph 7 of Article II of the
Treaty
First Agreed Statement. The launch-
weight of an ICBM is the weight of the
fully loaded missile itself at the time of
launch.
Second Agreed Statement. The throw-
weight of an ICBM is the sum of the
weight of:
(a) its reentry vehicle or reentry ve-
hicles;
(b) any
self-contained dispensing
mechanisms or other appropriate
devices for targeting one reentry
vehicle, or for releasing or for dis-
pensing and targeting two or more
reentry vehicles; and
term
(c) its penetration aids, including de-
vices for their release.
Common Understanding. The
"other appropriate devices," as used in
the definition of the throw-weight of an
ICBM in the Second Agreed Statement
to paragraph 7 of Article II of the Treaty,
means any devices for dispensing and tar-
geting two or more reentry vehicles; and
any devices for releasing two or more re-
entry vehicles or for targeting one reentry
vehicle, which cannot provide their re-
1064
