Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
with himself and say that price is the only a constitutional amendment to force a
way to go.
Does that reflect your feelings, that con-
servation appeals are for the birds?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I've had several con-
versations with Fred Kahn within the last
week. He's not expressed his opinion to
me in just those terms. [Laughter] It
obviously requires a well-coordinated,
broadly based, very complicated, inter-
related approach. Voluntary restraint in
the use of energy sources is an integral
part of the overall process. Mandatory re-
straints are another part. We've asked
Congress for authorization for that action,
if necessary, in the future.
The increasing prices, which are in-
evitable, will certainly cause additional
concern among the American people in
how well they design their homes, how
high they turn their thermostats, the de-
gree of insulation, the size of their auto-
mobiles. All these things are interrelated.
Shifting away from petroleum products,
whose supply is limited under the best
circumstances, toward more plentiful en-
ergy sources-coal, nuclear power, ulti-
mately, solar and other replaceable sup-
plies-is an integral part. But I would
that voluntary compliance on the
say
part
of American people is one of the crucial
elements.
balanced Federal budget, and most edi-
torial writers are opposed to that as rash,
risky, and irresponsible. But it obviously
has wide popular appeal. As we move
toward 1980, what will you do, as Presi-
dent and/or as a candidate, to take that
issue away from Brown?
THE PRESIDENT. I was under the im-
pression that 24 States had passed some
sort of resolution before Governor Brown
ever proposed it to the California Legisla-
ture. I'm not sure what the final action of
the California Legislature will be. I have
heard some preliminary reports on the
subject already that were of interest to
me.
I think the convening of a constitution-
al convention with the ostensible purpose
of passing an amendment against any defi-
cit spending would be one of the most
ill-advised things that I can envision. This
is a transient problem, and we've never
cluttered up our Constitution with
amendments of that kind before. And I
hope we never will. The only time we
tried to do it was with the 18th amend-
ment, prohibiting the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
My belief is that the best way to handle
it is the way I've done it, to continue to
cut down the deficit, to eliminate waste-
ful spending, to harmonize my own efforts
with the inclinations of the American peo-
If we relied on it exclusively, it would ple and the Congress to bring about a bal-
not be adequate.
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO
BALANCE THE BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, about this time a year
ago, most of us on editorial pages in Cali-
fornia were opposing Proposition 13 on
the grounds that it was rash and risky
and irresponsible. And you know how
much the people followed our advice.
Now Governor Brown is talking about
anced budget.
If you start writing the exemptions and
the caveats to a balanced budget require-
ment in the Constitution, this particular
amendment would of necessity be longer
than all the Bill of Rights put together.
And you would have to say that if an
emergency existed under certain circum-
stances, on extremely high unemployment,
or if the thirties depression times came
back, or if our national security was en-
562
