June 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
that when my years as President are over,
that I can still match that achievement
of Thomas Jefferson.
Now, the SALT II treaty, which has
been negotiated almost 7 years under
three Presidents, is part of our efforts to
wage peace. There is no doubt in my
mind that the SALT II treaty, when
ratified, will enhance the security of the
United States. There is no doubt that the
SALT treaty will contribute to world
peace. There is no doubt that the SALT
treaty will enhance détent and will leave
our Nation stronger to compete peace-
fully but successfully with the Soviet
Union. There is no doubt that the SALT
treaty will contribute greatly to the pre-
vention of a catastrophic nuclear war.
There is no doubt that the SALT treaty
goes a long way toward controlling pres-
ent and future atomic weapons. There is
no doubt that the SALT treaty helps us
to prevent other nations who are pres-
ently not nuclear powers from developing
atomic explosions of their own.
The SALT II treaty is part of a process
that began way back when Eisenhower
was President-SALT I, Vladivostok,
antiballistic missiles, limited test ban. And
now, after 7 more years, SALT II is part
of a process.
If the SALT II treaty should be re-
jected by the United States Senate, that
process would be interrupted. Our NATO
Allies and others who look to us for lead-
ership would be convinced that the
United States could no longer be trusted
to deal fairly and strongly and effectively
with the Soviet Union to protect our in-
terests on a peaceful basis. Those allies
might very well have to look elsewhere
for alliances and for leadership.
If the SALT II treaty is not ratified,
that long process leading to the elimina-
tion of nuclear weapons might not be
recommenced. The SALT II treaty does
not depend on our trusting the Soviet
Union. You've got sitting here on the
stage Birch Bayh, the chairman of the
Senate Intelligence Committee. It is a
great honor to him and to Indiana that
he occupies this position, because he is
in control of receiving the most secret
possible information to prove to him and
to me and others who are willing to listen
that our country can verify the terms of
the SALT II treaty by our own means,
by our own technical means.
Failure to ratify this treaty would con-
tribute billions of more dollars to the pur-
chase of weapons that are absolutely not
needed. And if we don't have this treaty,
every little incident around the world,
every little disagreement will be magni-
fied greatly in its importance, and the
trust that must exist among nations will
be severely threatened.
I hope that every one of you Democrats
will let your other Senator from Indiana
and others with whom you come in con-
tact know how deeply you feel about
peace and how deeply you feel about the
control of nuclear weapons throughout
the world. You could do nothing greater
to benefit your Nation, your families, and
your future families than to help me with
this issue.
And finally, let me say that during my
campaign, I promised you here in Indiana
that we could have a government as good
as our people. Some critics said this was
just cheap political campaign talk, but
you understood what I was trying to say.
Our foreign policy is as good as the
American people when we speak out for
human rights around the world. And we
will continue to protect human rights as
long as I'm your President. Our foreign
policy is as good as the American people
when we work to bring peace not just to
our own shores but to ancient enemies.
994
