Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 29
to visit us. And an even greater number
of American groups have left here and
gone to visit China. Exchanges have
already begun in the natural sciences, in
space, in agriculture, in medicine, in sci-
ence, in technology, and other fields. And
now with the establishment of normal
diplomatic relations, the exploratory na-
ture of these many exchanges can give
way to a more valuable and a more per-
manent relationship. This will serve the
interests of both our nations and will also
serve the cause of peace.
Today, for the first time since the estab-
lishment of normal diplomatic relations,
the Governments of the United States of
America and the People's Republic of
China have begun official discussions at
the highest level. Our discussions are
fruitful and they are constructive, be-
cause both of us are keenly aware that
what we do now will establish precedents
for future peaceful relationships.
We've not entered this new relationship
for any short-term gains. We have a long-
term commitment to a world community
of diverse nations and independent na-
tions. We believe that a strong and a se-
cure China will play a cooperative part
in developing that type of world commu-
nity which we envision. Our new relation-
ship particularly can contribute to the
peace and stability of the Asia-Pacific
region.
Your nation, Vice Premier Deng, like
ours, has been created by the hard work
of ordinary men and women. Despite our
cultural, political, and economic differ-
ences, there's much for us to build on
together.
The United States, born out of a revolu-
tion for freedom, is a young country with
an independent history of only 200 years.
But our Constitution is the oldest continu-
ing written constitution in the entire
world.
Chinese civilization, with more than
4,000 years of recorded history, is one of
the oldest cultures in the world. But as a
modern nation, China is quite young. We
can learn much from each other.
There are many hundreds of thousands
of Americans of Chinese origin, and their
contributions to our society have been
even greater than their numbers could
possibly suggest. Our national life has
been enriched by the work of Chinese
American architects, artists, and scien-
tists-including three recent winners of
the Nobel Prize.
Like you, Mr. Vice Premier, I'm a
farmer, and like you, I'm a former mili-
tary man. In my little farming community,
when I grew up, our agricultural methods
and our way of life were not greatly dif-
ferent from those of centuries earlier. I
stepped from that world into the plan-
ning and outfitting of nuclear submarines.
And when I later returned to the land, I
found that farming had been absolutely
transformed in just a few years by new sci-
entific knowledge and by technology.
I know the shocks of change in my own
life, and I know the sometimes painful
adjustments required when change oc-
curs, as well as the great potential for
good that change can bring to both indi-
viduals and to nations.
I know, too, that neither individuals
nor nations can stifle change. It is far
better to adapt scientific and technologi-
cal advantages to our needs, to learn to
control them, and to reap their benefits
while minimizing their potential adverse
effects.
And I know that the Chinese people
and you, Mr. Vice Premier, understand
these things about change very well. Your
ambitious modernization effort in four
different areas of human life attests to
that. The American people wish you well
in these efforts, and we are looking for-
193
