Mar. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act
of 1978
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. March 22, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit the first report,
as called for by Sections 601 and 602 of
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–242), on the activities of
the Government Departments and Agen-
cies to prevent proliferation.
The report, consisting of four volumes,
is enclosed. The first volume contains a
summary and chapters detailing the prog-
ress made in the following areas:
-The International Nuclear Fuel Cy-
cle Evaluation (INFCE)
—An international nuclear fuel re-
gime
-Development of common export and
domestic policies
-Encouraging adherences to the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT)
-Strengthening IAEA safeguards
-Negotiating agreements for coopera-
tion
a general reexamination of long-held
technical assumptions concerning fuel
cycle activities and awareness of the need
to consider proliferation concerns. Prog-
ress is also reported in obtaining wider
adherence to the NPT, in strengthening
IAEA safeguards, and in continued con-
sultations among nuclear suppliers.
The report notes that a number of prob-
lems have been encountered, particularly
United States is attempting to impose its
the perception by other countries that the
own standards unilaterally on peaceful
nuclear cooperation and that those stand-
ards are unnecessarily strict or impractica-
ble. Doubts about the reliability of the
United States as a nuclear supplier per-
sist, as well as differences of views be-
tween ourselves and others concerning the
proliferation risks and economic benefits
of reprocessing and the recycling of plu-
tonium in light water reactors. These
problems and others noted in the report
will continue to be addressed in our efforts
to achieve international support for and
consensus on our nonproliferation objec-
tives.
Chapter XI of the report contains the
analyses of the agreements for coopera-
-Cooperation in energy with develop- tion. It consists of two unclassified vol-
ing countries
-Cooperation in protection of the
environment
-Procedures for processing export-
related matters
In discussing the Government's activi-
ties in these areas, the report notes that
considerable progress has been made in
increasing international appreciation of
the importance of minimizing risks of
proliferation inherent in future fuel cycle
developments. It points out that, through
INFCE, the United States has stimulated
umes, which are enclosed, and a classified
volume which is being submitted to the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and
the House International Affairs Commit-
tee, in accordance with Section 602 (d)
of Public Law 95-242.
The White House,
March 22, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
President to the Congress, Pursuant to Section
601 of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of
1978 January 1979."
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report of the
452
