Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 18
will not always go the way that this coun-
try might desire. The changing makeup
of these organizations, the increasing
the increasing
diffusion of global power and the growing
complexities of all issues make this inevi-
table. But those occasions should not
make us withdraw our support, for the
UN reflects the reality of the world in
which we must live. We should, instead,
feel challenged to develop imaginative
and thoughtful new approaches in our
diplomacy so as to advance our interests,
and to play a constructive role in the
world community. In particular, we need
to continue demonstrating our faith in
the basic purposes of an organization
whose strength and effectiveness are es-
sential to us and to the world.
The attached report details U.S. posi-
tions and policies on the issues which
arose in the UN system during 1977. It
includes:
-The extensive conduct of the so-
called "North-South" dialogue—the dis-
cussion of economic and other issues be-
tween industrialized countries and the de-
veloping nations;
-Our support for the social and eco-
nomic development activities-including
those of the UN Development Program.
Some 90 percent of the funds expended
by the UN system benefit these activities;
-U.S. efforts to support new progress
on human rights throughout the UN
system;
-preparations for the 1978 special
General Assembly session devoted to
disarmament;
-the adoption by consensus of a Gen-
eral Assembly resolution on aircraft hi-
jacking, to make the world's airways
safer for people everywhere;
-the beginning of extensive efforts
against great odds to pursue peaceful set-
tlements in Namibia and Rhodesia; and
-U.S. ratification and support of a
new UN specialized agency-the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment-which will provide new resources
to improve food production and nutrition
in low-income countries and can benefit
us by stabilizing the global food market.
Also included in this document is an
analysis of the U.S. decision to withdraw
from the International Labor Organiza-
tion in November 1977. I took this deci-
sion with regret, since U.S. interests in in-
ternational organizations are better met
through membership and active partici-
pation than through withdrawal. Never-
theless, since announcement in 1975 of
U.S. intention to withdraw, we believed
that insufficient progress had been made
in resolving a number of difficulties in op-
eration of the ILO. I still hope that the
United States can return to the ILO
when its operations clearly return to the
organization's basic purposes.
Finally, among the activities of 1977-
but not included in this report-was
steady work within the Administration on
ways that the United States can work to
strengthen the United Nations. My re-
port on that topic, sent to the Congress
on March 2, 1978, outlines reforms which
can make the United Nations even more
discussion and action on global issues.
effective as the world's major forum for
I welcome the continuing interest of
the Congress in U.S. participation in the
United Nations, and I urge its increased
moral backing and financial support as
the United States addresses in the United
Nations the increasingly difficult issues
that lie ahead.
The White House,
January 18, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 335-page report is entitled "U.S.
Participation in the UN-Report by the
President to the Congress for the Year 1977."
63
