Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 22
greater uniformity, simplicity, and reci-
procity in State and Federal regulation
and taxation of the trucking industry.
At the Federal level the President has
asked Secretary Adams to speed up the im-
plementation of several programs to de-
velop systems to allow truckers to stop
only once during any one trip to file fuel,
registration, and licensing fees. This pro-
gram would allow for computerized figur-
ing of State tax shares and would allow
truckers to make only one payment, great-
ly simplifying the paperwork and admin-
istrative burdens that independent opera-
tors must deal with. The program will be
implemented in six States by December of
1980.
One aspect of the differing State regu-
latory requirements is the variation in
allowable truck weights and lengths per-
mitted on the Nation's highways. Al-
though Federal law sets maximum truck
weights, it allows the States the right to
set limits below these levels. Obviously in
each State the question of truck weights
involves complex issues of road capacity,
cost allocation, and safety. The President
believes that the States should continue to
Neal Smith of Iowa in his bill, H.R. 753.
This bill, or a measure designed to accom-
plish its goals, deserves early and favorable
consideration by the Congress and has the
administration's full support.
Also, as part of the Department of
Transportation's program to develop a
"new automobile," DOT will support re-
search to improve diesel engine efficiency.
On these and other longer term prob-
lems the President is prepared to work
with the Congress, the Governors, and the
truckers to devise sound solutions. The
Federal Government in Washington can-
not solve every problem with a law or a
ruling. But working together we can ac-
complish a great deal.
While this work goes forward, all in-
dependent truckers should return
work to provide the Nation with vitally
needed transportation services. Those who
choose not to work should know that un-
lawful interference with the rights of their
fellow citizens will not be tolerated.
White House Management Task
make the final judgments on these diffi- Force on Energy Shortages
cult issues.
However, there could be substantial
benefits to the Nation's transportation sys-
tem if allowable truck weights were stand-
ardized nationwide. The President urges
the Governors and State legislatures of
those States below the Federal minimum
to consider these potential benefits and to
review carefully their decisions on truck
weight and size limits in light of the cur-
rent situation.
There are other problems that plague
the Nation's truckers. For example, there
are many reports of illegal and unfair
overcharges of truckers at loading and un-
loading docks. One approach to the prob-
lem has been suggested by Congressman
Announcement of Establishment of the Task
Force. June 22, 1979
The President has established a White
House Management Task Force on En-
ergy Shortages. The Task Force will be
chaired by Jack Watson, Assistant to the
President for Intergovernmental Affairs
and Secretary to the Cabinet, and di-
rected by Gene Eidenberg, Deputy As-
sistant to the President for Intergovern-
mental Affairs and Deputy Secretary to
the Cabinet, of the White House staff.
Working with representatives of the
appropriate departments and White
House staff, the Task Force will be the
central point for managing the Federal
1137
