Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
dangered, and so forth, that you'd have
to make an exception.
So, I don't think the right way to han-
dle it is through a constitutional amend-
ment at all, certainly not a constitutional
convention, which is the original proposal
of Governor Brown.
I don't think very many States have
ratified—I mean have passed a resolution
on this since Governor Brown came out
in favor of it. Others may do so. But I
have written a letter, I think, to one of
the State legislators in Ohio, who asked
for my opinion. And if you would ask
Jody Powell later on, he can give you a
copy of that letter that might explain in
a little more voluminous way what my
concerns would be about this.
The Congress is very interested in a
balanced budget. This interest has been
extant long before Governor Brown's sec-
ond inauguration, and it's a concern that
I shared throughout my own campaign.
And I think because I pledged to reduce
the deficit and work toward a balanced
budget, this was a major factor in my
election.
1980 ELECTION
Q. Mr. President, how do things look
for you in Alabama, with the second pri-
mary, and in the South as a whole?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I really
don't want to comment on 1980 from the
perspective of a candidate. I have not
crossed that bridge yet. I think the best
thing for me to do is to stay out of the
campaign arena until much later when I
make a decision on it.
U.S.-MEXICAN BORDER FENCE
Q. Mr. President, in El Paso, Texas, we
understand that the decision is now in
the White House as to whether you're
going to go ahead and replace the fence
that exists in various downtown areas
along the border.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Is that decision to be made here
and, if so, when?
THE PRESIDENT. A proposal reached
me earlier--two proposals; one through
the news media, when I discovered that
people were considering a fence. that
might damage people who tried to cross
it, and I immediately vetoed that crazy
idea as soon as I heard about it.
Secondly, a proposal was made to me
to extend the fence substantial numbers
of miles beyond the present limits of it,
and I have also disapproved that.
I do approve, however, the keeping in
repair of the fence which presently exists.
FOREIGN ARMS SALES
Q. Mr. Carter, in May of 1977 you
pledged to strictly limit U.S. arms sales
abroad. But according to the Defense De-
partment statistics released recently, gov-
ernment-to-government arms sales rose
from $11.3 billion to $13.5 billion by the
end of fiscal year 1978, and Defense De-
partment figures project that fiscal 1979
arms sales will reach $14 billion. How
does this increase square with your
promise to reduce the U.S. role as an arms
supplier overseas?
THE PRESIDENT. I have absolutely kept
my promise. I'd like for you to read it.
The promise that I made was, outside of
our NATO commitments, where we have
defense alliances, that we would cut down
unilaterally, whether or not other nations
did the same, our total defense sales at
least 8 percent per year.
Last year, we cut back in excess of 8
percent-I think a reduction of about
$700 million. And this year, we'll do the
same. And we have also begun working
with other countries, including the Soviet
563
