Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
wiretapping for intelligence purposes and
on government access to financial records.
Early in 1979, I will propose privacy leg-
islation to cover medical, financial, and
other sensitive personal records. I will also
take administrative actions to strengthen
privacy controls for Federal agencies' rec-
ords. These measures will go far toward
giving all American citizens the privacy
protections they need in a modern
society.
I recently announced my intention to
submit legislation to Congress protecting
the rights of the press, and others prepar-
ing materials for publication, from
searches and seizures undertaken without
judicial approval. Under the legislation I
will propose, Federal, State and local law
enforcement officials will generally be re-
quired to obtain a subpoena before con-
ducting a search or seizure against those
preparing materials for publication. Such
legislation, which would deal with the
problems created by the Supreme Court's
decision in the Stanford Daily case, should
serve as a solid protection of the rights of
the news media and others under the
Fourth Amendment.
Labor Law Reform
The Nation's labor laws are vital to en-
suring that a sound labor-management
relationship exists in collective bargain-
ing. Efforts to abuse those labor laws, es-
pecially by unduly slowing or blocking
their implementation, have increased in
recent years. As a result, a reform of our
labor laws is required in order to guar-
antee that their intended spirit is fully ob-
served and enforced.
I am again prepared to work with the
Congress to develop legislation which im-
proves the fairness and effectiveness of
our labor laws. Efforts to defeat this leg-
islation last year were based on emotion
and a lack of information about its actual
effect. If the will of the majority in Con-
gress is allowed to prevail, we can enact
sound labor law legislation.
Export Administration/Anti-Foreign
Boycott
My Administration will work with the
Congress to reauthorize the Export Ad-
ministration Act, which plays a vital role
in ensuring that American trade serves
our national interest. We will make par-
ticular efforts to reauthorize that part of
the Act which prohibits American com-
pliance with the foreign economic boycott
of Israel. The anti-boycott amendments
passed by the
passed by the Congress were fair and
equitable and must continue to be stren-
uously enforced.
Intelligence Charters
I will be working closely with the Con-
gress to develop and enact statutory char-
ters for the intelligence community. The
charters, for the first time, will define in
law the duties and responsibilities of our
intelligence agencies and will set forth the
authority of those agencies to fulfill those
responsibilities. The disclosures of abuses
in recent years make clear the need for
charters, and my Administration is
strongly committed to developing and
passing charter legislation that protects
our citizens' rights, while permitting our
intelligence agencies to perform effective-
ly their essential duties.
Criminal Code
The Federal criminal laws are often
archaic, frequently contradictory and im-
precise, and clearly in need of revision and
codification. My Administration will con-
tinue to work with the Congress to develop
a Federal criminal code which simplifies
and clarifies our criminal laws-as well as
protects our basic civil liberties. The crim-
146
