Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
have found an interest in archeology; we
both must deal with difficult questions
like energy and the control of inflation.
We both look across the flowing waters
of the Rio Grande with interest, expres-
sions of friendship, concern, sometimes a
lack of understanding, but a determina-
tion to make the future brighter.
We both have beautiful and interesting
wives, and we both run several kilometers
every day. [Laughter] As a matter of
fact, I told President López Portillo that
I first acquired my habit of running here
in Mexico City. My first running course
was from the Palace of Fine Arts to the
Majestic Hotel, where me and my family
were staying. In the midst of the Folk-
lorico performance, I discovered that I
was afflicted with Montezuma's revenge.
[Laughter]
We have also noticed some remarkable
changes at that time. My wife and I and
my three sons stayed at the Majestic Ho-
tel on the Zocalo for about a week, and
we paid each day, $5.50. The view itself
was worth that price.
At the end of my visit, I will have the
honor of speaking to the Congress of
Mexico. In your address to the United
States Congress 2 years ago, Mr. Presi-
dent, you said, and I quote, "Mexico has
never been, nor is it now, the leader of
any continent or group of countries." I
respect this modest view of your nation's
role. Yet our world is changing very rapid-
ly. It is no longer divided into monolithic
ideological nor military blocs. The south-
ern tier of our planet, the so-called devel-
oping world, is asserting its rights and the
responsibilities that go with those rights.
And no one can deny that Mexico's new
strength, Mexico's new confidence, and
Mexico's new importance in the world
economy are casting your country in a
new world role.
We seek to appreciate the individuality
of each independent nation and to guide
our own policies accordingly. My admin-
istration and the people of our country
recognize the uniqueness of Mexico. By
your own choice, as you have said, Mr.
President, Mexico is not the leader of any
bloc, but on many global issues the in-
dependent voice of Mexico is heard with
increasing strength and persuasiveness.
Mexico's voice is heard, for example,
on the crucial issue of the world's eco-
nomic system-to make it more just, more
equitable, and how to increase the partici-
pation of the people of the developing
world. Because of the different levels of
development, economically speaking, of
our two countries, our respective visions
of the pace and the kind of change are
somewhat different. But our dialog is a
creative one, beneficial to all countries of
the world, regardless of the degree of their
industrialization.
Mexico's voice is heard as an advocate
of a truly international approach to hu-
man rights. The Mexican people have a
history of long and successful struggle, not
only for national independence but for
social justice and the dignity of the indi-
vidual.
Mexico has used its influence on behalf
of internationally recognized standards of
human rights, both political and eco-
nomic. This has been one of my own
most deeply felt concerns.
Our policies, both foreign and domestic,
must reflect our values as a people. Those
of us who are national leaders have a
responsibility to speak out when human
rights are violated abroad, and we also
have a responsibility to protect human
rights at home. That extends to the basic
human rights of all those who, for what-
ever reason, are within the borders of our
countries.
The struggle for human rights is not a
static thing. It offers new challenges to
every generation. During the 1960's in the
United States, we enacted new laws to
276
