Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Vice Premier Deng, do you have any
plans to meet separately with the former
President to discuss, say, not solely China,
but other subject matters? Or will Mr.
Nixon's presence here be purely a social
one?
THE PRESIDENT. I think as far as I'm
concerned, it would be purely social. I
don't have any plans now to meet with
him in an extended private way to discuss
these issues. We will provide him with ap-
propriate briefings on what has been done
in our negotiations with the people of
China. And he's been very helpful in giv-
ing us information, when asked, about
some of the historic interrelationships
that he experienced with the Chinese. But
I don't anticipate private meetings nor
briefings from me to him.
NUCLEAR TEST BAN AGREEMENT
Q. Mr. President, there is a report that
the Russians have agreed to allow the
United States to put seismic listeningposts
inside Russia to make sure that they are
not testing nuclear weapons. Is that report
accurate, and, if so, does that mean we're
very close to a nuclear test ban agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think it's in-
appropriate for me to discuss specific items
on which we are negotiating with the
Soviet Union now. They agreed not to
discuss them publicly. We agreed to do the
same. But, obviously, that's one of the
items that we are negotiating with them.
As I said about the SALT agreement,
I'm not going to sign a SALT agreement
unless it's verifiable. And I am not going
to sign a comprehensive test ban agree-
ment unless it's vertifiable. Since tests of
nuclear explosives can be at a very low
level and sometimes perhaps concealed if
they are in a very deep depth within the
Earth, listening devices, either around the
periphery of the Soviet Union or within
the Soviet Union, are, obviously, advanta-
geous.
So, the placement of listening devices
within the continental boundaries of our
country and the Soviet Union and Great
Britain Great Britain is a partner with
us-is one of those items that are being
discussed. No final agreement has yet been
reached.
DEFENSE BUDGET
Q. Mr. President, Defense Secretary
Brown told the Congress yesterday that
the U.S. arsenal is far and away superior
to that of the Soviet Union. My question
is, if that is the case and, realizing, of
course, that you're obviously trying to sell
the SALT treaty, why did you not see fit
to keep your campaign promise to reduce
the defense budget instead of raising it
at the expense of social programs, which
you said you would never do?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have kept
the campaign promise. We, obviously,
can't freeze the defense budget at a given
figure, but we've had savings that are sub-
stantially in excess of the $5 billion that I
promised during the campaign.
I have no apology to make for a strong,
adequate defense, nor for the allocation
of funds necessary to ensure a strong and
adequate defense. I think we are able at
this point to match any military capability
that the Soviets have. I think we are much
stronger economically and politically than
the Soviet Union is. But in the last 10, 15
years, the Soviets every year have had
above and beyond inflationary costs a 4- or
5-percent increase in allocation of funds
for defense purposes. In most of those
years, we've been decreasing, actually, in
the amount of funds allocated for defense.
I have not robbed the poor or the de-
prived or the social programs in order to
provide for defense. The percentage of
our budget that goes for defense has been
steadily reduced for a number of years.
176
