Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
National Governors' Association
Toasts at a White House Dinner Honoring
Governors Attending the Association's Winter
Session. February 27, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that it's a great delight for Rosalynn and
me to have you here in the White House.
A few weeks ago, Rosalynn helped to pot
these lilies of the valley, and they're for
you to take home with you as a memento
of tonight. When you leave through the
Diplomatic Room, they'll be there, so
each couple can pick one up and take it
with you.
I was sitting here computing the time
since I left the Governor's office in
Georgia. It's exactly 49 years-[laugh-
ter]-49 months. I guess I spent 2 years
campaigning and 47 years as President.
[Laughter] But I don't think I've ever
spent a more exciting and challenging and
delightful 4 years than I did as Governor
of Georgia.
And as the different Governors went
by in the receiving line and I shook hands
with you, I had a recurring sense that was
hard for me at first to describe in one
word. But I finally realized it was jealousy.
[Laughter] Cecil Andrus had the same
feeling. [Laughter]
There is a deep emotional sense that I
have, as President, when I have the Gover-
nors of our Nation come to visit me here.
Thinking back on the history of this
house, it's almost overwhelming. Every
President who served our Nation has lived
in this house, except George Washington.
And to see the furnishings in the rooms, to
recall some of the history of this place
is a sobering experience, but also a very
challenging and inspirational experi-
ence. To see the room where Lincoln
signed the Emancipation Proclamation,
wrote the Gettysburg Address; to see a
little, small writing desk, about this large,
that Thomas Jefferson made with his own
hands, designed and carried around on
the back of his horse when he was Presi-
dent, on the back of a buggy; to see the
desk that belonged to Daniel Webster;
and to see the sculpture here-it's really
overwhelming.
But I think the basic strength of our
country, that tides us over in times of trial
and stress and tribulation and challenge,
is our system of federalism. As you know,
the local governments and the Federal
Government only have the authority and
the power that was delegated to those two
governments by the States. And the de-
pository of the remaining authority,
power, initiative, opportunity for innova-
tion, experiment, the consummation of
ideals, the administration of laws that
direct dealings with people remain in the
hands of Governors and the governments
of the States.
This is reassuring to me as President.
We share a lot of responsibility, obviously,
in the realm of domestic affairs-to con-
trol inflation, to decide how to amend the
Constitution [laughter]-to deal with
the problems of energy, transportation,
air pollution, water pollution, the aged,
education-these kinds of things affect
you and me both as equal partners. And
if there is any inequality of it, the biggest
responsibility is on your shoulders.
I think there's a new developing sense,
however, among the Governors, partially
initiated by me, of a sharing of a respon-
sibility for foreign affairs as well. The new
formation of a committee to enhance
international trade may be one of the
most historic developments in the history
of the National Governors' Conference,
now Association.
And I think it opens up not only an op-
portunity for us to learn about how to
enhance job opportunities, to market
American products, to extend hands of
354
