Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
UNDERSTANDING THE FORCES OF NATURE,
AND MAN-INDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL
CHANGES
Man exists on this planet only with the
consent of Nature. Natural forces like
earthquakes, floods, storms, tsunamis, and
landslides, as well as changes in weather
that bring drought or excess rainfall, cause
untold tragedy in loss of life, destruction
of property, and disruption of economic
and social structure.
Scientific advances of the past twenty
years in geophysics, meteorology, and cli-
matology have improved our understand
ing of natural phenomena. However, our
predictive capability is limited and needs
to be improved. And our capability for in-
fluencing natural forces for human benefit
is nonexistent. On the other hand, our
engineering skills, our ability to plan, our
early warning and communications sys-
tems, and our ability to react quickly to
prevent a breakdown of social order help
to reduce the toll when natural disaster
does strike. We possess sophisticated tech-
nology for construction, communications,
transportation, monitoring and interpre-
tation of data on natural processes. My
commitment to increase our progress is
strong. The Congress recognizes that fun-
damental advances in understanding
natural forces are important, and I wel-
come the partnership we have forged.
The National Earthquake Hazards Re-
duction Program established by the Earth-
quake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 re-
sulted in a national hazard mitigation plan
that I transmitted to Congress in June,
1978. This effort will involve Federal
agencies, experts in the universities and
private sector, and the States and localities
to improve our understanding of earth-
quakes and our reactions to earthquake
warnings.
To improve our ability to react to
natural disasters and assist those affected,
the Congress approved my reorganization
recommendation to create the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. This
new Agency will have oversight of Federal
programs to assist the areas and indivi-
duals affected by such civil emergencies.
It will give us the ability to focus science-
and the insight of the social sciences-on
the mitigation of natural hazards as well as
on post-disaster relief. The Agency will
work closely with State and local jurisdic-
tions to apply the benefits of available
technology.
We also have focused increased research
on climate. Within the framework of the
National Climate Program Act of 1978, a
national program has been organized. This
program emphasizes impact assessment,
diagnosis and projection, climate dy-
namics, and data management. My budg-
ets in this area have more than doubled
in the last two years. Advances that can
be made in understanding climate change,
in predicting it—and perhaps in influenc-
ing it beneficially-will be of enormous
help to us and the rest of the world.
Another problem we face is the risk that
man's own activities-now significant on
a global scale—might adversely affect the
earth's environment and ecosystem. De-
struction of the ozone layer, increase in
atmospheric carbon dioxide, and altera-
tion of oceanic flow patterns are examples
of the problems we must understand be-
fore changes are irreversible or the conse-
quences inevitable. Many Federally-
sponsored research activities, including
basic research in the atmospheric, oceanic
and earth sciences, and space observations,
contribute to better understanding of the
natural processes affecting the earth. They
should receive serious attention in the
537
