Apr. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
SBA and FmHA into the consolidated
economic development financing program
in EDA. This legislation will be submitted
after Congress has completed action on
the reorganization plan; and
legislation that will reauthorize and
expand the work of the Multi-State
Regional Action Planning Commissions.
The National Public Works and Eco-
nomic Development Act of 1979 will
strengthen and expand the Federal gov-
ernment's ability to bring private sector
jobs and investment to economically
troubled urban and rural areas. The bill
provides various incentives-grants,
direct loans to businesses, loan guarantees
and interest subsidies to encourage
businesses to invest in areas with high un-
employment, low average incomes, signifi-
cant poverty and loss of jobs. The bill
will help to rejuvenate economically
troubled communities in both rural and
urban areas.
There are three major elements to this
legislation. The first is a consolidated and
substantially expanded public works and
economic development grant program. It
consolidates into one grant program the
authorities previously included in Titles I,
IV and IX of the current EDA legislation.
The public works and economic develop-
ment grants will be available for the de-
sign, construction and rehabilitation of
public facilities; the capitalization of
State and local government revolving loan
programs; the funding of State economic
development projects; the provision of as-
sistance to private sector businesses that
expand or locate in economically troubled
areas; and the financing of special proj-
ects that provide immediate jobs for the
unemployed. I will request $575 million
of budget authority in FY 1980 for this
grant program.
A second part of this legislation author-
izes a variety of financing incentives to
encourage private sector businesses to re-
main, locate or expand in economically
distressed urban and rural areas. The
consolidated economic development fi-
nancing program will make available
direct loans, loan guarantees and inter-
est subsidies to businesses that provide
private sector jobs in economically dis-
tressed communities. It consolidates the
loan and loan guarantee assistance cur-
rently available under EDA's Title II
program with the financing incentives
previously proposed for the National De-
velopment Bank. It will be the founda-
tion for the consolidated economic devel-
opment loan and loan guarantee program
that I have proposed as part of my reor-
ganization effort. My budget proposes
that $570 million of budget authority and
$1.8 billion of loan guarantee authority
be available for this program in Fiscal
Year 1980.
The third key part of this legislation
will provide economic development plan-
ning assistance to urban and rural areas
and technical assistance to both the pub-
lic sector and the private sector. It will
help State and local governments and the
private sector strengthen their capacity
to work together to rebuild the economic
base of economically distressed urban and
rural communities. I will request that
approximately $90 million of budget au-
thority be provided in Fiscal Year 1980
for this program.
The National Public Works and Eco-
nomic Development Act will provide the
foundation for the consolidated economic
development loan and loan guarantee
program that I announced as part of my
reorganization proposals. Later this year,
I will transmit to Congress a reorganiza-
tion plan that transfers to EDA the busi-
ness and industry loan program from
FmHA and the State and local develop-
ment company loan programs from SBA.
This reorganization plan will bring the
major economic development loan and
602
