Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
nomic aid loans under economic support
fund authorities. These funds will help
meet Egypt's large development needs
and help satisfy the expectations of the
Egyptian people for a better life.
As you begin your consideration of
these proposals, I urge you to give par-
ticular attention to three elements which
I can personally assure you are critical.
-First, the proposed assistance is even-
handed. The financing package I will re-
quest reflects a careful assessment of the
near-term burdens of the treaty balanced
against the military and economic circum-
stances of each country. Our future in-
fluence in the Midle East depends on the
perception by all affected countries that
we do not unfairly support any one coun-
try. Alteration of the proposed amounts
or terms of assistance to either Israel or
Egypt could impair this perception.
-Second, the amounts of aid proposed
and the terms offered are the result of a
careful balancing of foreign policy needs
and fiscal policy constraints. Thus, while
substantial U.S. assistance is required to
assure successful implementation of the
Treaty, I have made every effort to limit
United States funding in light of our cur-
rent budgetary constraints and my desire
to avoid imposing any unnecessary burden
on the U.S. taxpayer.
-Third, the proposed United States
assistance is a coherent, interrelated pack-
age which requires urgent congressional
action. Piecemeal treatment would threat-
en both evenhandedness and the careful
balance between foreign policy and budg-
et requirements. Delay in congressional
action on the legislation could critically
disrupt the carefully negotiated timing for
Treaty implementation.
I regard this initiative as the most im-
portant foreign affairs proposal currently
before the Congress. I am sure I can count
on your support for favorable and prompt
congressional action.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Frank Church, chairman of the Sen-
ate Foreign Relations Committee, Edmund S.
Muskie, chairman of the Senate Budget Com-
mittee, Warren G. Magnuson, chairman of the
Senate Appropriations Committee, Clement J.
Zablocki, chairman of the House Foreign Af-
fairs Committee, Robert N. Giaimo, chairman
of the House Budget Committee, and Jamie L.
Whitten, chairman of the House Appropria-
tions Committee.
Alaska Natural Gas
Transportation System
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1979.
April 2, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am submitting to you today Reor-
ganization Plan No. 1 of 1979 to create
the Office of Federal Inspector for the
Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Sys-
tem and establish the position of Federal
Inspector. Creation of this Office and the
transfer of appropriate Federal enforce-
ment authority and responsibility is con-
sistent with my September 1977 Decision
and Report to the Congress on the Alas-
ka Natural Gas Transportation System.
This decision was approved by the Con-
gress November 2, 1977.
The Alaska Gas Transportation Sys-
structed in partnership with Canada.
tem is a 4,748-mile pipeline to be con-
Canada completed legislation enacting a
similar transfer last year and has already
appointed an official to coordinate its ac-
tivities prior to and during pipeline con-
struction. The Northwest Alaska Pipe-
line Company has been selected to con-
struct the pipeline, with completion
591
