Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
and Disarmament Agency, and many
others who hammered out this treaty will
testify for it before the Senate, in detail
and in public. As President of our coun-
try, I will explain it throughout our Na-
tion to every American who will listen.
This treaty will withstand the most severe
scrutiny because it is so clearly in the
interest of American security and of world
peace.
SALT II is the most detailed, far-
reaching, comprehensive treaty in the his-
tory of arms control. Its provisions are
interwoven by the give-and-take of the
long negotiating process. Neither side
obtained everything it sought. But the
package that did emerge is a carefully
balanced whole, and it will make the
world a safer place for both sides.
The restrictions on strategic nuclear
weapons are complex, because these
weapons represent the highest develop-
ment of the complicated technical skills
of two great nations. But the basic reali-
ties underlying this treaty and the thrust
of the treaty itself are not so complex.
When all is said and done, SALT II is a
matter of common sense.
The SALT II treaty reduces the dan-
ger of nuclear war. For the first time, it
places equal ceilings on the strategic arse-
nals of both sides, ending a previous
numerical imbalance in favor of the
Soviet Union.
SALT II preserves our options to build
the forces we need to maintain that stra-
tegic balance. The treaty enhances our
own ability to monitor what the Soviet
Union is doing. And it leads directly to
the next step in more effectively con-
trolling nuclear weapons.
Again, SALT II does not end the arms
competition. But it does make that com-
petition safer and more predictable, with
clear rules and verifiable limits, where
otherwise there would be no rules and
there would be no limits.
It's in our interest because it slows
down-it even reverses—the momentum
of the Soviet arms buildup that has been
of such great concern to all of us. Under
this new treaty, the Soviet Union will be
held to a third fewer strategic missile
launchers and bombers by 1985 than they
would have simply by continuing to build
at their present rate.
With SALT II, the numbers of war-
heads on missiles, their throw-weight, and
the qualitative development of new mis-
siles will all be limited. The Soviet Union
will have to destroy or dismantle some
250 strategic missile systems-systems
such as nuclear submarines armed with
relatively new missiles, built in the early
1970's, and aircraft will have to be de-
stroyed by the Soviet Union carrying their
largest multimegaton bomb. Once dis-
mantled, under the provisions of SALT
II, these systems cannot be replaced.
By contrast, no operational United
States forces will have to be reduced.
For one Soviet missile alone-the SS-
18-the SALT II limits will mean that
some 6,000 fewer Soviet nuclear war-
heads can be built and aimed at our
country. SALT II limits severely for the
first time the number of warheads that
can be mounted on these very large mis-
siles of the Soviet Union, cutting down
their actual potential by 6,000.
With or without SALT II, we must
modernize and strengthen our own stra-
tegic forces and we are doing so but
SALT II will make this task easier, surer,
and less expensive.
The agreement constrains none of the
reasonable programs we've planned to
improve our own defenses. Moreover, it
helps us to respond more effectively to
our most pressing strategic problem-the
prospective vulnerability in the 1980's of
1089
