Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 20
spending 3 years ago. But we must do
better. That's why I've asked Vice Presi-
dent Mondale to head a Cabinet-level
task force to review everything both gov-
ernment and private industry is doing in
youth employment and in training.
We're going to make sure these pro-
grams work. And we're going to look for
ways to get private business to do its part
as well.
As part of that review, we are taking
another look at our summer job program
which has been seriously troubled. The
level of jobs in the future will depend on
the effectiveness of this program. In the
meantime, I'm going to make sure it's my
business to assure that this summer we
have the 1 million summer jobs for youth
that have been promised.
The struggle for civil rights is not over.
Talk to the members of the Congressional
Black Caucus. They are deeply concerned
about the attitude in the United States
Congress toward civil rights.
We have made progress, but we've not
achieved what we need to accomplish.
The Brown decision and the voting rights
act tore the mask of legality from the face
of racism, and you and I are never going
to let this mask of racism be put back on.
Before these legal actions, there were
only a few thousand black students in
State colleges all across the country. Now
more than a million black students are
going to colleges all over America, mostly
in publicly supported colleges like this
one.
about, because you and others like you are
the reason that I'm President, and be-
cause one day, one of you may have the
job that I hold now. I don't know if you'll
want it or not. [Laughter]
Change change does not come easy.
Changing the course of society is not like
changing the channel on a television set.
In 1896, for example, the Supreme
Court issued the evil principle of separate
but equal. It took 58 years-more than
one half a century of losing court
battles, marches, arrests, courage, sacri-
fice, before a new court finally killed the
ghost of Jim Crow. But it happened be-
cause people like you, mostly blacks, many
students, made it happen.
There were a lot of heroes. One of
those heroes died last week, A. Philip Ran-
dolph. He was 90 years old. He spent his
long life fighting against discrimination in
jobs, in defense industries, in the Armed
Forces of his own country. He fought more
battles than he won, but he won enough
lives of all of us.
to change the face of this Nation and the
His fight, your fight, our fight, goes on.
We've written the promise of equality
into our laws. But we must have the means
and the tools now to keep that promise.
There are still unlawful, documented
racial discrimination practices in housing
in our country, for instance, especially in
our cities. That's why we are struggling
in Congress now to give Patricia Harris,
the Secretary of the Housing and Urban
These numbers do indicate that prog- Development Department, cease-and-de-
ress has been made. These numbers are
important, because education leads to
jobs- -good jobs. And I was encouraged
with what President Wilson told me on
the way in from the airport about your
success in getting jobs.
I'm going to tell it to you straight, be-
cause I care about the things you care
sist orders, so that the victims of discrimi-
nation in housing will no longer have to
have the burden, very expensive burden,
of enforcing the very laws designed to pro-
tect them.
We're not going to get this change into
law through Congress without your po-
litical participation. The very least we
911
