Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 14
protect the civil and voting rights of all
citizens regardless of language, race, or
color. Here in Mexico, Mr. President,
you've initiated an important political re-
form and an amnesty law, evidence of
your belief in open debate and in the ac-
commodation of opposing views.
Finally, and most important, the voice
of Mexico is heard in the service of world
peace. Your government has worked long
and hard to control weapons and arma-
ments, both nuclear and conventional,
both in this hemisphere and throughout
the world. It would not be going too far
to say that of all the major countries on
Earth, there is none more dedicated to
arms control and more opposed to mili-
tarism than Mexico.
world community of justice, diversity,
and peace.
And now, I would like to propose a
toast, Mr. President: First, to the health
of the President of Mexico and to Mrs.
López Portillo, to the continuing friend-
ship and cooperation of the peoples of
Mexico and the peoples of the United
States of America, and to what we most
desire, peace throughout the world.
Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:25 p.m. in
the Banquet Room at the Foreign Ministry
Building. President López Portillo spoke in
Spanish, and his remarks were translated by an
interpreter.
Prior to the luncheon, President Carter had
toured the Palacio Nacional and the Templo
Mayor, an Aztec archeological site.
The leaders of this great country have
taken an extremely important initiative in
the Treaty of Tlatelolco, a treaty that was
signed here at this place. This effort to Mexico City, Mexico
make this region of the entire world into a
nuclear weapons-free zone is one of the
most creative steps that any country has
taken since the invention of these terrible
weapons of nuclear destruction.
Your approach is both visionary and
practical, a difficult combination to
achieve. I hope and I trust that it will
serve as a model for other regions on
Earth. And in the United Nations and
elsewhere, you have [been]¹ similarly
[been]¹ similarly
creative in trying to stanch the spread of
conventional arms.
We welcome Mexico's advocacy of
these issues. Though our two countries
may not agree with each other in every
particular, there is a sense of shared con-
cern and shared values which underline
our relationships.
In the spirit of mutual respect and
mutual regard and with great admira-
tion, Mr. President, I look forward to
continuing to work with you toward a
¹ Printed in the transcript.
Remarks at the United States Embassy.
February 14, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Fellow employees of the
United States Government:
You and I are indeed fortunate to be
partners in the service of a great nation,
with the task of improving relationships
among people who are bound together by
intense and ancient ties of friendship, kin-
ship, mutual problems, mutual opportu-
nities, and a greater future.
It's no accident that this embassy here
in the capital of Mexico is the largest
United States embassy on Earth. This is
because the relationships between the
United States of America and the Repub-
lic of Mexico are so important to Ameri-
cans, important not just to our own two
countries and our two peoples but impor-
tant indeed throughout this entire
hemisphere.
You have a special challenge here.
There are 20 million Americans who
277
