Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 11
been associated with the College of Phy-
sicians and Surgeons at Columbia Uni-
versity throughout his career. He serves
as professor of human genetics and direc-
tor of the Cancer Center. He is a current
member of the President's Cancer Panel
and served on the President's Biomedical
Research Panel in 1975-76. He is a
founding member of the Radiation Ef-
fects Research Foundation of Japan and
served on the science council advisory to
the board of directors of that foundation.
Cora B. Marrett, associate professor of
sociology at the University of Wisconsin in
Madison. Marrett, 36, has served as a
consultant to the Army Scientific Advisory
Panel and chairs the Panel on Personnel
Research in the Navy as a member of the
National Research Advisory Committee.
Her research and publications are
primarily in the areas of organizational
structure and communication and of
opportunities for women and minorities
in science and engineering. She has served
previously on the faculties of the Univer-
sity of North Carolina and Western
Michigan University. She has served on
numerous panels for the National Re-
search Council and the National Science
Foundation.
Lloyd McBride, international president
of the United Steelworkers of America,
and a vice president of the AFL-CIO.
McBride, 63, has been active in labor af-
fairs for more than four decades and has
held a number of union positions nation-
ally and in his home State of Missouri.
He is a member of the National Commis-
sion on Air Quality and the President's
Advisory Committee for Trade Negotia-
tions.
Harry C. McPherson, Jr., a Washing-
ton, D.C., attorney. McPherson, 49, is a
former Deputy Under Secretary of the
Department of the Army and has also
served as Assistant Secretary of State for
Educational and Cultural Affairs. He was
Special Counsel to President Johnson. He
is presently a partner in the firm of Ver-
ner, Liipfert, Bernhard & McPherson.
Russell Peterson, former Governor of
Delaware and Chairman of the Presi-
dent's Council on Environmental Quality,
now president of the National Audubon
Society. Peterson, 62, is a chemist by
training and was associated with E. I.
du Pont de Nemours & Co. from 1942
to 1969, when he became Governor of
Delaware. He served as Chairman of the
Council on Environmental Quality from
1973 until 1978, when he became Director
of the Office of Technology Assessment
of the United States Congress. He re-
signed in 1979 to become president of
the National Audubon Society. He is the
recipient of many civic and conservation
awards.
Thomas Pigford, a professor and chair-
man of the department of nuclear en-
gineering at the University of California
at Berkeley. Pigford, 56, has also served
on the faculty at Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. Among his areas of special
expertise are nuclear reactor design and
reactor safety. He has received the Arthur
H. Compton Award of the American
Nuclear Society and served as a member
and chairman of several Government re-
view committees and advisory commit-
tees. He was a member of the American
Physical Society's study group on nuclear
fuel cycles and waste management. He
received his training in nuclear and
chemical engineering at the Georgia In-
stitute of Technology and the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology.
Theodore B. Taylor, professor of aero-
space and mechanical science at Prince-
ton University. Taylor, 53, is a physicist
and reactor specialist. He designed the
TRIGA nuclear research reactor, the de-
sign most in use around the world today.
661
