Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
which reflect the deliberations of the
White House Conference. Moreover, the
Administration is currently reviewing ma-
jor Federal community and economic
development programs, including the
proper Federal organization to most effec-
tively and efficiently develop the benefits
of these programs. This effort is intended
to address many of the concerns raised
during the Conference-most notably the
Administration-wide program and co-
ordination support.
REAUTHORIZATION OF THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT LEGISLATION
The future direction of the Commerce
Department's economic development pro-
grams was among the primary concerns
which led to the enactment of the legis-
lation authorizing the White House Con-
ference. The Public Works and Economic
need for a balanced approach to develop- Development Act of 1965 as amended
ment, streamlined government processes,
and growth policy processes.
REGIONAL FEDERALISM
The legislation authorizing the Appa-
lachian and Title V Regional Commis-
sions expires next year. I am proposing
new legislation which builds on the suc-
cessful elements of the existing State-
Federal programs, while providing the
Commissions with new opportunities to
shape Federal policies and programs to
reflect regional differences. The principal
elements of this new legislation are:
• The opportunity for all states to par-
ticipate in multi-state Regional Commis-
sions within boundaries delineated in con-
sultation with the Governors according to
minimal Federal guidelines.
• A broad definition of regional devel-
opment including energy, export, and
human and natural resources concerns.
• Incentives to improve the coordina-
tion of state and regional development
programs.
In addition to the ongoing policy and
administration responsibilities of the De-
partment of Commerce for this program,
I am expanding the role of the White
House Interagency Coordinating Coun-
cil to provide the Commissions with
expires next year. The Administration in-
tends to transmit recommendations to
Congress concerning these important pro-
grams for building jobs and revenues in
distressed communities.
CONCLUSION
The roots of this Conference lay in a
series of state-organized growth policy
processes that occurred over the past dec-
ade as well as in the pre-Conference meet-
ings held by the Regional Commissions
throughout the country. I commend the
Governors and legislators concerned for
providing excellent examples of how to
make government truly sensitive to the
needs and wishes of our people.
The challenge before us is to expand
and systematize this process of shared re-
sponsibility among the regions, states and
localities, involving private interests, and
applying the results in framing national
growth policies. The intergovernmental
partnership must be one of shared con-
cern and shared responsibility for reduc-
ing the disparities among people and
places in our Nation. The message of the
White House Conference was that sub-
national as well as national policies must
address this need. The new urban, reg-
ional, and energy policies I have and will
continue to propose, are important steps
toward that objective.
78
