Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, April 13, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
April 6, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I hate to interrupt Jody
when he's in trouble—[laughter]—which
is most of the time.
This part of the press will only be in
here a few minutes.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I did want to just outline in brief terms
some of the issues that I am facing at this
moment. I think you all know what they
are. We are trying to carry out the mo-
mentum of the Mideast treaty. We are
dealing with the energy question, I think,
in a very responsible and bold and ade-
quate way. Inflation is still a heavy prob-
lem on all of us, which has certainly not
been resolved. We took action this morn-
ing, announced by Fred Kahn and Esther
Peterson, to enhance the interrelationship
between the Government and the consum-
er groups and also to inform the public
about certain items which are heavily im-
pacted by rapidly rising prices, so that
there can be more cautious and prudent
buying.
On the Hill, we have several reorgani-
zation proposals in the prospect of being
passed: deregulation, reduction in paper-
work, which is very important for us. The
budget, I think, is in basically good condi-
tion-a very stringent 1980 fiscal year
budget. I think the Congress has recog-
nized and joined in the general philosophy
about budgeting this year, which is com-
patible, I think, with the attitude of the
American people.
We have, obviously, other international
and domestic concerns. But I think at this
moment it would be better for me to let
you ask questions rather than to continue
this dissertation. And I'm available to you
for the next few minutes.
QUESTIONS
COAL
Q. Mr. President, I'm Walter Dear
from Henderson, Kentucky. My wife
joins me in thanking you for your per-
sonal leadership in resolving this problem
between Israel and Egypt. God bless you.
We really do appreciate that.
And now, with my other hat, because
I'm from Kentucky, I urge you to come
621
