Mar. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
well-being. I am committed to continuing regulation gives Americans their money's
worth.
this progress.
The overall regulatory system, however,
has become burdensome and unwieldy.
We now have 90 regulatory agencies issu-
ing some 7,000 rules each year. When
Congress established these programs, it
usually focused on isolated objectives.
There was little effort to coordinate over-
lapping agency mandates or to assess cu-
mulative impact. Little attention was
given to analyzing the benefits and costs of
proposed rules or to using regulatory ap-
proaches which could reduce the cost of
achieving the goals. Many regulatory pro-
grams were allowed to continue unre-
viewed for decades, in spite of changing
conditions. Some rules, such as certain
rules affecting transportation rates and
routes, came to do more harm than good
by crippling competition. The last com-
prehensive legislation to improve regula-
tory procedures was passed more than 30
years ago.
We can no longer afford this neglect.
Regulation has a large and increasing im-
pact on the economy. Uncertainty about
upcoming rules can reduce investment
and productivity. Compliance with regu-
lations absorbs large amounts of the capi-
tal investments of some industries, further
restricting productivity. Inflexible rules
and massive paperwork generate extra
costs that are especially burdensome for
small businesses, state and local govern-
ments, and non-profit groups. Regulations
that impose needless costs add to inflation.
Our society's resources are vast, but
they are not infinite. Americans are will-
ing to spend a fair share of those resources
to achieve social goals through regulation.
Their support falls away, however, when
they see needless rules, excessive costs, and
duplicative paperwork. If we are to con-
tinue our progress, we must ensure that
During the past two years, I have used
my authority as President to improve reg-
ulatory management.
• After extensive public comment, I is-
sued Executive Order 12044, establishing
far-reaching new procedures for develop-
ment of regulations by Executive agencies.
Under that Order, agencies are now ana-
lyzing the costs of all major new regula-
tions to seek out the most cost-effective
approach; they are expanding opportuni-
ties for public participation; and they are
starting to identify and eliminate out-
dated rules.
• To assist individual agencies in meet-
ing the goals of Executive Order 12044,
I established the Regulatory Analysis Re-
view Group, which prepares reports on
particularly important proposed rules.
• Until this year, there was no way to
get a picture of upcoming regulations.
Now, each agency is publishing agendas
of the rules it is developing. To provide a
government-wide picture of major rules, I
have established a Regulatory Calendar
to be published twice a year. The first
Calendar, issued last month, listed 109
rules being developed this year.
• I created the Regulatory Council to
prepare the Calendar and use it to identify
and deal with areas of overlapping and
conflicting regulations. The Council is
composed of Executive regulatory agen-
cies plus those independent commissions
that agreed to join.
The men and women I appointed to
head the regulatory agencies are working
to implement these steps and improve
regulatory management. They are achiev-
ing results. HEW has eliminated 300
pages of rules. OSHA voided nearly 1,000
nitpicking rules, and the Federal Trade
Commission cancelled 145 more. The
FCC rewrote its rules on citizens band
492
