Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 12
A strong and effective health system
absolutely requires establishment of cost
containment measures far more effective
than we have today. The American people
now spend more than 9 percent of our
gross national product on health services,
$200 billion a year. Hospital costs are ris-
ing $1 million per hour, 24 hours a day,
365 days a year. It's time to draw the line
on skyrocketing hospital costs.
For 2 years, now, I've asked Congress
for hospital cost containment legislation.
That bill alone will save Americans $53
billion over the next 5 years. I've had the
support of key congressional leaders, in-
cluding those here today. Congress must
enact a strong hospital cost containment
bill if the National Health Plan is to be-
come a reality.
A truly comprehensive health program
is among the great unfinished items on our
Nation's social agenda. The National
Health Plan I'm submitting today estab-
lishes the framework and creates the
momentum for reaching that long-sought
goal. This plan meets urgent national
needs. No longer will the elderly find the
benefits of Medicare illusory when they
are most needed. No longer will working
families live in fear of catastrophic medi-
cal expenses. No longer will millions of the
poor be forced to depend only on emer-
gency rooms or outpatient clinics or char-
ity hospitals for basic care, or do without
health care altogther. No longer will
low-income women be forced to bring
their children into the world with inade-
quate medical care or help.
There are those who sincerely believe
that we must insist upon a full-scale, com-
prehensive plan enacted all at once. The
idea of all or nothing has been pursued
now for almost three decades. But I must
say in all candor that no child of poverty,
no elderly American, no middle-class
family has yet benefited from a rigid and
unswerving commitment to this principle
of all or nothing. The National Health
Plan that I proposed will provide millions
of our people-men, women, and chil-
dren with better health, greater eco-
nomic security, and more productive,
dignified, and hopeful lives. The Ameri-
can people have waited long enough. I
call on the Congress to act without delay.
I might say that the Healthcare plan
has been evolved through careful consul-
tation with key congressional leaders
and with representatives of American
organizations and groups over the last
few months. Today we have many of
those congressional leaders represented
here, with the leadership of crucial com-
mittees, and I'd like to call on a few of
them to say a word at this time.
First, in the House, I'd like to ask Jim
Corman and Chairman Charlie Rangel to
say a word, and then I'll call on others
after them.
Jim?
REPRESENTATIVE CORMAN. Thank you,
Mr. President.
As you know, some of us have worked
long and hard for a national health secu-
rity program. This is a very constructive
first step. For the first time, it acknowl-
edges the fact that regardless of whether
they're rich or poor, women expecting
children and babies, and hopefully in
later years, older children, will have uni-
versal coverage. We'll see if that works.
If it does, we have something to build on.
And I'm delighted and honored to sup-
port the program.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Jim.
REPRESENTATIVE RANGEL. Thank you,
Mr. President.
I'm pleased to be here with such dis-
tinguished colleagues in government. It is
true that we have been rather stubborn
in trying to get our way for bills that we
thought were in the best interests of the
1025
