Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 30
hopeful of gaining the release of other So-
viet religious and political dissidents such
as Mr. Shcharanskiy?
THE PRESIDENT. We've not forgotten
any human rights activist in the Soviet
Union who is being punished or im-
prisoned.
The recent exchange was the result of
long and tedious and detailed negotia-
tions extending, I would say, at least over
a 6-month period. The final agreement
was approved personally by me and, I
presume, by President Brezhnev. The
identity of the human rights activists who
came here from the Soviet Union was one
that was the subject of detailed negotia-
tion, where the Soviets would put forward
names and we would assess those names
and repeatedly reject them because we
did not think they were adequate.
In my final judgment, reached just a
week or so ago, I felt that the list of names
fair exchange and, therefore,
approved them. And I cannot tell you
any more detail than that about the
negotiations.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Have you considered taking your
SALT case to the public next year to try
to get a Senate that would approve the
treaty?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I have every in-
tention to conclude the SALT negotia-
tions at the earliest possible moment. No
one has ever seriously considered, in my
administration, to my knowledge, any
slightest delay in concluding the SALT
treaty for political purposes or for any
other purpose. And my understanding is
that if the SALT treaty can be concluded
fairly early, that it will be considered as a
very top priority by the Senate, and the
action by the Senate will be concluded
this year.
JAMES FALLOWS
Q. Mr. President, how do you respond
to the statements by Jim Fallows, who was
your chief speechwriter for more than 2
years, on a number of things, but specifi-
cally that while you hold specific positions
on a number of individual issues, that you
have no broad, overall philosophy about
where you'd like to see the country go?
And on another point, Fallows says that
you signed off personally on the use of the
White House tennis courts, but you told
Bill Moyers that you didn't. What's the
truth about that?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, first of all,
that I think Jim Fallows is a fine young
man. And he didn't express these con-
cerns to me while he was employed by us.
This is the kind of question that has to be
faced by any President when someone
leaves the White House. It's happened
many times in the past.
Jim Fallows and I agree on most things.
His assessment of my character and per-
formance is one of those things on which
we don't agree-[laughter]—and this is
unfortunate, but understandable. He left
the White House employment with a very
good spirit of friendship between me and
him, and with no insinuation that there
were things about which he was disap-
pointed.
The White House tennis court: I have
never personally monitored who used or
did not use the White House tennis court.
I have let my secretary, Susan Clough,
receive requests from members of the
White House staff who wanted to use the
tennis court at certain times, so that more
than one person would not want to use
the same tennis court simultaneously, un-
less they were either on opposite sides of
the net or engaged in a doubles contest.
751
