Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
age of gasoline brought about by an in-
terruption in supplies.
Tomorrow, the House commerce com-
mittee will have another very important
vote to determine whether or not we will
even have a standby plan to deal with
such an emergency. It's imperative for our
Nation's energy preparedness that the
committee approve this standby gasoline
rationing plan.
If, after the plan is evolved, it needs
to be implemented, both the Congress and
the President would have to approve be-
fore it goes into effect. It's a simple matter
of common sense for us to do everything
we possibly can to reduce our vulner-
ability to another oil embargo or a Mid-
dle East crisis or an interruption in our
own domestic supplies. We do not face
any of these contingencies now, but we
must be prepared for the worst. We must
make certain that gasoline can be distrib-
uted promptly and fairly in case of an
emergency.
No one likes gasoline rationing, and we
will avoid it if it is possible. But I will
not hide from my responsibility to the
Nation, and Congress likewise needs to
shoulder its share of the responsibility.
It's not easy to vote for a rationing
plan. I understand this. But the tough
votes are never easy. The Nation's at-
tention will properly be focused on the
House commerce committee tomorrow,
and I urge the members of that com-
mittee to place responsibility for the Na-
tion's well-being above all other concerns
and to vote to approve the standby ra-
tioning plan.
I also urge the Congress to pass the
three other standby energy conservation
plans that I submitted last month. I'm
particularly concerned about the possi-
bility that the standby plan for gasoline
conservation might be killed. This plan
would be implemented only in the States
that fail to develop their own plans for
conserving gasoline, and then only in case
there are severe shortages.
But we face the possibility of gasoline
shortages even as early as this summer,
and common sense tells us both that my
administration and the Congress must do
our part if we are to be ready.
Now, Mr. Pippert [Wes Pippert, United
Press International], I'd like to answer
your questions.
QUESTIONS
OIL PRICE DECONTROL
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you
further about the fairness, the simple jus-
tice of your gasoline decontrol proposals.
THE PRESIDENT. Good.
Q. First, gasoline already is nearing a
dollar a gallon at the pumps. And this
will not keep the wealthy from driving,
because they can and probably would pay
$2 or $3 a gallon. But these prices put a
tremendous burden on the ordinary
person. Is this fair?
And secondly, you've used strong lan-
guage in talking about oil companies and
the excess profits that they stand to gain
from decontrol. Yet an analysis by the
Treasury Department shows that when its
application on all categories of domestic
oil are considered and an adjustment is
made for using some of this tax to offset
Federal income taxes, the net effect is
that the new tax would recapture only
about 10 percent of the windfall profits.
Is this fair?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in both in-
stances the answer is yes, it is fair, as well
as we can devise an equitable plan to
deal with an unfortunate subject.
The allocation of scarce supplies of
energy must be done in the light of in-
tense public scrutiny and after close con-
748
