Feb. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
thought. But isn't it more likely that in
fact you're going to have to go to such
measures as Sunday closing of gasoline
stations? And as Senator Jackson said,
the price of gasoline may go up to a dol-
lar a gallon and we'll have long lines.
Wouldn't it be better to sort of warn the
American people about that?
The President. Well, the situation is
not crucial now; it's not a crisis. But it
certainly could get worse. For instance, if
we experience a worldwide shortage to the
extent that our sharing commitment
would be triggered, this would mean an
additional shortage in our country that
would go from 22 percent up to 4 per-
cent. And if the Iranian production is not
restored in the next number of months,
our shortage in this country could go as
high as 5, 6, or 7 percent, under which
circumstances we would have to take
more strenuous action.
But I believe the first step is to imple-
ment fully the new legislation that we
now have on the books and to encourage
the American people, as we have been for
the last 2 years, strictly to enforce volun-
tary conservation measures. One thing
that's concerned me recently is the move
on the part of some ill-advised State leg-
islatures to raise the speed limit above
55, up to 65 or more. This would result
in a termination of Federal funds allo-
cated to them for highway purposes.
But I think there has to be built in the
American consciousness a realization that
we can accommodate these potential
shortages in oil production on a world-
wide basis if we carry out a shifting from
oil to coal or natural gas, under some cir-
cumstances, or to solar power, other
sources, and if we restrain our wasteful-
ness in the consumption of oil as much as
possible.
WELFARE SPENDING
Q. Mr. President, in your 1976 cam-
paign, you pledged a program that would
relieve the heavy burden of welfare costs
on a number of States and communities.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Your new welfare program appar-
ently will take effect in fiscal 1982. And
yet, last year in communications with
Congress and I believe it's the admin-
istration's stand now-you still oppose
emergency fiscal relief that would bridge
the gap between the situation that oc-
curred in '76 in your comprehensive pro-
gram. Why is that?
THE PRESIDENT. That's not an accu-
rate assessment. Last year, we did propose
to the Congress substantial relief to major
local areas, cities and counties, through
our countercyclical aid proposal, which
was focused on those communities that
need the aid most. This proposal passed
the Senate, but we were not able to get
out of the House Rules Committee, nor
voted for favorably in the House in time
to pass it.
We have resubmitted legislation for
countercyclical aid which is now pending
in the Congress, which I hope will pass.
It's included within a very tight and re-
strained budget.
I think it's accurate to say, also, that
some of the cities that were being bur-
dened excessively by welfare costs, under
the new administration-mine, working
with the State and local governments-
have severely, substantially reduced their
welfare expenditures. And, of course, a
part of this is because the unemployment
rate has dropped substantially. But if you
check the amount of money now being
spent by New York City on welfare with
what it was 2 years ago, you'll find sub-
stantial improvements there, substantial
reductions in tax burdens for local people
258
