Jan. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ization of relations between China and the
United States. The Chinese people are
most happy about the establishment of
diplomatic relations between our two
countries. What do you think is the sig-
nificance of the normalization of Sino-
U.S. relations? How would you assess the
outlook for our relationship after the nor-
malization?
sations between Vice Premier Deng
Xiaoping and myself. We will have a
broad agenda of issues to be discussed of
great mutual interest to our people.
We also will have an opportunity to
show, through the welcome extended to
Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping, his wife,
and his entire party of leaders of China,
the friendship of the American people for
THE PRESIDENT. The normalization of the people of China.
relations between China and the United
States is a development of great historical
importance. After long years of estrange-
ment between our people, we now have a
new and exciting, very happy opportunity
to strengthen the ties of friendship which
our people have longed for.
This also opens up opportunities for
political discussions between our leaders
for improved cultural exchange, better
trade relationships, and also, of course,
scientific opportunities, where both our
nations would have great mutual benefit.
This original opening of relations will also
permit future growth in all these aspects
of a better quality of life for our people
and will lay a foundation for the en-
hancement of peace in the entire Asian re-
gion and, indeed, throughout the entire
world. It will let our people cooperate
with one another on goals of mutual in-
terest to the people of China and the peo-
ple of the United States of America.
MR. ZHAO. Vice Premier Deng Xiao-
ping is coming to the United States soon
for a friendly official visit at your invita-
tion. This is going to be the first visit by a
Chinese state leader to this country. What
do you expect from this visit?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the most impor-
tant element of his visit, from my perspec-
tive, is the extensive and private conver-
The Vice Premier will have an oppor-
tunity, as well, to discuss issues with the
Members of the Congress of the United
States, and will have a chance to visit
some of our very fine cities-Atlanta,
Houston, Seattle. This is an important
element of the Chinese ability to under-
stand the peace-loving nature of Ameri-
cans and the common purposes that we
obviously share.
So, I believe that this visit will be ex-
citing, enjoyable, and a wonderful oppor-
tunity to show the entire world that the
new friendship that exists between our
countries and our people is important to
us and will be of increasing importance in
the future.
MR. ZHAO. Mr. President, what is your
assessment of the outlook for the world
situation in the new year?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously, there are
some very disturbing trouble spots around
the world where people are not at peace.
And we obviously have a need to extend
the beneficial effect of the desire for
peace that exists among our people to
those troubled areas.
We have great need for an improved
quality of life for those who are hungry,
who don't have adequate shelter or health
care, who are struggling for more free-
dom, and who desire to expand their
range of knowledge of the entire world
and, therefore, their beneficial effect.
164
