June 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lence that exists in various parts of the
world pushes us towards that road. The
United States can and will protect its vital
interests if this becomes the route we
must follow.
But there is another way, Mr. Presi-
dent-the path of restraint and, where
possible, cooperation. This is the path we
prefer.
I hope, Mr. President, that détente,
which has been growing in Europe be-
cause of your great work, can now encom-
pass other regions of the world. I hope
that we can work together so that the rules
of restraint, the mutual respect accorded
each other's interests, and the recognition
of the danger of unbridled competition
will lead to an even more stable peace in
Europe and can progressively be applied
to other troubled regions of our planet.
In southern Africa there is a struggle
for racial justice. We Americans know
that violence is not the solution, and so
we seek peaceful resolution of the con-
flicts there.
In Southeast Asia war continues, with
national territories being invaded and oc-
cupied by foreign troops. We believe the
war in Kampuchea can only be ended by
the withdrawal of foreign forces and the
honoring of national independence and
international borders.
We must all show compassion, Mr.
President, for the tens of thousands of suf-
fering people who have been driven from
their homes and their homelands. The
callous indifference with which the world
ignored refugees in Europe in the 1930's
must not be repeated in the Asia of the
1970's.
In the Middle East, Israel and Egypt
have taken an historic step toward a com-
prehensive peace. Thirty years of hatred
had brought only war and terrorism. Only
courage of Egyptian and Israeli lead-
the
ers has now enabled us to start down the
road of a comprehensive peace.
On all these major international ques-
tions the United States stands for the
peaceful reconciliation of differences and
against the use of force. So, too, we stand
for measures to control the instruments of
war.
The SALT agreement which we will
sign here tomorrow provides a good foun-
dation, one that will be strengthened by
the other arms control initiatives that we
are pursuing together.
Let us build on that foundation so that
we can narrow our differences in a spirit
of respect for the independence of all na-
tions and the value of every human being.
Let us both agree never to use offensive
weapons against any nation in an act of
aggression.
Let us discourage the use of foreign
forces in troubled regions of the world and
encourage the peaceful settlement of dis-
putes among the people who are directly
involved.
Mr. President, in all the world's his-
tory, no two nations have ever had a
greater responsibility to act with restraint
and to seek mutual accommodation than
do the United States and the Soviet Un-
ion. We do have many differences of his-
tory, ideology, and economic and social
systems.
Mr. President, we are both concerned
about the future, and I am sure that with
honesty and good will we can make prog-
ress toward a safer and more peaceful
world.
Now, Mr. President, I would like to
propose a toast: First of all, to my friend,
President Brezhnev; secondly, to the he-
roic people of the Soviet Union; and
thirdly, to our strong, determined, con-
stant, unswerving commitment toward
1050
