Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 18
2) A redoubling of this amount in FY
1981 to $300 million.
• Develop and implement a process for
collecting data on the numbers and
amounts of Federal prime contracts and
subcontracts under Federal prime con-
tracts awarded women-owned business;
• Revise government-wide procure-
ment regulations to assure that Federal
prime contractors increase their use of
women-owned firms as subcontractors.
These revisions include:
1) Developing clauses for inclusion in
prime contract solicitations and in prime
contracts which encourage the use of
women-owned firms as subcontractors to
the maximum degree feasible.
2) Study the feasibility of developing
an incentive clause for inclusion in appro-
priate prime contracts which offers a dol-
lar award to a prime contractor for sub-
contracting with women-owned firms in
excess of an agreed upon goal for such
subcontracting.
The Task Force also found a serious
lack of data about women entrepreneurs
and the types of the businesses they own.
In order to develop this needed informa-
tion, the Department of Commerce has
agreed to have the Census Bureau update
its 1972 survey on women-owned busi-
nesses and conduct a special survey to
gather additional essential demographic
data on the woman business owner and
her enterprise.
The Task Force stressed the impor-
tance of early education in encouraging
women to have a free choice of all possi-
ble careers. Therefore, the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare has
agreed to take the following actions:
• Develop and promote educational
and counseling programs emphasizing en-
treprenurial skills and business enterprise
as a career option for both males and
females.
• Develop such programs for use in the
Nation's public and private secondary
schools, institutions of higher education
and vocational education programs.
Report to me at the end of FY 1980
on the progress of such efforts and on fu-
ture plans.
This memo and the Executive Order
express my personal commitment to a na-
tional women's business enterprise policy.
I expect the heads of all departments and
agencies with business assistance pro-
grams and activities such as those men-
tioned in Section 1 of the Executive
Order, and those with procurement au-
thority, to substantially improve the
quality of this assistance and support to
businesses owned by women. With your
commitment and cooperation, we can
greatly improve the opportunities for
women who own businesses in our eco-
nomic system.
JIMMY CARTER
Energy Management
Partnership Legislation
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate Transmitting the
Proposed Legislation. May 18, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
In furtherance of my energy program
announced on April 5, 1979, I am trans-
mitting herewith the proposed "Energy
Management Partnership Act of 1979"
(EMPA), a measure designed to assist the
States in developing an ongoing energy
planning and management capability and
assist local governments in expanding
their energy-related activities.
As you know, Congress in recent years
has established a number of energy pro-
895
