Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 27
confrontation in troubled areas of the
world. In Namibia, Rhodesia, Cyprus, the
Mideast, we have sometimes gratuitously
injected ourselves into those disharmo-
nies. And it's very difficult, because you
quite often are castigated by both sides.
One of the most difficult and frustrating
and discouraging experiences I've ever
had in my life is dealing with the Mideast
settlement between Israel and Egypt.
Both peoples yearn so deeply for peace.
We've come so close to the consummation
of a peace agreement, and we still have
some absolutely insignificant differences
that are now creating apparently insur-
mountable obstacles. But we've been care-
ful and tenacious and, I think, fair.
But both sides feel that we've not been
fair. The Arab world thinks that we've
been overly committed to the protection
and the strengthening of Israel, and quite
often the Israeli people feel that we've
been at first evenhanded, since we were
fair. They thought we ought to be biased
toward Israel. But I think in the process
we've not benefited politically, and we
may fail. But that is a major challenge for
us that we have not successfully resolved.
In southern Africa, our country had
never been involved directly in Africa be-
fore; we were not a colonial power there,
as you know. But we've tried to join
forces with the Canadians, with the
French, the British, the Germans, under
auspices of the United Nations, to bring
about the development of a new demo-
cratic nation in Namibia, formerly South
West Africa, and to break that portion of
southern Africa away from South African
domination. And the South African Gov-
ernment has cooperated with the United
Nations and with us and the other coun-
tries. And we're on the verge now of hav-
ing free elections there and the establish-
ment of a democratic government based
on one-person-one-vote, majority rule,
which would be a very great step forward
if it can be concluded.
Rhodesia-much more difficult. But
there, Great Britain has legal ties to
Rhodesia. We've worked in harmony with
the British, and we hope to bring some
peace, some resolution, some end of rac-
ism in that part of the world.
Just two other things I'd like to men-
tion: We have strengthened NATO, and
we've had a nationwide commitment to
reducing armaments, not only with the
SALT negotiations but also in other
ways the sale of conventional arma-
ments, the promotion of the Treaty of
Tlatelolco, which was evolved in Mexico
before I became President, which abso-
lutely bans any placement or transporta-
tion of or development of nuclear explo-
sives in this Southern Hemisphere. And
this is the kind of thing that we're trying
to do. Test ban treaties are being nego-
tiated, and I hope that this will be an
effort that will be successful in the future.
And, of course, we've tried to raise the
banner of human rights throughout the
world. But we've been sometimes criti-
cized for this, because the very concept of
human rights, which seems to us kind of a
hazy but admirable concept, in some
countries is like a razor. It slashes through
the obfuscation and the confusion to the
very bone of people's sensitivities and
yearnings and aspirations, and has caused
governments to change. It's caused atti-
tudes to change. It's created differences,
sometimes, between us and our potential
adversaries or our friends, but I feel that
our Nation ought to stand firmly for the
protection of the individual human being
and basic concepts of human rights as was
espoused and promulgated when our own
Nation was founded.
This is kind of a conglomeration of
concepts and thoughts and problems and
opportunities that we face on a daily ba-
357
