Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 31
gards administrative formalities, travel
arrangements and accommodations.
4. The staff of each Party shall con-
form to the general rules of work and
safety regulations in force at the host
establishment, or as agreed in separate at-
tachment of staff agreements.
ARTICLE 9
NOTE: Secretary of Energy Schlesinger and
Vice Premier Fang signed the texts of the ac-
cord at the ceremony in the East Room at the
White House prior to the signing of the science
and technology agreement by the President and
the Vice Premier.
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
1. All questions related to this Accord of China
or activities carried out hereunder shall be
settled by mutual agreement of the
Parties.
2. Each Party will accept liability to
the extent authorized by its national laws
for damages arising from cooperative ac-
tivities under this Accord.
ARTICLE 10
1. This Accord shall enter into force
upon signature, and, unless terminated
earlier in accordance with paragraph 2 of
this Article, shall remain in force for a
five-year period. It may be amended or
extended by mutual agreement of the
Parties.
2. This Accord may be terminated at
any time at the discretion of either Party,
upon 6 months advance notification in
writing by the Party seeking to terminate
the Accord.
3. The termination of this Accord shall
not affect the validity or duration of spe-
cific activities being undertaken here-
under.
DONE at Washington this 31st day of
January, 1979, in duplicate in the English
and Chinese languages, both equally au-
thentic.
For the Department of Energy of the
United States of America:
JAMES R. SCHLESINGER
For the State Scientific and Technological
Commission of the People's Republic of
China:
FANG YI
Cultural Agreement Between the United
States and China. January 31, 1979
CULTURAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
The Government of the United States
of America and the Government of the
People's Republic of China,
Noting with satisfaction that better
understanding between the peoples of
both countries has been brought about
through contacts and exchanges in cul-
ture, arts, humanities, journalism, sports,
and other fields;
For the purpose of promoting wider
contacts between the two peoples in the
interest of consolidating and developing
friendly relations between the two coun-
tries, and enhancing mutual understand-
ing through encouraging and promoting
cultural exchanges between the two coun-
tries in the spirit of the Joint Communique
on the Establishment of Diplomatic Rela-
tions between the United States of Amer-
ica and the People's Republic of China
and on the basis of the principles of equal-
ity, reciprocity and mutual benefit;
Have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE I
The two governments will encourage a
deeper knowledge of their respective his-
tories, cultures, literatures, arts, lan-
guages, sports and other areas including
207
