Jan. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
their own families' future, that they join
in with me in passing a strong hospital
cost containment bill this year.
MS. ALLEN. Thank you.
MR. AGURS. Mr. Briscoe.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE AD-
VANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE
MR. BRISCOE. Mr. President, I'm a life
member of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People, the
NAACP. My wife is a subscribing life
member. Hundreds of thousands of
Americans, black and white, have sup-
ported the NAACP. I'm sure you and
Mrs. Carter have given substantial sup-
port. But as you know now, the NAACP
is in a financial crisis. The Mobil Oil
Company is placing ads in some of the
major newspapers to help solicit funds
for the organization, to save it, so it can
carry on its vital functions.
What would you think of inviting Mr.
Hooks ยน down and making a presentation
to him as a symbol of what can be done
by all Americans to help save this organi-
zation?
THE PRESIDENT. I agree with you
about the importance of the NAACP con-
tinuing and also continuing as a strong
and well-financed organization. Benja-
min Hooks was here at this very table
last month. And he comes to meet with
me often to pursue the goals of the
NAACP.
I think one of the things that can be
done is, through broadcasts like this, to
let the people of our Nation know, both
black and white, how important I, as
President, believe that a strong NAACP is
to the future of our country and the pro-
tection of minority rights.
Many people feel that the major bat-
tles for civil rights have been won in our
country, which is certainly not the case.
We need to be constantly vigilant about
1 Executive director of the NAACP.
encroachments on the freedom and qual-
ity of life of poor people, in general, and
of minority poor who have compounded
their problems. And I think that everyone
listening to this program can certainly
afford the $5 membership fee for the
NAACP, and I would encourage them to
send in their contribution to make sure
this organization is strong and viable.
I've noticed in recent days that the
NAACP leadership has begun turning
more and more to corporate contributions
to support the NAACP. This is obviously
necessary to prevent a curtailment of the
staffing and the efforts of the organiza-
tion. But the best source of NAACP funds
still remains the small, concerned private
member, who only contributes $5 a year
but, in that contribution, becomes a part
of the NAACP effort. And as President,
without violating the nonbiased point of
view of the Oval Office, I would like to
encourage a stronger membership in the
NAACP of all those who are listening.
MR. AGURS. Mr. Betts.
SOUTHERN AFRICA
MR. BETTS. Mr. President, you should
be commended for your crusading pledges
for human rights and peace throughout
the world. However, the racial condition
in southern Africa doesn't seem to im-
prove, even though the news media and
the Government seem to overlook the cir-
cumstances in favor of news in other parts
of the world. Do you expect to take a firm
stand in improving the racial conditions
in southern Africa, beyond what we've
seen now?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that under
Andy Young's leadership as a strong and
unrestrained vocal leader in the United
Nations, we have materially improved
our own Nation's position with respect to
the majority of citizens who live in Africa,
that is, the black citizens. And I think
38
