Mar. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tives, to take action, action that is strong,
prompt, and effective. Ten years ago, the
average cost of a stay of a patient in a
hospital was $533. In just the past 2 years
alone, this has increased by $317. It's a
total now, for the average stay in the
hospital of a patient, of $1,634.
These uncontrolled hospital costs are
now doubling every 5 years.
When hospital costs go up, so do health
insurance premiums. That pushes up con-
sumer prices. It pushes up the budgets. It
pushes up taxes at all levels of govern-
ment. The only thing that goes down is
the real income and the purchasing power
of the American family.
Hospital cost containment is unique in
two ways: It's uniquely severe in that it
has been going up about twice the rate of
other inflation in this country, and it is
uniquely controllable if I and the Con-
gress will act expeditiously and effec-
tively.
We can eliminate thousands of unfilled,
expensive hospital beds. We can stop sub-
jecting people to unnecessary surgery and
useless and unnecessary, very expensive
medical tests. We can cut out pointless
duplication of exceedingly expensive med-
ical facilities.
Over the next 5 years, if this bill is
passed, the American people will save
some $53 billion. The American people
will save $53 billion, of which $22 billion
would be reduced Federal taxes and re-
duced Federal spending, without cutting
back the quality of medical care at all.
Hospital cost containment will not be
achieved without a difficult fight. To-
gether with the Senators and the Mem-
bers of Congress who are here with me
today, I will lead the fight on behalf of
the American people.
The hospital lobby defeated hospital
cost containment legislation last year, al-
though the Senate did pass an adminis-
tration-sponsored cost contained bill.
That lobby opposing this legislation is
even more determined this year, and it's
equally well financed. But this year, we
have a new Congress and a new opportu-
nity to bring the outrageous increases in
hospital costs under control.
The patience of the American people
is wearing thin, and rightly so. It's time
for the public interest to prevail. It's time
for the Congress to demonstrate its com-
mitment to the battle against inflation by
promptly enacting the hospital cost con-
tainment of 1979.
We have with us today several congres-
sional leaders who proved their commit-
ment to this problem-the solution of it—
last year. Senator Nelson is the sponsor
this year of this legislation. Senator Tal-
madge, Senator Kennedy worked effec-
tively last year to get the legislation
through the Senate. Congressman Wax-
man, Congressman Rangel are two key
subcommittee chairmen who will be re-
sponsible this year for action in the House
in the commerce committee and, also, of
course, in the Ways and Means Commit-
tee.
And others assembled behind me are
equally determined that we shall control
inflation by this very specific act that
only the Congress can take this year to
control inflation and to show our effec-
tiveness and our determination to remove
this blight from the American economic
and societal scene.
Thank you very much.
I'd like to ask now if Senator Talmadge
would like to make a comment, and then
I'll call on others who have been so deter-
mined over many years to bring this very
serious problem under control.
SENATOR TALMADGE. Thank you, Mr.
President. I think you covered the issue
very well. I have nothing to add to what
you had to say, sir.
384
