Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 30, 1979
Elk City, Oklahoma
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Town Meeting. March 24, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. None of you could know
how good it felt for me to come back to
Elk City this evening to be with all of you.
I would guess that during the campaign
in 1975-1976, that I visited more than a
thousand cities and towns in the United
States of America. I never visited a single
place that gave me as warm and as open-
hearted and as exciting a welcome as you
did then, and you have equaled your-
selves this evening. And I thank you for it.
I'm particularly glad that Senator
Boren is here; Governor Nigh is here;
Lieutenant Governor; Congressman Eng-
lish; your fine mayor, who was in the fore-
front of the welcoming committee when I
was here before.
As you know, I'm going to spend the
night with Larry and Mary Jane this
evening. I believe in open government.
I know Larry does, too. He tells me that
every time he has a meeting of the city
government, that it's open to the press.
I'm also going to be attending Sunday
school and church in the morning, and
I hope that all of you Baptists will be there
with me.
As a Baptist, as you know, I'm not very
enthusiastic about gambling. But I modi-
fied my views somewhat when I heard
they had a lottery tonight-[laughter]—
to decide who was coming to the meeting.
The only problem is that nobody told me
whether I was speaking to the winners or
to the losers. [Laughter]
One of the nice things about being
President is you get to go to a lot of very
important places. Just recently, I've been
in Mexico City; I've been in Jerusalem;
I've been in Cairo, Egypt; and now, to
Elk City.
Three and a half years ago, Novem-
ber 11, 1975, I promised to come back as
President. You helped me become Presi-
dent, and here I am.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I want to say just a few words before
I start taking questions. I'm here because
of your friendship and because of a
promise, but I'm here for another reason
as well.
I and all Presidents make decisions
every day that affect the lives of everyone
who lives in our great country. We make
speeches quite often, trying to explain
469
