Mar. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the purpose-which I share-is responsi-
ble above all others for this kindling of
new hope in the hearts of those that join
with us in this common effort.
To President Anwar al-Sadat, to the
people of Egypt, to his lovely wife, and
to peace.
the 7,000-year heritage of the Egyptian
people, whom you represent.
For most of the last 500 years, Egypt
suffered under foreign domination. But
Egypt has again taken her place among
the world's independent countries and has
led the resurgence among the Arab peo-
NOTE: President Carter spoke at approximately ple to a prominent place among the na-
9:45 p.m. at Ras-al-Tin Palace. Because of tech-
nical difficulties, the White House Press Office
was unable to provide a complete transcript of
President Sadat's toast. The press release con-
tains only the concluding portion, as printed
above.
Prior to the dinner, the President received
the Nile Collar award from President Sadat.
Cairo, Egypt
Address Before the People's Assembly.
March 10, 1979
I also come before you in the name of
God, as a partner with my great and good
friend, your President, Anwar al-Sadat, to
address the Egyptian people through the
Members of this People's Assembly of
Egypt.
My heart is full as I stand before you
today. I feel admiration for the land of
Egypt, and I feel a profound respect for
the people of Egypt and for your leader,
President Sadat, a man who has reached
out his strong hand to alter the very
course of history.
And I also feel a deep sense of hope as
I consider the future that will unfold be-
fore us if we have the will and the faith
to bring peace. And we have that will and
faith, and we will bring peace.
As a boy, like other schoolchildren all
over the world, I studied the civilization
of Egypt. In the last few days, I have at
last seen the legacy of that great civiliza-
tion with my own eyes. As a citizen of a
very young country, I can only marvel at
tions of the world. I'm very proud of that
great achievement on your part.
Tragically, this generation of progress
has also been a generation of suffering.
Again and again, the energies of the peo-
ples of the Middle East have been drained
by the conflicts among you-and especi-
ally by the violent confrontations between
Arabs and Israelis. Four wars have taken
their toll in blood and treasure, in up-
rooted families, and young lives cut short
by death.
Then, 16 months ago, one man, Anwar
al-Sadat, rose up and said, "Enough of
war." He rose up and said, "Enough of
war. It is time for peace."
This extraordinary journey of Presi-
dent Sadat to Jerusalem began the proc-
ess which has brought me here today.
Your President has demonstrated the
power of human courage and human vi-
sion to create hope where there had been
only despair.
The negotiations begun by President
Sadat's initiative have been long and
arduous. It could not have been other-
wise. The issues involved are complex,
and they are tangled in a web of strong
emotion. But among the people of Egypt
and the people of Israel alike, the most
powerful emotion is not hostility. It is
not hatred. It is a will to peace. And more
has been accomplished in 1 year of talk-
ing than in 30 years of fighting.
As the peace process has moved for-
ward-sometimes smoothly, more often
with pain and difficulty-the Govern-
ment of Egypt has been represented by
412
