Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 22
improve its own means of establishing pri-
orities. I have worked closely with the
Congress, and will continue in this spirit
of cooperation.
I look forward to working with the
Congress and its leadership on this budget.
The decisions I have made are difficult
ones. They involve, not figures on a bal-
ance sheet, but the lives and future of the
American people. I have chosen restraint
in Government spending because inflation
must be controlled. I have tried to be
equitable in ordering priorities. Yet I
have continued to support those programs
that represent our most pressing needs. To
do so I have terminated, reduced, or de-
ferred other programs.
It is difficult to maintain a sense of
strong national purpose when we do not
face a clear and immediate crisis. But it is
equally important. These are times when
responsible leadership means anticipating
those day-to-day actions that enable us to
avoid crises and to build toward the fu-
ture. This has been the fundamental pur-
pose behind the decisions considered here,
and that is the intent of this budget.
January 22, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The President's message is printed in
the report entitled "The Budget of the United
States Government, Fiscal Year 1980" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 605 pages).
United States Ambassador
to Bahrain
Nomination of Robert H. Pelletreau, Jr.
January 22, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Robert H. Pelletreau, Jr.,
of Hartford, Conn., to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the State of Bahrain. He
would replace Wat T. Cluverius IV,
resigned.
Pelletreau was born July 9, 1935, in
Patchogue, N.Y. He received a B.A. from
Yale University in 1957 and an LL.B.
from Harvard Law School in 1961.
Pelletreau joined the Foreign Service
in 1962 and was posted in Tangier,
Nouakchott, Beirut, Amman, and at the
State Department as an international re-
lations officer. From 1973 to 1975, he was
political officer in Algiers, and from 1975
to 1978, he was Deputy Chief of Mission
in Damascus.
United States Ambassador
to Tunisia
Nomination of Stephen W. Bosworth.
January 22, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Stephen W. Bosworth,
of Jenison, Mich., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Republic of Tunisia.
He would replace Edward W. Mulcahy,
resigned.
Bosworth was born December 4, 1939,
in Grand Rapids. He received a B.A.
from Dartmouth College in 1961 and
joined the Foreign Service that year. He
was posted in Panama, Colón, and Ma-
drid, and was assistant to the U.S. Special
Representative for Panama Canal Nego-
tiations from 1964 to 1967.
From 1974 to 1976, Bosworth was Di-
rector of the Office of Fuels and Energy,
Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs,
at the State Department. Since 1976 he
has been Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State for International Resources and
Food Policy.
101
