May 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
privileged can accrue to them great bene-
fits at the expense of others unless our sys-
tem of justice performs well.
I'm very proud that I am able to share
these responsibilities with you. I'm in
good company, and I thank God that we
live in a nation where individual concern,
individual aspiration, individual ideals,
individual ideas and initiative can be
harnessed in the most heterogeneous so-
ciety that the world has ever known in a
nation of refugees toward the common
good.
We've got a lot to be thankful for, and
I hope, working together, we can give an
even greater basis for thanks for those
whom we serve and those who follow us
in service in the greatest nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:02 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Chief Justice of the
United States Warren E. Burger, Attorney Gen-
eral Griffin B. Bell, and S. Shepherd Tate,
president of the American Bar Association.
Agency for International
Development Personnel System
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Regulations. May 1, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Title IV of the Interna-
tional Development and Food Assistance
Act of 1978, I transmit herewith regula-
tions affecting the personnel system of the
Agency for International Development,
together with explanatory information.
The purpose of these regulations is to
extend the Foreign Service personnel sys-
tem to all employees of AID in the United
States and abroad who are responsible for
planning and implementing AID's over-
seas development program and activities.
These regulations provide that by Oc-
tober 1, 1979, all positions in AID shall
be designated as to the personnel service
in which the incumbent should serve. Po-
sitions will be designated as Foreign Serv-
ice unless the position is in the United
States and unless it is determined that the
functions of the position are primarily of
a support character and can be per-
formed without significant overseas ex-
perience or understanding of the overseas
development process, or that the position
requires continuity of incumbency and
specialized knowledge and skill so that it
is impractical to assign the incumbent
abroad. The regulations provide that,
when positions so designated for Foreign
Service incumbency become vacant, ap-
pointments to them will be made under
the Foreign Service Act. In this manner,
the Administrator will be able progres-
sively to bring to bear important field ex-
perience in the development process to
key policy positions in Washington, there-
by strengthening policy development and
management and providing more inter-
esting and challenging careers. These
regulations, which have been prepared
after extensive consultations with the ap-
propriate committees of the Congress,
are designed to have no adverse effects
upon the existing rights of employees of
the Agency.
The personnel regulations I am pre-
senting today are an important step in
strengthening the administration of our
foreign assistance
foreign assistance programs. As you know,
I am also proposing, under the Reorgani-
zation Act of 1977, an improved organi-
zational structure for those programs. I
urge the Congress to consider favorably
both of these measures to enhance the
760
