May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
pecially after the loss of Iran as a listen-
ing post?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the first place,
we've got 20 years' experience with the
most advanced national technical means
to discern accurately what the Soviets are
doing in the design, the testing, the pro-
duction, and the deployment of nuclear
weapons that are controlled under the
SALT II agreements. This is a multi-
faceted capability, depending on all kinds
of intelligence, both technical electronics
intelligence on the one hand and other
forms as well.
We are very secure in our belief that
we do have adequate technical means to
confirm the SALT agreement, not based
on mutual trust, but based on our own
ability, with or without the Iran monitor-
ing stations. They were important. We'd
like to have them back, or an adequate re-
placement for them, but they're just
one element in an all-inclusive, com-
plex, adequate means by which we can
assure compliance with SALT.
For instance, if the Soviets should de-
cide to endanger the entire SALT process,
to eliminate the advantages to them of the
peaceful prospects to both nations brought
about by détente and at the same time to
endanger their own reputation in keeping
the SALT process going and to go back to
the cold war by trying to develop secretly
a new missile, for instance, that's for-
bidden by SALT; not only would they
have to go through the whole process of
building it and getting a prototype model,
but they would have to have at least 20
different test flights of that missile before
it could possibly be placed into production
and then deployed. It's inconceivable that
they could go through this entire process
without that process being detected. So,
we are not relying upon the honesty of the
Soviets or trust in them, nor are they rely-
ing on us for that same assurance. We're
relying on our own ability to monitor the
Soviets' compliance, and I am convinced,
the technicians are convinced, the Joint
Chiefs of Staff are convinced, the Depart-
ment of Defense is convinced that we do
have adequate means to assure compli-
ance by the Soviets with the SALT treaty
that is proposed, as it has been for the last
15 to 20 years with previous agreements.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
INFLATION
MR. SCHMIDT. We have another ques-
tion here, Mr. President. May I introduce
Frank Scarpa of Vineland, New Jersey.
Q. Mr. President, it seems as if the old
expression that the only thing certain in
life is death and taxes needs to be ex-
panded to add that inflation is another
certainty. We've seen economic controls
and guidelines come and go, and still infla-
tion is at our throats. People point the
finger of blame at Government spending,
and the Government points a finger at
private sector price increases. Sir, how do
we stop blaming the other guy and stop
this inflationary spiral?
THE PRESIDENT. Frank, one of the
worst things that we can do is to look for
for a problem that's been with us for more
a scapegoat or start blaming one another
than 10 years. The average inflation rate,
as a matter of fact, before I became Pres-
ident, the last 3 years before I became
President, was a little more than 8 per-
cent. It's something that's been with us for
a long time.
There are no trick answers. There are
no easy answers. Inflation is a growing
problem not only for ourselves but for our
very stable, very strong, economically
prosperous allies throughout the Western
934
