Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
g. Except those movements mentioned
above, deployments of Egyptian armed
forces and the activities covered in Annex
I will be effected in the evacuated areas
when Israeli armed forces have completed
their withdrawal behind the interim with-
drawal line.
ARTICLE II
Subphases of the Withdrawal to the
Interim Withdrawal Line
1. The withdrawal to the interim with-
drawal line will be accomplished in sub-
phases as described in this Article and as
shown on Map 3. Each subphase will be
completed within the indicated number
of months from the date of the exchange
of instruments of ratification of this
Treaty.
a. First subphase: within two months,
Israeli armed forces will withdraw from
the area of El Arish, including the town
of El Arish and its airfield, shown as
Area I on Map 3.
b. Second subphase: within three
months, Israeli armed forces will with-
draw from the area between line M of
the 1975 Agreement and line A, shown as
Area II on Map 3.
c. Third subphase: within five months,
Israeli armed forces will withdraw from
the areas east and south of Area II,
shown as Area III on Map 3.
d. Fourth subphase: within seven
months, Israeli armed forces will with-
draw from the area of El Tor-Ras El
Kenisa, shown as Area IV on Map 3.
e. Fifth subphase: Within nine months,
Israeli armed forces will withdraw from
the remaining areas west of the interim
withdrawal line, including the areas of
Santa Katrina and the areas east of the
Giddi and Mitla passes, shown as Area
V on Map 3, thereby completing Israeli
withdrawal behind the interim with-
drawal line.
2. Egyptian forces will deploy in the
areas evacuated by Israeli armed forces
as follows:
a. Up to one-third of the Egyptian
armed forces in the Sinai in accordance
with the 1975 Agreement will deploy in
the portions of Zone A lying within Area
I, until the completion of interim with-
drawal. Thereafter, Egyptian armed
forces as described in Article II of Annex
I will be deployed in Zone A up to the
limits of the interim buffer zone.
b. The Egyptian naval activity in ac-
cordance with Article IV of Annex I will
commence along the coasts of Areas II,
III, and IV, upon completion of the sec-
ond, third, and fourth subphases, re-
spectively.
c. Of the Egyptian border units de-
scribed in Article II of Annex I, upon
completion of the first subphase one bat-
talion will be deployed in Area I. A second
battalion will be deployed in Area II up-
on completion of the second subphase.
A third battalion will be deployed in Area
III upon completion of the third sub-
phase. The second and third battalions
mentioned above may also be deployed in
any of the subsequently evacuated areas
of the southern Sinai.
3. United Nations forces in Buffer Zone
I of the 1975 Agreement will redeploy to
enable the deployment of Egyptian forces
described above upon the completion of
the first subphase, but will otherwise con-
tinue to function in accordance with the
provisions of that Agreement in the re-
mainder of that zone until the completion
of interim withdrawal, as indicated in
Article I of this Appendix.
4. Israeli convoys may use the roads
south and east of the main road junction
east of El Arish to evacuate Israeli forces
and equipment up to the completion of
interim withdrawal. These convoys will
proceed in daylight upon four hours
notice to the Egyptian liaison group and
503
