Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 6
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
REPRESENTATIVE RANGEL. Mr. Presi-
dent, I'd just like to say that I support
your efforts. I think that this time the
patients, the consumers, who don't have
trustees, will have the President of the
United States and the Congress behind
them.
And while I haven't studied your legis-
lation, I am assured that it would make
certain that the underserved communi-
ties are not adversely affected by the
shrinkage in hospital services. And I thank
you for that commitment.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much,
Congressman Rangel.
Congressman Rangel is chairman of the
subcommittee in the Ways and Means
Committee of the House. Congressman
Waxman is chairman of the equivalent
subcommittee in the commerce commit-
tee of the House.
REPRESENTATIVE WAXMAN. Well, Mr.
President, I want to work with you to get
this bill passed. It's an important measure
for us to handle the inflation in health
care costs. It's something that we need
very badly. And it's going to be a tough
fight, but I think we're going to win it,
because I think the American people want
it.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
SENATOR KENNEDY. Mr. President, I
think we've seen or heard a great deal of
rhetoric about dealing with the problems
of inflation up on the Hill over the period
of the last few weeks. I think this will be a
key opportunity for the Members of Con-
gress to do something about it, in sup-
porting your efforts.
As you pointed out, this legislation was
killed by special interests in the last Con-
gress. And the American people will have
a full opportunity to see who really is in-
terested in dealing with the problems of
inflation. And we're going to report that
legislation out very expeditiously and look
forward to working with you and the ad-
ministration in getting it achieved.
THE PRESIDENT. Last year, the floor
leader, and this year's sponsor of the legis-
lation, was Senator Gaylord Nelson. I wish
you'd make a comment, Senator Nelson.
SENATOR NELSON. Mr. President, I
want to commend you and the Secretary
of HEW for designing what I think is a
very creative piece of legislation, in the
sense that it allows the hospitals to meet
a standard rate of increase comparable to
about the national rate, voluntarily, with
no imposition of any controls whatsoever,
as has been demonstrated by a number of
States already can be done. Therefore, it's
interference, if the hospitals bring their
a voluntary effort, without any Federal
own costs under control. I think it's a very
good and creative approach.
And I would agree with Senator Ken-
nedy that those who've been talking so
much about economy will now have a
chance to help balance the budget and
reduce inflation.
The President. Thank you very much.
We have many other very distinguished
Members of the Congress here with us—
Jack Javits, chairmen of several of the
committees, Pete Williams. Does anyone
else care to comment?
Congressman Staggers?
REPRESENTATIVE STAGGERS. I'll just say
that last year we failed in our committee,
but we did the best we could. And we
certainly had an advocate in [Representa-
tive] Paul Rogers, very vociferous, who
did everything in his power. And I tried
to help him get it by the full committee.
The subcommittee passed it and brought
it before the full committee, but we could
not get it by the full committee. We need
385
