Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
to
Science and technology are playing an
important part in our international re-
lationships as well. Many countries, espe-
cially developing countries, look
America for our expertise and problem-
solving abilities. I have proposed the
establishment of a Foundation for Inter-
national Technological Cooperation
(FITC) to foster collaborative efforts
with people and institutions in develop-
ing countries. These efforts will be
directed to basic human needs in agricul-
ture, nutrition, health, small-scale energy
systems, and rural development.
Science and technology also have played
a critical part in the dramatic advances of
our relationship with the People's Repub-
lic of China. These scientific and techno-
logical relationships that will be built with
China will be parallel to many such rela-
tionships we have established and en-
hanced over the years with other nations
and groups of nations.
Space
Last year marked the 20th Anniversary
of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. The 21st year started with
the incredible success of the Pioneer mis-
sions to Venus. This year we hope to open
a new era in space with the first launch
of the Space Shuttle.
Under the national civil space policy I
announced last fall, we will remain dedi-
cated to ensuring U.S. scientific and tech-
nological leadership in space. To further
that policy, my budget request for FY '80
includes funding to maintain the Shuttle
development and production schedule to
continue space science and exploration; to
initiate efforts on selected areas of ad-
vanced satellite communications tech-
niques; and to enhance remote sensing
activities that will bring benefits in areas
such as earth resources, climate, weather,
pollution and agriculture.
Communications
Last year we worked with Congress to
reorganize communications policy-making
in the Executive Branch and enact legisla-
tion to strengthen public broadcasting. In
1979 our priorities will include:
• continued work with Congress on the
important effort to revise the Communi-
cations Act to take account of technologi-
cal changes;
vigorous pursuit of the program
already underway to increase minority
ownership of broadcast stations through
regulatory actions, government loan guar-
antees, and private loan and training pro-
grams;
• a program to use new communica-
tions technologies to improve rural life by
delivering education, agricultural, and
medical services and by increasing the
diversity of radio and TV;
• elimination of unnecessary regula-
tions and paperwork requirements in co-
operation with the Federal Communica-
tions Commission;
• proposals on the role of the Postal
Service in providing electronic mail serv-
ices; and
participation in the World Admin-
istrative Radio Conference to ensure that
increasing demands for radio frequencies
are balanced in a reasonable and flexible
manner.
Small Business
As a former businessman, I am espe-
cially sensitive to the importance of small
business in our economy and to the vital
role the Federal government can play in
assisting small business.
Through a number of actions over the
past two years, my Administration has
worked to help small business flourish and
remain competitive. Under the leadership
of the Small Business Administration, we
have increased tax incentives significantly
141
