May 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of America. The Basic Law has proved
itself throughout a difficult and challeng-
ing generation of reconstruction and
growth as the foundation of one of the
most stable and flourishing democratic
states in the world. The central place it
provides for fundamental human rights
and the democratic institutional frame-
work it established have been translated
into living practice by your government
and people.
The relationship between the Federal
Republic and the United States, resting
in important part on the democratic
vitality which your Basic Law provides,
has gathered strength and dynamism over
the years. Emerging from a period of tur-
moil and reconstruction, we entered more
than 20 years ago into an alliance part-
nership which, though it has served its
defensive purposes well, has proved to be
far more than just a military pact. It has
established a framework for mutual un-
derstanding and for recognition of the
values we share and wish to preserve. In
recent years our partnership has acquired
a new dimension as a result of the im-
pressive growth in strength and influence
of the Federal Republic. My visit to
Germany last year and the forthcoming
visit of Chancellor Schmidt to the United
States symbolize the warmth of German-
American relations and the importance
of our consultations on crucial interna-
tional issues.
With congratulations and warm wishes,
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
Financial Reform Legislation
Message to the Congress Proposing the
Legislation. May 22, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
For over a decade, the Federal govern-
ment has limited the interest rates that
savers can receive on their deposits in
banks and savings institutions. In keeping
with my commitment to eliminate in-
equitable and unnecessary regulations, I
directed an Administration task force,
chaired by the Treasury Department, to
review the fairness, effectiveness and effi-
ciency of these interest rate controls.
Based on the task force's findings, I am
today recommending that the Congress
enact comprehensive financial reform
legislation. I am asking that the Congress
permit an orderly transition to a system
where the average depositor can receive
market-level interest rates on his or her
savings. I am also proposing measures to
protect the long-term viability of savings
institutions so that they can pay fair and
competitive rates to depositors and con-
tinue their traditional role in meeting our
nation's housing needs.
These actions will reform a system
which has become increasingly unfair to
the small saver. The present rate ceil-
ings are costing the American people bil-
lions of dollars in lost interest annually.
Our senior citizens, and others whose sav-
ings are concentrated in passbook ac-
counts, have suffered the most. During a
period of high inflation, it is particularly
unconscionable for the Federal govern-
ment to prohibit small savers from receiv-
ing the return on their deposits that
is available to large and sophisticated
investors.
The present ceilings have also con-
tributed to sharp fluctuations in the flow
of housing credit. Large cyclical swings in
the availability of mortgage funds have
increased housing costs and forced many
prospective homebuyers out of the market
during periods of high interest rates. The
actions I am recommending today will
help assure a steadier flow of mortgage
credit for homebuyers.
928
