Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 3
Sarah and with Ruth 2 and with your
other leaders to identify those States
where we do have a problem and let you
help us find and recruit women to serve.
One of the things that I mentioned to
the most distinguished group of jurists, I
guess, who's ever assembled at the White
House this week on Law Day, was that
it's not fair to expect people who have
been deprived of an opportunity in the
past to meet experience standards. If
women have consistently been excluded
from State judgeships or district judge-
ships for generations, then you can't have
as a criterion that they must have 15 or
20 years experience in State court judge-
ships before they go on to district courts
and so forth.
My remarks were completely extem-
poraneous that day. I only had about 10
minutes before I even knew I was going.
But I think what I said is significant, and
I think you can use it as a good argument.
I would like to have as complete a part-
nership with you as possible. It would be
helpful to me and our country, and I have
no aversion to your very stringent criti-
cisms when you feel that we don't meas-
ure up to the standards which you main-
tain, which are extremely high.
So, to summarize, I'm grateful to you.
I have to depend upon you, as President
of the United States, in a nonpartisan way
to help with the issues that are important
to our country, and I'm very grateful that
you would take this time to come meet
with me. And if you will pardon perhaps
the chauvinistic expression, I love every
one of you and what you stand for.
[Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 a.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
2 Ruth Hinerfeld, national president of the
League of Women Voters.
Alaska Public Lands
Remarks at a White House Briefing.
May 3, 1979
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR ANDRUS.
Thank you very much for joining us, Mr.
President.
There are some people here today that
would like to make a presentation to you,
two separate groups. But I would ask
them to come up at this time, if they
would, please. If you'd, please, just come
right on up to make the presentation. And,
Mr. President, I'll introduce to you a per-
son that is no stranger to you, but Cathy
Douglas, who will introduce the balance
of the group.
Cathy.
Ms. DOUGLAS. Thank you, Mr. Secre-
tary.
Mr. President, for our first presentation,
three native chiefs from the Admiralty
Island would like to present you with a
beaded vest and make you an honorary
member of their tribe. The chiefs are
Chief Matthew Fred, Chief of all the
tribes on the Admiralty; Chief Daniel
Johnson, Chief of the Bear Tribe; Chief
William Nelson, Chief of the Dog Salmon
Tribe.
CHIEF FRED. President Carter, my
people join me in thanking you for making
Admiralty Island a National Monument.
Such a noble decision in our Tlinget cult-
ure does not go unrecognized. My people
have preserved this island, its natural
resources, its wildlife, from time im-
memorial. My brother-in-law, Daniel
Johnson, Sr., will place the vest upon you.
Would our Eagle Ladies please take his
jacket off.
The people of Angoon have sent you
this vest, and my clan of the Raven Beaver
have sent you a noble name, Nahoo-woo,
meaning "a great nation in migration."
773
