Jan. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Our own Nation is not impervious to
this circumstance. We have suffered se-
verely in the past because we who are
Christians, others who are deeply reli-
gious in our own Nation have not been
willing to accommodate those who have
been deprived, who have and do suffer
as they struggle for a better life.
We tend to say, “This could only hap-
pen in the past. Today, certainly, it's not
a factor in our lives." I grew up in a re-
gion of the country which has in the past,
and still sees quite often-too often-the
Christian churches as the last bastion for
racial segregation and even discrimina-
tion.
I was intrigued by Bishop Sheen's ref-
erence to the "immaculate conception"
complex of Americans. It is difficult for
us as Americans to think that we might
be sinful, that we might be in some ways
inferior, that we might have some ele-
ments of our life not yet realized, that we
might have standards that have been pre-
scribed for us which we have not met.
And there's a natural, human inclination
to lower those standards to accommodate
the very low achievements of our own life.
We must guard against the abuse of our
own religious faith. We have seen broad
changes in history. In the first few centu-
ries after Christ's life and death on this
This past Sunday I went down to Eben- Earth, it was a crime to be a Christian.
ezer Baptist Church in Atlanta and par-lightful history of the 14th century era.
I've been reading Barbara Tuchman's de-
ticipated in a program commemorating
the 50th birthday of Martin Luther King,
Jr. Speakers there—Dr. Benjamin Mays,
Daddy King, others pointed out the
progress that has been made, but the em-
phasis was on the progress yet to be made.
One of the elements that I noticed was
the absolute truth that tends to come for-
ward much more vividly in a quiet prayer.
I was honored at that meeting, but
when Dr. Benjamin Mays got up to give
his prayer, I sat back with the anticipa-
tion that somehow in his prayer he would
compliment me and help my image with
the audience there, the congregation.
And as we bowed in prayer, he
talked about all the troubles in our
country, the poor, deprived, discrimin-
ation. And the culmination of his
prayer was that at least our President has
done a little something about some of
these problems. [Laughter] And he
thanked God for that little something.
[Laughter]
Truth is a mandatory element of a
sound basis for a religious life. But some-
times we cannot accept the truth.
And during those days, it was a crime not
to be a Christian. And the horrors of the
Inquisition, the equation of a Christian
commitment with a willingness to be a
constant, dedicated warrior, a complete
dependence on combat and bloodshed,
and the abuses within the Christian
Church are vividly expressed. And I'm
sure at that time, there was a rationaliza-
tion among devout religious believers that
what we look on now with abhorrence,
and sometimes so remotely with amuse-
ment, was the true teaching of Christ. And
we must avoid a distortion or a ration-
alization because of materialistic inclina-
tions in our own hearts, of our own reli-
gious faith and its beliefs. When any reli-
gion impacts adversely on those whom
Christ described as "the least of these,"
it can have no firm foundation in God's
sight.
The last point I want to make is the
dramatic sense of how our religion per-
tains to a modern era. Shortly before
Christmas, we had Alec McCowen, a
great British actor, come to the White
House. And he stood there on a bare stage,
60
