Mar. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
services the patient-rarely pays the bill
directly. Nor does the patient decide what
services he or she will receive in the hos-
pital. The person who makes those deci-
sions the physician-does not pay the
bill either, and therefore has little or no
incentive to see that services are provided
in an efficient manner. Often, doctors do
not even know the costs of the tests and
x-rays they order.
There is a growing determination.
throughout the country to make hospitals
efficient. Nine states-Colorado, Connec-
ticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, New
Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Wash-
ington, and Wisconsin-have enacted
mandatory cost containment programs.
Hospitals in these states, which include
many of the most renowned medical in-
stitutions in the world, have reduced cost
increases substantially while continuing to
provide care of high quality.
The legislation I am transmitting today
would ensure that every hospital in this
country has the incentive to be efficient. It
establishes a reasonable goal for hospital
cost inflation. It sets mandatory limits
only for hospital cost inflation. It sets
mandatory limits only for those hospitals
which have been unable to meet this goal.
Specifically, the Hospital Cost Contain-
ment Act of 1979 will:
-Establish an annual goal for the rate
of hospital cost increases. This goal would
reflect actual increases in the price of
goods and services hospitals use, changes
in population, and improvements in hos-
pital services. In the event that the hos-
pital industry does not, as a whole, meet
the national goal, mandatory reimburse-
ment limits on individual hospitals, also
based in part upon the actual costs of
goods and services, would go into effect
on January 1, 1980.
-Exempt hospitals which individually
meet the voluntary goal, have fewer than
4,000 admissions annually, are less than 3
years old, or have 75 percent of their pa-
tients enrolled in federally qualified health
maintenance organizations.
-Exempt all hospitals in a state if the
state on average met the voluntary goal
or had an approved mandatory cost con-
tainment program.
-Provide for a system of bonuses and
penalties to hospitals, depending on their
efficiency relative to other hospitals of
similar type and location.
-Include an adjustment for wage in-
creases provided to nonsupervisory per-
sonnel in hospitals.
The Hospital Cost Containment Act of
1979 is reasonable and realistic. It permits
a period of time for voluntary action, with
mandatory limits only if voluntary action
fails to meet the reasonable goals estab-
lished in the bill. Under current assump-
tions the national goal will be 9.7 percent
in 1979; it will be adjusted to reflect the
actual increases in the price of goods and
services hospitals use. În 1977, one-third
of the Nation's hospitals-from all regions
and of all types-had cost increases of 9.7
percent or less.
Even if triggered, the stand-by manda-
tory program holds regulation to a mini-
mum. It does not interfere with the day-
to-day management decisions of hospital
administrators and physicians. Rather, the
program establishes an overall limit on
the rate of increase in reimbursements,
permitting doctors and hospital adminis-
trators to allocate their own resources effi-
ciently, responding to local needs and pa-
tient care concerns. The program changes
the incentives under which hospitals have
functioned, from a system in which hos-
pitals receive guaranteed reimbursement
for their services, whether efficiently pro-
388
