Mar. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I've recommitted our Nation publicly to
this commitment, as you know, only in
recent days in my own country.
We know Israel's concern that the price
of peace with Egypt will exacerbate an
already difficult economic situation and
make it more difficult to meet your coun-
try's essential security requirements. In
the context of peace, we are prepared to
see Israel's economic and military rela-
tionship with the United States take on
new and strong and more meaningful di-
mensions, even than already exist.
We will work not only to attain peace
but to maintain peace, recognizing that
it's a permanent challenge of our time.
We will rededicate ourselves to the
ideals that our peoples share. These ideals
are the course not only of our strength
but of our self-respect as nations, as lead-
ers, and as individuals.
I'm here today to reaffirm that the
United States will always recognize, ap-
preciate, and honor the mutual advan-
tages of the strength and security of Is-
rael. And I'm here to express my most
heartfelt and passionate hope that we may
work together successfully to make this
peace.
The Midrash tells us that, and I quote,
"Peace is the wisp of straw that binds
together the sheaf of blessings." But the
wisp of straw, we know, is fragile and
easily broken.
Let us pray God to guide our hand.
Millions of men, women, and children,
in Israel and Egypt and beyond, in this
generation and in generations to come,
are relying on our skill and relying on
our faith.
In the words of a Sabbath prayer,
"May He who causes peace to reign in
the high heavens let peace descend on us,
on all Israel, and on all the world."
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:16 p.m. in
the Knesset Chamber. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Yitzhak Shamir, speaker of the
Knesset.
Prior to his address, the President placed
a wreath at the Knesset Memorial, a sculpture
with an eternal flame dedicated to soldiers and
civilians who gave their lives for Israel.
Following his address, the President attended
a luncheon with members of the foreign affairs
committee of the Knesset, and then returned
to the King David Hotel.
In the evening, the President and Mrs. Car-
ter, accompanied by Deputy Prime Minister
Yigael Yidan, went to the Shrine of the Book,
a part of the Israel Museum, to view the Dead
Sea Scrolls.
Earlier in the day, the President had at-
tended a breakfast meeting with Prime Min-
ister Begin and members of the Israeli Cabinet
at the Prime Minister's residence.
Tel Aviv, Israel
Remarks of the President and Prime Minister
Begin at the Departure Ceremony.
March 13, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. President, Mr.
Prime Minister, and friends:
As we depart for Cairo, and then for
my own country, I want to express on
behalf of Rosalynn, my wife, myself, and
all the American party, our gratitude on
the Government and to the people of
Israel for your hospitality and for your
kindness.
I came here in the service of a cause
which binds together, which unites Israel,
Egypt, and the United States of Ameri-
ca-the sacred cause of peace. We have
talked and reasoned together in that cause
for many hours during the past 3 days.
We've talked as friends, and our conver-
428
