Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 7
the Zimbabwe-Rhodesian sanctions. First,
I am absolutely convinced that the best
interests of the United States would not
be served by lifting the sanctions.
Secondly, I am equally convinced that
the best interests of the people of Zim-
babwe-Rhodesia would not be served by
the lifting of the sanctions.
Finally, it's clear to me that although
there has been some very encouraging
progress made in that country, that the
action taken has not been sufficient to sat-
isfy the provision of the United States law
described in the so-called Case-Javits
amendment.
In reaching this decision, we have care-
fully assessed recent events in Zimbabwe-
Rhodesia. We have consulted very closely
with the British, who retain both legal and
historic interests and responsibilities for
that country.
The actual voting in the April elections
appears to have been administered in a
reasonably fair way under the circum-
stances. But the elections were held under
a constitution that was drafted by and
then submitted only to the white minority,
only 60 percent of whom themselves sup-
ported the new constitution. The black
citizens, who constitute 96 percent of the
population of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, never
had a chance to consider nor to vote for
or against the constitution under which
the elections were held.
The constitution preserves extraordi-
nary power for the 4-percent white mi-
nority. It gives this small minority vastly
disproportionate numbers of votes in the
country's parliament. It gives this 4 per-
cent continued control over the army, the
police, the system of justice, and the civil
service, and it also lets the 4-percent ma-
jority [minority]ยน exercise a veto over any
significant constitutional reform.
ยน Printed in the transcript.
Moreover, while the Case-Javits
amendment called for free participation
of all political factions or groups in the
country in the recent election, the inter-
nal representatives of the opposing politi-
cal parties were banned from the elec-
tions. They were unable to participate in
the political process. They were prohib-
ited from holding meetings, from having
political rallies, from expressing their
views against voting in the election, and
even prevented from advertising their
views in the news media.
For these reasons, I cannot conclude
that the elections were either fair or free.
Nor can I conclude that the other condi-
tion of the United States law has been
fully met. The authorities in Zimbabwe-
Rhodesia have expressed their willingness
to attend an all-parties meeting, but they
have not indicated that they are prepared
to negotiate seriously about "all relevant
issues." All relevant issues have to be con-
sidered in order to comply with the United
States law.
We will, of course, continue to keep the
question of the observance of sanctions
under review. I sincerely hope that future
progress can be made and made rapidly.
Along with the British, we will particu-
larly look for progress towards a wider
political process and more legitimate and
genuine majority rule. In so doing, we will
report to the Congress and, obviously,
consult with the Congress on a monthly
basis on the progress being made in Zim-
babwe-Rhodesia.
The position that I have outlined best
serves not only American interests but the
interests of our allies in a region of the
world of increasing importance to us. It
should preserve our diplomatic and ties
of trade with friendly African Govern-
ments and also limit-and this is very im-
portant-limit the opportunity of outside
1013
