May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ress; we've got a lot more to go. Every-
body's got to work together.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
ENERGY
MR. SCHMIDT. With the final question,
Mr. President, is our newly elected chair-
man of the National Cable Television As-
sociation, Doug Dittrick, from Ridge-
wood, New Jersey.
Q. Mr. President, as you know, we are
meeting in Las Vegas, an area particu-
larly hard hit by the spreading shortage
of gasoline that is now spreading through-
out the country. Many of the attendees
at our convention are now experiencing
difficulty of easily and quickly being able
to obtain gasoline. Why has this happened
to us so suddenly? And what can we do as
consumers, the oil companies, or govern-
ment to help alleviate this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Doug, it hasn't hap-
pened to us suddenly. I remember in
1973, 1974, when I was a Governor, we
were faced with the same problem. And
nothing was done. Our Nation didn't
even attempt to develop a comprehensive
energy policy to cut down on waste; to
initiate conservation; to shift away from
a heavy dependence on imported oil from
the OPEC countries; to build up the use
of American supplies of energy, particu-
larly coal; and to shift toward new sup-
plies of energy, like solar and other
sources that would be more permanent.
Over 2 years ago, if you remember, af-
ter I'd only been in office for 90 days, we
submitted to the Congress in April of 1977
a comprehensive energy proposal. This
was a difficult issue for Congress to ad-
dress, because we're not only the major
consumers and the major wasters of oil
in the whole world, we're also one of the
major producers of oil in the whole world.
It's a very narrowly divided issue in the
pass
Congress and among the public. Although
Congress did about 60 or 65 percent
of the energy proposals that I put for-
ward, the Congress did not pass a single
act that dealt with oil.
More recently, as the shortages have
become more apparent, as the OPEC
prices have continued to go up, I have
gone back to the Congress and said,
"Would you please give me the authority
to restrain purchases of gasoline, for in-
stance, on certain days of the week, if the
Governors in the individual States can-
not handle it?" The Congress refused to
give me this authority. I even asked for
the right to restrain unnecessary lighting
in buildings and billboards advertising.
The Congress refused to give me this au-
thority.
More recently, I asked the Congress to
give me the authority to develop a stand-
by gas rationing plan that would only be
implemented in case we have a severe
shortage, which I hope we won't have.
And it could only be implemented if the
Congress and the President both agreed,
at that time in the future, that it ought
to be implemented. Again, because of ex-
cessive timidity, the Congress refused to
act.
The main problem is not just with the
Congress. The American people have ab-
solutely refused to accept a simple fact:
We have an energy crisis. We have short-
ages of oil. The shortages are going to get
worse in the future. We're going to have
less oil to burn, and we're going to have
to pay more for it.
Now, that is not a politically popular
thing to say, but it's an actual fact. And
the problem is that I'm afraid the Amer-
ican people are not going to be convinced
and, therefore, convince the Congress to
take action-and we can deal with this
problem if we act together unless there
is such a severe crisis with shortages that
936
