Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 30
Our Nation has a noble history, a his-
tory of patriotism and sacrifice, a history
of courage in time of crisis. There is hardly
a family here which has not experienced
the suffering and the dedication of one's
self in war. The first member of my family
who moved to Georgia fought in the Revo-
lution. My great-grandparents fought in
the War Between the States. My father
was a lieutenant in the First World War.
I served in the Navy during the Second
War and the Korean war. My oldest son
volunteered to go to Vietnam and went
there for a long time.
In almost every instance, our Nation
has treated the participants and the vet-
erans of war with honor and respect and
appreciation and a sense of brotherhood
and sharing. But as a father, and as the
Governor of a State, as a candidate for
President, I saw very clearly that the
Vietnam war was different. There were no
chamber of commerce proclamations, no
bands that played martial music to wel-
come back most of the veterans of that
war.
Although all service people have been
heroic as I said many times during the
long campaign for President-veterans of
Vietnam had to demonstrate an extra
measure of heroism. It's easier to offer
one's life, if necessary, for a country when
you have assured knowledge that the
people at home support you and appreci-
ate what you are doing and share with you
the commitment of our Nation. But to
offer one's life in the most horrible pos-
sible circumstances, the most dangerous
circumstances, with the realization that
people back home do not give you that
support, their prayers, their deep appre-
ciation, and a sense of sharing, requires an
extra measure of patriotism and sacrifice.
As you well know, much more vividly than
do I, that was the situation during the
Vietnam war.
Many people opposed the war. That's
a basic right in our country. But the un-
fortunate part of that opposition has been
that many have seen our returning veter-
ans, both during and since the war was
concluded, as an unfortunate or embar-
rassing reminder of the divisiveness of the
war itself. This has created additional
hardship on those who are willing to serve.
In addition, there were special circum-
stances during those recent war years
that
were unprecedented to a remarkable de-
gree. Those who were conscripted to go to
Vietnam were those who were most un-
fortunate, who were deprived of political
influence, who could not afford to be a
student in college, who were relatively in-
articulate, and who were disadvantaged
to begin with. They were joined, ob-
viously, by the extremely heroic volunteers
who went to join them.
Most of those who have returned have
almost miraculously been able to assimilate
themselves back into civilian life and to
further service of our country, even when
the psychological or physical scars of war
were still apparent. But those statistics
which show that remarkable degree of
success are no comfort to those who have
not been able to overcome the psychic or
physical damages of the war.
This factor has also been exacerbated
or aggravated by the fact that those who
went, being disadvantaged educationally
or economically, still had those family
problems when they returned. And our
Nation has not done enough to respect
and to honor and to recognize and to re-
ward the special heroism that I have tried
to describe in such fumbling ways.
There is obviously a need for better op-
portunities for education, for training, for
housing, for jobs. When I was elected
President, I searched for ways to demon-
strate vividly that our Government would
change its attitude of neglect toward the
973
