June 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Independent Water
Project Review
Executive Order 12141. June 5, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, and in or-
der to provide for an orderly implementa-
tion of the independent review of Federal
water resource programs and projects,
subsections (b) and (c) of Section 1-105
of Executive Order No. 12113 of Janu-
ary 4, 1979, are hereby amended to read
as follows:
"(b) After October 1, 1979, an agency
shall not submit to the Council, during
any calendar quarter, more than one-third
of the total reports, proposals, and plans
scheduled for review during any one fiscal
year.
"(c) The Chairman of the Council, or
his designee, shall transmit the results of
the impartial technical review to the ap-
propriate agency head The transmittal
shall include identification of any specific
variations from Council approved proce-
dures and manuals and the steps necessary
to bring the plan into conformance. The
results of the review shall be transmitted
to the agency head within 60 days of the
agency's submission of the report, pro-
posal, or plan provided that funds and
other resources have been made available
for the review.".
The White House,
June 5, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Washington, D.C., to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury. He would replace
William Beckham, Jr., who has resigned,
and his area of responsibility would be
administration.
McDonald has been with the Treasury
Department for 14 years, and is currently
serving as Acting Assistant Secretary.
He was born December 21, 1926, in
Staten Island, N.Y. He holds a degree in
business administration from New York
University and a masters degree in busi-
ness from Southeastern University. He
served in the U.S. Army during World
War II and the Korean war.
Prior to joining the Treasury Depart-
ment, McDonald was the Deputy Comp-
troller at Fort Irwin, Calif., for 4 years
and served in a similar position with the
Army in Europe for 6
years.
His initial assignment at Treasury was
as a management analyst where he par-
ticipated in a number of studies of the
Department's activities. He has also
served as the Chief of the Department's
Emergency Planning Staff and as finan-
cial manager and EEO officer for the
Office of the Secretary. Since 1974 he
has been assigned as the Deputy Director
of the Office of Management and Or-
ganization. In November 1978, he was
assigned to the position of Acting Assist-
ant Secretary.
Department of Health,
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, Education, and Welfare
2:56 p.m., June 5, 1979]
Department of the Treasury
Nomination of Walter J. McDonald To Be an
Assistant Secretary. June 5, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Walter J. McDonald, of
Nomination of Richard I. Beattie To Be
General Counsel. June 5, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Richard I. Beattie, of
Washingon, D.C., to be General Counsel
of the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare. He would replace F. Peter
Libassi, who has resigned.
1000
