Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 20
region on a sound and a lasting founda-
tion.
Recent disturbances in the region have
underlined the need to work even more
urgently towards peace between Israel
and its Arab neighbors. To this end,
Israeli and Egyptian negotiators, the For-
eign Ministers of both countries, will re-
turn to Camp David tonight at the invi-
tation of the United States.
They will be meeting with Secretary of
State Cyrus Vance. And I myself will do
whatever I can to promote the success of
the Camp David negotiations. And if it
should be necessary, and the parties show
adequate flexibility, I will call another
summit conference to work for peace.
I urge all leaders throughout the Mid-
dle East to recognize the vital importance
for their region for these talks to succeed.
what might happen in the future and
what has been happening in the past.
We are using whatever diplomatic and
political means are available to encour-
age restraint on all parties and to seek to
prevent a wider war. While our influence
is limited, because our involvement is lim-
ited, we remain the one great power in
all the world which can have direct and
frank discussions with all the parties con-
cerned. For this reason, we have a useful
and important role to play in the restora-
tion of stability. We will continue our ef-
forts, both directly with the countries in-
volved and through the United Nations,
to secure an end to the fighting in the
region, to bring about a withdrawal of
Vietnam forces from Cambodia and of
Chinese forces from Vietnam, and to gain
the restoration of the independence and
For us in the United States, any crisis integrity of all nations involved.
in the Middle East has the most immedi-
ate and serious consequences. But we are
also deeply concerned by what is happen-
ing now in Southeast Asia. The same
principles of American policy apply: We
support the independence and integrity
of the regional nations; we will stand by
our friends; and we will continue as a
nation to work for peace.
Just in the last few weeks we've seen a
Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia and,
as a result, a Chinese frontier penetration
into Vietnam. Both actions threaten the
stability of one of the world's most im-
portant and promising regions-South-
east Asia.
We have opposed both military actions.
Let me outline very briefly the principles
that govern our conduct.
First, we will not get involved in con-
flict between Asian Communist nations.
Our national interests are not directly
threatened, although we are concerned,
of course, at the wider implications of
At the same time, we are continuing to
express our deep concern that this con-
flict may widen still further-with un-
foreseen and grave consequences for na-
tions in the region and also beyond.
In any event, the United States is fully
prepared to protect the vital interests of
our people wherever they may be chal-
lenged. We are in close consultation with
our friends and allies in the region, espe-
cially the members of the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations, the ASEAN
nations. Their continued stability and
prosperity are of great importance to us.
The normalization of relations between
the United States and the People's Re-
public of China is already an accom-
plished fact and will not be reversed.
This was the simple, long overdue recog-
nition of the reality of the government in
Peking.
In the last few days, we've consulted
directly with leaders around the world-
and with our own congressional leaders,
as well-about events both in the Middle
303
