Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 12
take my choice among your questions?
[Laughter]
Q. Well, okay, in that case-
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead. I was just
joking. Go ahead and ask the other ques-
tion, and I will respond briefly.
Q. I guess I'll give you three short
questions.
THE PRESIDENT. I noticed that.
Q. So, you can give me three short
answers. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not going to have
time for an answer, though.
Q. Okay, and my third question is, is
it true that within a month you are going
to make a decision on whether to recognize
the government in Rhodesia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the third one
first. No, it's not a matter of recognition.
The law requires me, at the end of the es-
tablishment of the government of Muzo-
rewa and Smith and others, to make a
determination of whether or not sanctions
should be lifted, which means whether or
not we should trade with them again. I
will make that decision within 2 weeks
after the newly elected government is
installed.
On the trend in black and other minor-
ity rights, I think the trends are still in the
right direction. I think we are now in a
posture of consolidating the gains that
have been made legally in guaranteeing
equality of treatment, equality of rights of
voting, employment, access to public
funds. My own administration's been
heavily committed to this proposition, to
continue progress in a sustained fashion.
I'll just give you a couple of quick
examples.
One of the omissions has been that
black-owned or minority-owned businesses
didn't have access to Government con-
tracts. In the local public works bill that
we passed the first year I was in office, we
built into the law a requirement that 10
percent of all the contracts would have to
be allotted to businesses or contractors
owned by minority stockholders. We have
substantially increased our allocation of
Federal funds to be deposited in minority-
owned banks, and I have issued a directive
for a substantial increase in purchasing
from minority-owned businesses.
We set as a goal for ourselves when we
first came in office a tripling of Federal
purchases of supplies, file cabinets, and so
forth, from minority-owned businesses by
1980. We will reach that goal. The sum
total then will be at least $3 billion in pur-
chases from minority-owned businesses.
We've reorganized the equal employ-
ment opportunity agencies of the Federal
Government, and I think it's greatly
strengthened them. And we have had an
unrestrained buildup in Federal allocation
of funds for the enforcement of and the
enhancement of basic rights of equality of
treatment for minority groups.
I'm particularly concerned about Span-
ish-speaking Americans having been
abused in the South and Southwest, and
the Attorney General, the Secretary of
State, the Governors, and I have all
started a new program to make sure that
these abuses that have been extant in the
past are removed.
The Weber case is one on which the At-
torney General will take a stand, and has.
We want to protect the right of people for
employment, not only for equal employ-
ment but also for affirmative action. We
took a stand, as you know, in the Bakke
case, that has been already resolved. So, I
would say that we've got, in general, a
commitment that has not been attenuated.
I'm now in the process of appointing
judges, a large number of them. We're try-
ing to make sure that Spanish-speaking
people, blacks, and women are adequately
represented in the circuit courts and also
in district courts, and to ensure employ-
847
