Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
vember, we stopped the dollar's decline
in value against other currencies and
have actually increased the dollar's value
by around 10 percent against several
major currencies. Moreover, we have an-
nounced a multi-faceted program to in-
crease U.S. exports, which will benefit
American farmers and workers, while
further strengthening the position of the
dollar.
We are now close to new agreements
with our trading partners to establish a
fairer, better operating and more open
framework for world trade.
The American people have a vital stake
in Congressional approval of these agree-
ments. Ten million American jobs depend
on our exports. Every third acre of our
farmland produces for sales abroad. Two-
thirds of our imports are essential raw
materials or goods we cannot readily pro-
duce.
At a time of difficult strains in our own
economy, there is always an impulse to
abandon our commitment to an open
world trading system. But the costs of
such a course to the American people
would be enormous. Each American
family would pay more for what it buys
and would have less choice in the goods
available. Inflation would be fueled. Jobs
would be jeopardized, for protectionism
against our trading partners breeds pro-
tectionism by them against us.
I am convinced that our economy can
adapt to changing patterns of world trade
in ways that protect the future of our
workers. We can compete effectively in
the world economy. The new trade agree-
ments give us the opportunity to do so.
Our programs of economic develop-
ment assistance abroad are also an invest-
ment in our own future as well as the fu-
ture of other nations. Our most rapidly
growing markets lie in the developing
world. By helping the people of these
countries, we not only help extend their
opportunities for a better life, we help
ourselves. By demonstrating to their gov-
ernments that we are concerned for the
well-being of their people, we encourage
their increasing cooperation with the West
on a broad range of issues.
I therefore urge Congressional ap-
proval of the funding we propose for our
bilateral assistance programs and our par-
ticipation in the work of the multilateral
development banks and UN agencies.
My proposal to establish a Foundation
of International Technological Coopera-
tion reflects our recognition that scientists
in many developing nations are ready to
work in collaboration with our technolog-
ical institutions to solve the great prob-
lems of health, nutrition, productivity and
other aspects of economic development.
Key commodity agreements can also
help us deal with the legitimate needs and
interests of the developing countries. Sen-
ate ratification of the International Sugar
Agreement, which we signed last year,
along with price support legislation will
stabilize prices for that important com-
modity. We have pledged a contribution
to the International Tin Agreement, and
we will conduct negotiations on a rubber
accord.
Efforts to build a stronger international
economy are directed not simply at man-
aging economic relationships among na-
tions, but at improving the lives of indi-
vidual people around the world. For it is
the lives of individuals which define the
success or failure of our foreign policies.
REASSERTING AMERICA'S VALUES
America's future is best secured in a
world founded on decency, justice and
compassion.
The effort to make human rights a
central component of our foreign policy
comes from our deepest sense of ourselves
as a humane and freedom-loving people.
161
