Mar. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tonight, but maybe some other time."
[Laughter]
My question falls around a picture I
saw the other day. And in this picture
was Atlas holding the world, and Atlas
was a little bit different than usual. He
was gray-haired. And in 1975, Mr. Presi-
dent, when you were running for the
Presidency, your hair seemed to be a little
darker. [Laughter] And I was wondering,
now that it seems to be a little lighter, if
you would attribute that towards holding
the highest position in the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, tell your daugh-
ter I hope she can come and see Amy,
first of all. Secondly, I can't deny that the
Presidency of our country is a tremendous
responsibility. A lot of things fall on my
shoulders that no one else can answer. If
a question is easy to answer, it's ordinar-
ily resolved in a person's life or within a
family. If the family can't resolve it, may-
be at the city hall. And if he can't do it
in the county or city, it goes to the State
legislature. And then if it's so compli-
cated or so difficult or so far-reaching that
it can't be resolved at the State level, it
comes to Washington. And then, of
course, it's the responsibility of the Con-
gress and the President.
In addition to the legislation that we
have to deal with, which is very contro-
versial and quite often there's no way to
win, politically speaking, there are re-
sponsibilities of international peace, the
defense and security of our own country,
dealing with foreign nations, trying to
raise the banner of human rights, trying to
repair some damage that was done to our
cause I recognize that in spite of the gray
hairs that come along with the job, it's
one of the most exciting and gratifying
jobs on Earth, because I represent the
greatest country on Earth.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Hello.
REQUEST FOR A KISS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Karen
Ensey, and I'm from Dill City, Oklahoma,
and I'd like to know if I can have a kiss.
[Laughter]
[At this point, the President kissed Ms. Ensey.]
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that I
don't have any rule against the same ques-
tion being asked more than once.
[Laughter]
[At this point, the President kissed several
women in the audience.]
I didn't blush the first time, but I
blushed that time.
PRESIDENT'S ROLE OF PEACEMAKER
Q. Now I have double butterflies. My
name is Lorene Mikles, and I'm from
Sayre, Oklahoma, and we do welcome you
to Elk City, Mr. President.
And instead of a question, I have a com-
ment. As a citizen of the United States of
America, of western Oklahoma, and of the
rural community and, more particularly,
as mother of three teenage sons, I want
to express to you my personal prayers and
gratitude for your role as peacemaker in
the world today.
Government by Vietnam and Watergate Mikles, very much. I don't think the pro-
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mrs.
and the CIA revelations. So, it is a very
heavy responsibility.
I might say that it's a voluntary job.
Nobody made me run for it. And I enjoy
it. I have never yet gotten up in the morn-
ing and I get up quite early-that I
haven't looked forward to the day, be-
gram could get any better from here on.
Thank you so much.
VOLUNTARY WAGE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gene
Johnson, and I promise I'm not going to
476
