June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
isting solar technologies achieve wide-
spread use in the near term will be as
much if not more a function of the com-
mitment on the part of energy users in
this country to consider these technologies
as it will be a function of the incentives
the government is able to provide.
State and local governments must make
an all-out effort to promote the use of
solar and renewable resources if the bar-
riers now found at those levels are to be
overcome. Zoning ordinances, laws gov-
erning access to the sun, housing codes,
and state public utility commission policies
are not Federal responsibilities. Although
the Federal government should provide
leadership, whether or not these tools are
used to hinder or to help solar and renew-
able energy use ultimately depends upon
decisions by each city, county and state.
The potential for success in each of these
areas is great; the responsibility is like-
wise. I call on our Governors, our Mayors,
and our county officials to join with me
in helping to make our goal a reality.
American industry must also be willing
to make investments of its own if we are
to reach our solar goal. We are setting a
goal for which industry can plan. We are
providing strong and certain incentives
that it can count on. Industry, in turn,
must accelerate and expand its research,
development, demonstration, and promo-
tional activities. The manufacturing, con-
struction, financing, marketing, and serv-
ice skills of American business and labor
are essential. Banks and financial institu-
tions will need to examine and strengthen
their lending policies to assure that solar
technologies are offered a fair chance in
the marketplace. Universities and the aca-
demic community must mobilize to find
ways of bringing those solar and renew-
able technologies that are still not ready
for commercial introduction closer to the
marketplace. Small businesses and family
farmers also have opportunities for signifi-
cant use of solar and renewable resources.
They, too, must join in this effort.
Finally, each one of us in our daily lives
needs to examine our own uses of energy
and to learn how we can make solar and
renewable resources meet our own needs.
What kind of house we buy, or whether
we are willing to work in our own com-
munities to accelerate the use of solar
energy, will be essential in determining
whether we reach our goal.
The Federal government also has a re-
sponsibility in providing incentives, infor-
mation, and the impetus for meeting our
20% solar goal by the year 2000. Almost
every agency of the Federal government
has responsibilities which touch in one
way or another on solar energy. Govern-
ment agencies helped finance over one
million U.S. homes in 1978. By their lend-
ing policies and their willingness to assist
solar investments, these agencies have
significant leverage.
The Tennessee Valley Authority is the
Nation's largest utility and producer of
power. It has a far-reaching opportunity
to become a solar showcase-to set an ex-
ample for all utilities, whether public or
privately owned, of how to accelerate the
use of solar technologies. The Department
of Defense (DOD) is a major consumer
of energy and a major provider of hous-
ing. A multitude of opportunities exist for
DOD to demonstrate the use of solar. The
Agency for International Development
(AID) works full time in helping other
countries to meet their essential needs,
including energy. Solar and renewable
resources hold significant potential for
these countries and, through AID, we can
assist in promoting the worldwide appli-
cation of these technologies.
The Department of Energy has a par-
ticularly significant responsibility in aid-
ing the development and encouraging the
1100
