Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 16
1-4. Administrative Provisions.
1-401. The Office of Personnel Man-
agement shall provide the Commission
with administrative services, staff support,
and travel expenses, as authorized by law.
1-402. Executive Order No. 11451 of
January 19, 1969, is superseded.
The White House,
May 15, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:02 p.m., May 15, 1979]
Human Rights in Uganda
Memorandum on the Normalization of U.S.-
Ugandan Trade Relations. May 15, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of State,
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secre-
tary of Commerce
Subject: Trade with Uganda
Pursuant to the authority vested in me
by Section 5 of Public Law 95-435, I here-
by determine and certify that:
The Government of Uganda is no
longer committing a consistent pattern
of gross violations of human rights.
The Secretary of State is requested to
report this determination to the Con-
gress on my behalf, as required by law.
The Secretaries of Treasury and Com-
merce are requested to take the appro-
priate steps permitting the immediate
resumption of imports from and exports
to Uganda.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:03 p.m., May 15, 1979]
Human Rights in Uganda
Statement by the President. May 15, 1979
All Americans were appalled by evi-
dence of the truly deplorable human rights
violations which occurred during the
Amin regime. While my administration
publicly condemned this situation, I would
particularly like to commend Senators
Hatfield and Weicker and Congressmen
Pease and Bonker for the intense concern
which they exhibited about the human
rights situation in Uganda. The breaking
of the pattern of gross violations of human
rights heralds a brighter day for Ugandans
and, indeed, for all in the world concerned
with human rights.
Public Participation in Federal
Agency Proceedings
Memorandum From the President.
May 16, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Execu-
tive Departments and Agencies
Executive Order 12044 of March 23,
1978, formalized the Administration's
commitment to public participation in
Federal agency proceedings. Widespread
participation can improve the quality of
agency decisions by assuring that they are
made on the basis of more complete and
balanced records.
Experience has shown, however, that
citizen groups often find the cost of mean-
ingful participation in agency proceedings
to be prohibitive. Many citizen groups are
unable to pay the costs of experts and at-
torneys' fees, clerical costs, and the costs of
travel to agency proceedings. As a result,
the views and interests of consumers,
workers, small businesses, and others often
go unrepresented, or underrepresented, in
867
