Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 8
1–103. Maintaining Conditions. As pro-
vided by Section 10 of the Railway Labor
Act, as amended, from this date and for
30 days after the board has made its re-
port to the President, no change, except by
agreement, shall be made by the National
Railway Labor Conference, or by its em-
ployees, in the conditions out of which the
dispute arose.
The White House,
May 8, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:40 p.m., May 8, 1979]
Emergency Board To Investigate
a Railway Labor Dispute
Announcement Concerning Executive Order
12132 and Appointment of the Membership
of the Board. May 8, 1979
The President has signed an Executive
order creating an emergency board to
investigate the dispute between the Na-
tional Railway Labor Conference and cer-
tain of their employees represented by
the American Train Dispatchers Asso-
ciation.
He also appointed three persons as
members of the Emergency Board. They
are:
James J. Reynolds, a former Assistant
Secretary of Labor and Under Secretary
of Labor in the Kennedy and Johnson ad-
ministrations. Reynolds was a member of
the National Labor Relations Board in
the Truman administration, and was
president of the American Institute of
Merchant Shipping from 1969 until his
retirement in 1978. He will serve as Chair-
man of this Emergency Board.
Ida Klaus, of New York City, an arbi-
trator and mediator with more than 40
years' experience in the labor relations
field. She has served as special arbitrator
under the U.S. Steel agreement since
1975. She has also served as solicitor for
the National Labor Relations Board and
labor counsel for New York City. From
1962 to 1975, she was executive director
of the Office of Labor Relations and Col-
lective Bargaining of the New York City
Board of Education.
Nicholas H. Zumas, a Washington,
D.C., attorney and arbitrator. Zumas, cur-
rently in private practice, is a member of
the District of Columbia Board of Labor
Relations and has also served as assistant
to the Under Secretary of HEW and coun-
sel for the House Special Subcommittee
on Education of the Education and Labor
Committee.
This Emergency Board is created under
the procedures of the Railway Labor Act.
It will report its findings and recommen-
dations to the President within 30 days,
and the parties must then consider the
Board's recommendations and try to re-
solve their differences within the next 30-
day period. Without the creation of this
Board, the dispute would threaten a shut-
down on May 10 of 52 of the Nation's
railroads, the number represented by the
National Railway Labor Conference.
United States Ambassador to
Egypt
Nomination of Alfred L. Atherton, Jr.
May 8, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Alfred L. Atherton, Jr., of
Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States to the Arab Republic
819
