Jan. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
value, they will automatically be
terminated.
There's no such thing as an effective
and a noncontroversial reorganization
and reform. But we know that honest, ef-
fective government is essential to restore
public faith in our public action.
None of us can be satisfied when two-
thirds of the American citizens chose not
to vote last year in a national election.
Too many Americans feel powerless
against the influence of private lobbying
groups and the unbelievable flood of pri-
vate campaign money which threatens
our electoral process.
This year, we must regain the public's
faith by requiring limited financial funds
from public funds for congressional elec-
tion campaigns. House bill 1 provides for
this public financing of campaigns. And
I look forward with a great deal of antic-
ipation to signing it at an early date.
A strong economy and an effective gov-
ernment will restore confidence in
America. But the path of the future must
be charted in peace. We must continue to
build a new and a firm foundation for a
stable world community.
We are building that new foundation
from a position of national strength-the
strength of our own defenses, the strength
of our friendships with other nations, and
of our oldest American ideals.
America's military power is a major
force for security and stability in the
world. We must maintain our strategic
capability and continue the progress of
the last 2 years with our NATO Allies,
with whom we have increased our readi-
ness, modernized our equipment, and
strengthened our defense forces in Europe.
I urge you to support the strong defense
budget which I have proposed to the
Congress.
But our national security in this com-
plicated age requires more than just mili-
tary might. In less than a lifetime, world
population has more than doubled, colo-
nial empires have disappeared, and a hun-
dred new nations have been born. Mass
communications, literacy, and migration
to the world's cities have all awakened
new yearnings for economic justice and
human rights among people everywhere.
This demand for justice and human
rights is a wave of the future. In such a
world, the choice is not which super power
will dominate the world. None can and
none will. The choice instead is between a
world of anarchy and destruction, or a
world of cooperation and peace.
In such a world, we seek not to stifle
inevitable change, but to influence its
course in helpful and constructive ways
that enhance our values, our national in-
terests, and the cause of peace.
Towering over this volatile, changing
world, like a thundercloud on a summer
day, looms the awesome power of nuclear
weapons.
We will continue to help shape the
forces of change, to anticipate emerging
problems of nuclear proliferation and
conventional arms sales, and to use our
great strength and influence to settle in-
ternational conflicts in other parts of the
world before they erupt and spread.
We have no desire to be the world's
policeman. But America does want to be
the world's peacemaker.
We are building the foundation for
truly global cooperation, not only with
Western and industrialized nations but
with the developing countries as well.
Our ties with Japan and our European
allies are stronger than ever, and so are
our friendly relations with the people of
Latin America, Africa, and the Western
Pacific and Asia.
We've won new respect in this hemi-
sphere with the Panama Canal treaties.
We've gained new trust with the develop-
106
