Feb. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tween our countries, as it has in the world
and to the world.
United by geography and the borders
that scar it, and immersed in the con-
flicts of a sometimes bitter and invariably
complex history, we have set out to order
our conduct as neighbors according to the
precepts of law and, even more impor-
tant, on the favorable basis of mutual
friendship. This implies good will, ex-
pressed in terms of respectful, fair, and
worthy treatment.
Today, 2 years later, it is only fitting
that we evaluate our objectives and face
the facts that confront us. We know bet-
ter now what each expects of the other,
but I believe we also know that we have
not yet put our friendship to the test,
since we have not yet decided what we
are willing to make of our relationship.
We can view it as a problem, or we can
think of it as a conflict. In the first case,
there are solutions, which would be wel-
comed by our friends; in the second, con-
frontation, which would give joy to our
enemies.
We know that in a world characterized
by extraordinary and difficult changes
and by the readjustment of forces, inter-
ests, resources, and positions, your great
country is still in the process of redefin-
ing its policies and that this makes your
decisions all the more difficult.
Nevertheless, we see in you a leader
who has sought to revive the moral
foundations of the political institutions of
the United States. With great personal
integrity, you have sought to replace pro-
visional arrangements with lasting agree-
ments.
That is what we are hoping for. That is
what we are determined to do. Our peo-
ples want definitive agreements, not cir-
cumstantial concessions.
Among permanent, not casual, neigh-
bors, surprise moves and sudden deceit
or abuse are poisonous fruits that sooner
or later have a reverse effect.
Consequently, we must take a long-
range view of ourselves. No injustice can
prevail without affronting decency and
dignity.
It is difficult, particularly among neigh-
bors, to maintain cordial and mutually
advantageous relations in an atmosphere
of mistrust or open hostility.
We do not wish to view our history as
one that uselessly anchors us, like so many
pillars of salt, to a burden of resentment,
just as we would not like you to contem-
plate your future in terms of the risks of
silent migration. Neither anchors nor si-
lence must impede our dealings with one
another.
A good-neighbor policy presupposes a
general climate of opinion in which re-
spect prevails over prejudice and intelli-
gence over sectarianism.
Over our 3,000 kilometers of common
border, we are the most representative
example of North-South relations-the
confluence of two expanding civilizations,
formerly separated by the desert, but now
closely linked by a complex series of
conurbations and exchanges.
But no matter how greatly our relations
may have been intensified, they are
neither exclusive nor excluding. As a
world power, the United States is increas-
ing its presence and its commitments on
all continents. Mexico, as an independent
country, recognizes no limitations on the
diversification of its exchanges, other than
its principles and its development require-
ments.
It is in that light that we must view the
complex phenomenon of our interrela-
tionship, which should never be confused
with dependence, integration, or the
blurring of borders. The two countries
complement and need each other, but
neither would want to depend on the
274
