Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 22
criminal acts, and they will be treated as
such.
The full resources of the Department
of Justice will be used to ensure that
order is preserved, that violators are ap-
prehended, and that individual rights of
American citizens are protected. As nec-
essary, the Federal government will also
coordinate the protection of truck drivers
who are moving in interstate commerce.
We will do whatever is necessary to see
that those truckers who want to work are
not threatened by either violence or in-
timidation.
We all recognize that there are con-
cerns that the independent owner-oper-
ators have which must be addressed.
Those concerns fall into several cate-
gories. I want you to know what has been
done in each area so that you will be
fully informed as you respond to the situ-
ation in your state.
MANAGEMENT OF THE PROBLEM
Jack Watson and Gene Eidenberg of
my staff will direct a special White House
Management Task Force on Energy
Shortages. This Task Force will be re-
sponsible for coordinating and directing
the federal response to all energy short-
age situations that develop. I have
charged Messrs. Watson and Eidenberg
with handling the federal response to
the independent truckers' strike as a first
priority.
THE PRICE OF DIESEL FUEL
As is true of all petroleum products,
the price of diesel is going up. The inde-
pendent owner-operators have had to ab-
sorb cost increases since January totalling
more than 35%. On June 15th, the ICC
issued a major change in its regulations
that provides as follows:
to compensate for escalating fuel costs for
regulated carriers are given an automatic
pass-through of fuel cost increases, irre-
spective of whether or not the regulated
carrier for whom they work files for an
increase in rates with the ICC.
-The surcharge amount guaranteed
will be adjusted every week and will be
announced by noon on Tuesday. It will
be based on weekly surveys of fuel costs
at truck stops throughout the country.
-The new system requires no paper-
work by the owner-operator.
-Owner-operators can receive higher
higher surcharges if actual costs are
compensation for fuel costs based on
higher, and the carrier for whom they
operate files for higher rates. The higher
surcharge would automatically pass
through to the owner-operator. This tariff
filing can be done on a simple expedited
basis and ICC is ready to help the carrier
in that publication action.
For exempt haulers who are not regu-
lated by the ICC, this fuel price surcharge
published by the ICC should form one
basis for negotiations concerning a fair
price for hauling exempt commodities. In
addition to this standard, I have asked the
Departments of Agriculture and Trans-
portation, working with the ICC, to de-
velop plans for an index of prices charged
for hauling various exempt commodities.
If updated in a timely fashion, such an
index could provide another basis for ne-
gotiations between brokers and exempt
haulers, helping to insure fair prices.
ALLOCATION PRIORITIES
The DOE is lifting Special Rule #9
effective immediately. As you know, Rule
#9 was promulgated to insure that
100% of farmers' diesel needs were met
during the spring planting season. Plant-
-All owner-operators handling freight ing is now completed in all but a few scat-
1139
