June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
equal ceilings on the nuclear delivery
systems of both sides; to begin the process
of reductions it requires the reduction of
existing nuclear arms; to begin to limit
the threat represented by the qualitative
arms race it also places substantial con-
straints on the modernization of strategic
offensive systems and the development of
new ones.
The new Treaty on the Limitation of
Strategic Offensive Arms and the Protocol
thereto represent a mutually acceptable
balance between the interests of the sides
based on the principles of equality and
equal security. These documents are a
substantial contribution to the prevention
of nuclear war and the deepening of
détente, and thus serve the interests not
only of the American and Soviet peoples,
but the aspirations of mankind for peace.
The two sides reaffirmed their com-
mitment strictly to observe every provi-
sion in the treaty.
President Carter and President Brezh-
nev discussed questions relating to the
SALT III negotiations and in this con-
nection expressed the firm intention of
the sides to act in accordance with the
Joint Statement of Principles and Basic
Guidelines for Subsequent Negotiations
on the Limitation of Strategic Arms.
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. It was
noted that there has been definite progress
at the negotiations, in which the UK is
also participating, on an international
treaty comprehensively banning test ex-
plosions of nuclear weapons in any en-
vironment and an associated protocol.
They confirmed the intention of the USA
and the USSR to work, together with
the UK, to complete preparation of this
treaty as soon as possible.
Non-proliferation. The two sides re-
affirmed the importance they attach to
nuclear non-proliferation. They consist-
ently advocate the further strengthening
of the regime of non-proliferation of
nuclear weapons and confirm their re-
solve to continue to comply strictly with
the obligations they have assumed under
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons. They stressed the im-
portance of applying comprehensive in-
ternational safeguards under the Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency and
pledged to continue their efforts to
strengthen these safeguards.
They noted the profound threat posed
to world security by the proliferation of
nuclear weapons, and agreed that the
states already possessing nuclear weapons
bear a special responsibility to demon-
strate restraint. To this end, they affirmed
their joint conviction that further efforts
are needed, including on a regional basis,
and expressed the hope that the conclu-
sion of the SALT II Treaty will make
an important contribution toward non-
proliferation objectives.
Both sides further committed them-
selves to close cooperation, along with
other countries, to insure a successful con-
clusion to the Non-Proliferation Treaty
Review Conference in 1980, and called
upon all states which have not already
done so to sign and ratify the Non-Proli-
feration Treaty.
Vienna Negotiations. President Carter
and President Brezhnev emphasized the
great importance the sides attached to the
negotiations on the mutual reduction of
forces and armaments and associated
measures in Central Europe in which they
are participating with other states. A re-
duction of the military forces of both sides
and the implementation of associated
measures in Central Europe would be a
major contribution to stability and
security.
ASAT. It was also agreed to continue
actively searching for mutually acceptable
1084
