Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 16
dies which substantially increase protec-
tion of United States agricultural and in-
dustrial trading interests, and (2) more
effective provisions on notification, con-
sultation and dispute settlement that will
provide for timely resolution of disputes
involving trade subsidies in international
trade.
My Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations has informed me that nego-
tiations on almost all MTN topics have
been substantially concluded, and that
those agreements meet basic U.S. objec-
tives. However, final agreement is un-
likely unless the waiver authority is ex-
tended for the period during which such
agreements and their implementing leg-
islation are being considered by the Con-
gress under the procedures of the Trade
Act of 1974.
Under current authority, the imposi-
tion of countervailing duties may be
waived in a specific case only if, inter alia,
"adequate steps have been taken to elim-
inate or substantially reduce the adverse
effect" of the subsidy in question. This
provision and the other limitations on the
use of the waiver authority which are cur-
rently in the law would continue in effect
if the waiver authority is extended. Thus,
U.S. producers and workers will continue
to be protected from the adverse effects of
subsidized competition.
A successful conclusion to the MTN is
essential to our national interest, as well
as the continued growth of world trade. If
the waiver authority is not extended, such
a successful conclusion will be placed in
serious jeopardy. Accordingly, I urge the
Congress to act positively upon this legis-
lative proposal at the earliest possible
date.
The White House,
January 15, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Proposed amendment to Section 303
(d) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended,
by Section 331 (a) of the Trade Act of
1974, (19 U.S.C. 1303).
At the end of paragraph (d) of Section
303 add the following new paragraph:
(4) Notwithstanding subparagraph (d) (2),
the four-year period referred to therein is ex-
tended until September 30, 1979, and all de-
terminations reached by the Secretary pursu-
ant thereto prior to the enactment of this sub-
paragraph shall continue in effect until such
date, unless the Secretary revokes his determi-
nation as provided in subparagraph 303 (d)
(3). Any other determination by the Secre-
tary to waive countervailing duties as to
which an intention to do so was announced
prior to the enactment of this subparagraph
shall be effective as of the date notice of in-
tent to waive was published in the FEDERAL
REGISTER.
Interview With the President
Excerpts From a Question-and-Answer
Session With John Chancellor of NBC News.
January 13, 1979
up,
MR. CHANCELLOR. I kind of hate to bring
this but I have to. Do you think your
brother, Billy, would be a liability in a
campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, family
matters and my brother, Billy, are fairly
sensitive with me. Billy is an extremely
independent person. Any criticism that I
might make publicly of Billy would cause,
I think, him to react very strongly and to
reexert his independence. We have a
good personal relationship. It's always
been that way.
Billy and I have very strong differences
of opinion on many issues. He expresses
those differences much more frequently
than do I. And I don't look on Billy's
actions as a basis for success in future po-
litical activities. And I hope the people of
the United States realize that I have no
control over Billy; he has no control over
me.
47
