Apr. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
any item in Schedule 4, Part 2 or Part 10,
for which the Secretary of Energy finds
that the reimposition of a tariff would not
be in accordance with the purposes of
Proclamation No. 3279, as amended.
Upon such a finding, the Secretary may
defer imposition of the tariff for a period
not to exceed six months and may defer
imposition of the tariff for one additional
period, not to exceed six months, upon a
similar finding.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixth day of April,
in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-nine, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two
hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:30 a.m., April 9, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on April 7.
Richmond, Virginia
Remarks at the State Democratic Party's
Jefferson-Jackson Day Dinner. April 7, 1979
In a few minutes, you will hear me
make a speech from the other room, but
I would like to say if I could choose one
audience in the entire Nation that I would
rather speak to tonight, it would be an
overflow crowd at a Democratic fund-
raising event in Richmond, Virginia.
I won't have very much time in here.
And since you won't be in the other room,
you're very generous to let me come in
ahead of time to speak to you.
I've only got about 7 minutes, so rather
than making an extra speech, if you don't
mind, I would kind of like to walk down
this aisle and over and back, and maybe
shake a few hands. I won't have a chance
to do that in the large room, but I par-
ticularly want to thank you especially.
[The President spoke to dinner guests at 7:22
p.m. in the Marshall Room at the John Mar-
shall Hotel. He then went to the Virginia Room
at the hotel, where he delivered the following
remarks at the main dinner.]
Lieutenant Governor Robb, Congressman
Satterfield, Congressman Daniel, Con-
gressman Harris, Congressman Fisher, my
good friend Andy Miller, my good friend
Henry Howell, Chairman Dick Davis,
Speaker Cooke, and future victorious
Virginia Democrats:
I am very proud to be with you. I'm
glad to be back in Richmond. The first
time I ever spent a night with my wife
in a hotel was in Richmond, Virginia,
in the old Jefferson. [Laughter]
It was a month before we got mar-
ried-[laughter]—the night of June Week
at the Naval Academy, and my mother
and father stayed in the room, unfortu-
nately, between us. [Laughter]
But I've always had a special place in
my heart for Richmond ever since that
time. I have a lot of warm feelings about
Virginia. My ancestors came from your
State. My first son was born in Virginia,
because my wife and I started our married
life in this great State. This is the birth-
place of the Nation that I love, and, as you
know, it's the home of the father of the
Democratic Party. So, I feel at home with
you, and I'm very glad to be here.
I try, when I come, to think of some
good things to say about the State, and
it's not difficult in Virginia.
Last weekend I was in Wisconsin, in
Milwaukee and in Wausau. I spoke to a
group in Wausau-this is the fourth
group I've met with since I've been in
Richmond tonight—and they told me that
in Wausau, I was the first President who
had been there since Calvin Coolidge.
630
