Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 10
needs, than to have a single isolated per-
son through whom you had to channel
questions relating to a particular group.
I've met in this room or in the White
House with larger groups from the com-
munities whose ancestors came from Hun-
gary, Romania, Poland, Estonia, and
many other, both major and smaller
countries, and we are continuing that
responsibility.
Lately, we have been talking again
about how to improve the relationship
with ethnics in a more conglomerate
group, and not isolated individually as
representatives whose families came from
a particular country.
Q. Is there someone on your staff that
we could talk to about coalescing?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Tim Kraft
would probably be the best one to talk to,
and Anne Wexler, either one of those.
But I'd say Tim Kraft.
ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM
EXPORTING COUNTRIES
Q. Mr. President, Hank Keezing, Hart-
ford, Connecticut, Herald. On energy,
more and more is being written and dis-
cussed about why isn't this country trying
to break the OPEC cartel price struc-
ture. Has any thought been given to that
tactical approach?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, we've
got now about half of our oil being im-
ported; very little of our natural gas is
imported, because we have an adequate
supply now for those special uses that we
have for it. A lot of thought's been going
into how to minimize the adverse effect
of the OPEC price structure.
We presented a comprehensive energy
proposal to the Congress in April of 1977,
about 65 percent of which was adopted.
The part relating to oil pricing, unfortu-
nately, has not yet been adopted.
The best way to deal with this question,
I think, is not to have an idle hope that
we can destroy the structure of OPEC. I
think it's now become such an institu-
tionalized structure that it would be very
doubtful that anyone could break it down.
Whenever we've challenged the authority
of OPEC or tried to influence their pric-
ing habits, we've never found much re-
sponse from countries that were much
more dependent on imported oil than are
we. Our European allies-in France, for
instance, and Japan, for instance-im-
port sometimes 75, 80, 95 percent of their
oil; whereas, we import much less, per-
centagewise.
I don't think we could mount an in-
ternational and successful challenge, but
we can control the dependence and the
adverse effect of OPEC by shifting away
from imported oil, by increasing produc-
tion in our own country, by shifting to
coal, to solar energy, to natural gas, where
we have a more adequate supply, and also
by dealing with countries that are natu-
rally bound to us historically in a spirit of
friendship.
When we had the oil embargo in 1973,
we got an increasing portion of our oil
from countries like Nigeria, Venezuela,
Indonesia, that we had to import. And of
course, since then we've brought in the
Alaska pipeline to start bringing in oil.
I might point out to you that right
now we are in the unfortunate position
price. The spot market price for oil now
that the OPEC price is not the prevailing
is $6 or $7 above the OPEC price. Ob-
viously most of the oil is sold on a con-
tract basis at the OPEC price level. But
an increasing portion of the total oil in
the international markets is being sold
now at about $20 to $21 a barrel;
whereas, the OPEC price is a little above
$14.
245
