Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 25
FOREIGN POLICY PRIORITIES
THE CONTINUING CHALLENGES OF
CHANGE
When I took office two years ago this
month, I was convinced that America had
to pursue a changed course in a world
which was itself undergoing vast change.
In the midst of this accelerating change,
America's choice lies between facing chaos
or building with others a new foundation
for a true world community. Our foreign
policy accepts the latter responsibility both
because of our basic belief, and because of
America's critical role in the world.
To this end, we must have four broad
objectives:
to buttress American power on which
global security and stability depend;
⚫ to strengthen our relations with other
nations throughout the world in order to
widen the spirit of international coopera-
tion;
• to deal constructively with pressing
world problems which otherwise will dis-
rupt and even destroy the world commu-
nity we seek;
• to assert our traditional commitment
to human rights, rejoining a rising tide of
belief in the dignity of the individual.
Progress towards these goals depends
first on our ability as a Nation to work to-
gether in the common interest. During the
coming year, the Congress, the Executive,
and the public will be addressing an un-
usually wide range of international issues.
The action taken will have an impact on
our Nation's position in the world for
many years to come-in establishing a se-
cure nuclear balance, in developing closer
relations with the world's most populous
Nation; in achieving an historic step to-
wards peace in the Middle East; or in
setting the pattern of trade relations dur-
ing the next decade and beyond.
This report elaborates on my address
to the Congress and, in particular, concen-
trates on the issues in which the role of
the Congress will be most important to
building a new foundation for peace. In
each case, the challenge is clear: to exer-
cise strong American leadership with
others to shape change rather than permit
change to shape us.
AMERICA'S MILITARY STRENGTH
Elsewhere in this report I have de-
scribed the domestic programs and pol-
icies required for a just, united and pro-
ductive America. The maintenance of
American military strength is an essential
foundation for a successful foreign policy
that safeguards our freedom, our accom-
plishments and our friendships. In a world
of accelerating change, fraught with po-
tential danger and uncertainty, and
marked by a continuing Soviet military
buildup, we must have, together with our
allies, unsurpassed military capability to
deter attack or attempts at political coer-
cion. Moreover, we must have the military
force to mount an effective defense at any
level of hostilities where our vital inter-
ests are jeopardized.
The defense budget which I have pre-
sented to the Congress funds a program of
prudent investments that will ensure the
effectiveness of our strategic and conven-
tional military posture. It will:
begin full-scale development of a
new, more survivable ballistic missile sys-
tem to enhance the ICBM component of
our strategic triad;
• maintain the Trident submarine and
missile programs, increasing the security,
striking power and the range of our sub-
marine force;
• extend the effectiveness of our bomb-
er force with the addition of air-launched
cruise missiles;
155
