Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
review these proposals prior to the sub-
mission of the changes to the Congress
and the Administration and the Con-
gress can have their recommendations, if
any.
If the Administration's proposals for
Social Security outlay reductions and
hospital cost containment legislation are
enacted, it would be possible to consider
a reduction in Social Security taxes be-
ginning in 1981. However, such a reduc-
tion would have to be considered in light
of alternative uses of such savings, includ-
ing reduction of any budget deficit and
funding of high-priority programs.
Beyond the immediate reforms I have
proposed, the Administration is commit-
ted to review the entire pension system
that has developed in our country. I have
established a Pension Commission to pro-
vide the type of long-range analysis this
vital area needs.
Disability Insurance Reforms
I will propose to Congress an inte-
grated package of reforms for the Disabil-
ity Insurance system, separate from the
Social Security changes I have just dis-
cussed. These measures will improve in-
centives for rehabilitation of the disabled,
ensure that benefits do not exceed pre-dis-
ability disposable income, and make ad-
ministration of the system simpler and
more consistent. We must make certain
that those who should receive benefits are
not excluded, but that those who are not
truly disabled or can otherwise return to
work, do so.
Welfare Reform
The Nation's welfare system is inequi-
table, inefficient and long overdue for se-
rious reform.
I will recommend to the Congress a
package consisting of reforms in cash as-
sistance, expansion of the earned income
tax credit, an expansion of private and
public job opportunities for welfare re-
cipients, and fiscal relief for State and lo-
cal governments. This package will enable
us to develop a welfare system that is
more simple, narrows the great differ-
ences in the way States help the very poor,
that encourages people to work, and that
helps eliminate the fraud and abuse cur-
rently plaguing parts of our welfare sys-
tem.
My Administration has already begun
to work closely with this Congress to enact
welfare reform this year. We must expedi-
tiously move forward with welfare reform
this year.
Families
Our major social initiatives and goals
for this year will be undertaken with vigor
and with a commitment to the security
and enhancement of the American family
structure. Our government must never
impede nor work against the American
family, but rather we must design pro-
grams and policies that support families
and ensure that future generations of
American families will thrive and pros-
per. The White House Conference on the
Family will continue and expedite its
planning this year with that goal firmly
in mind.
Child Welfare Reform
The Nation's present system of over-
lapping, inadequate child placement pro-
grams does a great disservice to parents,
foster parents, and children in need of
homes. There is too little emphasis on re-
unification of families and permanent
placement of children; the special prob-
lems of hard-to-place children often go
unattended. I will therefore again pro-
pose to Congress major reforms in our fos-
ter care and adoption services, and urge
prompt Congressional approval. This
138
