May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
enhance these activities and will jointly
fund an expanded Fulbright Program of
educational exchange. The Prime Minis-
ter stated that the Government of Japan
will make a donation to help pay the cost
of construction of new headquarters for
the Asia Society in New York, and that it
intends to make financial contributions
for the construction of a new Oriental
art gallery of the Smithsonian Institution
and a Japanese gallery of the New York
Metropolitan Museum of Art and for the
establishment of a fund for international
energy policy research at the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology. The Presi-
dent expressed his appreciation.
NOTE: On the same day, Associate Press Sec-
retary Jerrold Schecter read the following
announcement at 3:45 p.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House:
The President and the Prime Minister have
instructed their negotiators to continue dis-
cussions diligently about the few remaining
unresolved trade issues and to settle them in
mutually acceptable fashion.
Visit of Prime Minister Ohira
of Japan
Toasts at the State Dinner. May 2, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. A poem written by the
Emperor Meiji says, "All the seas every-
where are brothers to one another. Why,
then, do the winds and the waves of strife
rage so violently to the world?"
I think that there are two countries on
Earth which have seen the winds and the
waves rage violently between them, and
then to realize that all the oceans on
Earth are brothers-it would be our
country and Japan.
We are honored tonight to have you
here as guests. And we are also honored,
of course, to have our friends from Japan,
a delegation come to visit us, headed by
Prime Minister Ohira, accompanied by
his lovely wife.
Prime Minister Ohira has been a Fi-
nance Minister. He's been Foreign Minis-
ter, I think, twice. He's been the Minister
of Trade and Development, and now he
has been elected in the most popular type
of election in the history of Japan, to hold
the highest office, the highest elective of-
fice in his country.
Recently I have read his autobiog-
raphy, and I have noticed with great at-
tention that he comes from one of the
southernmost islands of Japan. [Laughter]
I'm not surprised. [Laughter] I have al-
ways had a conviction, never yet con-
travened, that statemanship is not incom-
patible with residence in the South.
[Laughter]
I met Prime Minister Ohira in 1975.
And in a very concise, but interesting,
even an exciting interview-I did not
hold public office; I was a relatively un-
known candidate, in May of 1975, while
Bob Strauss was supporting two other
candidates [laughter]—and I could not
get an appointment with him-
[laughter]-Mr. Ohira was kind enough
to give me his ear and to give me his
advice. And when I got through talking
to him, he said, "Well, what do you think
your chances are?" And I said, "My
friend, Mr. Ohira, the next time I see you
we'll be in the White House." [Laughter]
And I never thought he would be
Prime Minister. [Laughter] So, I was
really much more frank with him than he
was with me. [Laughter]
But I can say for the benefit of this
audience and for the benefit of the press,
after my own experiences today, consult-
ing with Bob Strauss, our trade repre-
sentative, consulting with Secretary
Vance, that this has been one of the most
768
