Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 15
She is Carolyn Lewis, an associate pro-
fessor of journalism at Columbia Gradu-
ate School of Journalism.
Lewis, 47, was a reporter for United
Press in Australia for 14 years. She was
with the Washington Post from 1964 to
1968, and was the Capitol Hill corre-
spondent for WTOP radio from 1968 to
1974. In 1974 and 1975, she was Capitol
Hill correspondent for the National Pub-
lic Affairs Center for Television
(NPACT).
Lewis was an associate professor of
journalism at Boston University from 1975
until 1978, when she joined the faculty at
Columbia as associate professor and co-
ordinator of the broadcast division.
Mental Health
Systems Legislation
Remarks Announcing the Proposed
Legislation. May 15, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Just a few weeks after I
became President, I appointed a Presiden-
tial Commission on mental health with
Tom Bryant as its Chairman, and with my
wife, Rosalynn, as the Honorary Chair-
person. This was done because of my deep
interest in mental health, the experience
that Rosalynn and I had together in
Georgia in trying to improve the mental
health situation there, and also because,
on a nationwide basis, this is a very serious
problem.
Their report was made last year, and it
was comprehensive and very specific and
very helpful. Some of the recommenda-
tions have already been implemented
through budget requests and through ad-
ministrative action. And, for instance, we
have increased substantially the requests
for funds for basic research to deal with
the mental health problem and have in-
creased substantially the payment for out-
patient services for those under Medicare
who are chronically mentally ill.
We have still a very serious problem for
those who are mentally or emotionally dis-
abled. Some estimates indicate that be-
tween 10 and 15 percent of all the people
in our country have a mental or emotional
problem of some kind, and we have now
more than 12 million people who are in-
stitutionalized. Because of an absence of a
cohesive program and an absence of close
cooperation and a partnership between
the local, State, and Federal officials and
private agencies, many mentally ill people
have to choose between unnecessary in-
stitutionalization, sometimes staying in a
mental hospital for their entire lives, on
the one hand, and inadequate community
services on the other.
We also don't have enough help for the
very poor, for minority groups, for young
children, and for the elderly.
Today I have sent to the Congress a
proposal, a message from me, to be fol-
lowed up by legislation called the Mental
Health Systems Act. This will be intro-
duced jointly by Senator Kennedy and by
Congressman Waxman, and I understand
several other sponsors will attach their
names to this very important legislation.
It will deal with some of the very serious
problems that I have already outlined.
One of the things that will be accom-
plished is to provide more flexible funding.
Quite often we have seen that local com-
munities with limited needs and also lim-
ited ability have been required in the past
either to have a fully comprehensive and
very costly mental health program or no
program at all. Under the new legislation,
specifically focused mental health care can
be provided to meet the requirements of
the community and also to be within the
limits of the community resources.
857
