Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 26
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say in
closing I've got to go back to another
meeting at the White House-but let me
say in closing that I'm very proud of
what's been done already. I think this has
tremendous, exciting potential.
One of the most delightful and fruitful
efforts that I ever made as Governor-
and sometimes I was disappointed in my
projects-was in international trade. And
I've seen a remarkable change take place
in Georgia because we've had people
come there from foreign countries, and
now we understand people much better
that were formerly quite alien to us. And
the foreigner tag which used to be a
source of vituperation has now become a
matter of an avenue for new friendships.
And nothing could help our Nation more.
I think had this committee been formed
maybe back in 1936 or '38, we might very
well have avoided the war with Japan-if
there were constant, multiple avenues of
commerce and trade and trade missions
and Governors' exchange and the Con-
gresses working closely, we might very
well have avoided our breakdown in rela-
tionships with Japan. Nobody knows that.
But there's no doubt in my mind that we
can alleviate tensions and search out new
avenues, not only of commercial benefit,
but also new avenues of peace and excite-
ment and an expanded quality of life for
all our people by closer relationships be-
tween the States and foreign countries.
There are exceptional responsibilities
on those State Governors who live on the
border, in the south with Mexico and in
the north with Canada. I know that his-
torically those interrelationships have
been very closely woven, and you can help
me in dealing with the problems with
Mexico if you give me advice and work
closely with me in making sure that I can
benefit from the knowledge and the his-
torical interrelationships that have been
enjoyed by the Southwestern States. The
same thing, obviously, applies to Canada.
So, I just can see many, many oppor-
tunities here for this meeting to go down
in history as one of the great steps forward
for our own great Nation and to let us
become even greater in the future.
Thank you again.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3 p.m. in the
Yorktown and Valley Forge Rooms at the
Hyatt Regency Hotel.
Small Business Week, 1979
Proclamation 4641. February 23, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Small business has been the economic
backbone of American life since the ear-
liest colonial days. Traders, craftsmen
and merchants spurred the economy and
played a vital role in the Nation's west-
ward movement and growth. They helped
create the multitude of opportunities
which have become the hallmark of our
free enterprise system-a system which
has made American progress the envy of
the world.
There are 13.9 million businesses in the
United States today, and 13.4 million are
small, including nearly three million
farms. Together, they provide employ-
ment for over half the business labor force
and account for more than 48 percent of
the gross business product. They are an
important source of the major innova-
tions that create new markets and im-
prove our quality of life. America's pres-
tige in the world today could never have
been achieved without this outstanding
productivity by small business.
Meetings are currently being held in
every State of the Union in preparation
for the first White House Conference on
335
