Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 18
or deploy missiles of this type with more
than three reentry vehicles.
Second Agreed Statement. During the
flight-testing of any ICBM, SLBM, or
ASBM after May 1, 1979 the number of
procedures for releasing or for dispensing
may not exceed the maximum number of
reentry vehicles established for missiles of
corresponding types as provided for in
paragraphs 10, 11, 12, and 13 of Article
IV of the Treaty. In this Agreed State-
ment "procedures for releasing or for dis-
pensing" are understood to mean maneu-
vers of a missile associated with targeting
and releasing or dispensing its reentry ve-
hicles to aim points, whether or not a
reentry vehicle is actually released or dis-
pensed. Procedures for releasing anti-mis-
sile defense penetration aids will not be
considered to be procedures for releasing
or for dispensing a reentry vehicle so long
as the procedures for releasing anti-missile
defense penetration aids differ from those
for releasing or for dispensing reentry
vehicles.
Third Agreed Statement. Each Party un-
dertakes:
(a) not to flight-test or deploy ICBMs
equipped with multiple reentry ve-
hicles, of a type flight-tested as of
May 1, 1979, with reentry vehicles
the weight of any of which is less
than the weight of the lightest of
those reentry vehicles with which
an ICBM of that type has been
flight-tested as of that date;
(b) not to flight-test or deploy ICBMs
equipped with a single reentry ve-
hicle and without an appropriate
device for targeting a reentry ve-
hicle, of a type flight-tested as of
May 1, 1979, with a reentry ve-
hicle the weight of which is less
than the weight of the lightest re-
entry vehicle on an ICBM of a
type equipped with MIRVS and
flight-tested by that Party as of
May 1, 1979; and
(c) not to flight-test or deploy ICBMs
equipped with a single reentry ve-
hicle and with an appropriate de-
vice for targeting a reentry vehicle,
of a type flight-tested as of May 1,
1979, with a reentry vehicle the
weight of which is less than fifty
percent of the throw-weight of that
ICBM.
To Paragraph 11 of Article IV of the
Treaty
First Agreed Statement. Each Party un-
dertakes not to flight-test or deploy the
one new type of light ICBM permitted to
each Party pursuant to paragraph 9 of
Article IV of the Treaty with a number
of reentry vehicles greater than the max-
imum number of reentry vehicles with
which an ICBM of that type has been
flight-tested as of the twenty-fifth launch
or the last launch before deployment be-
gins of ICBMs of that type, whichever
occurs earlier.
Second Agreed Statement. During the
flight-testing of any ICBM, SLBM, or
ASBM after May 1, 1979 the number of
procedures for releasing or for dispensing
may not exceed the maximum number
of reentry vehicles established for mis-
siles of corresponding types as provided
for in paragraphs 10, 11, 12, and 13 of
Article IV of the Treaty. In this Agreed
Statement "procedures for releasing or
for dispensing" are understood to mean
maneuvers of a missile associated with
targeting and releasing or dispensing its
reentry vehicles to aim points, whether or
not a reentry vehicle is actually released
or dispensed. Procedures for releasing
anti-missile defense penetration aids will
not be considered to be procedures for re-
1069
