Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 13
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Mr. Moore;
-Stansfield Turner, Director of Cen-
tral Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan,
Assistant to the President, and Dr.
Brzezinski;
-the Joint Chiefs of Staff;
-Vice President Mondale;
-Gen. Bernard W. Rogers, appointed
as Supreme Allied Commander,
Europe, and Commander in Chief of
U.S. Forces in Europe.
The White House announced that
President Carter has invited President-
elect Jaime Roldós of Ecuador to meet
with him in July.
The President today announced that
he will nominate Frederick H. Schultz, of
Jacksonville, Fla., to be Vice Chairman
of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System. The President an-
nounced his intention to nominate
Schultz as a member of the Board on
April 12, 1979.
June 14
The President today declared a major
disaster for the State of Texas as a result
of severe storms and flooding, beginning
on or about May 30, which caused ex-
tensive public and private property
damage.
June 15
The President today declared a major
disaster for the State of Kansas as a re-
sult of severe storms and flooding, be-
ginning on or about June 7, which caused
extensive public and private property
damage.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nom-
inations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted June 12, 1979
GEORGE ARCENEAUX, JR., of Louisiana, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, vice a new position
created by P.L. 95-486, approved Octo-
ber 20, 1978.
TYRONE BROWN, of the District of Columbia,
to be a member of the Federal Communica-
tions Commission for a term of 7 years
from July 1, 1979 (reappointment).
ALLIE C. FELDER, JR., of the District of Colum-
bia, to be a member of the Board of Direc-
tors of the Overseas Private Investment Cor-
poration for a term expiring December 17,
1981 (reappointment).
BRENTON H. RUPPLE, of Wisconsin, to be a
Director of the Securities Investor Protec-
tion Corporation for a term expiring Decem-
ber 31, 1981 (reappointment).
Submitted June 14, 1979
ANNE CLARK MARTINDELL, of New Jersey, to
be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipo-
tentiary of the United States of America to
New Zealand, and to serve concurrently and
without additional compensation as Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to Western
Samoa.
JOHN HOWARD MOXLEY III, of California, to
be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice
Robert Nelson Smith, resigned.
OTTO R. SKOPIL, JR., of Oregon, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
vice a new position created by P.L. 95-486,
approved October 20, 1978.
LYNN C. HIGBY, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Florida, vice a new position created
by P.L. 95-486, approved October 20, 1978.
ROBERT L. VINING, JR., of Georgia, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Georgia, vice a new position
created by P.L. 95-486, approved Octo-
ber 20, 1978.
1043
