Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
slow down the spiral of wages and prices
chasing each other ever higher.
Too often in the past, for political rea-
sons, Presidents and other public officials
have given in to the temptation just be-
fore election time to try sudden gimmicks
that lead to temporary paper improve-
ments in the economic figures. But that
has cost this country severely in the long-
term economic damage. And I refuse to
do it. We have begun a long-term effort
to conquer inflation. For my part, I in-
tend to stick with it. I need your under-
standing about the deep-rooted nature of
this problem. And above all, I need your
support and your determination to stay
with this fight as long as it takes us to win
it together.
And now I'd like to answer your ques-
tions.
QUESTIONS
CLEAN WATER ACT APPROPRIATIONS
Q. Mr. President, Robert Nixon, a se-
lectman from Newfields, New Hampshire.
It is my understanding that only three
States, including New Hampshire, have
qualified for full amounts allowed under
the 1977 Clean Waters Act, amending the
1972 Federal Water Pollution Control,
and that the Congress is considering re-
ducing appropriations.
Would you approve the reapportion-
ment of unused funds to States that have
endeavored to carry out the purpose and
spirit of the law?
THE PRESIDENT. My desire is to use the
full amount of funds appropriated by
Congress for the Clean Water Act im-
plementation. Within the bounds of the
law, I will certainly do what I can to re-
allocate any funds left over and unused at
the end of the time period.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. And I hope New
Hampshire is one that will qualify.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANT SAFETY
Q. Welcome, Mr. President. My name
is Barbara Hayes. I live here in Ports-
mouth, and I'm also a transplanted south-
erner. [Laughter]
I'd like to preface my question with this
statement: I will say I am pro nuclear
power. I think it's a valid source of energy.
However, I'm not insensitive to the needs
of further safety study. My question is
this, and it's probably from a simplistic
viewpoint: I would like to see the Federal
Government really focus in on the safety
study not unlike the Manhattan Project
or the space program to really bring in an
answer of safety in nuclear power. You
sort of touched on this, but maybe you
would like to elaborate on it.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. This morning I met
with Chairman Kemeny and the other
members of the President's Commission
to study the Three Mile Island incident to
cident; what might have been done to
determine accurately what caused the ac-
prevent it; how well the Nuclear Regula-
tory Commission, the power company, the
Federal, State, and local officials and
others worked together in that incident;
how they might work together better in
the future to assess design mistakes or
areas where, in the design of nuclear pow-
erplants or the modification of those al-
ready there, they might be improved; to
increase the authority, if necessary, for
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to
deal more effectively with such an acci-
dent and to prevent, above all, and also
to change their policies, if necessary.
We also will assess within the next 6
months the facts as they occurred, and
as they were understood by the people in
that area, particularly, to make sure that
there was no lies told and no errors made
in reporting to the people the facts.
702
