June 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
thority. President Eisenhower made the
first efforts to control nuclear testing.
President Kennedy negotiated with the
Soviet Union prohibition against at-
mospheric testing of nuclear explosives.
President Johnson broadened the area of
negotiations for the first time to include
atomic weapons themselves. President
Nixon concluded the first strategic arms
limitation agreement, SALT I. President
Ford negotiated the Vladivostok accords.
You can see that this is a vital and a
continuing process.
Later this week I will deliver to the
United States Senate the complete and
signed text of the second strategic arms
limitation agreement, SALT II.
This treaty is the product of 7 long
years of tough, painstaking negotiation.
under the leadership of three different
Presidents. When ratified, it will be a truly
national achievement-an achievement of
the Executive and of the Congress, an
achievement of civilians and of our mili-
tary leaders, of liberals and conservatives,
of Democrats and Republicans.
Of course, SALT II will not end the
competition between the United States
and the Soviet Union. That competition
is based on fundamentally different visions
of human society and human destiny. As
long as that basic difference persists, there
will always be some degree of tension in
the relationship between our two coun-
tries. The United States has no fear of this
rivalry. But we want it to be peaceful.
In any age, such rivalry risks degenera-
tion into war. But our age is unique, for
the terrible power of nuclear weapons has
created an incentive that never existed be-
fore for avoiding war. This tendency tran-
scends even the very deep differences of
politics and philosophy. In the age of the
hydrogen bomb, there is no longer any
meaningful distinction between global
war and global suicide.
Our shared understanding of these
realities has given the world an interval
of peace-a kind of a strange peace-
marked by tension, marked by danger,
marked even sometimes by regional con-
flict, but a kind of peace nonetheless. In
the 27 years before Hiroshima, the lead-
ing powers of the world were twice en-
gulfed in total war. In the 34 years since
Hiroshima, humanity has by no means
been free of armed conflict. Yet, at least
we have avoided a world war.
Yet this kind of twilight peace carries
the ever-present danger of a catastrophic
nuclear war, a war that in horror and de-
struction and massive death would dwarf
all the combined wars of man's long and
bloody history.
We must prevent such a war. We ab-
solutely must prevent such a war.
To keep the peace, to prevent the war,
we must have strong military forces, we
must have strong alliances, we must have
a strong national resolve-so strong that
no potential adversary would dare be
tempted to attack our country. We have
that strength. And the strength of the
United States is not diminishing; the
strength of our great country is growing,
and I thank God for it.
Yet, for these same reasons-in order
to keep the peace-we must prevent an
uncontrolled and pointless nuclear arms
race that would damage the security of
all countries, including our own, by ex-
posing the world to an ever greater risk
of war through instability and through
tension and through uncertainty about
the future. That's why the new strategic
arms limitation treaty is so important.
SALT II will undoubtedly become the
most exhaustively discussed and debated
treaty of our time, perhaps of all times.
The Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, the members of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, the Director of the Arms Control
1088
