June 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
those weapons for themselves. And there's
no doubt that the SALT treaty will help
prevent a nuclear war and will contribute
to world peace.
And I want to make it very clear that
verification of the SALT treaty is not
based on trust of the Soviet Union. We
can verify Soviet compliance with our
own Nation's technical means.
SALT II is part of a long process that
began with President Eisenhower. If
SALT II is not ratified, if, after 7 long
years of detailed, tedious negotiations
under three Presidents, a carefully bal-
anced agreement in our Nation's own
interests, contributing to our Nation's
strength, preserving world peace, if all
that is lost, then the process of controlling
nuclear weapons in future years would be
very difficult to resurrect.
There is no decision that we face as a
people more crucial to our Nation's secu-
rity, our hopes for the future, or the
chance of our children to live in a safe and
secure and a livable world than to see the
conclusion of the SALT II treaty and the
commencement of a SALT III negotiat-
ing process with more drastic reductions
in nuclear weapons. I hope you'll help
me. Together, we must choose the side of
peace.
In closing, let me say this: We have
such enormous freedom as Americans—
to debate, to criticize, to argue, to dispute,
to complain, to resolve our problems
openly that we sometimes remember the
transient problems and troubles and we
forget how much we've accomplished to-
gether and the basic, tremendous inner
strength of our country.
We live in the strongest, most open,
most prosperous, most generous, most
hopeful, most free nation on Earth. The
problems we face are serious and they are
real, but they are manageable. The chal-
lenge that we face is to use the basic
spirit which is a characteristic of the
American people.
We live in a time of rapid change. We
must not permit the power of fear that
Franklin Roosevelt warned us against-
fear of the future, fear of uncertainty,
fear of futility-to paralyze our will. We
can make our economy work. We can be
both strong and at peace. We can solve
our problems as we always have, not
through gimmicks or slogans, but through
hard work and persistence and, occasion-
ally, through pain and sacrifice.
John Gardner once wrote, and I'd like
to quote, "A nation is never finished. You
cannot build it and leave it standing like
the pharaohs did with the pyramids. It
has to be built and then rebuilt. It has
to be recreated in each generation by
believing and caring men and women.'
د,
It's our turn now. If we do not believe
or do not care, nothing can save and pre-
serve our Nation. If we believe and care,
nothing can stop us.
We are a nation. You are a union of
believing and caring men and women.
I'm a working man, a farmer, a father,
a President, and I look forward to the fu-
ture, because I know that the people of
the United States have the will and the
strength of character to make those years
still to come even better in the greatest
nation on Earth.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:40 p.m. in
the Sheraton-Park Ballroom at the Sheraton-
Park Hotel.
Trade Sanctions Against
Rhodesia
Remarks Announcing Continuation of the U.S.
Sanctions. June 7, 1979
After the most careful and thorough
consideration, I have made a decision on
1012
