Mar. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
United Nations forces, will be escorted by
United Nations forces, and will be in ac-
cordance with schedules coordinated by
the Joint Commission. An Egyptian liai-
son officer will accompany convoys to as-
sure uninterrupted movement. The Joint
Commission may approve other arrange-
ments for convoys.
ARTICLE III
United Nations Forces
1. The Parties shall request that United
Nations forces be deployed as necessary
to perform the functions described in this
Appendix up to the time of completion of
final Israeli withdrawal. For that purpose,
the Parties agree to the redeployment of
the United Nations Emergency Force.
2. United Nations forces will supervise
the implementation of this Appendix and
will employ their best efforts to prevent
any violation of its terms.
3. When United Nations forces deploy
in accordance with the provisions of
Articles I and II of this Appendix, they
will perform the functions of verification
in limited force zones in accordance with
Article VI of Annex I, and will establish
check points, reconnaissance patrols, and
observation posts in the temporary buffer
zones described in Article II above. Other
functions of the United Nations forces
which concern the interim buffer zone are
described in Article V of this Appendix.
ARTICLE IV
Joint Commission and Liaison
1. The Joint Commission referred to
in Article IV of this Treaty will function
from the date of exchange of instruments
of ratification of this Treaty up to the
date of completion of final Israeli with-
drawal from the Sinai.
2. The Joint Commission will be com-
posed of representatives of each Party
headed by senior officers. This Commis-
sion shall invite a representative of the
United Nations when discussing subjects
concerning the United Nations, or when
either Party requests United Nations pres-
ence. Decisions of the Joint Commission
will be reached by agreement of Egypt
and Israel.
3. The Joint Commission will supervise
the implementation of the arrangements
described in Annex I and this Appendix.
To this end, and by agreement of both
Parties, it will:
a. coordinate military movements de-
scribed in this Appendix and supervise
their implementation;
b. address and seek to resolve any prob-
lem arising out of the implementation of
Annex I and this Appendix, and dis-
cuss any violations reported by the United
Nations Force and Observers and refer
to the Governments of Egypt and Israel
any unresolved problems;
c. assist the United Nations Force and
Observers in the execution of their man-
dates, and deal with the timetables of the
periodic verifications when referred to it
by the Parties as provided for in Annex I
and in this Appendix;
d. organize the demarcation of the in-
ternational boundary and all lines and
zones described in Annex I and this
Appendix;
e. supervise the handing over of the
main installations in the Sinai from Israel
to Egypt;
f. agree on necessary arrangements for
finding and returning missing bodies of
Egyptian and Israeli soldiers;
g. organize the setting up and operation
of entry check points along the El Arish-
Ras Muhammed line in accordance with
the provisions of Article 4 of Annex III;
h. conduct its operations through the
use of joint liaison teams consisting of one
Israeli representative and one Egyptian
representative, provided from a standing
504
