Jan. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
with values which change. Today I had
lunch with my own family, many of whom
live in Georgia—my sons, my daughter,
my three grandchildren. During lunch, I
held my new granddaughter, Sarah.
Daddy King, I looked at her very closely.
She looks like me. I'm sure she's authentic.
[Laughter] It did take me a few minutes
to get my suit cleaned before I could come
to this meeting, but those kinds of close,
personal family relationships do not
change. And the worldwide family that
has already been described by Jesse Hill as
a family of Martin Luther King, Jr.,
changes only in its dynamic growth and
inspiration. But its basic principles don't
change.
I've been President now almost exactly
2 years. I'm delighted to come back to
Georgia. I was reading a 2-year analysis
of my own personal character this morn-
ing in the newspaper. It reminded me
somewhat of Daddy King. First of all, the
commentator said I was getting older. He
said I was getting grayer. He said I was
getting wiser. And he said I was getting
leaner. [Laughter] At least I heard three
amens. [Laughter]
I come here grateful, and I accept this
award not as an honor that I have earned,
but as an affirmation, publicly, that I
share the hopes and dreams of Martin
Luther King, Jr., and I recognize the tre-
mendous progress still left to be made.
And together, you and I, millions of
people around the world will continue to
make that progress, and we will also
realize those hopes and dreams.
Martin Luther King, Jr., looked about
him in his young life and saw great in-
justice. Many others before him had seen,
and some-too few-had deplored racial
prejudice, which resulted in deprivation
of some and hatred among many. But for
generations, little of that had changed. He
looked about him and saw many of his
own people who couldn't sit down at a
lunch counter, who couldn't drink from
a water fountain, some of whom were
afraid to register and to vote in the self-
professed greatest democracy on Earth.
He saw a people without power or influ-
ence who were branded as inferior by both
law and custom.
But when he looked at his own people,
he saw not powerlessness or weakness, he
saw potential. And he believed in the
great power of ordinary people who com-
bine together to fight for what they know
to be right.
He showed all of us that we are not
powerless if we care enough and if we are
willing to sacrifice enough and if we are
willing to risk public failure and disap-
pointment and condemnation and criti-
cism and, sometimes, humiliation, and if
we are always ready to come back and
fight again and try again.
Martin remembered the words of Jesus,
"Blessed are they which are persecuted
for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven." And he was able to
inspire the quiet and the timid folks by
the truth of these words, proven by his
own courageous actions.
We remember him marching on as
people spat on him, emerging triumphant
time after time from jail, having defeated
his enemies with his simple and his peace-
ful refusal either to stop what he was do-
ing, to yield to pressure, or to descend to
the violence of those who persecuted him.
We remember him moving great
crowds and even an entire nation with his
eloquent words.
But it's important for us to remember
that he tasted defeat as well as he tasted
victory. When he said, "How long, O
Lord, how long?", it was not just a rhetor-
ical flourish. It was an anguished cry of a
heart that knew too much suffering in be-
tween those rare victories.
He called out to the best in people, even
those who looked the other way at the
28
