Mar. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
International Commission for the
Conservation of Atlantic Tunas
Appointment of Harold F. Cary as a U.S.
Commissioner. March 15, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Harold F. Cary, of San
Diego, Calif., as a U.S. Commissioner on
the International Commission for the
Conservation of Atlantic Tunas.
Cary is executive director of the U.S.
Tuna Foundation and a former vice pres-
ident and general manager of Ocean Fish-
eries, Inc.
Egyptian-Israeli Peace
Negotiations
Statement on Action by the Egyptian Cabinet
Approving a Peace Treaty and Related
Documents. March 15, 1979
I am pleased that the Egyptian Cabinet
now has approved the peace treaty be-
tween Egypt and Israel and the related
documents. The Cabinet has now given its
support to President Sadat's imaginative
leadership and decisive action in moving
to end more than three decades of con-
flict with Israel.
We look forward now to formal action
on Sunday by the Israeli Cabinet, to be
followed by the debate in the Knesset
next week.
The Egyptian action today, along with
the preliminary action of the Israeli Cab-
inet yesterday on the outstanding issues,
continues the momentum toward a quick
conclusion of a peace treaty between
Egypt and Israel.
President Sadat and Prime Minister Be-
gin continue to demonstrate their leader-
ship and courage in building the corner-
stone of peace in the Middle East. We will
continue to assist Egypt and Israel to move
their countries from war to peace, thereby
releasing the resources that can bring a
better life for their people.
United States Delegation to
Discussions in the Middle East
and Europe
Announcements of the Trip and Members
of the Delegation. March 16, 1979
At President Carter's direction, a dele-
gation consisting of Dr. Zbigniew Brzezin-
ski, the President's Assistant for National
Security Affairs, Warren Christopher, the
Deputy Secretary of State, Gen. David
Jones, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and Chip Carter, the President's
son, will visit Saudi Arabia and Jordan
this weekend. They will consult on re-
gional security issues and the recent agree-
ment between Egypt and Israel. They
will also continue the ongoing discussions
on matters of bilateral concern. The dis-
cussions will be held in the spirit of
friendship that has long characterized
our relations with these two countries.
Also in the delegation will be Col. Wil-
liam Odom, Jerrold Schecter, and Gary
Sick of the NSC staff, Michael Sterner,
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Near East-
ern and South Asian Affairs, Stephen
Oxman of the Department of State, and
Brig. Gen. Harold Todd of the Depart-
ment of Defense (JCS).
The American delegation to the Mid-
dle East, consisting of Dr. Zbigniew
Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs, Warren Chris-
topher, Deputy Secretary of State, Gen.
David Jones, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and Chip Carter, the President's
436
