May 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the activities of some of those Congress-
men promoting Senator Kennedy were
divisive and might turn the Presidency
over to the Republicans in 1980. Now, do
you agree with him? And would it be
helpful if Senator Kennedy just today
made a Sherman-like statement, as he did
in 1974, take himself out of the race?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have any quar-
rel to make with the statement that was
issued by John White. No, I do not dis-
agree with his statement.
I don't really have any comment to
make about what Senator Kennedy does.
He's made statements repeatedly about
what he would do.
Let me make this point: No President
can expect to have unanimous support,
even within one's own party. This has
been the case with every predecessor of
mine who lived in the White House. But
that's not my major concern. I'm not an
announced candidate, and I don't intend
to make every judgment about what
ought to be done for this country on the
basis of whether it would or would not
lose support by nonpartisan Americans or
officials in my own party for an upcoming
election.
Some of the decisions that I have to
make on inflation, on energy, on foreign
affairs, are very difficult to make. I don't
believe anyone can accuse me of trying to
gain a vote, for instance, by my energy
proposals. They've just lost votes, but they
were necessary. And if I should ever
modify my positions away from what's best
for this country in order to pick up sup-
port, then I would not deserve to be Presi-
dent. So, I don't intend to do it.
If a few or even a large number of
Democrats endorse someone else, that's
their business. I'll continue to try to serve
the country as best I can and deal with
the political question when the election
comes along.
STRATEGIC ARMS; MX MISSILE
Q. Mr. President, I know in your In-
augural Address, you dedicated ad-
your
ministration to eliminating atomic weap-
ons from the Earth.
THE PRESIDENT. That's right.
Q. We're on the verge now of making
the decision on the MX. I gather it has
accuracy, it hits within 100 yards, and it
has a doubling or a tripling of the atomic
blast power. It could be a very destabiliz-
ing weapon in the strategic arms system,
and also make SALT III very difficult to
achieve. What's your decision on MX?
THE PRESIDENT. The most destabiliz-
ing thing that we could have in our stra-
tegic relationship with the Soviets would
be acknowledged inferiority or a vulner-
able strategic deployment of missiles. We
have just completed almost 7 years of
negotiations with the Soviets to actually
reduce the present, permitted number of
missiles on each side, to put constraints on
the number of explosive warheads that
could be on each missile, and to limit the
improvement in quality of existing mis-
siles. That is a major step toward my ulti-
mate goal, which I believe is one shared
by the Soviet Union leaders, of eliminat-
ing nuclear weapons from the face of the
Earth in the future.
But while we do have heavy deploy-
ments of nuclear weapons by the Soviet
Union-although now being constrained
more severely than they were before-we
must maintain an adequate level of
armaments, and we must maintain the
security from attack of the armaments we
have.
So, when we do deploy new types of
missiles to stay current and to keep our
equivalency with the Soviet Union, that,
in my opinion, contributes to peace, and
this is completely permitted in the SALT
966
