Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 18
and he quoted from memory the book of
Mark, I think about 16,000 verses, 22
hours. He didn't use a modern transla-
tion; he used the King James version. And
there was a sense among those two or three
hundred people that here came someone
directly from the presence of Christ and
told, almost like a newspaper, in the most
vivid, moving terms, about the life of the
Son of God.
There was nothing stale about it. There
was nothing ancient about it. There was
nothing removed about it from the exist-
ence of those assembled in that room. If
you get a chance, I hope you will hear
him give that recitation.
Almost everyone in this room is a lead-
er. People have exhibited faith and trust
in us not only to carry out the mundane
duties of a sometimes confused govern-
ment responsibility but also to carry out
very bold." And I hope that we believers
in God have not lost our hope and will
continue to be bold. And later on in the
same chapter of Second Corinthians, he
says, "Where the spirit of the Lord is,
there is freedom." Where the spirit of the
Lord is, there is freedom.
There's no incompatibility between
gentleness and boldness. There's no in-
capatibility between the constraints and
the shackles on our lives by standards pre-
scribed by God on the one hand, and the
ultimate freedom that can come when the
spirit of the Lord is present.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:52 a.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel. The breakfast is sponsored by
the United States Senate and House prayer
breakfast groups.
the responsibilities much broader than Department of Housing and
that, to set an example, to search more
fervently for the truth.
Sometimes we lose our confidence. One
of the great problems with the modern
church is its timidity about self-assertion.
We're sometimes fearful not to project
ourselves as believers in God into a con-
troversial issue, because we are fearful we
might fail, we might be rebuffed. So, it's
much more easy for us in the confines of
our church or our synagogue to sit back
and say, "I'll enjoy those around me whom
I know, who trust me, with whom I share
limitations and ignore limitations," than
it is to project a deep belief in love, com-
passion, understanding, service, humility,
into our broad influence among others.
It's difficult to be bold and gentle at
the same time. Peace and gentleness and
humility are perhaps the most difficult
characteristics of a human being.
In Paul's second letter to the Corinthi-
ans, he said, "Since we have hope, we are
Urban Development
Nomination of Sterling Tucker To Be an
Assistant Secretary. January 18, 1979
The President today announced that
he has nominated Sterling Tucker to be
Assistant Secretary of Housing and Ur-
ban Development for Fair Housing and
Equal Opportunity. He would replace
Chester C. McGuire, Jr., who has
resigned.
Tucker was born December 21, 1923,
in Akron, Ohio. He received a B.A. and
an M.A. in social psychology from the
University of Akron.
Tucker served as assistant executive di-
rector of the Akron Urban League and
as executive director of the Canton
(Ohio) Urban League. In 1956 he be-
came executive director of the Washing-
ton Urban League, a position he held un-
til 1974. During that time he also held
various positions with the National Urban
61
