Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 9
the cooperation and the support of these
strong Democratic majorities.
I may
be biased or I may be preju-
diced, but I firmly believe that there have
never been two finer congressional leaders
than Speaker Tip O'Neill and Majority
Leader Robert Byrd.
There is a responsibility on all of us to
preserve that team as our leaders. We
must preserve those Democratic majori-
ties in the House and Senate. We must
not return to the dark days of divided
government. We must not afflict this
country with Republican victories in
1980. And we'll work together to achieve
those goals, and you can depend on it.
But we will win if we give the Ameri-
can people what they want-strong, com-
petent, and compassionate Democratic
leadership.
Above all, we will win if we tell the
American people the truth, and if you and
I, under some of the most difficult pos-
sible political circumstances, have the
courage to make the tough decisions when
they are necessary.
The last 2 years have been years of re-
building in our country. Often in small
groups I ask a particular crowd to think
back 3 years or 4 years or 5 years. There's
no need to enumerate the discouragement
and the despair, the embarrassment, the
failure that we were experiencing in those
days. But working together, we have ac-
complished a great deal. We obviously
have a long way to go. A great deal more
remains to be done. But when they write
the history of these years, I want them to
say four things about what you and I've
done together.
I want them to say that you and I have
made America prosperous and that we
have put Americans back to work. And
we've done that.
And I want them to say that you and
I have never lacked the courage to tackle
controversial problems and that we
placed the long-term good of our beloved
Nation above any short-term political
benefit for ourselves. And we have done
that.
And I want them to say that we have
restored the trust and the confidence of
the American people in our own Govern-
ment. And, most of all, I want them to
say that America, under our leadership,
has been at peace and that we have led
the rest of the world away from war. And
we've done that.
This is the record that we will take to
the American people next year, and it's a
record that makes me confident that we
will reelect Democrats here tonight who
are in the House and Senate.
In the last 2 years we've taught the
country the difference, for instance, be-
tween Republican and Democratic eco-
nomics. You remember Republican eco-
nomics-continued high inflation being
fought with the jobs and the livelihood
of working Americans. You and I know
the high cost, human cost, of a planned
recession combined with high prices.
The Democratic economic policies are
built around jobs. We believe in hard
work. And we believe that those who
want to work can find a job. In 2 years,
as you know, we have created more than
72 million jobs. We have cut the un-
employment rate more than 25 percent.
And in spite of the high inflation, we've
kept the unemployment rate at that low
level.
We're working to improve it even more.
We have leveled with the American peo-
ple. We've never tried to mislead them.
We've not gone in for political gimmicks.
We have told them that there is no in-
stant or quick solution for chronic prob-
lems like inflation.
The Federal Government is now setting
an example though, in its battle against
829
