June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
able to make use of solar power effectively
than one which is energy inefficient.
We must also find better ways to burn
and use coal-a fossil fuel which we have
in abundance. Coal must and will be a
key part of a successful transition away
from oil. We must and will do more to
utilize that resource. Solar energy and an
increased use of coal will help in the near
and mid-term to accelerate our transition
away from crude oil.
But it is clear that in the years ahead
we must increasingly rely on those sources
of power which are renewable. The tran-
sition to widespread use of solar energy
has already begun. Our task is to speed it
along. True energy security-in both
price and supply-can come only from
the development of solar and renewable
technologies.
In addition to fundamental security,
solar and renewable sources of energy
provide numerous social and environ-
mental benefits.
Energy from the sun is clean and safe.
It will not pollute the air we breathe or
the water we drink. It does not run the
risk of an accident which may threaten
the health or life of our citizens. There
are no toxic wastes to cause disposal
problems.
Increased use of solar and renewable
sources of energy is an important hedge
against inflation in the long run. Unlike
the costs of depletable resources, which
rise exponentially as reserves are con-
sumed, the cost of power from the sun
will go down as we develop better and
cheaper ways of applying it to everyday
needs. For everyone in our society-espe-
cially our low-income or fixed-income
families—solar energy provides an impor-
tant way to avoid rising fuel costs.
No foreign cartel can set the price of
sun power; no one can embargo it. Every
solar collector in this country, every in-
vestment in using wind or biomass energy,
every advance in making electricity di-
rectly from the sun decreases our reliance
on uncertain sources of imported oil, bol-
sters our international trade position, and
enhances the security of our Nation.
Solar energy can put hundreds of thou-
sands of Americans to work. Because
solar applications tend to be dispersed
and decentralized, jobs created will be
spread fairly evenly around the Nation.
Job potentials span the ranges of our
employment spectrum, from relatively
unskilled labor to advanced engineers,
from plumbers and metal workers to
architects and contractors, from scientists
and inventors to factory workers, from
the small businessman to the large indus-
trialist. Every investment in solar and
renewable energy systems keeps American
dollars working for us here at home,
creating new jobs and opportunities,
rather than sending precious funds to a
foreign cartel.
Increased reliance on solar and re-
newable technologies can also increase
the amount of control each one of us as
individuals and each of our local com-
munities has over our energy supplies.
Instead of relying on large, centralized
energy installations, many solar and re-
newable technologies are smaller and
manageable by the homeowner, the
farmer, or the individual factory or plant.
By their very nature, renewable tech-
nologies are less likely to engage the kind
of tension and conflict we have seen in
other energy areas, such as the problems
posed by siting a very large energy facil-
ity, or trading off between surface uses of
land and development of the energy min-
erals that might lie below that land.
Finally, solar and renewable technol-
ogies provide great international oppor-
tunities, both in foreign trade, and in the
ability to work with developing nations
1098
