Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, May 4, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Members of the United Press
International Newspaper Advisory Board.
April 27, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say, first
of all, that I'm grateful that you would
come here. You represent an organiza-
tion that's extremely important to our
country.
Many of you-I think some of you, at
least-were in New York when I made
an address earlier this week on SALT. It
was a very fine occasion for me to relate
to the American people just one of the
many issues that I, as President, have to
face almost on a daily basis. This is one
of the most important, but a typical for-
eign affairs issue. We've got others of a
domestic nature, which take up by far
most of my time.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Right now we're dealing with the energy
question, trying to evolve, hammer out
over a long period of time a compre-
hensive energy policy for our country,
which has been hotly debated, perhaps
one of the most controversial issues that
Congress has ever faced, and one of ex-
treme complexity.
I think with the decontrol mechanism,
which will be implemented beginning the
1st of June, and with the passage of the
windfall profits tax, with the creation of
an energy security trust fund, we will
make another major stride forward in
having a policy that will restrain waste
of energy, shift away from heavy depend-
ence-even growing dependence on for-
eign oil-escalate the production of oil
and gas in our own country, shift to more
common supplies of energy already
known about, existing in our country, and
also let us open up an avenue of increased
use of energy sources with which we're
not presently fully acquainted or which
are economically not feasible.
In the process, we can provide aid for
the poor people who will be particularly
hurt in the next number of months by the
decontrol of oil itself. The estimate that I
made in April of the revenues for the
Federal Government from the windfall
profits tax was slightly below what we
will realize from the message that I sent
to Congress yesterday. We'll get about a
hundred million dollars per year more
than we had anticipated with the fact
sheets that we used to brief the press back
in April.
In general, for the oil that is decon-
trolled, the increase in price for each
735
