Jan. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ward to cooperating with you and with
the people of China.
In his final message, the day before he
died, Franklin Roosevelt-who would
have been 97 years old tomorrow-wrote
these words: "If civilization is to survive,
we must cultivate the science of human
relationships—the ability of people of all
kinds to live together and to work to-
gether, in the same world and at peace."
In that spirit, Mr. Vice Premier, I
would like to propose a toast: To the
newly established diplomatic relation-
ships between the United States of Amer-
ica and the people of the republic of
China; to the health of Premier Hua
Guofeng; to the health of Vice Premier
Deng and Madame Zhuo Lin; and to the
further development of friendship be-
tween the people of China and the
peo-
ple of the United States of America.
THE VICE PREMIER. Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
We thank the President and Mrs. Car-
ter for hosting this grand dinner in our
honor. Allow me to take this opportunity
to extend good wishes to the American
Government and the people on behalf of
the Chinese Government and people, Pre-
mier Hua Guofeng, and in my own name.
Our arrival in the United States co-
incides with the Spring Festival in China.
From time immemorial, the Chinese
peo-
ple have celebrated this festival marking
"the beginning of the annual cycle and re-
juvenation of all things in nature.” Here,
on this occasion, we share with our Amer-
ican friends present the feeling that a new
era has begun in Sino-U.S. relations.
For 30 years, our two nations were es-
tranged and opposed to each other. This
abnormal state of affairs is over at last.
At such a time we cherish, in particular,
the memory of the late Chairman Mao
Zedong and Premier Zhou Enlai, who
blazed a trail for the normalization of
Sino-U.S. relations.
Naturally, we think also of the efforts
made by former President Nixon, for-
mer President Ford, Dr. Kissinger, many
U.S. Senators and Congressmen, and
friends in all walks of life. We think high-
ly of the valuable contributions of Presi-
dent Carter, Secretary of State Cyrus
Vance, and Dr. Brzezinski to the ultimate
normalization of our relations.
Our two countries have different social
systems and ideologies, but both Govern-
ments are aware that the interests of our
peoples and of world peace require that
we view our bilateral relations in the con-
text of the overall international situation
and with a long-term strategic perspec-
tive. This was the reason why the two
sides easily reached agreement on normal-
ization.
Moreover, in the Joint Communique
on the Establishment of Diplomatic Re-
lations our two sides solemnly committed
themselves that neither should seek he-
gemony and each was opposed to efforts
by any other country or group of countries
to establish such hegemony. This commit-
ment restrains ourselves and adds to our
sense of responsibility for world peace and
stability. We are confident that the ami-
cable cooperation between the Chinese
and American peoples is not only in the
interest of our two countries' development
but will also become a strong factor work-
ing for the preservation of world peace
and the promotion of human progress.
I ask you to join me in drinking to the
health of the President and Mrs. Carter;
to the health of the Secretary of State and
Mrs. Vance; to the health of Dr. and Mrs.
Brzezinski; to the health of all friends
present; to the great American people; to
the great Chinese people; to friendship be-
tween the Chinese and American peoples;
194
