Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 26
Today, a new dawn is emerging out of
the darkness of the past. A new chapter
is being opened in the history of coexist-
ence among nations, one that's worthy of
our spiritual values and civilization.
Never before had men encountered such
a complex dispute, which is highly
charged with emotions. Never before did
men need that much courage and imagi-
nation to confront a single challenge.
Never before had any cause generated
that much interest in all four corners of
the globe.
Men and women of good will have
labored day and night to bring about this
happy moment. Egyptians and Israelis
alike pursued their sacred goal, unde-
terred by difficulties and complications.
Hundreds of dedicated individuals on
both sides have given generously of their
thought and effort to translate the
cherished dream into a living reality.
But the man who performed the
miracle was President Carter. Without
any exaggeration, what he did consti-
tutes one of the greatest achievements of
our time. He devoted his skill, hard work
and, above all, his firm belief in the ulti-
mate triumph of good against evil to en-
sure the success of our mission.
To me he has been the best companion
and partner along the road to peace. With
his deep sense of justice and genuine com-
mitment to human rights, we were able to
surmount the most difficult obstacles.
There came certain moments when
hope was eroding and retreating in the
face of crisis. However, President Carter
remained unshaken in his confidence and
determination. He is a man of faith and
compassion. Before anything else, the
signing of the peace treaty and the ex-
changed letter is a tribute to the spirit and
ability of Jimmy Carter.
Happily, he was armed with the bless-
ing of God and the support of his people.
For that we are grateful to each and every
American who contributed in his own way
to the success of our endeavor.
We are also heartened by the under-
standing of hundreds of thousands of
Israelis who remained unwavering in
their commitment to peace. The continu-
ation of this spirit is vital to the coronation
of our effort.
We realize that difficult times lay ahead.
The signing of these documents marks
only the beginning of peace. But it is an
indispensable start. Other steps remain to
be taken without delay or procrastination.
Much will depend on the success of these
steps. We are all committed to pursue our
efforts until the fruits of the comprehen-
sive settlement we agreed upon are shared
by all parties to the conflict.
President Carter once said that the
United States is committed without reser-
vation to seeing the peace process through
until all parties to the Arab-Israeli con-
flict are at peace. We value such a pledge
from a leader who raised the banners of
morality and ethics as a substitute for
power politics and opportunism.
The steps we took in the recent past
will serve Arab vital interests. The libera-
tion of Arab land and the reinstitution of
Arab authority in the West Bank and
Gaza would certainly enhance our com-
mon strategic interests.
While we take the initiative to protect
these interests, we remain faithful to our
Arab commitment. To us, this is a matter
of destiny. Pursuing peace is the only
avenue which is compatible with our cul-
ture and creed.
Let there be no more wars or blood-
shed between Arabs and Israelis—let
there be no more wars or bloodshed be-
519
