Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 31
Visit of Vice Premier Deng
of China
Remarks Following the Signing of Agreements
Between the United States and the People's
Republic of China. January 31, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Vice Premier,
American and Chinese friends:
What we have accomplished in the last
3 days is truly exceptional. But our aim is
to make this kind of exchange between
our countries no longer the exception, but
the norm; no longer a matter of head-
lines and historians, but a routine part of
the everyday lives of both the Chinese
and the American people. With the sign-
ing of these agreements, we have begun
to do just exactly that.
After too many eras in which one or
the other of our nations has sought to
dominate the relations between us, China
and the United States of America are
now meeting on a basis of equality, with
full diplomatic relations. We've charted
a new and irreversible course toward a
firmer, more constructive, and a more
hopeful relationship.
I have come to know Vice Premier
Deng well in the hours we have spent to-
gether. He speaks his mind, and he values
results. In our conversations about world
affairs, we have found that we share many
common perspectives. While we pursue
independent foreign policies, our separate
actions in many places can contribute to
similar goals. These goals are a world of
security and peace, a world of both di-
versity and stability, a world of independ-
ent nations free of outside domination.
Both our countries have a special in-
terest in promoting the peace and pros-
perity of the people of East Asia. We have
agreed to consult regularly on matters of
common global interest. The security con-
cerns of the United States do not coin-
cide completely, of course, with those of
China, nor does China share our respon-
sibilities. But a strong and secure China
which contributes constructively to world
affairs is in our interest, and a globally
engaged, confident, and strong America
is, obviously, in China's interest.
The agreements that we have just
signed for cultural, scientific and tech-
nological exchanges, and for consular ar-
rangements will bring the tangible bene-
fits of normalization to increasing num-
bers of both our peoples. We look forward
to an early settlement of the issue of claims
and assets, to the reunification of families,
to expanded tourism, and to the develop-
ment of a healthy and a vigorous trading
relationship between our countries.
In the near future, because of these
agreements, American consulates will
open in Shanghai and Guangzhou, and
Chinese consulates will open in Houston
and San Francisco. Hundreds of American
students will study and will learn in
China, and hundreds of Chinese students
will further their education in the United
States.
Our National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, NASA, will launch a
civilian communications satellite, paid for
by China, that will bring color television
and expanded communications to all of
the people of China for the first time.
Mr. Vice Premier, your stay in Wash-
ington is nearly over, but your trip to the
United States has just begun. You leave
tomorrow for three of the most interesting
cities in our country: Atlanta, Houston,
and Seattle. You will see something of the
way Americans work and live.
And as you travel from one end of our
country to the other, I think you will find
that the American people are eager to get
to know you and to join in building the
new relationship between our two coun-
tries.
211
