Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
cable to comparable officers in the execu-
tive branch.
This proposal constitutes the first ma-
jor restructuring of the U.S. foreign aid
program since the creation of the Agency
for International Development in 1961.
It will provide the United States with gov-
ernmental machinery far better able to
fulfill our commitment to assist people in
developing countries to eliminate hunger,
poverty, illness and ignorance. It responds
to the mandate of the Congress. Let us
work together to ensure its successful and
effective implementation.
The White House,
April 10, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 2 OF 1979
Prepared by the President and transmitted to
the Senate and the House of Representatives
in Congress assembled, April 10, 1979, pur-
suant to the provisions of chapter 9 of title 5
of the United States Code.
UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY
SECTION 1. Establishment of the
United States International Development
Cooperation Agency
There is hereby established in the ex-
ecutive branch an independent agency to
be known as the United States Interna-
tional Development Cooperation Agency
(hereinafter referred to as the "Agency").
SECTION 2. Director
The Agency shall be headed by the Di-
rector of the International Development
Cooperation Agency (hereinafter referred
to as the "Director"), who shall be ap-
pointed by the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, and
shall receive compensation at the rate pre-
scribed by law for Level II of the Execu-
tive Schedule. Under the guidance of the
President, the Director shall have primary
responsibility for setting overall develop-
ment assistance policy and coordinating
international development activities sup-
ported by the United States. The Direc-
tor shall serve as the principal advisor to
the President and the Secretary of State
on international development matters and
shall report to the President and the Sec-
retary of State. The responsibility of the
Director for the exercise of the functions
and authorities vested in or delegated to
the Director or the Agency shall be sub-
ject to the guidance of the Secretary of
State as to the foreign policy of the United
States. The Director shall designate the
order in which other officials shall act for
and exercise the powers of the Director
during the absence or disability of the Di-
rector and the Deputy Director or in the
event of vacancies in both such offices.
SECTION 3. Deputy Director
The President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, may appoint a
Deputy Director of the Agency, who shall
receive compensation at the rate pre-
scribed by law for Level III of the Execu-
tive Schedule. The Deputy Director shall
perform such duties and exercise such
powers as the Director may from time to
time prescribe and, in addition, shall act
for and exercise the powers of the Direc-
tor during the absence or disability of the
Director or during a vacancy in such
office.
SECTION 4. Associate Directors
The President, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, may appoint
two Associate Directors of the Agency,
who shall perform such duties and exer-
cise such powers as the Director may from
time to time prescribe and who shall re-
ceive compensation at the rate prescribed
645
