Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ing to take the political consequences and
the political criticism by proposing a gaso-
line rationing plan if it is needed. I hope
it won't be needed. But I need for the
Congress to be courageous enough to give
me the authority simply to develop the
plan. And this morning the House com-
merce committee did not do that.
So, to summarize, I don't believe we're
going to need rationing any time in the
future. We are going to have gasoline
shortages. The American people are go-
ing to have to help by reducing waste of
gasoline.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANT SAFETY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dennis
Lapoint. I'm from Somersworth, New
Hampshire. And if you bear with me a
second, I have to modify my question
some, because you have touched on it.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
Q. As a result of the recent accident in
Pennsylvania—and I believe a Wiscasset,
Maine, plant had a 4,000-gallon radio-
active water leak recently as I see it,
there are three major areas of concern, as
I would look at it. One would be in the
area of training and operations. It ap-
pears that, as I look at it, both plants fell
on their face. The other one would be in
the area of safety and preventive main-
tenance. The two go hand in hand. And
apparently, from what happened in Wis-
casset, I assume that there was no pre-
ventive maintenance or inadequate
preventive maintenance to lose 4,000 gal-
lons through a gasket.
The other would be in the area of waste
disposal. As you well know, the work in
the nuclear industry requires not only do-
ing the operations as well as maintenance
field, a lot of generated contaminated
waste has to be disposed of, low-level radi-
ation waste. Now, that is costly, and in
my opinion, the overall cost of all this
would be something that's already shown
up in the waste as a result of shielding
problems that have occurred in Pennsyl-
vania. The private industry cannot sup-
port this type of cost.
What is the government going to do in
order to upgrade these safety, training,
operations standards, the preventive main-
tenance standards of these companies, and
what is the government doing relative to
waste disposal?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Dennis.
Those are thought-provoking questions.
In 1952 and 1953, I was a senior officer
of the crew that was building the second
atomic submarine, the U.S.S. Seawolf,
and had advanced training in reactor
technology in a very fine college in Sche-
nectady, New York. I'm familiar with ba-
sic design problems and also waste dis-
posal problems and have operated several
atomic powerplants myself.
I believe that we will benefit tremen-
dously from the aroused American inter-
est in the subject. You probably see the
public opinion polls, a very substantial
majority of American people still think
that we should depend, to some degree,
on atomic powerplants for energy. Many
other countries are having to depend
much more heavily than are we. About
12 percent now of our electricity in this
country comes from the nuclear power-
plants. I believe that what we learn with
this new study under Dr. Kemeny will be
very beneficial to us and to others as well,
not just in analyzing the mistakes that
were made, but also how training, opera-
tion, maintenance can be improved.
We have proposed to the Congress leg-
islation for the first time in 35 years con-
cerning waste disposal, and it's before the
Congress now for consideration. We've
also proposed to the Congress a kind of
partner legislation, parallel legislation for
the storage of spent fuel rods-two sepa-
706
