Jan. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ing our people at work and providing for
large numbers of those who might be poor
or hungry or needing services.
So, I think this is something that ought
to be approached very gingerly, very care-
fully. And if there is any constitutional
amendment, it ought to be done in accord-
ance with practices that we've used in the
past.
The final thing I'd like to reemphasize
is that I intend to continue to work for a
balanced budget, and I believe that this is
the best approach to it.
MEXICAN OIL AND NATURAL GAS
Q. Mr. President, with Iran off-line
now on oil production, and your worrying
about spot shortages, there are a lot of
scientists who see Saudi Arabia down
there, and Mexico. Yet we seem to be
turning our back on natural gas produc-
tion in Mexico; some question about
whether they want to have substantial gas
in the American market. How do you rec-
oncile that?
THE PRESIDENT. We are very interested
in Mexican oil and natural gas to be pur-
chased by our own Nation. The decisions,
instance, new powerplants to be built in
the future have to be designed to use coal.
And we also have the problem of using
efficiently gas produced in the 48 States
of our country and, in the future, how to
bring the natural gas
bring the natural gas that is available
from Alaska down through Canada to
our Nation. It's a very complicated thing.
And when I go to Mexico next February,
this will obviously be one of the matters
that I will discuss.
But I'm not going down there to ne-
gotiate the price of natural gas. We'll be
talking, myself and President López Por-
tillo, more on long-range strategic ap-
proaches on how we might best provide a
good market for Mexican oil and gas that
they want to sell to us.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Carter's forty-second news
conference began at 4 p.m. in Room 450 of the
Old Executive Office Building. It was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
however, on how rapidly to produce and National Prayer Breakfast
to market their oil and natural gas is a
decision to be made by Mexico. They are
understandably very independent in this
respect, and we would not try to encroach
on their independence nor try to encour-
age them to more rapidly produce gas and
oil than they themselves desire.
We have immediate needs and also
long-range needs, sometimes not quite
the same. In the immediate future, the
next few months, there is no urgency
about acquiring Mexican natural gas.
We have at this moment a surplus of
natural gas in our own country, and the
statements made by the Secretary of En-
ergy were related to that fact.
He has encouraged large users of oil
and gas to use gas instead of oil, but, for
Remarks at the Annual Breakfast.
January 18, 1979
Fairly early in my naval career, we
moved from Hawaii back to this country,
about the time of the advent of television.
We had doubts about its value, because
the reports said that it was going to de-
stroy the moral fabric of our Nation.
But one of the delights of my life, one
of the greatest contributions of this tech-
nological miracle was the presentation
by Bishop Fulton Sheen, on his regularly
scheduled program, of the religious inter-
relationships in his own life and how they
related to a modern world.
And I'm deeply grateful to him for
being willing to come this morning to
58
