Mar. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Those who say so pay a price for it.
A peace treaty is not a scrap of paper.
A
peace treaty is, as it must be, a serious
document. It should be carried out.
It can be broken by cynics, by enemies
of peace, by enemies of mankind. But, of
course, our nation, with our experience,
cannot be asked to sign any document
which would make legitimate a breach of
the peace treaty. Therefore, we have
problems.
Yes, Mr. President, you, and may I say
respectfully, I will tell our peoples the
truth. And therefore, here and now, it's
my duty to say that we have serious prob-
lems to solve until we can sign the peace
treaty with Egypt-and we want so much
to have this serious document signed.
And today we dealt with the serious
problems. We all work quite hard-you
perhaps harder than anybody else for
the sake of peace. But we do work hard,
and we shall go on during the night to
deal with these difficult problems. We
only hope we shall be able to solve them.
But there are serious issues and difficult
problems. This is what it is my duty to say
at this juncture, at this moment. Hope-
fully, we shall overcome the difficulties
and be able to sign a peace treaty, a real
peace treaty between Egypt and Israel, as
a first step towards a comprehensive set-
tlement in the Middle East.
We wouldn't like to have a separate
peace treaty with Egypt and have an
eastern-northern front, a combination of
6,500 tanks-excuse me, 5,600 tanks,
more than 6,000 heavy guns, more than a
thousand fighting, firstline planes, et cet-
era; it's a great danger to us. But, of
course, we cannot compel anybody to
come to the table.
We invited them. We are prepared at
any moment to resume negotiations with
them-with Syria, with Jordan, with
Lebanon, with all our neighbors, with all
Arab states-if they wish. Of course, no-
body can force them to come. In God's
good time, they will, I believe with all my
heart, in God's good time. Until then, of
course, the peace treaty with Egypt is the
first step, and it must be a real document.
Mr. President, we are proud to have
you with us, you and your gracious lady.
We met many times in your great country,
built on the saga of America, which is so
dear to all of us. We meet here tonight in
Jerusalem, in the Knesset, in the center of
our democracy, this democracy which
gives Israel the inherent stability which
gives you a reliable and stable ally in the
Middle East-and may I say the only
democracy in the Middle East-and,
therefore, the ally, the stable and reliable
ally of the free world and of its leading
power, the United States.
Mr. President, you hold the greatest
office in the world, the most difficult off-
ice. But I believe that you will go down
in history with a higher title than even
that of President of the United States.
And this higher title is "servant of peace."
In this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, may
I raise my glass to our honored and dear
guest, the President of the United States,
and to Mrs. Carter, to the President of
our Republic, Israel, and to Mrs. Navon,
to peace and to the everlasting friend-
ship between the United States of Amer-
ica and the State of Israel.
Lechayim.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Mr. President, Mr.
Prime Minister, distinguished officials of
the great republic of Israel-legislative,
judicial, executive officials of this great
nation-friends of the United States here
in Israel and friends of Israel from the
United States who are also here—many
visitors have come here to express their
support for this momentous effort for
support
peace:
422
