Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
omy and security and to resolve this issue
as best we can.
I would be glad to answer your ques-
tions now on any matter.
QUESTIONS
SUBMARINES
Q. Mr. President, I am from New Lon-
don, Connecticut, and that means nuclear
accidents or whatever I have to ask an
ex-submariner about submarines.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. As the cost overruns on the 688 class
and Trident submarine amounted into the
hundreds of millions of dollars, there have
been voices in the Congress and in the
Navy that have said that the submarines
are overdesigned and that the Navy would
be better off with a large number of
smaller, less expensive boats. Do you think
that the 688 and Tridents under their cur-
rent dimensions are cost effective, or do
you think the Navy would be better off
spending the available dollars for more,
smaller submarines?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it costs so much
to change designs, as you know, that I'm
not sure that even a slightly smaller or
different design would give us, in the long
run, more submarines or more effective
submarines.
As an ex-submariner one who was in
the initial program, I think I'm person-
ally biased. But I think that if there ever
has been any one single weapons system
that has ensured our Nation's integrity
and security, it has been the nuclear
submarines, with a strategic weapon
capability.
It's a great insurer of the peace. And
I think the Trident and the 688 combina-
tion, as far as the immediate future is con-
cerned, are the best that we have to offer.
And, of course, we are exploring new tech-
nologies, and they'll always be available
for future designs. But to change from
those two designs because there have been
cost overruns, based primarily on natural
inflation that has occurred and an im-
provement in design during construction
phase, I think would be an error.
So, I don't think we'll terminate those
programs, change the design. I think they
are very adequate, and I'm very proud of
what they've already done and will do in
the future.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. Mr. President, I realize this is prob-
ably a little premature, but I can't think
of any other more pertinent question at
the time. Do you feel that the near disaster
in Harrisburg will constitute a reevalua-
tion of your policy toward nuclear power
as it is a part of the overall energy mix in
the country?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I first went into
the program, I think, in 1952, and almost
a decade before that, we were involved
in the production of nuclear materials.
Until I became President, until just re-
cent months, we've never had a proposal
even to the Congress for the storage of
spent fuel rods for possible later use, nor
the disposal of waste.
We have had, and still have until this
moment, a remarkable safety record in
the production of nuclear power, both for
our own defense systems, which we've just
described, and also the production of elec-
tricity. My own experience has been that
over the years, the safety standards have
been greatly improved with much more
stringent protection for the public.
Just this morning, I've talked to Gov-
ernor Thornburgh and also to the Chair-
man of the Nuclear Regulatory Commis-
sion, Dr. Hendrie, about the situation that
exists in the Three Mile Island plant. We
558
