May 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
fare to work. And the legislation assures
that states will have substantial incentives
to join in the effort to move individuals
from welfare to work.
improve the fairness and adequacy
of welfare cash assistance to needy fami-
lies with children by:
establishing a national minimum
benefit (for AFDC and food stamp bene-
fits combined) at 65% of poverty, raising
benefits to 800,000 people in the 13 low-
est benefit states; mandating coverage of
two-parent families in the 24 states
which now lack this coverage; and sim-
plifying the benefit computation and
eliminating several sources of inequity in
the current system.
in reducing error and waste. Their cost-
$5.7 billion when fully implemented in
FY 1982 is included in the Administra-
tion's budget projections submitted to
Congress last January and fully consistent
with a prudent budget policy.
It is rare that the President and Con-
gress are given the opportunity to work
together on legislation that does so much
to benefit so many of the most needy.
I recognize that welfare reform is a dif-
ficult undertaking. No legislative struggle
in the last decade has provided so much
hopeful rhetoric or so much disappoint-
ment and frustration. We have spent sev-
eral months in quiet, detailed consulta-
tions working to develop a package which
• improve welfare administration by I hope provides a basis for a legislative
aligning definitions in the Aid to Fami-
lies with Dependent Children (AFDC)
and food stamps programs, standardizing
certain deductions that are now itemized,
tightening eligibility determinations, and
building upon HEW's program of anti-
fraud, anti-waste efforts. Furthermore,
food stamps will be cashed out for a por-
tion of the needy aged, blind and disabled
population receiving Supplemental Secu-
rity Income (SSI). This step towards pro-
gram consolidation will extend benefits to
needy individuals who are eligible but do
not currently participate in the food
stamp program, and simplify the welfare
system for recipients and administrators.
expand the earned income tax credit
to provide greater assistance to low-in-
come working families and provide
greater incentives to take private sector
jobs.
provide fiscal relief to state and local
governments.
These two bills will increase the in-
comes of 2.3 million families, or nearly
6.5 million people. They will remove from
poverty 800,000 families, or 2.2 million
people. They will achieve important gains
consensus.
I urge the Congress to cap a decade of
debate on welfare reform with action.
America's people, particularly her poor,
have waited long enough for important
progress in this area. A society like ours
must be judged by what we do for the
most needy in our midst. America must
meet this challenge. Congress can make
an important contribution by enacting
the proposals I am making today.
The White House,
May 23, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Foreign Intelligence Electronic
Surveillance
Executive Order 12139. May 23, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by Sections 102 and 104 of the For-
eign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978
(50 U.S.C. 1802 and 1804), in order to
provide as set forth in that Act for the
authorization of electronic surveillance
940
