Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 12
Employers will be required to make
equal contributions to the various health
plans they offer their employees. Em-
ployees who choose more cost-effective
plans will either pay lower premiums, re-
ceive additional compensation, or receive
expanded health benefits.
The Healthcare program will pay a
fixed amount on behalf of elderly bene-
ficiaries who choose to enroll in HMOs.
If the HMO can provide the standard
Healthcare benefit package for less than
the fixed amount, it must offer addi-
tional health benefits to the patient.
The Plan also promotes competition by
requiring Healthcare to use competitive
bidding to select private companies to
perform claims processing and related
functions. Demonstration projects by the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare have shown that this change
will produce significant administrative
savings.
FRAMEWORK FOR A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN
A universal, comprehensive national
health insurance program is one of the
major unfinished items on America's
social agenda. The National Health Plan
I am proposing today creates both the
framework and the momentum to reach
that long-sought goal. In future years,
the Plan can be expanded to include all
low-income persons. Employer coverage
can be made more fully comprehensive,
with subsidies to ease the burden on
small businesses. First-dollar coverage for
preventive services can be extended
throughout early childhood. I am today
sending to the Congress an outline of a
fully comprehensive plan which builds
upon the significant health care improve-
ments that I am asking the Congress to
enact this session.
Consistent with current budgetary
current budgetary
constraints, new Federal spending for the
National Health Plan will not begin un-
til FY '83. When the Plan is fully imple-
mented, the Federal budget cost in 1980
dollars will be 18 billion and the pre-
mium cost to employers and employees
will be $8 billion. A substantial portion
of these expenditures reflect reduced
out-of-pocket expenses for individuals
and reduced spending by State and local
governments for their health programs.
These expenditures are a social invest-
ment in the future of our children, the
economic security of our elderly, and the
well-being and peace of mind of all
Americans. They are an investment in a
more effective and efficient health care
system. Over time, the Plan's emphasis
on prevention, competition, and cost
containment will reap important divi-
dends for our Nation and its people.
I urge the Congress not to lose this pre-
cious opportunity for progress. The real
needs of our people are not served by
waiting and hoping for a better tomor-
row. That tomorrow will never come
unless we act today. The National Health
Plan I propose will provide millions of
our citizens with better health, greater
economic security, and more productive,
dignified, and hopeful lives. The Amer-
ican people have waited long enough. I
call on the Congress to act without delay.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
June 12, 1979.
John Wayne
Statement on the Death of the
Film Actor. June 12, 1979
John Wayne was bigger than life. In
an age of few heroes, he was the genuine
article. But he was more than just a
1031
