Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
In Southern Africa we are trying to help
bring about a peaceful transformation to
majority rule which will avoid growing
bloodshed between white and black and
deeper intervention by the Soviet Union
and Cuba.
Together with our European allies,
Canada, and African states directly con-
cerned, we are making progress toward
the independence and majority rule of
Namibia—a step that would have a posi-
tive impact on the evolution of events in
Rhodesia and elsewhere in Southern
Africa. We are heartened by the support
of the African leaders who have worked
with us in efforts to resolve the Namibian
and Rhodesian issues.
Congressional repeal of the Byrd
Amendment was essential in enhancing
our credibility in the effort to avoid a
gathering war and further Soviet and
Cuban gains in Southern Africa. We will
consult closely with the Congress during
the coming months, as we seek the most
constructive role we can play. It will be
increasingly important to maintain our po-
sition of impartiality among the parties so
we can help them resolve their differences
should they choose the path of peace.
Latin America
In our own Hemisphere, we can point
with pride to the cooperative spirit which
enabled us to change, in mutually bene-
ficial ways, the basis of our relations with
Panama. Senate approval of the two Pan-
ama Canal treaties last year has improved
the quality of our historic relationship not
only with Panama itself but with our
friends in every part of Latin America. By
that act, our country helped demonstrate
its ability both to protect major security
interests and to deal with smaller nations
with dignity and mutual respect. Congres-
sional action to pass the necessary imple-
menting legislation for these treaties be-
fore the October 1 deadline will ensure
that the Canal is efficiently operated dur-
ing the transition to a new partnership
with Panama.
The treaties and implementing legisla-
tion, like our efforts to help the people of
Nicaragua find an enduring democratic
solution to the current crisis there, are im-
portant to the future stability of Central
America as a whole and the strengthening
of our new and mature relationship with
the nations of all Latin America.
The International Economy
In our daily lives, we are constantly re-
minded of the importance of a healthy
world economy to the strength of our
own. We see this in the wages of our
workers who produce goods for export,
in the choice of goods for our consumers,
in the price of energy.
tries to ensure that the world economy
We must work closely with other coun-
can steadily develop through non-infla-
tionary growth, while together we man-
age the use of its resources and protect
our environment.
The focus for much of this effort dur-
ing the past year was the Bonn Economic
Summit. We worked out a strategy of co-
operation with our partners to improve
the world economic situation: within the
framework of those Summit decisions,
West Germany and Japan have taken
measures to stimulate their economies
while we are giving top priority to fight-
ing inflation. Our actions, along with
those taken by other Summit participants,
are leading to a convergence of economic
policies that will strengthen the global
economy.
We have strengthened the dollar by
working out arrangements with other
countries to counter speculative disorder
in currency markets. Since I announced
my dollar stabilization measures last No-
160
