May 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
seeking opportunity; they do not come
seeking asylum, but seeking employment,
jobs.
For those who enter legally, things are
not easy, but they at least have all the pro-
tections of everyone else who live in this
country. The undocumented workers,
however, sometimes living in fear, ex-
ploited by those who mistreat them and
take advantage of the most vulnerable
among us, exist outside our legal system.
They are hunted not for crimes because
they've committed no crimes but be-
cause they are here without permission.
They are people who seek only a better
life for their children and a better oppor-
tunity for themselves. This is exactly what
my own ancestors sought when they first
came to this country.
Leonel Castillo, a Mexican American,
as you know, who's director of the Immi-
gration and Naturalization Service, is try-
ing to bring an incredibly antiquated
immigration service into modern times.
When we came into office, he found a
situation where it was impossible to call
the Los Angeles service of the immigra-
tion, because all the lines were always
busy. Letters were lost in rooms piled high
with unopened mail. The only hope of
communicating with the immigration of-
fice 2 years ago was to come in person
and to stand in line. He found people get-
ting in line at midnight just to make an
appointment to stand in line at a later
time. Often that next appointment was
months away.
efficient service as every week goes by. He
understands, and so do I, that these were
not merely paperwork problems or traffic
problems, but human problems, involving
the rights and the hopes of suffering men,
women, and children who could not wait
4 years for an answer.
I'm committed to bringing [making]'
our Government work so that no one has
to wait for an answer, but Leonel Castillo
and I have never pretended that there
was no problem. I am committed to find-
ing a humane solution to the problem of
undocumented workers now in this
country.
I cannot promise you any simple solu-
tions. We cannot solve the immigration
problems on this side of the border alone.
Mexico is fully aware that the solution to
this problem is to continue the good prog-
ress now being made in Mexico in eco-
nomic development and jobs.
I have told President López Portillo
that we are ready to cooperate in every
way with the Mexican Government in
furthering this goal which he and I share
together.
In the short term, there are disagree-
ments on the best solutions, even within
the Chicano community, as you know.
But there can be no disagreement over
the need to deal humanely and fairly
with this problem. Overall, there is no
nation with whom our relationship is
more important than Mexico. And you've
heard Foreign Minister Roel say the same
thing a few minutes ago.
I have also appointed a special com-
mission on immigration that includes
He found people waiting 4 years to get
a petition acted on-petitions to bring in
a wife or a husband or a child, particularly
legally, to reunite families, to apply for Judge Cruz Reynoso and Joaquin Otero.
citizenship, or to visit a dying mother in
Mexico things they were entitled to do
under the law.
He has cut that time lag dramatically
to 90 days or less for most applications,
and he's desperately trying to have a more
The Chairman of this commission, Reu-
bin Askew, former Governor of Florida,
met with President López Portillo, For-
eign Minister Roel, and other senior Mex-
ican officials in Mexico April the 18th
¹ Printed in the transcript.
812
