Apr. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to the Congress or to the American peo-
ple any treaty which in my opinion could
not be adequately verified from the first
day it's effective. Many of the concerns
that we have relate to very complicated
questions. For instance, we can't guaran-
tee that every time a test missile is
launched by the Soviet Union, that every
aspect of that flight can be completely
comprehended by us.
There are limits on what we can do.
But as the Secretary of Defense has testi-
fied publicly, in order for the Soviets to
develop any kind of significant new mis-
sile, they would have to have like 20 to
50 test launchings. And during that proc-
ess, it is a very high likelihood that we
ourselves would be able to detect any
violation of the SALT treaty.
There's another factor that must be
considered. If the only purpose of the So-
viet Union in the long, tedious negotia-
tions of a SALT treaty is to have a docu-
ment that they can violate and that's their
only purpose in existence, is to violate the
SALT treaty, it would make our problem
much worse. But there is an element of
rationality and stability, because the So-
viets know that if we ever detect any vio-
lation of the SALT agreement, that that
would be a basis on which to reject the
treaty in its entirety; there would be a
possible termination of the good relation-
ships between our country and the Soviet
Union on which détente is based; and it
might very well escalate into a nuclear
confrontation.
So, the consequences would be very se-
vere, and that is an additional constraint
imposed upon the Soviet Union and on
us that strengthens my statement that we
can verify. But absent that very important
factor, we can still verify to our complete
satisfaction the SALT agreement through
various means that we have available to
us.
Q. Mr. President, you've been quoted
by historian James MacGregor Burns as
saying that even if the SALT treaty is re-
jected by the Senate, that you would
abide by its terms. I would like to know
how far you would go in this. Would you,
for instance, abide by the limitations on
the range of land- and sea-based cruise
missiles? And more generally, don't you
think abiding by a treaty that's been re-
jected by the Senate would amount to
thwarting the will of the public?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no inclination
to minimize the importance of the consti-
tutional processes whereby treaties are
negotiated by the Executive and ratified
or rejected by the Senate.
My belief is that the treaty will be
sound enough when it's completely scru-
tinized by the public and the Senate, that
it will be ratified. If, because of some fac-
tor that I cannot anticipate, the treaty is
not ratified, then I would do all I could,
monitoring very closely Soviet activities,
to comply with the basic agreements
reached.
It would certainly not be proper for me,
if the treaty were not ratified, to immedi-
ately launch our country into a massive
nuclear arms race. And the constraints
placed on me and the Soviet Union, mon-
itored very carefully by each other, would
be a basis on which to constrain ourselves
and to avoid such a nuclear confrontation
in the absence of a treaty. But I still be-
lieve that we will have the treaty.
SOVIET DISSIDENTS
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us, sir,
how the list was arrived at concerning
which Soviet dissidents would be released
in exchange for the two Soviet spies? And
in view of this exchange, you're now
750
