Jan. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Federal pay that the Congress and I have
set, the policy of this Administration is:
In the public interest to control infla-
tion, each officer or employee in the exec-
utive branch who has administrative
authority to set rates of pay for any Fed-
eral officers or employees should exercise
such authority, to the extent permissible
under law, treaty, or international agree-
ment, in such a way as to ensure that no
rate of pay for any category of officers
or employees is increased more than 5.5
percent during fiscal year 1979. Specific-
ally excluded from this limitation are rates
of pay for foreign nationals authorized
under the Foreign Service Act of 1946 as
amended (22 U.S.C. 889) and increases
in rates of pay to implement the minimum
wage provisions of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938, as amended, as author-
ized under currrent agency policies.
The Chairman of the Civil Service
Commission, until January 1, 1979, and
the Director of the Office of Personnel
Management, on and after January 1,
1979, will provide you with any further
advice or assistance you may need in com-
plying with this policy.
JIMMY CARTER
Independent Water Project
Review
Executive Order 12113. January 4, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and laws of the
United States of America, in furtherance
of the Water Resources Planning Act (79
Stat. 244; 42 U.S.C. 1962 et seq.), and in
order to ensure coordinated planning and
independent review of Federal water re-
source programs and projects, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1-101. The Water Resources Council
shall ensure that it has established a
current set of principles, standards, and
procedures for Federal participants in the
preparation of comprehensive regional or
river basin plans and for the formulation
and evaluation of Federal water and re-
lated land resources projects (42 U.S.C.
1962a-2).
1-102. The Council shall ensure that
an impartial technical review is per-
formed on preauthorization reports or
proposals and preconstruction plans for
Federal and Federally assisted water, and
related land resources, projects and pro-
grams, as they are defined in the Council's
principles and standards.
1-103. The Council shall develop a
planning manual for use by each agency
(a) in calculating benefits and costs by
using the best available techniques and
(b) in applying the principles and stand-
ards in a consistent manner.
1-104. The impartial technical review
shall evaluate each report, proposal, or
plan for compliance with (a) the Coun-
cil's principles and standards, (b) the
planning manual or, pending issuance of
the manual, established agency proce-
dures, (c) other Federal laws, regulations
and guidelines relevant to the planning
process, and (d) the goal of wide public
participation in the development of proj-
ect plans, including adequate opportunity
for public comment and adequate con-
sideration of those views.
1-105. (a) Beginning April 1, 1979, all
agencies shall submit, prior to their ap-
proval by the head of the agency, preau-
thorization reports or proposals and pre-
construction plans for Federal and
Federally assisted water, and related land
resources, projects and programs to the
Council at least 90 days prior to the
scheduled time for their submission to the
8
