Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
gress on those Commission recommenda-
tions.
FEDERAL RECORDS
The Federal Government holds almost
four billion records on individuals, most
of them stored in thousands of computers.
Federally-funded projects have substan-
tial additional files. This information is
needed to run the social security system,
collect taxes, conduct research, measure
the economy, and for hundreds of other
important purposes. Modern technology,
however, makes it possible to turn this
store into a dangerous surveillance system.
Reasonable restrictions are needed on the
collection and use of this information.
The Privacy Act of 1974 established
privacy safeguards for Federal records. It
prevents agencies from collecting certain
kinds of information, such as information
about political beliefs; requires public no-
tice whenever a new data system is estab-
lished; gives individuals the right to see
and correct their records; and limits dis-
closure of personal information.
While the Privacy Act is working rea-
sonably well and is too new to decide on
major revisions, I have ordered a number
of administrative actions to improve its
operation.
We are issuing today final guidelines
for Federal agencies on the use of "match-
ing programs." These programs compare
computerized lists of individuals to detect
fraud or other abuses. Such programs are
making an important contribution to re-
ducing abuse of Federal programs and
are thereby saving taxpayers' money.
However, safeguards are needed to pro-
tect the privacy of the innocent and to
ensure that the use of "matching" is prop-
erly limited. The guidelines, which were
developed with public participation, will
ensure that these programs are con-
ducted:
•
only after the public has been noti-
fied and given the opportunity to
identify privacy problems;
⚫ with tight safeguards on access to the
data and on disclosure of the names
of suspects identified by matching;
only when there are no cost-effec-
tive, alternative means of identifying
violators.
•
I have also directed that action be taken
to:
• extend Privacy Act protections to
certain data systems operated by re-
cipients of Federal grants;
strengthen administration of the
"routine use" provision of the Pri-
vacy Act, which governs disclosures
of personal information by Federal
agencies;
• ensure that each Federal agency has
an office responsible for privacy is-
sues raised by the agency's activi-
ties;
• improve the selection and training of
the system managers required by the
Privacy Act;
• improve oversight of new Federal in-
formation systems at an early state
in the planning process; and
• limit the amount of information the
government requires private groups
and individuals to report.
The Office of Management and Budget,
as the unit responsible for overseeing Fed-
eral agency record-keeping, will imple-
ment these actions. I have assigned the
Commerce Department's National Tele-
communications and Information Ad-
ministration to be the lead agency on
other privacy matters and to work with
Congress on the continuing development
of privacy policy.
INTERNATIONAL PRIVACY ISSUES
The enormous increase in personal
data records in the U.S. has been matched
586
