Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 6
the average cost of a hospital stay was
$533. In just the past two years, the aver-
age cost of a hospital stay has increased by
$317 to $1634 a day ¹—an increase of al-
most 24 percent.
1
Hospital cost inflation is uniquely
severe. It is also uniquely controllable. It
offers us one of our best opportunities to
bring down the rate of overall inflation.
This
year, once again, I ask the Congress
to join me in grasping that opportunity by
enacting a tough program of hospital cost
containment.
The Senate passed a Hospital Cost Con-
tainment bill last year, but the House did
not complete action on it. The legislation
I am transmitting to the Congress today
is similar to the bill that passed the Senate
last year. It responds to Congressional
concerns that were raised during consider-
ation of last year's bill, and it is strong
enough to do the job.
The Hospital Cost Containment Act of
1979 will be one of the clearest tests of
Congress' seriousness in dealing with the
problem of inflation. Through this one
piece of legislation, we can, at a stroke,
reduce inflation, cut the Federal budget,
and save billions of dollars of unnecessary
public and private spending.
The legislation I am transmitting today
will save $3.7 billion in fiscal year 1980.
It will save $1.4 billion in the Federal
budget, over $420 million in state and
local budgets, and almost $1.9 billion in
private health insurance and payments by
individuals. Altogether, the potential sav-
ings that could result from this measure
amount to some $53 billion over the next
five years.
Because most hospital bills are paid by
public or private insurance programs, the
impact of hospital inflation is sometimes
disguised. But that impact is painfully real
for every American.
When hospital costs rise, so do health
insurance premiums. This means that
workers take home smaller paychecks. It
means that businesses are forced to charge
higher prices. For example, over $140 of
the cost of every automobile manufac-
tured in this country goes to pay for health
insurance premiums.
When hospital costs rise, so do health
budgets of Federal, state and local govern-
ments. From 1969 to 1979, Federal
government expenditures for hospital care
rose by 330 percent. State and local
government expenditures for hospital
care rose by 140 percent. Sooner or later
every taxpayer pays more to finance these
increases.
When hospital costs rise, the elderly-
who need more hospital services—are par-
ticularly hard hit. The Medicare hospital
deductible paid by the elderly has almost
quadrupled-from $44 in 1969 to $160
in 1979. If hospital cost inflation is not
restrained, the deductible will reach $260
in 1984.
The inflationary rise in hospital costs is
not inevitable. While there have been
dramatic and desirable improvements in
the quality of hospital services, much of
the increase in hospital expenses has been
unnecessary. No one's health is improved
by the existence of thousands of unfilled
hospital beds, by hospital stays that are
unnecessarily long, by surgery and x-ray
tests that are unneeded and sometimes
harmful, by wasteful supply purchasing
practices, by inefficient energy use, or by
pointless duplication of expensive facili-
ties and equipment. But these wasteful
practices cost billions.
In the past, hospitals have had little
incentive to be efficient. The hospital sec-
tor is fundamentally different from any
other sector in our economy. Normal
¹ EDITOR'S NOTE: The correct word is "stay," buyer-seller relationships and normal mar-
not "day."
ket forces do not exist. The consumer of
387
