June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Not only does the Interstate Com-
merce Commission control who may enter
the trucking industry, the ICC must also
approve the application of an existing
carrier seeking to offer new services or
improve its old ones.
But ICC regulation merely begins
when a certificate is awarded. The ICC,
not the trucking company, decides what
cities and towns a carrier may serve. The
ICC, not the trucking company, decides
in detail what commodities the carrier
may haul—and whether any commodi-
ties can be carried on the return trip.
The ICC, not the trucking company,
often decides the actual highway the
trucker must use, whether stops may
be
made to serve points along the way, and
whether the trucker may take the most
direct route to its destination.
This system of detailed regulation was
imposed in 1935 when the trucking in-
dustry was in its infancy, and when the
Nation was in the midst of its most seri-
ous depression. At that time, competition
was blamed for the Nation's economic
woes. Many believed that extensive gov-
ernment control was needed to protect
the newly developing trucking industry.
In the 44 years since regulation was
first imposed, conditions have changed
dramatically. The trucking industry has
matured and prospered, and our economy
has become strong. But our system of
regulation has remained basically the
same.
ICC-regulated carriers are also shel-
tered from price competition. In 1948,
Congress overrode President Truman's
veto and enacted a special immunity
from the antitrust laws that permits regu-
lated trucking companies to meet to-
gether and decide upon rates. This con-
duct, which would be a felony in nearly
every other industry, stifles competition,
discourages innovative pricing, and forces
the prices of consumer products higher
than they otherwise would be.
Our current regulatory system con-
tributes to three of our Nation's most
pressing problems-inflation, excessive
government regulation and the shortage
of energy. Since regulation permits price-
fixing and stifles price competition, con-
sumers are unnecessarily paying billions
of dollars a year in higher transportation
prices. During these inflationary times,
government policies that needlessly raise
costs cannot be tolerated.
Regulation also subjects one of our Na-
tion's most important industries to a
mindless scheme of unnecessary govern-
ment interference and control. Rather
than putting their talents and energies to
the task of providing the prices and serv-
ices customers want, trucking companies
are forced to concentrate on proposing
measures that government regulators will
permit.
Finally, regulation needlessly wastes our
Nation's precious fuel by preventing car-
riers from making the most productive use
of their equipment, and by requiring
empty backhauls and circuitous routings.
The legislation I am proposing will re-
store the competitive spirit to the truck-
ing industry, reduce inflation, minimize
government regulation and save energy.
The major provisions in the legislation
are summarized below.
NEW, COMPETITIVE POLICY STATEMENT
The bill I propose establishes a new
policy statement to govern all aspects of
ICC regulation of the trucking industry.
The policy statement emphasizes reliance
on competition rather than government
regulation to the maximum extent possi-
ble to reduce rates, improve service, at-
tract capital, increase efficiency and offer
the opportunity to earn fair profits.
The policy statement also emphasizes
the need to reduce existing regulations
1118
