Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 12
I don't see that these statements that
I've made are incompatible with going to
Mexico to meet with López Portillo, to
talk to his Congress, to talk to his people.
I think the best way to resolve differences
which do exist is in a framework as I have
just described to you.
POLICYMAKING PROCEDURES
Q. Mr. President, you campaigned on
a platform of sunshine in government.
And in the last few weeks you've been
telling your advisers not to reveal what
goes on in the decisionmaking process-
some of the confusion and some of the
disagreement.
THE PRESIDENT. I've never told them
that.
Q. Can you enlighten us as to what
you have told them? Are the reports in
the paper wrong about you telling them
to sort of cool it on that?
THE PRESIDENT. As has always been
the case with Presidents and, I guess, other
executive leaders, I have to have two
basic relationships with my advisers and
my subordinates that sometimes are in-
compatible. One is, I have to have the
widest possible range of advice and coun-
sel, tough debate, sometimes even open
criticism as I evolve in my own mind a
basic decision to be made on an important
subject for the well-being of the people
of this country. Then once I make that
decision-and most of the controversial
decisions are very difficult ones once I
make a decision, I expect my policy to be
carried out with loyalty and with en-
thusiasm. When I make a policy decision
that might be contrary to the advice re-
ceived by some subordinate, if that par-
ticular subordinate cannot carry out my
policy, then the only option for them is to
resign.
There have been very few instances
where I have permitted a deviation from
that policy. I have never told my people
who work under me in the State Depart-
ment, NSC, Defense, Treasury, Housing,
or anything else, not to have contact with
the press. I do, however, have to insist
upon a degree of teamwork, once a deci-
sion is made that relates to a sensitive
issue like the Middle East or like SALT
negotiations or like the relationships with
Iran in recent months.
That's what I have admonished them
to do, to have a free expression of opinion
and to let me have their individual opin-
ions up until the time I make a decision;
once I make a decision, to comply with it.
Q. So, you do not object if members of
your administration talk to reporters and
tell them about the differences within the
administration on a policy as it is moving
up towards a final decision?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that's al-
ways appropriate. I wouldn't want to
stand here and tell you that everybody
that works in the Government is free to
go and express their own personal opin-
ions through the press as a policy is being
evolved. Some of these decisions are based
on highly secret information, either the
attitudes of a foreign leader which cannot
be revealed without embarrassment or
based on security matters which, if re-
vealed, might work contrary to the best
interests of our country. So, I'm not going
to issue a blanket permission for anybody
in government to have a free access and
to express their own views to the press.
I think that the policy that I have laid
out is well understood by my people who
work with me, both before and during
and after a decision is made. And I think
that I've described it about as thoroughly
as I can this morning.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
Q. Mr. President, do you think that—
well, you've spoken a lot about the energy
261
