May 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
United States will be able, if desirable, to
request and receive scientific advice re-
lated to fisheries subject to its exclusive
management jurisdiction. Finally, the
United States will have an opportunity
for membership in the Fisheries Commis-
sion, the body responsible for conserva-
tion and management of fisheries in the
Regulatory Area, defined as the part of
the convention area beyond the fishery
conservation zones of the Contracting
Parties, should its vessels wish to partici-
pate in such fisheries.
I transmit also for the information of
Support for these amendments will
contribute to the demonstrated interest
of the United States in facilitating co-
operation among maritime nations. To
that end, I urge that the Senate give early
and favorable consideration to these
amendments and give its advice and con-
sent to their acceptance.
The White House,
May 3, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
the Senate the report of the Secretary of United States-United Kingdom
State with respect to the Convention.
I urge the Senate to act favorably at an
early date on this Convention.
The White House,
May 3, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Convention on the
Intergovernmental Maritime
Consultative Organization
Message to the Senate Transmitting
Amendments to the Convention.
May 3, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the advice and
consent of the Senate to acceptance,
amendments to the Convention on the
Intergovernmental Maritime Consulta-
tive Organization, signed at Geneva on
March 6, 1948, which were adopted on
November 14, 1975 and November 17,
1977, by the Assembly of the Intergovern-
mental Maritime Consultative Organiza-
tion (IMCO) at its ninth and tenth ses-
sions. I transmit also, for the information
of the Senate, the report of the Depart-
ment of State describing the amendments,
their purpose, and effect.
Convention on Taxation
and Fiscal Evasion
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Convention. May 3, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice
and consent to ratification, the Conven-
tion between the Government of the
United States of America and the Gov-
ernment of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect
to Taxes on Estates of Deceased Persons
and on Gifts, signed at London on Octo-
ber 19, 1978. For the information of the
Senate, I also transmit the report of the
Department of State with respect to the
Convention.
The Convention would replace the
estate tax convention with the United
Kingdom which was signed at Washing-
ton on April 16, 1945, and has been in
force since 1946. It would apply in the
United States to the federal gift tax, the
federal estate tax, and the federal tax
on generation-skipping transfers. In the
United Kingdom it would apply to the
capital transfer tax. The Convention is
778
