Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 24
vironment for the AFL-CIO's Industrial
Union Department. Samuels was trained
as a theoretical biologist and has worked
extensively in environmental health regu-
lation. He has frequently been the labor
participant in OSHA and congressional
hearings on environmental regulation.
Morris M. Schrier, of Scarsdale, N.Y.,
vice president and secretary of MCA, Inc.
(for reappointment).
Irving J. Selikoff, of Ridgewood, N.J.,
professor of community medicine and di-
rector of the division of environmental
medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital in New
York. Selikoff is also program director of
the Environmental Health Sciences Re-
search Center at Mount Sinai. He is an
expert on the health effects of environ-
mental factors, especially in airborne
pollutants, and is an environmental
environmental
epidemiologist.
Gerald N. Wogan, of Bedford, Mass.,
professor of toxicology in the department
of nutrition and food science at Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, a recog-
nized authority in nutritional carcino-
genesis (reappointment).
The President also announced the
designation of Henry C. Pitot as Chair-
man of this Advisory Board. Pitot, of
Madison, Wis., has been a member of the
Board since 1976. He is director of the
McArdle Laboratory for Cancer Re-
search and chairman of the department
of oncology at the University of Wiscon-
sin Medical School.
United States Military Academy
Board of Visitors
Appointment of Two Members.
April 24, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of two persons as members of
the Board of Visitors of the United States
Military Academy. They are:
SYLVIO L. DUPUIS, president of Catholic Medi-
cal Center in Manchester, N.H., and a
former mayor of Manchester;
JAMES R. KILLEEN, court clerk of Wayne
County, Mich.
National Capital Planning
Commission
Appointment of Helen M. Scharf as a
Member. April 24, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Helen M. Scharf, of Bethes-
da, Md., as a member of the National
Capital Planning Commission for a term
expiring January 1, 1985.
Scharf, 78, has been vice chairman of
the Montgomery County (Maryland)
Planning Board since 1973, and has par-
ticipated in the development of sector
plans for a number of areas in the county.
She is a commissioner of the Maryland
National Capital Park and Planning
Commission.
She has been a member of the League
of Women Voters since 1941 and chaired
two of their publications on the metro-
politan Washington area.
Personal Representative of the
President to the Middle East Peace
Negotiations
Remarks Announcing Ambassador Robert S.
Strauss' Role in the Negotiations.
April 24, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. There are too few times
in life when one not only enjoys the com-
pany and friendship of another man but
also admires and appreciates his abilities
and his talents as a working partner.
687
