Apr. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and we are not producing enough oil, gas,
or coal in the United States.
In order to control energy price, pro-
duction, and distribution, the Federal bu-
reaucracy and redtape have become so
complicated, it is almost unbelievable.
Energy prices are high, and they're going
higher, no matter what we do.
The use of coal and solar energy, which
are in plentiful supply, is lagging far be-
hind our great potential. The recent ac-
cident at the Three Mile Island nuclear
powerplant in Pennsylvania has demon-
strated dramatically that we have other
energy problems.
So, what can we do? We can solve these
problems together.
Federal Government price controls now
hold down our own production, and they
encourage waste and increasing depend-
ence on foreign oil. Present law requires
that these Federal Government controls
on oil be removed by September 1981,
and the law gives me the authority at the
end of next month to carry out this de-
control process.
In order to minimize sudden economic
shock, I've decided that phased decontrol
of oil prices will begin on June 1 and con-
tinue at a fairly uniform rate over the
next 28 months. The immediate effect of
this action will be to increase production
of oil and gas in our own country.
As Government controls end, prices will
go up on oil which has already been dis-
covered, and unless we tax the oil com-
panies, they will reap huge and unde-
served windfall profits. We must, there-
fore, impose a windfall profits tax on the
oil companies to capture part of this
money for the American people. This tax
money will go into an energy security
fund and will be used to protect low-
income families from energy price in-
creases, to build a more efficient mass
transportation system, and to put Ameri-
can genius to work solving our long-range
energy problems.
Now, let me explain all of this in more
detail. This is very important, and I hope
all of you will listen carefully and then
give me your cooperation and support.
The energy crisis is real. I said so in
1977, and I say it again tonight, almost
exactly 2 years later. Time is running
short.
While the situation at Three Mile Is-
land is improving and we've taken every
precaution to protect the people of the
area, this nuclear accident obviously
causes all of us concern. I've directed the
establishment of an independent Presi-
dential commission of experts to investi-
gate the causes of this accident and to
make recommendations on how we can
improve the safety of nuclear power-
plants. You deserve a full accounting, and
will get it.
you
Although this accident is of immediate
concern, the fundamental cause of our
Nation's energy crisis is petroleum-oil
and gas.
We are dangerously dependent on un-
certain and expensive sources of foreign
oil. Since the 1973 embargo, oil produc-
tion in the United States has actually
dropped. Our imports have been grow-
ing. Just a few foreign countries control
the amount of oil that's produced and the
price that we must pay.
Just 10 years ago, we imported hardly
any oil. Today, we buy about half the oil
we use from foreign countries. We are by
far the largest customer for OPEC oil,
buying one-fourth of that foreign cartel's
total production. This year, we Americans
will pay out $50 billion for imported oil-
about $650 for every household in the
United States.
This growing dependence has left us
dangerously exposed to sudden price rises
and interruptions in supply. In 1973 and
610
