Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 11
Federal Service Impasses
Panel
Announcement of Terms of Seven
Members. January 11, 1979
The President has signed commissions
which set the terms of seven members of
the Federal Service Impasses Panel whom
he appointed on February 21, 1978. This
action is necessary under the law imple-
menting civil service reorganization,
which requires that members of the Panel
be appointed for set terms, with the initial
terms staggered.
The commissions provide for 5-year
terms for Howard G. Gamser (also ap-
pointed Chairman of the Panel), Charles
J. Morris, and Beverly K. Schaffer; 3-
year terms for James E. Jones, Jr., and
Arthur Stark; and 1-year terms for Irving
Bernstein and Jean T. McKelvey.
National Commission on
Social Security
Recess Appointment of Four Members.
January 11, 1979
The President today announced the
recess appointments of four persons as
members of the National Commission on
Social Security. Three of these persons
were nominated for these positions on
October 11, 1978, but were not confirmed
before the Senate adjourned. They are:
JAMES J. DILLMAN, a Sheboygan, Wis., attor-
ney, vice chairman of the Wisconsin Retire-
ment Fund board of trustees, and a member
of the Wisconsin Retirement Research Com-
mittee;
MILTON S. GWIRTZMAN, of Newton, Mass., an
author on tax policy and economic policy
and a practicing attorney, who is also desig-
nated Chairman of the Commission;
DAVID H. RODGERS, of Spokane, Wash., deputy
commissioner of insurance for eastern Wash-
ington, formerly manager of the employee
benefits office of the Aetna Life Insurance
Co.
The fourth person appointed today had
not been previously nominated. He is:
DONALD S. MACNAUGHTON, of Nashville,
Tenn., chairman and chief executive officer
of Hospital Corporation of America, for-
merly chairman of the board and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Prudential Insurance Co.
Endangered Species
Committee
Appointment of Three Members.
January 11, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of three persons as members
of the Endangered Species Committee.
This Committee was established by the
Endangered Species Act Amendments of
1978. The persons appointed are:
GOVERNOR ED HERSCHLER of Wyoming;
PAUL W. SNYDER, assistant attorney general of
Nebraska;
WILLIAM WILLIS, a Nashville, Tenn., attorney
interested in environmental education.
John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts
Appointment of Six Members of the
Board of Trustees. January 11, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of six persons as members of
the Board of Trustees of the John F.
23
