Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 5
well beyond our thriving ports. It affects
all Americans. Our Merchant Marine
carries the products of our farms and fac-
tories to consumers in our domestic trades,
among our fifty States and possessions,
and links the U.S. industrial and agricul-
tural heartland with our overseas trading
partners. Most of the gross tonnage car-
ried in U.S. foreign trade is waterborne.
In addition to their vital role in com-
merce and trade, America's shipping and
shipbuilding industries have distinguished
themselves in providing logistic and com-
bat support to our armed forces in times
of war.
The men and women of our Merchant
Marine can be justly proud of their con-
tributions to our Nation's economy and
national defense. In these dual roles,
American seafarers have carried out their
responsibilities with great dedication and
ability.
In recognition of the importance of the
American Merchant Marine, the Con-
gress, by joint resolution of May 20, 1933
(48 Stat. 73, 36 U.S.C. 145), designated
May 22 of each year as National Mari-
time Day in commemoration of the de-
parture from Savannah, Georgia, on that
date in 1819 of the SS SAVANNAH on
the first transatlantic voyage by any steam-
ship and requested the President to issue
annually a proclamation calling for its
appropriate observance.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby urge the people of the
United States to honor our American
Merchant Marine on May 22, 1979, by
displaying the flag of the United States
at their homes and other suitable places,
and I request that all ships sailing under
the American flag dress ship on that day.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fifth day of April, in
the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
seventy-nine, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two hun-
dred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:38 p.m., April 5, 1979]
Ohio River Basin Commission
Appointment of Fred J. Krumholtz as
Chairman. April 5, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of Fred J. Krumholtz, of
Dayton, Ohio, as Chairman of the Ohio
River Basin Commission.
Krumholtz, 65, is deputy treasurer of
Montgomery County, Ohio. He has also
served as a commissioner of the Ohio
Liquor Control Commission and assistant
director of the Montgomery County, Ohio
Board of Elections.
National Institute of Building
Sciences
Withdrawal of the Nomination of John P.
Millhone To Be a Member of the Board of
Directors. April 5, 1979
The President today announced that
he is withdrawing the nomination of John
P. Millhone as a member of the Board
of Directors of the National Institute of
Building Sciences.
Millhone requested that this nomina-
tion be withdrawn, because since he was
nominated, he has accepted the position
of Director of the Office of Buildings and
Community Systems of the Conservation
and Solar Applications Office at the De-
partment of Energy.
607
