Mar. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
your help, and we need Joe's ¹ help, and
we need anyone else that you can bring—
[laughter]
I would like to say in conclusion, good
luck on your trip abroad. I wish you
success.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
SENATOR JAVITS. Mr. President, I prob-
ably interject a note of bipartisanship,
which I think is urgently needed. It's
everybody's fight. And secondly, I would
hope very much that we will show the
American people that quality care is not
dependent upon waste. Squeezing out the
waste and making the facilities over,
rather than underutilized, dispensing
with extra beds which aren't needed and
other things which cost great sums of
money will give the people a higher qual-
ity of care at prices they can more nearly
afford.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Pete?
SENATOR WILLIAMS. Well, I just want
to say this subject will have the highest
priority in the Human Resources Com-
mittee, as I'm sure it will in the Finance
Committee, our committee, and Senator
Kennedy's subcommittee will start hear-
But I would say within the most careful
terms that successfully dealing with in-
flation in our country and around the
world is of equal importance.
And this is a very profound subject with
which we are dealing. I was not exagger-
ating when I said that continued inflation,
if uncontrolled, will be a threat not only
to our own American economy but to
the basic societal structure of our country.
So, domestic affairs and foreign affairs are
intimately interrelated. And how force-
fully and effectively the Congress deals
with this issue will be a vivid demonstra-
tion of the will that our American people
have to face difficult problems under try-
ing circumstances.
And I feel reassured, as I always have
since I've been in this office, in having the
support and the confidence and a sense
of partnership with the distinguished lead-
ers of the Congress of the United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:06 a.m. to
reporters assembled in the Cabinet Room at
the White House.
ings immediately, Friday of this week; Hospital Cost Containment
the highest priority, we'll stay on track.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
REPRESENTATIVE RANGEL. I'd like to
add, Mr. President, that the chairman of
the full Committee of Ways and Means
is prepared to schedule hearings on
March 12, and I've checked with Chair-
man Waxman and understand there's
been clearance there, so we'll start im-
mediately.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I might
say that I appreciate the good wishes of
Congressman Staggers on my trip to try
to get a peace treaty in the Middle East.
¹ Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. March 6, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Inflation is America's most serious
domestic problem. It affects every individ-
ual and every institution in the country,
and it damages the health not only of our
economy but of our society. The Ameri-
can people are demanding prompt action
against inflation from their elected repre-
sentatives-action that is strong, prompt,
and effective.
One of the most important components
of inflation is the soaring cost of hospital
care, which continues to outpace inflation
in the rest of the economy. A decade ago,
386
