Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 2
Progress in the dialogue between the
South and the North is indispensable to
this process. The United States and Japan
welcome the recent efforts to resume the
dialogue and hope that these efforts will
be fruitful.
7. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter noted that the United States and
Japan have a profound interest in the
peace and stability of Southeast Asia and
are impressed by the vitality of ASEAN
and its commitment to economic and so-
cial development. Both governments will
continue cooperation and assistance in
support of the efforts of the ASEAN
countries toward regional solidarity and
development.
8. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter expressed their concern about the re-
cent increased tension in Indochina
brought about in particular by the con-
tinued armed conflicts in Cambodia in-
volving foreign troops and the recent
fighting between China and Vietnam.
The United States and Japan will make
utmost efforts to reduce tension in this
area and seek establishment of a durable
peace based on the principles of respect
for the sovereignty, territorial integrity
and independence of all nations. The
President and the Prime Minister ex-
pressed their concern over use of facilities
in Vietnam by foreign forces.
9. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter noted that the outflow of Indochinese
refugees is a cause of instability and a
source of great humanitarian concern in
the Asian-Pacific region that must be
dealt with urgently. The President stated
that the United States is accepting 7,000
refugees per month from Indochina for
permanent resettlement in the United
States and will continue its other major
efforts to deal with this tragic problem.
The Prime Minister stated that Japan
has set a target number for the resettle-
ment of displaced persons and eased con-
ditions for permanent resettlement. The
Prime Minister further stated that Japan
will continue to expand its cooperation
and financial support for the United Na-
tions High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR). The United States and Ja-
pan welcome the ASEAN initiative to
create a refugee processing center, and
both governments will make substantial
contributions to that project, together
with other countries, as it materializes.
10. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter agreed that peace and stability in the
Middle East and the Gulf area are very
important to the well-being of the peoples
of the region as well as the world as a
whole. The Prime Minister stated that
Japan will actively continue and expand
its cooperation with the peoples of the
area in their endeavors toward a better
future. The President and the Prime Min-
ister agreed that a comprehensive Middle
East peace should be brought about in
full accordance with all the principles of
United Nations Security Council Resolu-
tion 242 and through the recognition of
and respect for the legitimate rights of
the Palestinian people. To this end, ut-
most efforts should be made to promote
the peace process subsequent to the sig-
nature of the Peace Treaty between Egypt
and Israel.
ECONOMIC RELATIONS
11. The President and the Prime Min-
ister agreed that the time has come for a
more constructive approach to U.S.-Ja-
pan economic relations. They reached a
clear understanding about the basic poli-
cies that each will follow over the next
several years to produce a more harmo-
nious pattern of international trade and
payments. They agreed on a framework
and procedure for continuing bilateral
765
