May 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the canal. In fact, the operation of the
canal itself might very well be interrupted.
I don't believe the Congress will put us,
as a nation, in that posture. But there's a
great deal of misinformation about this
subject. Even some Members of the Con-
gress feel that if they don't pass imple-
mentation legislation, they could somehow
abrogate the treaties themselves.
As you know, the canal is very impor-
tant to us. A substantial portion of oil, for
instance, for the east coast is derived from
wells in Alaska—comes down through the
Panama Canal and up to this coast.
The gulf ports are dependent upon the
Panama Canal in a very large way. About
6 or 7 percent of our total trade traffic
goes through the Panama Canal with
overseas destinations. Consumers would
be adversely affected. Farm supplies,
farm goods, grain, and other items use the
Panama Canal in a very large and im-
portant fashion.
This is the kind of problem that a Pres-
ident does face in dealing with the Con-
gress: to implement basic policy after that
policy has been established.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We will be facing the question in the
future of how to deal with the SALT
treaty, which will have been negotiated,
I hope if everything goes well-by the
end of next month. And, of course, how
to deal with the Rhodesian question, how
to implement the Mideast peace treaty
in an effective fashion-those are some
of the foreign affairs problems that I have
to face. Inflation, energy, and many other
items on the domestic scene are of com-
parable importance and, I might say, of
comparable difficulty.
I'd be glad to answer any questions
that
you all might have.
QUESTIONS
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT BREZHNEV
Q. Mr. President, when you meet with
Secretary Brezhnev next month, what will
be the priority items of discussion?—
SALT, obviously, but there must be
others. Can you talk about those a bit?
THE PRESIDENT. We've not yet agreed
on an agenda, and it's a little bit difficult
for me to answer your question defini-
tively until we and the Soviets have con-
cluded that discussion.
The conclusion of the SALT negotia-
tions, which will be practically concluded
then, and the signing of the documents
would obviously be a major step. In arms
control, we are dealing with the question
of antisatellite capabilities, trying to re-
strain that. We'll proceed with further
discussions of a comprehensive test ban on
nuclear testing. The British are party to
that, but we keep the British thoroughly
informed. We will proceed also with dis-
cussions on the control of the transfer of
conventional weapons to the developing
countries and to others, as major arms
suppliers. We've had several meetings on
that subject.
We'll proceed with discussion of the
mutual and balanced force reduction
talks that have now been going on with-
out much progress for the last 5 years in
Vienna. We hope to make some progress
there.
Prior to the time that I meet with Pres-
ident Brezhnev, I'll be meeting with Chan-
cellor Schmidt in this room, I think the
first week in June. And we are constantly
consulting with our European allies on
some of these subjects that affect them.
Secretary Harold Brown, who's in Europe
right now, has been involved with those
subjects.
902
