Mar. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the leading nation in the free world, the
great and noble democracy of the United
States, which has done so much to deserve
our admiration and gratitude.
You come to us, Mr. President, on a
unique mission for a goal which is dear
to all of us and for which you have mus-
tered all your energy, your dedication, and
your leadership, to put an end to hatred
and hostility and to open a new page
of
peace in the troubled annals of the peoples
of this area.
At this moment we do not know as yet
what tidings you carry with you from
your visit to our great neighbor, Egypt.
Does the dove of peace, which has
emerged from the ark, carry an olive
branch in its beak, or will it have to wait
some time longer until the waters of the
flood are abated from off the Earth, so
that it can at last find a resting place for
its feet?
Mr. President, you are not unaware,
I'm sure, of the differences of opinion in
our country in the sphere of foreign policy
and national security. Two sentiments,
however, are shared by all sections of our
people: a sincere and ardent desire for
true peace, and the profound conviction
that in order to achieve that peace, Israel
has made enormous sacrifices above and
beyond what might have been expected
or demanded of her.
These sacrifices, as you well know, take
the form of very tangible things-with-
drawal of our forces from strategic ter-
ritories three times as large as the area of
Israel, the evacuation of vitally important
airfields and oil resources, the evacuation
of flourishing villages. These concessions,
once made, are irrevocable. In this situa-
tion, it is easy to understand our desire to
ensure that the peace treaty we sign shall
guarantee a true and permanent peace
and shall not contain elements liable to
endanger the peace and our security.
During your visit here, you will meet
the people which feel at one and the same
time deep concern and a great hope. It is
our prayer that your visit will remove that
concern and justify that hope.
My dear President and Mrs. Carter, 5
years ago you toured our country as pri-
vate citizens. Today Divine Providence
has brought you here on an historic mis-
sion. I hope it will not be long before you
can come to Israel again and see that the
seedlings of peace which you planted will
have grown into sturdy trees bearing plen-
tiful fruit on every hill and valley in Israel,
in Egypt, and the entire area.
Once again, a most hearty welcome.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Mr. President, Mr.
Prime Minister, and the people of Israel:
As the elected leader and the represent-
ative of the people of the United States
of America, I am indeed honored and
pleased to set my foot on the soil of the
free nation of Israel.
I come to you as a fellow worker in the
cause of peace. I know how much this
cause means to the people of this land.
No people in all history have suffered
more from violence than the Jewish
people. The State of Israel was born as a
refuge from that violence. You, after four
wars in three decades, every Israeli citizen
still knows at first hand what it is to grieve
for a fallen loved one or a friend.
As I walked down the ranks of repre-
sentatives of your military forces, certainly
among the finest fightingmen on Earth,
I said a silent prayer to God that none of
these men nor their compatriots would
ever again have to give their lives in war.
As Prime Minister Begin has said many
times, Israel truly wants peace. Of that
416
