Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
March 6
The President met at the White House
with:
-David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant
for National Security Affairs;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-the Democratic congressional lead-
ership;
-Dr. Kenneth B. Clark, psychologist,
author, and educator;
-James T. McIntyre, Jr., Director of
the Office of Management and
Budget;
-a group of State and local officials to
discuss the proposed intergovern-
mental fiscal assistance legislation;
-Secretary of the Treasury W. Mi-
chael Blumenthal.
The President has asked Joan Mondale
and Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall to
head the U.S. Delegation to the inaugura-
tions of Presidents-elect in Venezuela, on
March 11 and 12, and in Brazil, on March
14 and 15. Vice President Mondale, who
was scheduled to head the delegation, will
remain in Washington while the President
travels to the Middle East. The White
House also announced that the President
called Venezuelan President-elect Luís
Herrera Campins and Brazilian President-
elect João Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo
this afternoon to express his regrets that
Vice President Mondale would be unable
to attend their inaugurations. He wished
them and their new administrations suc-
cess, and he conveyed his personal wish
that our Governments will continue to
work closely together on issues of common
concern. The Vice President looks forward
to making an official visit to Venezuela
and Brazil at a mutually convenient time.
March 7
The President met at the White House
with:
-Mr. Aaron;
-Mr. Moore and members of the
Budget Task Force;
-Vice President Mondale, Stansfield
Turner, Director of Central Intelli-
gence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to
the President, and Mr. Aaron;
-Vice President Mondale, Secretary
Blumenthal, G. William Miller,
Chairman of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System,
Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, and
Mr. McIntyre;
-a group of Members of Congress
prior to his departure for Egypt.
In addition to Joan Mondale and Sec-
retary of Labor Ray Marshall, who will
head the U.S. Delegation to the inaugura-
tions of Presidents-elect Herrera Cam-
pins of Venezuela and Figueiredo of
Brazil, the President has asked the follow-
ing people to serve as members of the
delegation:
REUBIN ASKEW, of Key Biscayne, Fla., former
Governor of Florida;
MAURICE FERRE, of Miami, Fla., mayor of
Miami;
DR. ARNOLD GONZALES, of Corpus Christi,
Tex., member, Texas State Legislature;
NEIL HARTIGAN, of Chicago, Ill., senior vice
president, First National Bank of Chicago
and former Lieutenant Governor of Illinois;
ROBERT KEEFE, of Washington, D.C., presi-
dent, the Keefe Co.;
LUIS LAUREDO, of Coral Gables, Fla., president,
Lauredo and Associates of Miami and presi-
dent, National Coalition of Cuban-Amer-
icans;
DAVID LIZARRAGA, of Los Angeles, Calif., presi-
dent, the East Los Angeles Community
Union (TELACU);
FRANKLIN DELANO LOPEZ, of San Juan, Puerto
Rico, chairman, Puerto Rico Democratic
Party;
LIBBY MAYNARD, of Flint, Mich., vice chairper-
son, Michigan Democratic Party.
401
