Mar. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Our country has a reputation that's
admirable. We've raised the standards of
our foreign policy. We've brought it out
in the open. We have tough, open de-
bates in which you yourselves can par-
ticipate. We have raised the flag of basic
human rights, and as long as I'm in the
White House, that flag will remain flying
high and our country will be known as a
protector for basic human rights through-
out the world.
I just want to mention one other thing,
and then I'd like to close by making a
few, specific remarks about Congressman
David Obey.
We've had problems with our Nation's
economy. When I came to Wisconsin, I
not only visited the urban centers of your
State and the university campuses, but I
went out on the farms, when I didn't have
a large entourage of Secret Service agents
or news people either, when I used to
really brighten up if I saw one person with
a tape recorder in his hand or a scratch
pad. [Laughter] And I studied from data
given to me by your own universities, the
fact that the average dairy farmer in Wis-
consin, the average family, had a net in-
come per year of less than $7,000 and an
average investment of over $150,000.
Farm income was going down steadily.
We were approaching a time of recession
in the agricultural communities of our
country. Those who grew grain were con-
stantly flinching, because periodically the
Republican administrations would de-
clare embargoes and cut off farm exports.
Since then, the Congress has passed, in
1977, a new farm bill. It went into effect
a little more than a year ago. Last year,
net farm income went up 30 percent for
the American farm family. Exports hit an
alltime high. Wisconsin farm exports last
year went up an unbelievable 35 percent
in just 12 months. I think we are well on
the way now to a renewed farm prosper-
ity, and I hope to keep us on that road.
We have a need to strengthen the ties
not only between the President and the
Congress but between Washington, the
State capitals, and the cities and towns
and counties of our Nation. We've made
good progress in this respect in restoring
the basic system on which our Nation is
founded, a system of federalism.
We've tried to shift responsibility
closest to the people themselves. It's very
difficult in a modern, fast-changing, tech-
nological world, with the confusion of
conflicting ideas and conflicting demands,
to have a proper balance in serving the
people who send you to Washington.
David Obey, as much as anyone whom I
know, has that capability. He's a man
who's not only honest and decent and
competent, but he's also sensitive and
compassionate. And he has common
sense.
As you know, he's one of the leaders
in working to correct the problems of the
handicapped. He's one of the leaders in
meeting the legitimate needs of the senior
citizens of this country. He's worked hard
for improvement in mental health. My
wife admires and loves him for that.
He's worked to point out the dangers
to the average working man and woman
in this country because of chemicals in
the air, in the environment where they
work, to improve their health. He pointed
out on the ride in from the airport with
me that more than 20 percent of all can-
cer existing in our Nation is caused by
environmental problems on the job.
These kinds of actions are those of a
man whose heart is filled with under-
standing and love. But David Obey is not
570
