Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
are doing, and this is what you and I will
do together.
In early 1976, I told you here in Man-
chester that, and I quote, "our country's
single most important priority must be a
job for every American who wants to
work.” If you think back 3 years, that was
the crucial issue. I said this at a time when
in New Hampshire almost 1 out of every
10 people was without a job, when thou-
sands more were working short hours or
were threatened every payday with a lay-
off.
That was Republican economics at
work. That was the doctrine of fighting
inflation with the jobs and the lives and
the living incomes of hard-working Amer-
icans. They called it "tightening our
belts," but you know whose belt got tight-
ened. That kind of policy might not sound
so bad in some Washington bureaucracy
or board room, but on the streets of Man-
chester, I tell you from experience that
people were hurting.
I walked these streets, and I saw what
kind of economics was doing to you and
to your neighbors and to your children.
We both knew then, in 1976, that it was
time for a change. And we have brought
that change.
I like Democratic economics much bet-
ter. I'm proud that we have been able,
working together, to put the people of
New Hampshire and the entire country
back to work. In 2 years, we have created
more than 72 million net new jobs-50,-
000 or more of those new jobs right here
in New Hampshire.
Your State, which bore the brunt of a
planned Republican recession, now has
one of the lowest unemployment rates in
our country. Today, the jobless rate in
New Hampshire is less than half what it
was when I took office. In fact, in Janu-
ary of this year, the unemployment rate in
New Hampshire was only 3.2 percent.
Just seeing a Democratic Governor on the
way did wonders for your State.
That's why I like Democratic econom-
ics better. Not that we've solved all our
problems in economics—for 10 years now,
rising prices have been casting a long
shadow over our economy and over our
very lives. We all know what inflation can
do to our paychecks. We know what it
does to the poor, the elderly, to those who
worked and saved and now watch the
value of their savings disappear as each
day passes. I am fighting with the best of
my ability to bring inflation under control,
and I am determined to win this fight. But
I will not do it through a planned reces-
sion that will take jobs away from mil-
lions of Americans who want to work.
And I also will not tie our economy in
knots by trying to impose mandatory Fed-
eral Government controls which may
sound like a solution, but which only treat
the symptoms and not the disease. The
historical record is clear on this. Such con-
trols do not solve the problem; they just
create another cumbersome, meddlesome
Federal bureaucracy and often make the
problem worse.
Everyone must help to control inflation.
I know that Government cannot control
inflation by itself, but there are important
things that Government can do. For in-
stance, I believe in a balanced Federal
budget. And I am proud that the 1980
budget will have reduced the Republican
deficit by more than 55 percent since I
ran for office. We've done that by cutting
wasteful, inefficient, and unnecessary pro-
grams and listen to this-while increas-
ing substantially our commitment to the
elderly, the poor, to education, to housing,
to transportation, and to the unemployed.
Down through history, we've learned
the hard way that there is no easy or pain-
less cure for inflation. Six months ago, I
716
