Apr. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The other 10 members of the Commis-
sion who have been chosen are also very
talented and highly qualified. They pro-
vide the Commission with the knowledge
and the diverse experience needed to
complete its task successfully.
That task will be one of the most im-
portant ever undertaken by a Presidential
commission. The Commission will find
out what happened at Three Mile Island.
It will assess how the accident could have
been prevented. It will review how the
Government and others responded, and
it will make recommendations to enable
us to prevent any future nuclear acci-
dents.
There can be no doubt that the eyes
of the Nation and, indeed, of the entire
world will be on this Commission. Its
judgments will have enormous impact.
I am confident that during its 6 months
of operation, this Commission will make
the right judgments, and the Nation will
long be in its debt.
I would now like to introduce to you
Dr. John Kemeny.
DR. KEMENY. Thank you.
Mr. President, this is an awesome re-
sponsibility. Frankly, I have tried to think
of every reason why I should not accept.
But when the President of the United
States asks one to perform a major service
for the Nation, the only possible answer
is yes.
I think the public should know some-
thing about me that I hope to spend the
rest of my life at Dartmouth College.
There is no personal ambition served by
accepting this assignment. I represent no
special interest. My total commitment as
Chairman of the Commission will be the
discovery of truth and the formulation of
recommendations in the national interest.
The Commission will make a full-scale
investigation of the causes of and the
responses to the accident at Three Mile
Island. We will examine the actions of
State and Federal Government agencies
and of private industry as they reacted to
the accident. We will be looking at ques-
tions of public access to information, as
well as questions of technology. We will
report what we find honestly, as required
by the gravity of the event.
Mr. President, for this effort I pledge
to you and to the citizens of our country
the very best of which I am capable.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck. I'm here
to help you.
REPORTER. Dr. Kemeny, can we ask
you a question? I just wondered if you
had spoken out previously on nuclear
power and, if so, what your views as ex-
pressed in the past have been on this
subject.
MR. POWELL. I don't think we want to
get into a Q&A at this point. Thank you.
Q. Just to see if you had a previous-
DR. KEMENY. Those are my instruc-
tions. You will find I've not spoken out
widely on this issue.
Q. When do you start? When does this
Commission start?
DR. KEMENY. As soon as possible.
Q. So, you haven't prejudged nuclear
power per se?
DR. KEMENY. No, I think I can assure
you I've not prejudged it.
MR. POWELL. Jack will be available to
answer the questions on how the thing is
going to get started, and so forth.
NOTE:
The President spoke at 4:30 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House. Following Dr. Kemeny's re-
marks, Press Secretary Jody Powell and Jack
H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for
Intergovernmental Affairs, answered report-
ers' questions concerning the Commission.
658
