Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
heating oil are built up to approximately
240 million barrels by October of this year,
so there will be adequate supplies, no
shortages of heating oil in New England
as we head into the next winter.
Here in New England, because of the
superb work of your Members of Con-
gress, we will now be able to turn to the
two oldest sources of power-your rush-
ing streams and your abundant forests.
New Hampshire's industrial revolution
was powered by its streams. Many of those
generating plants were dismantled or
abandoned, because the law allowed elec-
tric power companies to insist that they
supply all the power of a town or an in-
dustry needed or the power companies
would supply none.
Last year we changed that law. Now
New England's towns and industries will
be able to develop small-scale hydroelec-
tric power to help you meet your energy
needs. We've already chosen one site in
New Hampshire, I believe in Berlin, to
demonstrate the potential of these small-
scale hydroelectric plants. And we are
studying three other sites in New
Hampshire.
Forests have been a major factor in
New Hampshire's economy since the first
boatload of settlers arrived on your shore.
But now we are not using forests enough
to produce energy. Our studies indicate
that we could meet one-third of New Eng-
land's residential and commercial space
heating needs with the wood which we
now leave wasting on the ground. And as
you can well see, the use of this wasted
wood would create many new jobs in New
Hampshire. There will be tax credit given
in the future for those who use wood-
burning stoves, and this will be of great
help to you.
After the accident at Three Mile Island,
we must take some hard decisions on nu-
clear energy. To get to the bottom of what
happened there, I turned to a New
Hampshire man-I met with him and the
Commission this morning-the president
of Dartmouth College, John Kemeny, to
head a Presidential Commission which
will study this accident and make a report
to us and to the entire world. There's
nothing more important than the safety
and the security of American people.
Every nuclear plant must be made safer
than we once thought either possible or
necessary.
We must also recognize the dangers in
mining and burning coal, in piping and
shipping oil, just as we recognize dangers
in producing nuclear power. And we must
remember that every bit of energy we
waste unnecessarily multiplies all these
problems. That is why energy conserva-
tion is the cornerstone of my and your
energy policy.
In closing my remarks, let me add just
a word about inflation before I take your
questions. All of you know how bad in-
flation is. And it will not get much bet-
ter in the near future. I'm not going to
kid you about this either. We're going to
see high inflation figures coming out week
after week for the next few months.
The inflation that we have today has
been gaining momentum for more than
10 years. It cannot be halted overnight,
because it has seeped into the very fabric
of our economy. There is no easy solu-
tion to it. And, frankly, anyone who says
that there is an easy solution is either a
liar or a fool. But with enough commit-
ment and firmness, the problem can be
solved. And in my judgment, the anti-
inflation program that we have now is
the best and perhaps the only way to solve
it.
That program has four main parts: a
tight budget and fiscal policy, leading to
a balanced budget for our Nation; a tight
monetary policy; reforms to attack un-
needed regulation; and standards to help
701
