Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 23
Society of Logistic Engineers, a member
of the American Institute of Aeronautics
and Astronautics, and a member of the
American Society of Naval Engineers.
Freight Rail Industry
Deregulation
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Proposed Legislation. March 23, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am submitting my proposals to
deregulate the nation's freight rail in-
dustry. This legislation is part of a con-
tinuing effort to promote more competi-
tion in America's transportation system,
and to reduce the burden of federal regu-
lation on the nation's economy. It follows
last year's successful laws deregulating air
freight and passenger service. Later this
spring I will submit proposals addressing
motor carriers and intercity passenger
buses.
The private freight railroads are the
backbone of our industrial and agricul-
tural production. But today the private
freight railroad industry faces a crisis,
which could have grave consequences
our nation's economy.
for
Though the railroads still carry more
than a third of the nation's freight and
most of its bulk commodities such as coal,
grain, and chemicals, the industry is in a
deep and dangerous decline. Year by year,
the percentage of freight carried by the
railroads has shrunk, while profits have
fallen and costs have soared.
Many factors contribute to these prob-
lems:
• Government regulation of virtually
every aspect of rail operations has re-
strained innovative management and effi-
cient pricing.
• Increasing competition from unreg-
ulated trucks and barges has eroded rail
markets.
• The industry has been slow to adapt
to changing freight patterns and unable
to rationalize its system.
• Improvements in labor productivity
have not kept pace with the rest of the
economy.
A recent study by the Department of
Transportation develops the grim conse-
quences of these trends. The study, A Pro-
spectus for Change in the Freight Rail-
road Industry shows that without major
changes in structure and operation, the
railroads will be unable to generate the
funds needed to sustain themselves. With-
in a few years, this shortfall of funds could
become so severe that it will paralyze the
private railroad system and jeopardize its
existence.
The facts pointing to these sobering
conclusions are overwhelming. Railroad
revenues have not met railroad costs, and
to survive in a tightly regulated environ-
ment railroads have been forced to con-
sume their assets. Deferred maintenance
on branch and main lines now totals $5.4
billion, while total industry profits for the
year ending September 30, 1978, were
only $50.2 million. A sixth of all track in
the nation can only be served at restricted
speeds, yet even with these restrictions
accidents due to track defects have quad-
rupled in the past ten years. The DOT
Prospectus estimates that the capital
needed to sustain the freight rail system
between now and 1985 will total $42.5
billion; it estimates that the industry itself
is capable of generating or borrowing less
than $30 billion. These figures do not in-
clude the federally-aided Conrail system
in the Northeast which is losing $300-$400
million per year. All railroads are caught
in the squeeze between tight regulation on
459
