Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 25
Now the Government will encourage and
reward good performance-which is what
the Federal employees want, almost to a
person-not mediocrity and laziness. We
can make government work better and we
can make it work for you.
We've put Inspectors General in every
major Federal agency to root out fraud
and dishonesty. We are cleaning up the
GSA scandals, which have festered for
years. We will stop those who dare to steal
the taxpayers' money.
We've shut off the regulatory assembly
line. Government regulations will be
fewer, more sensible, fair, and written in
plain English, so even a peanut farmer
can understand them.
Just one quick example. By lifting the
heavy hand of Government regulation
from the airline industry, we have saved
American consumers $22 billion in re-
duced airfares. We have made some prog-
ress, but we still have a lot of improve-
ment still waiting to be done.
And finally, I recall in Antrim, New
Hampshire, I stated that the Soviet
Union, and I quote, "is just as frightened
of nuclear proliferation as we are.” And
I promised "never to get this country into
a position that would make us subject to
nuclear blackmail."
For more than 30 years, we have lived
with the horror of nuclear weapons. We
live with a nightmare that we and the
Soviet Union have the capacity to de-
stroy all life on this bountiful planet.
Peace will never be fully secure as long
as the shadow of nuclear war hangs over
the world. A SALT treaty will lessen the
danger of nuclear destruction, while safe-
guarding our military strength.
For more than 6 years, under three
Presidents, we have been very carefully
negotiating the SALT II treaty. As Presi-
dent, I assure you that it will enhance our
Nation's security, and we can make cer-
tain that the Soviet Union is living up to
every single one of the treaty's provisions.
Neither our Nation nor the Soviet
Union would benefit from an uncontrol-
led race to build ever more deadly, more
devastating nuclear weapons. A SALT
treaty will give us more military security
in a more stable and predictable and
peaceful world. Failure to ratify this
treaty will cause us all to pay a horrible
price, both in terms of unnecessary mili-
tary spending and also in terms of in-
creased global instability and the threat
of a devastating war.
I am confident that when the Ameri-
can people and the American Congress
weigh the merits of the SALT II treaty,
they will conclude that it is an important
step both toward peace and toward mili-
tary security. I need you, as individual
Americans, to help me take this important
step in our eventual goal, the goal that I
set for you and for me in my speech the
day of inauguration-to eliminate nuclear
weapons from the face of the Earth once
and for all.
In 1818, the founder of our party,
Thomas Jefferson, looked back on his
long years of service to the Nation, and
he noted with pride-I quote from him,
"During the period of my administration,
not a drop of the blood of a single fellow
citizen was shed by the sword of war."
I am also proud that not a single drop
of American blood has been shed in war
during my own administration. And I
pray to God every day that when my
years as President are over that I can still
share Thomas Jefferson's achievement.
The purpose of America's military
forces is not to wage war, but to preserve
peace. That's why I believe in military
strength as strongly as I believe in peace.
Tom McIntyre shares these beliefs. For
16 years in the Senate, he worked to make
719
