Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
nate grants on Branch Line Railroad
Investments.
The Conference urged a selected re-
assignment of fiscal responsibilities. I will
soon propose welfare reform proposals
which would increase Federal participa-
tion in public assistance and moderate the
fiscal burden of hard pressed State and
local governments. This program will of-
fer jobs to those who need them and in-
come support to families where adults are
unable to engage in full-time work. The
Administration recognizes the need for
reform in the welfare system which is
fairer to the recipient and is easier to ad-
minister at all levels of government.
This Administration will continue to
help improve education, but calls on the
States to do more to help meet the educa-
tional and other fiscal burdens that fall
disproportionately on communities with
inadequate tax bases.
GROWTH POLICY
The creation of more effective growth
policy processes at all levels of govern-
ment was among the forward-looking ob-
jectives of the late Senator Hubert H.
Humphrey. Senator Humphrey co-spon-
sored the White House Conference legis-
lation, and although he died before it
occurred, the Conference strongly re-
flected his vision and concerns.
The Conference was correct in suggest-
ing that growth policy processes at all
levels of government should assist elected
decision-makers and the private sector to:
anticipate economically significant
trends, such as sectoral shifts and the
energy problems that have grown
over the past decade;
• relate sometimes conflicting national
objectives, such as regulatory and
growth policies, to one another; and
• involve all levels of government and
non-governmental interests in prior-
ity setting.
We have learned how important it is
for business and labor, as well as the pub-
lic sector, to understand how future in-
dustrial and employment changes will af-
fect regions, states and major population
centers. Furthermore, in the interest of
a strong national economy and a healthier
climate for investment, we must reduce
to the extent possible the uncertainty and
contradictory nature of public decision-
making.
Elements that could be made part of a
more coherent, forward-looking and sys-
tematic growth policy process exist now in
the Federal Government. Coordinated use
should be made, for example, of the pol-
icy planning processes affecting Federal
energy, employment, regional, and urban
and rural community responsibilities that
exist in Federal statutes. To provide a
basis for coordinated Federal policies, the
Secretary of Commerce will oversee the
development of a comprehensive infor-
mation system, including a broad range
of demographic and economic indicators
of community conditions, along with the
technological and trade data and fore-
casts necessary for State and regional
decisionmaking.
Effective national growth policy proc-
esses require that regional, state and local
growth policy processes be effective, too.
Federal planning assistance programs
have assisted State and local governments
to develop workable systems for sensing
public preferences on issues of growth and
decline and translating these into long-
term growth policies and development
programs. In addition, however, Federal
programs assisting development, direct
Federal investments, and Federal regula-
tory actions must prove more sensitive to
and support regional, state and local plan-
ning and investment policies. Therefore,
76
