Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
age point over the prior year, and in 1978
the Nation's output of goods and services
advanced by a healthy 44 percent. To-
day our Nation is using its industrial
capacity more fully than a year ago.
Last year 3 million new jobs were
created. A larger proportion of our people
is at work now than at any other time in
our history. Gains in employment during
the past 2 years have been especially
strong among women and members of
minority groups.
Unemployment declined to less than
6 percent of the labor force during 1978.
Nearly 12-million fewer Americans were
unemployed in December 1978 than 2
years earlier. Unemployment among mi-
nority groups has also begun to decline
from the very high levels that persisted
earlier in the recovery, but these groups
still bear a disproportionate share of the
burden of unemployment.
Gains in employment and output pro-
duced strongly rising incomes for most
Americans during 1978. Disposable per-
sonal income, adjusted for inflation, rose
by more than 3 percent over the 4 quar-
ters of last year. The income of our coun-
try's farmers, which was severely de-
pressed in 1976 and 1977, showed a
marked recovery.
Business profits rose more than 10 per-
cent in 1978, thereby promoting condi-
tions for the continued growth in invest-
ment needed for productivity improve-
ment and healthy economic expansion.
Business investment in new plant and
equipment also strengthened in 1978, rais-
ing the proportion of our national output
devoted to capital formation to the high-
est level in 4 years.
On most counts, the prosperity of our
Nation rests on a solid base. Our economy
at the end of last year was still growing
strongly. The momentum of expansion
will be sustained early this year by the
reductions in taxes on individual incomes
and corporate profits that were provided
in the Revenue Act of 1978. Last year, as
in the earlier years of the recovery, the
process of economic expansion remained
relatively well balanced. Business inven-
tories are lean. Industrial firms and finan-
cial institutions are in good financial con-
dition. Shortages and speculative buying
generally are absent. But inflation does
pose a serious threat to the Nation's con-
tinued economic health. If we make prog-
ress in reducing inflation, the prospects
are good for a successful transition from
a period of economic recovery to a period
of moderate but sustained growth.
For more than 10 years, our country,
like many other nations, has faced stub-
born inflation. During the course of 1978
our inflation problem worsened. Con-
sumer prices rose by about 9 percent, a
large acceleration from the 634 percent
rate of inflation in 1977. Increases in
wages also were larger and, since produc-
tivity gains declined sharply, costs of pro-
duction moved up much more strongly.
The anti-inflation effort was given top
priority in 1978. In May, I recommended
that the Congress reduce by $5 billion and
delay 3 months the tax cut that had been
proposed earlier. In October, I set forth
a strong and comprehensive program to
combat inflation. Shortly thereafter, in
cooperation with other countries, the Na-
tion undertook a series of measures to
strengthen the dollar abroad and further
contribute to a reduction of inflation at
home.
INFLATION IN 1978
Rising inflation last year stemmed from
several sources. Cold winter weather af-
fected food supplies and prices. Deprecia-
tion of the dollar in foreign exchange
markets added to prices of imports and to
112
