Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ing Act program, adding a new Private
Sector Initiative which involves local,
private sector councils in designing train-
ing and developing unsubsidized jobs.
$400 million has been requested to sup-
port the new program. We have also de-
veloped with the Congress a targeted tax
audit which provides a substantial tax
incentive to employers to encourage them
to hire poor young persons.
My Administration has also:
• Increased funding for HUD's Urban
Development Action Grant and Com-
merce's Economic Development programs
to leverage and target job-creating private
investments.
Launched the Air Quality Planning
Grant program to help cities comply with
the Clean Air Act without reducing
needed private sector investments.
Begun targeting $9 billion in Farm-
ers Home Administration development
funds, including over $1 billion in busi-
ness and industry loans, on the most dis-
tressed rural communities and popula-
tion groups.
• Established for the first time loans to
farmers and ranchers for economic dis-
tress. This revolving fund of credit will
strengthen the rural economy as well as
the many segments of our national econ-
omy that benefit from a strong agricul-
tural system.
• Develop a new Home Ownership As-
sistance Plan for very low-income rural
residents, which will aid 16,000 families
during 1979.
• Better targeted scores of existing pro-
grams toward urban and distressed rural
areas.
My anti-inflation program includes the
first systematic review of Federal regula-
tions to reduce their cost and to eliminate
those whose costs are not warranted by
their effects. I urge state and local gov-
ernments to join us periodically in re-
viewing such regulations as those affecting
construction, environmental protection
and energy production to speed decisions
and reduce burdensome and inflationary
costs.
Other elements of my anti-inflation
program are:
A restrained but fair budget.
• Review of existing and proposed reg-
ulations through the newly formed Reg-
ulatory Council which will develop for
the first time a Regulatory Calendar that
will present all the major regulations the
government will issue in the forthcom-
ing year. A Regulatory Analyses Review
Group will review major regulations to
insure they are as cost-beneficial as
possible.
• Establishment of non-inflationary
wage and price standards for both the
public and private sectors. State and local
governments are asked to comply with
these standards.
• Review of health costs, State and lo-
cal regulation costs, productivity within
government, and the inflationary impact
of Federal policies on State and local
governments.
Proposal of a program of real wage
insurance by which workers who limit
their raises to 7% would be eligible for
a tax rebate if current prices rise by more
than that amount, together with other
anti-inflationary proposals such as hos-
pital cost containment.
EFFECTIVE GOVERNMENT
I am determined to make Federal pro-
grams fairer, better coordinated, more
easily administered and capable of re-
sponding to regional, State and local
growth strategies in a concerted fashion.
Examples of Administration actions sup-
porting Conference recommendations in
this area include:
Congressional passage of all six reor-
ganization proposals I made last
year, in-
74
