Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 15
extension through June 30, 1979, to de-
posit instruments of ratification.
It is my hope that the Senate will give
early and favorable consideration to the
two Protocols so that ratification by the
United States can be effected and instru-
ments of ratification deposited no later
than June 30, 1979.
The White House,
March 15, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Corporation for Public
Broadcasting
Nomination of Two Members of the Board
of Directors. March 15, 1979
The President today announced two
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting for
terms expiring March 26, 1984. They are:
Michael A. Gammino, Jr., of Provi-
dence, R.I. Gammino, 56, is president and
chief executive officer of the Columbus
National Bank and chairman of the
board of National Columbus Bancorp. He
was originally appointed to this Board by
President Johnson. He is active in civic
affairs in Providence and is a member of
the advisory committee for educational
television channel 36.
José A. Rivera, of Brooklyn, N.Y. Ri-
vera, 31, is an attorney specializing in
equal opportunity matters and a consult-
ant on equal employment opportunity.
He has designed and conducted training
programs in the field of equal opportunity
for State and local agencies. Rivera has
also been an assistant professor of law at
the Rutgers University School of Law.
National Council on the Arts
Nomination of Two Members.
March 15, 1979
The President today announced two
persons whom he will nominate to be
members of the National Council on the
Arts for terms expiring September 3,
1984. They are:
Thomas P. Bergin, of South Bend, Ind.,
dean of continuing education at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame. Bergin, 55, is a
member of the Indiana Governor's Com-
mission on the Arts and serves on the
board of directors of the South Bend Art
Center and the Michiana Public Broad-
casting Corp.
James A. Rosenquist, of Arepika, Fla.,
an artist whose paintings have been ex-
hibited in the United States, Canada, and
Europe. Rosenquist, 45, is a former artist
in residence at the Aspen, Colo., Institute
of Humanist Studies.
United States Air Force Academy
Board of Visitors
Appointment of Two Members.
March 15, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of two persons as members
of the Board of Visitors of the United
States Air Force Academy. They are:
JOHN G. KESTER, of Alexandria, Va., a Wash-
ington attorney and former Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Manpower and
Reserve Affairs;
MICHAEL O'CALLAGHAN, who was Governor
of Nevada from 1971 to 1978.
435
