Jan. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
must be related to and support one an-
other. The proper role of the Federal
Government is to establish a coordinated
policy framework to guide regional, state
and local planning and decision-making,
seeking insofar as possible to anticipate
change so as to enable all levels of govern-
ment as well as private interests to take
timely actions.
Conferees asserted that growth policy
processes should provide a systematic, con-
sultative forum for the establishment of
goals, the analysis of alternative policies
and programs, and the reconciliation of
conflicting laws, programs and regula-
tions, thereby strengthening the capacity
of elected officials to guide growth and
development in beneficial ways. State and
local governments should continue to have
responsibility for planning, assuring par-
ticipation of governmental and private
interests, while responsibility for establish-
ing policy processes, setting goals and
reconciling differences should reside at
the Federal, regional and state levels.
Many problems of growth and decline,
the Conferees noted, are most effectively
dealt with in a multi-state context. Effec-
tive regional institutions are required to
attack problems that transcend state bor-
ders and which, if not sensitively handled,
serve to exacerbate negative, unproduc-
tive sectionalism. The State-Federal Re-
gional Commissions could provide a part-
nership means of achieving national
objectives while respecting regional differ-
ences. These institutions should be
strengthened to realize their full poten-
tial for helping shape Federal growth pol-
icies and development programs.
To exhibit "balance," the Conferees
thought growth policies should reflect:
⚫ a concern with the problems of rural
counties and small towns as well as
with metropolitan jurisdictions;
• a recognition of the needs of rapidly
growing as well as declining com-
munities; and
• the opportunity to consider simul-
taneously environmental mandates
and economic growth proposals.
Conferees felt that some Federal, State
and local regulations and red tape have a
dampening effect on economic growth
and contribute to our inflation problem.
Energy, industrial location, and transpor-
tation initiatives have been stalled or
thwarted by a maze of procedures and lit-
igation stemming from excessive regula-
tion. The Conference urged that:
regulations be simplified and coor-
dinated;
• Federal, State and local regulations
be periodically reviewed; and
⚫ state and local governments and the
private sector have larger roles in
shaping Federal regulations.
National energy policy, according to the
Conferees, is essential to a balanced
growth policy. In order to curtail infla-
tion and expand employment, the Nation
needs dependable, affordable energy
sources which reduce U.S. dependence on
imported oil. Energy conservation and
development should create new jobs to
help meet our full employment goals.
URBAN AND RURAL POLICIES
National urban and rural policies are
also essential components of national
growth policy, the Conferees said. The
Conference favored selected targeting of
Federal and State assistance to areas of
greatest need, regardless of region, wheth-
er they be central cities or small cities,
suburbs, rural counties or areas in de-
cline or impacted by rapid and disorderly
growth. Moreover, the Conference urged
the resolution of State and local fiscal bur-
dens through selective reassignment of re-
sponsibilities within the Federal system.
72
