Feb. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
no complaints about them in this respect.
And I think that an exercise of prudence
in trying to contain our regional disputes
and combat among other nations is in the
best interest of our own country.
We are a strong nation, the strongest
on Earth-militarily, politically, economi-
cally. I'm committed to preserving that
strength of our Nation, even enhancing it.
And I think it would be completely im-
for
proper us, for instance, to inject our-
selves in any active way into the combat
that's presently taking place among Com-
munist Asian nations, or to try to intrude
in a completely unwarranted fashion into
the internal affairs, political affairs, of
other nations. And I have no intention of
making these foolish decisions and taking
foolish action to the detriment of our Na-
tion's interest, just to assuage some who
criticize me because we have not become
actively involved in these kinds of cir-
cumstances.
SECRETARY BLUMENTHAL'S TRIP TO CHINA
the
Q. Mr. President, given all of that,
when the United States was displeased
with the action that the Soviets had taken
in the Shcharanskiy case, we held up
sale of some oil-drilling equipment to the
Soviets. Given the fact that we have con-
demned the Chinese attack into Vietnam,
why is it that Treasury Secretary Blumen-
thal is now in China negotiating new
trade agreements with the Chinese?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's a com-
pletely different circumstance. We've not
had any bilateral disharmony between
ourselves and the Chinese. We are chang-
ing our interest offices into embassies on
the 1st of March, and I need a major
representative of our country to be there
when that change is made. Our new Am-
bassador, Leonard Woodcock, has just re-
cently been approved by the Senate yes-
terday and will not be able to arrive on
time.
of the ac-
We do not agree with
many
tions that the Soviets take in dealing with
other countries. We've not let that disrupt
our bilateral relationships with the So-
viets. Our SALT talks, for instance, have
never been interrupted nor delayed. And
we have expressed our very firm disap-
proval to the Chinese about their crossing
the Vietnamese border, and we have ex-
pressed our strong disapproval to the So-
viets and to the Vietnamese for the Viet-
namese crossing of the Cambodian border.
But for us to terminate bilateral rela-
tionships because a major country, the
Soviets or the Chinese, do something
contrary to our desires would certainly
be counterproductive. And I think the
trip to China to establish relationships
with the Chinese for the future by Secre-
tary Blumenthal is proper and was well-
advised.
BILLY CARTER
Q. Mr. President, your brother, Billy,
has made some remarks concerning Jews,
and I wonder, sir, if you deplore or con-
demn those remarks. I also have a
followup.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say, first of all,
I don't have any control over what my
brother says or what he does, and he has
no control over what I say or do.
I know Billy and have known him since
he was born, and I know for a fact that he
is not anti-Semitic and has never made a
serious, critical remark against Jews or
other people in our country. To the extent
that any of his remarks might be inter-
preted as such, I certainly do not agree
and do not associate myself with them.
Billy is my brother. He's seriously ill at
this point. I love him. I have no intention
of alleging to him any condemnation that
I don't think is warranted, and I would
say that I disassociate myself and my
348
