May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Ministers have no doubt that that incli-
nation to restore friendship and to restore
understanding and to eliminate disagree-
ments is an imperative forced on us by
the deep feelings of the citizens whom we
represent.
Well, in closing, I would like to say that
I'm very proud of the productive partner-
ship that we enjoy now with Japan and
which will be a foundation for our Na-
tion's foreign policy in Asia and one of
the foundations for our worldwide foreign
policy throughout the 1980's. And a great
deal of the credit for this achievement
can rest upon the superb leadership which
has represented the people of Japan so
well.
Trees in America are kind of a precious
thing, and I know that the first assign-
ment that Prime Minister Ohira had to
a foreign nation was to Inner Mongolia.
He accepted the assignment with a great
deal of anticipation. When he arrived
there I won't go into detail-but one of
the disappointments was that there was
not a tree in the city where he had to
live for 18 months.
But when the people of this Capital
City think of Japan, or when the people of
Georgia think of Japan, the first thought
is the beauty of a cherry tree in April.
And the Japanese, recognizing this char-
acteristic of Americans, on our 200th
birthday for a gift gave us a superb col-
lection of bonsai trees, which we enjoy
frequently in the White House and which
visitors also enjoy.
I would like to say, in closing, that I
have learned a lot from Prime Minister
Ohira. I'm a little too impulsive, perhaps,
as a politician, and maybe this is a char-
acteristic of Americans—we don't have
the patience to deal with intransigent
problems in a careful, considered, often
a productive way.
And in his book, in one of the latter
chapters, when a young politician asked
him for his best advice, he said something
that's caused me to think a great deal to-
day. He said, "It's better to correct a
wrong than it is to initiate many rights."
We had quite a discussion here at the
table between Bill Rogers, our finest
athlete, who's won the Boston Marathon
three times, and Joan Benoit, who is one
of the most superb women athletes in the
world, and Peter Falk, who's a great actor
and who has one of his finest fans sitting
across the table from him-two of his
finest fans. But we discussed what the
Prime Minister meant about that. And
we decided that to correct wrongs was a
great attribute of a political leader.
I would like to propose a toast: To the
Prime Minister of Japan, Mr. Ohira, to
his wife, to the wonderful people of
Japan, to peace, to prosperity, to prog-
ress, and through the political system, to
the correction of wrongs.
Mr. Prime Minister, we are proud to
have you here, sir.
THE PRIME MINISTER. President and
Mrs. Carter, excellencies, ladies and
gentlemen:
I appreciate your kind words, Mr.
President, for my countrymen and for me.
When we last met in 1975-you, as the
former Governor of Georgia, and I, as
Japan's Minister of Finance-I recall that
you said, “Next time, let us meet in the
White House." And here we are.
[Laughter]
Mr. President, I also recall one piece of
my personal history. Some 30 years ago,
I was a guest of your Government's Na-
tional Leaders program, under the
auspices of the Department of Army, for
a 3-month orientation visit to this country.
It was a deeply rewarding experience.
On my return to Japan, I visited towns
770
