Feb. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Congress must act as well to pass long
overdue legislation to contain hospital
costs.
The American people badly need relief
from this punishing, excessive inflation. I
said when I announced our wage-price
guidelines last fall that inflation might
very well get worse in the short run before
it got better. The January wholesale price
index obviously bears out that prediction.
But we do not expect such large increases
in the wholesale price index to occur in
the months immediately ahead.
All available evidence indicates that the
guidelines which we've established are
beginning to take hold. The first major
wage settlement by the Oil, Chemical and
Atomic Workers and by others since then
have fallen within the 7-percent guideline
figure. The overwhelming majority of
major corporations have pledged to com-
ply with the voluntary guidelines, and we
expect the others to follow suit.
The staff of the Council on Wage and
Price Stability, now well-organized, will
vigorously monitor all pricing decisions to
ensure compliance. The Congress must do
its part in enacting legislation that we
have proposed, real wage insurance.
American workers who have restrained
their own wage demands deserve this pro-
tection from our Government.
For more than 10 years now, we have
lived with rising inflation. Now the
pro-
gram that we've set in force is begining to
work, and if we all do our part, we can
succeed in reducing inflation in our coun-
try step by step.
I'm determined to use the full author-
ity of my office to make this effort suc-
ceed. And I believe the Congress and all
Americans are ready to do their part.
VISIT TO MEXICO
The last comment I have is about my
Mexico state visit. Two years ago, Presi-
dent José López Portillo of Mexico be-
came the first head of state to visit me at
the White House. This was no accident,
but a carefully considered judgment, be-
cause I wanted to demonstrate the im-
portance which I have placed from the
very beginning on our relationships with
our neighbor Mexico, the neighbor which
shares the North American Continent
with ourselves and with Canada.
About 40 hours from now, I will depart
for Mexico City to return President López
Portillo's visit and to renew our own per-
sonal dialog as part of the consultations
and negotiations which have continued,
since his visit, among our Ministers and
top Government officials.
We will be discussing some very im-
portant and very difficult problems, in-
cluding trade, energy, and border issues.
I'm looking forward to extensive discus-
sions of global and regional problems, as
well. As you know, Mexico plays a vital
role in the entire world on a number of
crucial issues, such as economic develop-
ment, arms restraint, and nonprolifera-
tion. These issues are very important, both
to President López Portillo and to me.
Inevitably, there are differences in out-
look between two such diverse and im-
portant neighbors as Mexico and the
United States. But these differences are
dwarfed by our common concerns, our
common values, and our areas of coopera-
tion.
I view this trip above all as an oppor-
tunity to listen and to learn. I want to
hear President López Portillo's views, and
I want to relay my own views to him. We
will be working together toward an even
better future relationship between our two
countries.
Thank you very much.
Frank [Frank Cormier, Associated
Press].
256
