Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 2
to the present state, which is quite safe
for all concerned.
The challenge in the future will be to
cool down the reactor core itself to a safe
level. And at the present time, all those
who are involved here, who are highly
qualified, tell me that the reactor core is
indeed stable.
However, within the next few days, im-
portant decisions will be made on how to
bring the reactor down to a cold and stable
state. As always, in that transition period,
careful preparations are being made, every
eventuality is being assessed, and, above
all, the health and safety of people in-
volved will be paramount.
I would like to say to the people who
live around the Three Mile Island plant
that if it does become necessary, your Gov-
ernor, Governor Thornburgh, will ask you
and others in this area to take appropriate
action to ensure your safety. If he does,
I want to urge that these instructions be
carried out calmly and exactly, as they
have been in the past few days.
This will not indicate that danger is
high. It will indicate that a change is
being made in the operation of the cool-
ing water system to permanently correct
the present state of the reactor, and it's
strictly a precautionary measure.
It's too early yet to make judgments
about the lessons to be learned from this
nuclear incident. Once the job of satis-
factorily dealing with the present circum-
stances is completed, then there will be
a thorough inquiry into the original causes
and, obviously, into the events that have
occurred since the incident, and addi-
tional safety precautions will undoubtedly
be evolved. Perhaps some design changes
will be implemented to make sure that
there is no recurrence of this incident or
one similar to it.
I will be personally responsible for thor-
oughly informing the American people
about this particular incident and the
status of nuclear safety in the future.
I intend to make sure that the investi-
gation is conducted, is conducted thor-
oughly, and the results are made public.
And now, I would like to have the
honor of introducing a man who has done
a superlative job in coordinating this en-
tire effort. And because of the trust of the
American people in him, and particularly
those who live in this region, potential
panic and disturbance has been mini-
mized.
And I again want to congratulate you,
Governor Thornburgh, and thank you on
behalf of our country for doing such a
superb job.
Thank you very
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3 p.m. at the
Middletown Townhall.
Earlier in the day, the President left the
White House and went by helicopter to the
Air National Guard Facility in Middletown,
where he was met by Gov. Richard Thorn-
burgh, who accompanied the President through-
out his visit. In the flight planning room at the
facility, the President was briefed by Harold
Denton, Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor
Regulation, Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Following the briefing, the President went to
the Three Mile Island facility for an inspec-
tion tour of the control room. He then returned
to the White House.
United States Ambassador
to Liberia
Nomination of Robert P. Smith. April 2, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Robert P. Smith, of
McLean, Va., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to Liberia. He would re-
We will also do everything possible place W. Beverly Carter, Jr., who has
579
