Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 31
But I can tell you that you've got two
men behind me on the stage, among
others, who have done as much to con-
trol inflation as anyone I know.
Hospital costs are doubling every 5
years. The impact of hospital costs per-
meates every facet of our lives. The Con-
gress is now struggling with a hospital cost
containment bill. When you buy an auto-
mobile, $120 of the cost of that auto-
mobile is what the auto workers have to
pay for hospital insurance.
The leading light in the Senate is Gay-
lord Nelson, and I believe that with his
help this year, the Senate will pass again
hospital cost containment. And with the
help of the House Members on the stage
with me, we will finally get hospital cost
containment legislation passed in 1979,
and I hope you'll help us with it.
I campaigned for 2 solid years and
planned even before that. And I think it's
accurate to say that there was a search-
ing in our Nation to correct some basic
defects that had preyed on the hearts and
minds of the American people. There was
a loss of confidence in our Government.
The Vietnam war had been costly not
only in the 50,000 lives lost, as Dave has
pointed out, but the American people had
lost confidence in the sound judgment,
the integrity, the honesty, the commit-
ment, the spirit, the ideals of our country.
The Watergate scandals swept across us
like a cold, damp fog. And, of course, the
CIA revelations were equally bad in sev-
ering the trustful interrelationship that
must exist in a democracy between the
people and their government.
One of the prime needs in making those
changes, obviously, was to maintain peace.
And I'm very proud that in the last 26
months and I hope as long as I'm in the
White House—we have not had a young
man's life endangered on a field of battle
anywhere on Earth. We're at peace, and
we're going to stay there.
We have passed a sound ethics bill to
bring to the Congress extremely high
standards of performance and, also, to
apply those same standards in the execu-
tive branch of government and in the
judiciary.
The leading light in the House of Rep-
resentatives is David Obey, and the lead-
ing light in the Senate is Senator Nelson.
Many joined with them, of course, be-
cause the legislation has been passed and
signed into law. It was not as rigid in its
standards as I would have liked or as the
Wisconsin delegation in its entirety would
have liked. But for the first time now, we
have a law to restrain the abuse of public
office. And my guess is that in the future
it will be constantly strengthened and ap-
preciated by the American people.
If David Obey had not done anything
else in the last 10 years, this would have
been worth the investment of this district
in the Congress. And I want to thank you
for him and for that great achievement.
The social security system was bank-
rupt. It's now in a sound condition. Our
foreign policy has been brought into the
open. There was a time when the Presi-
dent and the Secretary of State and other
leaders evolved foreign policy in secret
and then sprung upon the Congress and
the American people, as was the case in
Angola, a proposal for involvement of our
country in the internal affairs of foreign
countries. That time is changed.
There was a time in the fall when the
United Nations General Assembly met;
every knowledgeable and thinking Amer-
ican would flinch, because we knew that
two-thirds of the nations on Earth would
use the United States of America as a tar-
get for attack as a butt for their jokes.
Now we've changed that.
569
