Feb. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tions only to the extent of its trade, finance
and development possibilities. President
Carter favorably recognized Mexico's ef-
fort in gradually eliminating non-tariff
barriers and considered this effort as a
potential contribution to the goals of the
aforementioned negotiations.
The Presidents also agreed that the fu-
ture expansion of trade between the two
countries will require a continuous liberal-
ization of both countries' trade policies, in
accordance with the trade, financial and
development needs of each nation. They
also committed themselves to renew their
efforts to this end and to carry out close
consultations on trade and financial mat-
ters. President López Portillo reasserted
the Mexican Government's decision to
continue the process of gradually elimi-
nating non-tariff barriers, and to do so
with prudence, caution and according to
international economic conditions. Presi-
dent Carter noted that his Administration
had given special attention to Mexico's
export needs in the implementation of
U.S. trade laws and committed himself
to continue to oppose protectionism and
to resist attempts to reduce the security of
access to U.S. markets for Mexican
products.
Both Presidents recognized the mutual
benefits deriving from the U.S. General-
ized System of Preferences. However,
President López Portillo pointed out that
the system contains serious limitations for
its full utilization and that measures
should be taken to improve the system,
particularly with regard to the liberaliza-
tion of the application of the so-called
"competitive need clause". President Car-
ter noted that Mexico's exports that en-
tered under GSP have doubled in the last
two years and that Mexico is the leading
beneficiary of trade preferences in Latin
America.
President López Portillo expressed hope
that the new rules of international trade
would give due consideration to the inter-
ests of developing countries, and would
not institutionalize the increasing protec-
tionist actions by developed nations.
President Carter noted that protectionism
is a contagious condition which threatens
all countries and pointed to his own record
of opposition to protectionism which
should be resisted in all countries.
The Presidents emphasized the impor-
tance of cooperation in the field of science
and technology as a means for dealing
with many economic and social problems.
They also agree on the mutual advantages
of intensifying this cooperation.
The Presidents expressed their satisfac-
tion with regard to plans to reinforce the
present mechanisms for scientific and
technological cooperation between both
nations, and asked the authorities in these
fields of their respective nations to ex-
pedite the execution of these plans, within
the framework of the mixed Scientific and
Technological Cooperation Commission
and the Consultative Mechanism.
To signal their commitment, the two
Presidents took note of the two agree-
ments signed during the visit, on Arid
Lands Management and Urban Planning,
and a Memorandum of Understanding on
Scientific and Technical Cooperation,
also signed during the visit. They also
discussed plans for the Institute for Tech-
nological Cooperation, which they agreed
would facilitate cooperative research and
development between the two countries.
Both Presidents exchanged views on
fishery matters because they considered
this a priority interest for both nations,
and agreed to carry on discussions in this
important field.
The leaders had a wide-ranging dis-
cussion on energy, which included both
its bilateral and global aspects. They
agreed that it is not possible to separate
energy resources from economic develop-
290
