Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 29
congressional approval of those proposals.
The ones you mentioned as examples are
very important to our Nation.
We have already signed, and the Sen-
ate has ratified, a Panama Canal agree-
ment, two treaties. Those treaties became
effective the first day of April. The Pan-
ama Canal Zone will become Panamanian
territory on the 1st of October. If the Con-
gress does not act to implement those
treaties, then we would have no effective
means by which we could adequately de-
fend the Panama Canal between now and
the year 2000, nor manage our personnel
in keeping the canal open. I believe that
the Congress will eventually be respon-
sible and will pass the implementation
legislation.
On oil decontrol, which I have pro-
posed-and just described, I think, ade-
quately my belief is that the Congress
will not change that law. The decontrol
action that I have taken is in accordance
with the law passed by Congress in 1975.
There's a great deal of debate going on,
and I believe that we will have decontrol,
which is good for our country.
Hospital cost containment-here again,
the Congress has a major responsibility to
deal with this effectively. The lobbying
pressure on the Members of Congress by
the hospital lobby is extraordinary, but I
believe that in the long run, the Congress
will see that this is one of the tangible
actions that they can take this year to help
control inflation. Hospital costs have been
going up twice as great in previous years
as the inflation rate, a completely unwar-
ranted, additional charge on the American
people that ought to be stopped.
And so, I have not given up on any of
these programs as far as getting them im-
plemented by congressional action. But
I'll bear my share of the responsibility if
we fail.
My judgment is that the American
people are beginning to feel that their own
Government can't deal adequately with
crucial issues to the country, like inflation
and like energy and like having a peaceful
world in which to live. And until the
American public gets aroused, we're going
to have difficulty in Washington getting
action taken.
But I believe the public is becoming
increasingly aroused as they see the need
for this action, and I predict to you that
the Congress will act favorably on these
three items. I have no intent to back down.
I'll fight for these three programs and
others that I've proposed to the last vote
in Congress, and I believe that we will win.
RELATIONS WITH CONGRESS
Q. Mr. President, even though it might
not be your favorite way of doing things
with Congress, why don't you get tough
to the extent of saying to Members of
Congress individually that, "If you won't
help me on these major programs that I
feel are important to the entire country,
I won't go along with my administration
providing the individual, district-by-
district services that you are interested in
as a Member of Congress"?
THE PRESIDENT. I represent those dis-
tricts also. Every one of the people who
constituent. And I don't think it's right
lives in any congressional district is my
to punish the people of our Nation who
live in a particular farming community or
city or congressional district because a
particular Member of Congress does not
comply with the proposals that I make
that I believe to be in the best interest of
our Nation.
The best approach that I have been
able to make—and we've had a very good
success in having the Congress approve
my proposals in previous years-has been
to deal, first of all, with the Congress di-
963
