May 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Standby Gasoline Rationing Plan
Remarks on the House of Representatives
Disapproval of the Plan. May 11, 1979
Two
years ago, I presented to Congress
a comprehensive energy plan for our Na-
tion, and the Congress took some action
on it. But they avoided taking action on
the subject of oil, and this failure to take
action to deal with the oil problem is part
of the reason for our present gasoline
shortage.
Yesterday, I was shocked and I was
embarrassed for our Nation's Govern-
ment when, after the Senate gave me au-
thority to develop a Standby Gasoline
Rationing Plan, that the House refused
to take the responsibility for giving me
this authority.
Ninety-five percent of the Republicans
in the House of Representatives voted
"no." Forty percent of the Democrats
voted "no." The Nation owes a debt of
gratitude for those Members of the House
of Representatives who did have the
courage to vote "yes."
The only conclusion that I can draw
is that in spite of the strong leadership of
Senator Byrd, Senator Jackson, and a
majority of the Senate, Speaker O'Neill,
Congressman Dingell, Congressman Bol-
ling, and others in the House, that the
majority of the House Members are un-
willing to take the responsibility, the po-
litical responsibility for dealing with a po-
tential, serious threat to our Nation.
If we should have a serious interrup-
tion of oil and gasoline supplies, our Na-
tion would be unprepared to deal with
it. We would be in a vulnerable position,
and I would have no authority at all to
meet what could be a national crisis.
If we had an interruption in gasoline
supplies, we would have no plan to allot
gasoline equitably among the States or to
meet the needs of farmers and others who
produce food, the handicapped, police-
men, firemen, other major users of gas-
oline on a priority basis.
I'm not predicting that we will have a
shortage I hope that we will not have
a shortage but I'm not willing to ac-
cept the judgment of a majority of the
House of Representatives, whose Mem-
bers have apparently put their heads in
the sand and refused to take action, re-
fused to acknowledge the threat, and re-
fused to deal with what is acknowledged
to be a very difficult political issue.
There is nothing easy about energy. All
of us have learned that from experience.
But what can we do now? This is one of
the most serious questions that I face.
The House has not rejected the plans on
their own merit. The House has refused
to give me the authority to develop the
standby rationing plan so that if and
when it is needed, it could only be imple-
mented, provided at that time the House
and the Senate also agreed with the Presi-
dent that it ought to be implemented.
This question indicates—and I hate to
say this that a majority of the House of
Representatives have been willing to put
local or parochial interests and let polit-
ical timidity prevent their taking action
in the interest of our Nation.
I have a sure knowledge that anyone
who wants to have gas rationing has
taken leave of their senses, but anyone in
a position of authority who is not willing
to recognize the potential threat to our
country and to be prepared to deal with
the threat when and if it comes is
irresponsible.
There is no need for me under the
present circumstances to submit another
plan for gas rationing in an emergency.
The Congress has indicated that the mer-
its of the plan is not the problem. The
problem is the unwillingness of a majority
840
