Mar. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
guard our friendship between America will be the cornerstone of a comprehen-
and Israel forever.
sive peace settlement for the Middle East.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. at
Ben Gurion International Airport.
In the morning, Prime Minister and Mrs.
Begin had breakfast with the President and
Mrs. Carter in the Presidential Suite at the
King David Hotel. Following breakfast, the
President and the Prime Minister met privately
and were then joined by their advisers.
Cairo, Egypt
Remarks Following a Meeting With President
Sadat. March 13, 1979
I have a statement to make which I
consider to be extremely important.
I have just given to President Sadat a
full report on my discussions in Israel.
During that visit the United States made
proposals for resolving a number of out-
standing issues, proposals which were ac-
cepted by Prime Minister Begin and his
Cabinet.
President Sadat has now accepted these
proposals. Based on discussions in Egypt
and Israel, I have also presented United
States proposals to President Sadat and
to Prime Minister Begin for resolving the
few remaining issues.
Earlier today, Prime Minister Begin
agreed to present these proposals to his
Cabinet for consideration. This will be
done at the earliest opportunity.
President Sadat has carefully reviewed
all these remaining issues and has ac-
cepted these same proposals. I have just
informed Prime Minister Begin by tele-
phone of President Sadat's acceptance.
I am convinced that now we have de-
fined all of the main ingredients of a peace
treaty between Egypt and Israel, which
NOTE: The President spoke to reporters at 5:05
p.m. at Cairo International Airport following
the meeting in the VIP Pavilion.
Following a departure ceremony at the air-
port, the President boarded Air Force One for
the return flight to Washington.
The President's Trip to Egypt
and Israel
Remarks on Arrival at Andrews Air Force
Base, Md. March 14, 1979
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President, 6
days ago you left for the Middle East in
search of peace. You and Rosalynn took
with you our love, our prayers, and the
hopes of all humanity. You return tonight
to a happy and a grateful nation, for you
have drawn two ancient enemies to the
brink of peace.
We thank you tonight, not only for the
breakthrough in the Middle East, but we
thank you also for renewing our confi-
dence in the deepest of American values.
Where there were risks, you stood for
hope. And where there were obstacles, you
followed conscience. Where there were
suspicions, you sought to build a lasting
foundation of trust. It is the trust that
you won from President Sadat and Prime
Minister Begin that made these historic
discussions possible. And it is that same
trust that made these talks a success.
Mr. President, Rosalynn, welcome
home to a proud and a hopeful nation.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I'd like to
ask Secretary Vance to come up here and
stand.
Vice President Mondale,
Mondale, Speaker
O'Neill, Senator Byrd, Members of the
Congress the tremendous group of the
430
