Apr. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
their own best interest. The treaty must-
and the treaty will be-verifiable from
the first day it is signed.
And finally, how does SALT II fit into
the context of our overall relations with
the Soviet Union?
Because SALT II will make the world
safer and our own Nation more secure, it
is in our national interest to control
nuclear weapons even as we compete with
the Soviets elsewhere in the world.
A SALT II agreement in no way limits
our ability to promote our interests or to
answer Soviet threats to those interests.
We will continue to support the independ-
ence of Third World nations who struggle
to stay free. We will continue to promote
the peaceful resolution of local and re-
gional disputes and to oppose efforts by
any others to inflame these disputes with
outside force. And we will continue to
work for human rights.
It's a delusion to believe that rejec-
tion of a SALT treaty would somehow
induce the Soviet Union to exercise new
restraints in troubled areas. The actual
effect of rejecting such a treaty might be
precisely the opposite. The most intran-
sigent and hostile elements of a Soviet po-
litical power structure would certainly be
encouraged and strengthened by our re-
jection of a SALT agreement. The Soviets
might very well feel that they then have
little to lose by creating new international
tensions.
A rejection of SALT II would have
significance far beyond the fate of a single
treaty. It would mean a radical turning
away from America's long-time policy of
seeking world peace. We would no longer
be identified as the peaceloving nation.
It would turn us away from the control of
nuclear weapons and from the easing of
tensions between Americans and the So-
viet people under the system of interna-
tional law based on mutual interests.
The rejection of SALT II would result
in a more perilous world. As I said at
Georgia Tech on February 20, each
crisis, each confrontation, each point of
friction as serious as it may be in its own
right-would take on an added measure
of significance and an added dimension of
danger, for it would occur in an atmos-
phere of unbridled strategic competition
and deteriorating strategic stability. It is
precisely because we have fundamental
differences with the Soviet Union that we
are determined to bring this most dan-
gerous element of our military competi-
tion under control.
For these reasons, we will not try to
impose binding linkage between Soviet
behavior and SALT, and we will not ac-
cept any Soviet attempts to link SALT
with aspects of our own foreign policy of
which they may disapprove.
Again, SALT II is not a favor we are
doing for the Soviet Union; it's an agree-
ment carefully negotiated in the national
security interests of the United States of
America.
I put these issues to you today, because
they need discussion and debate and be-
cause the voices of the American people
must be heard.
In the months ahead, we will do all in
our power to explain the treaty clearly
and fully to the American people. I know
that Members of Congress from both par-
ties will join in this effort to ensure an
informed public debate. And you, more
than any other group I can imagine in the
United States, share this responsibility
with me and with the Congress.
During this debate, it's important that
we exercise care. We will be sharing with
the Congress some of our most sensitive
defense and intelligence secrets. And the
leaders in Congress must ensure that these
secrets will be guarded so that the debate
itself will not undermine our own security.
698
