June 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
taining a certificate to haul "malt bever-
ages.”
As a result of backhaul and other regu-
latory restrictions, enormous amounts of
fuel are wasted each year. This waste
needlessly raises prices and significantly
aggravates the energy shortage.
The legislation I am proposing pro-
vides that:
-All backhaul restrictions are removed
immediately.
-All prohibitions on making inter-
mediate stops between authorized points
are removed immediately.
-All route restrictions, including re-
quirements that a carrier take a circuitous
route or pass through a designated gate-
way city, must be removed no later than
December 31, 1981.
-All restrictions limiting the types of
commodities a carrier may haul must be
removed no later than December 31,
1982.
-All other restrictions must be re-
moved no later than December 31, 1983.
-The ICC is directed to adopt liberal
standards and expedited procedures for
carrier petitions for removal of individual
restrictions prior to the statutory dead-
lines. Opponents to carriers' petitions
have the burden of proof to show why a
restriction should not be removed.
-The ICC is directed to develop a
program allowing existing carriers to in-
crease each year their operating authority
by a limited amount without ICC ap-
proval. The ICC program shall empha-
size increased opportunities to serve small
towns.
ENTRY AND PROCEDURAL REFORM
Before a carrier can haul regulated
commodities, and before an existing car-
rier can expand or rationalize its opera-
tions, it must obtain authority from the
ICC. Obtaining new authority has been
difficult. The applicant has the burden
of proving that the new competition is
"required" by the public convenience and
necessity. Carriers already serving the
route have been able to block new entry
if they could provide the service them-
selves, or if the new competition might
impair their profitability. Although the
ICC has begun to grant a larger percent-
age of these applications, the existing
statute still requires carriers to meet an
excessive burden. The ICC needs new
statutory authority to carry forward the
liberalization that it has begun.
This regulatory maze is particularly
burdensome to small businesses. Large
businesses may be able to afford experts
to go through complicated regulations
and wait the long months or years to ob-
tain decisions, but this is not true for the
small entrepreneur.
The legislation I propose liberalizes
these restrictive entry standards. The bill
substantially reduces regulation over time,
and places increasing reliance upon the
competitive marketplace. The bill:
-Retains the requirement that the ap-
plicant prove it meets financial, safety
and insurance requirements (i.e, that it
is "fit, willing, and able").
-Reverses the burden of proof and
requires opponents of new competition to
show that the transportation applied for
would be inconsistent with the public
convenience and necessity.
-Applies new standards for the "pub-
lic convenience and necessity" test. The
ICC must give substantial weight in
favor of the application where it finds
that the service would lower operating
costs, improve fuel efficiency, meet con-
sumer or user preference for service or
lower rates, improve service to small com-
munities; or generally improve the com-
petitive climate. The ICC shall not con-
1120
