Jan. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We are two very independent people.
We love each other. But any attempt that
I might make to control Billy's words or
actions would not be successful at all.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Counterproductive,
as they say.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it would be
counterproductive, because Billy prides
himself on being independent from me.
And I think he would show it if I tried
to dominate him, and I have no intention
to try to do so.
[The transcript of the above exchange was
made available by the White House Press
Office on January 13. The transcript of the
following exchange was released on Janu-
ary 16.]
MR. CHANCELLOR. Now, Mr. President,
talking about cooperation from the pri-
vate sector, you've got some big labor con-
tracts coming up. Suppose the Teamsters
Union, for example, which is a big and
very important union, wants to go beyond
your guidelines and suppose a strike
should result. A big, bad Teamsters strike
would cripple a lot of things in this coun-
try. Wouldn't you be tempted to relax
your guidelines in that case?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hate to answer
a conjectural question like that. I believe
that the members of the Teamsters Union
are very interested in seeing the anti-
inflation effort work. They've been forth-
coming, without giving me any commit-
ments on what their stance will be when
the contract is negotiated. But they are
Americans. They're patriotic. They are
sound people. They have interest in a
stable income. And for them to get very
high wage increases that would destroy
the efforts to control inflation would not
pay dividends for them in the future. They
understand that.
I can't think of anything more damag-
ing to the economy than a sustained
Teamsters strike. This is a unique union in
that they could bring our economy almost
to a halt. They've not ever done this. And
they have shown, I think, a remarkable
degree of responsibility about this in the
past. We would not be able to accommo-
date a strike of that kind. Either I or the
Congress would have to act very rapidly
to bring to an end a strike of that sort if
it should occur. But I don't think that
that's going to happen.
We can't write a labor contract and
mandate that employers and employees
adopt it. The only way we can be success-
ful is to convince the public, employers,
employees in all segments of our economy,
that it's in their best interests to have a
strong American economy with inflation
under control. And that's the basis on
which we hope we'll have success.
NOTE: The interview began at 9:38 a.m. in
the Oval Office at the White House. NBC News
broadcast portions of the interview during the
following week.
Historically Black Colleges
and Universities
Memorandum From the President.
January 17, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
The approximately one hundred his-
torically black colleges of this Nation
have played and continue to play a
unique and important role in providing
educational opportunities to many thou-
sands of students. They have done so in
the past when there were no other ave-
nues open to the overwhelming majority
of black students. They do so now by con-
tinuing to provide special opportunities
for students of all races.
48
