Mar. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
forgotten. But in guiding the negotiations,
the Prime Minister has never lost sight
of his original vision, a strong, free, vi-
brant Jewish people, living in Israel—
which you are now-but also living in
peace. And we've all seen abundant evi-
dence that he possesses the political skills
to translate this vision into reality.
I am absolutely confident from my con-
versations within the last 3 or 4 days with
President Sadat and from my conversa-
tions with Prime Minister Begin that
both are determined not to let this great
opportunity for peace slip from our grasp.
If we can resolve the few remaining dif-
ferences and I am still hopeful that we
can-our meeting tonight will be just a
prelude for an occasion of joyous celebra-
tion, the signing of the first peace treaty
between Israel and an Arab nation.
I ask all of you to join me in a toast
to our gracious hosts, President and Mrs.
Navon, to Israel's courageous leader and
his wife, Prime Minister and Mrs. Begin,
and to our common goal: the transfor-
mation of the Middle East into a land of
peace.
Lechayim.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10:05 p.m. in
Chagall Hall at the Knesset.
Jerusalem, Israel
Address Before the Knesset. March 12, 1979
Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr.
Speaker, distinguished members of the
Knesset, and friends:
For the last 24 hours, I have been writ-
ing different versions of this speech. I have
discarded the speech of despair; I have
discarded the speech of glad tidings and
celebration. I have decided to deliver the
speech of concern and caution and hope.
I'm honored to stand in this assembly
of free men and women, which represents
a great and an ancient people, a young
and a courageous nation.
I bring with me the best wishes and the
greetings of the people of the United
States of America, who share with the
people of Israel the love of liberty, of jus-
tice, and of peace. And I'm honored to
be in Jerusalem, this holy city described
by Isaiah as a quiet habitation in which
for so many of the human race the cause
of brotherhood and peace are enshrined.
I am here in a cause of brotherhood
and of peace. I've come to Cairo and also
here to Jerusalem to try to enhance the
bold, brave, and historic efforts of Presi-
dent Sadat and Prime Minister Begin and
to demonstrate that the United States of
America is as determined as these two
leaders are to create lasting peace and
friendship between Egypt and Israel and
to put an end to war and the threat of
war throughout the Middle East.
No people desire or deserve peace more
than the Jewish people. None have
wanted it so long. None have spoken of it
more eloquently. None have suffered so
much from the absence of peace. Pogrom
after pogrom, war after war, Israel has
buried its sons and its daughters.
Yesterday morning, at Yad Vashem, I
grieved in the presence of terrible re-
minders of the agony and the horror of the
Holocaust.
Modern Israel came into being in the
wake of that historic crime, the enormity
of which is almost beyond human com-
prehension. I know that Israel is com-
mitted and determined, above all, that
nothing like it must ever, ever be per-
mitted to happen again on Earth.
Americans respect that determination,
and we fully share that determination
with you. And Americans recognize that
for Jews over the centuries, as for Israel
since its independence, caution and wari-
424
