May 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We have some economic problems be-
tween us. They are being thoroughly dis-
cussed. They are important. They are
being addressed without timidity and
without concealment. But I have no
doubt that the bases which I've already
described as a foundation for our inter-
relationship will serve with certainty as a
basis for resolving our present economic
differences.
I'll be going to Japan in June for an
official visit at your invitation, which I
certainly appreciate. I hope to have a
chance personally to prove to the Japa-
nese people the importance that we attach
to their own personal friendship toward
us.
And you and I will be meeting with five
other leaders of great nations at an eco-
nomic summit further to pursue some of
the ideas that I've outlined so briefly.
The Japanese people are almost
uniquely vigorous and disciplined and
productive. And they combine these overt
characteristics of strength with a certain
grace and quietness and a degree of
sonal humility and an appreciation for
beauty and art and culture that has
aroused the legitimate admiration of the
people of our country.
per-
Above all, we appreciate the Japanese
influence for peace, your commitment to
peace which serves as a standard for other
nations to emulate.
We have in the past, we do now, and
we will in the future strengthen one
another because of shared ideals, and I'm
sure that we will continue in the most
profound way to help one another. We're
glad to have you here.
In Japan, this is Golden Week, a week
dedicated to holidays and joy. And we
hope that in addition to your visit being
fruitful in the diplomatic and economic
and security area, that it will also be a
visit of joy for you personally.
Welcome, Mr. Prime Minister, to our
country.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
thank you for your warm welcome. I have
looked forward to this opportunity for us
to become better acquainted and explore
together the ways in which Japan and the
United States may join in even closer
partnership than ever before to realize the
aspirations of both our peoples for peace
and a stable expansion of the world econ-
omy.
Recently, economic frictions have sur-
faced between Japan and the United
States. The economic problems between
our two countries are serious, and we
both are endeavoring to resolve these
problems through mutual cooperation. I
am determined to continue to do my ut-
most to that end.
In resolving our economic frictions, we
should never forget that the Japanese-
American relationship today in all its as-
pects is absolutely sound and secure,
bound by mutual confidence and trust.
As we look to the 1980's, we cannot see
any quick or easy solutions to the complex
political, economic, and social challenges
facing mankind. Under these circum-
stances, the constructive roles to be played
by the industrial democracies of the
world, especially Japan and the United
States, are of crucial importance.
I am convinced that Japan and the
United States can overcome a variety of
challenges to fulfill their constructive
roles. I believe this because we have
among us the spiritual resources as well as
abundant material and technical re-
sources to see these tasks through to a suc-
cessful conclusion.
Japan, I assure you, Mr. President, is
fully cognizant of its responsibilities in all
762
