Apr. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
scheduled in late 1984. Estimated con-
struction costs are $10-$15 billion, to be
financed by private investment.
Natural gas is among the Nation's most
valuable fuels. It is in the national inter-
est to bring Alaskan gas reserves to market
at the lowest possible price for consumers.
Construction of a gas pipeline from the
Prudhoe Bay reserves in Alaska through
Canada to points in the West and Mid-
west United States will provide a system
which will deliver more Alaskan natural
gas at less cost to a greater number of
Americans than any alternative trans-
portation system. Every effort must be
made to ensure timely completion of the
pipeline at the lowest possible cost con-
sistent with Federal regulatory policies.
As a result of our experience in con-
struction of the Trans-Alaska Oil Pipe-
line, we recognize the need for the Fed-
eral government to be in a strong position
to manage its own role in this project
through prompt, coordinated decision-
making in pre-construction approval func-
tions and in enforcing the terms and con-
ditions of the permits, certificates, leases,
and other authorizations to be issued by
various Federal agencies. We must avoid
duplicating the delays and cost escalations
experienced in the construction of the
Trans-Alaska Pipeline System. The Plan
I am submitting would establish clear re-
sponsibility for the efficient functioning
of Federal enforcement activities by as-
signing the Federal Inspector authority to
carry out these responsibilities.
The Alaska Natural Gas Transporta-
tion Act of 1976 only provided for moni-
toring the construction of the pipeline.
The Plan transfers to the Federal Inspec-
tor the authority to supervise the enforce-
ment of terms and conditions of the per-
mits and other authorizations, including
those to be issued by the Departments of
Agriculture, Interior, Transportation,
and Treasury, and the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, and the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers. The Plan pro-
vides for the Federal Inspector to coordi-
nate other Federal activities directly re-
lated to the pipeline project. Federal
agencies retain their authority to issue
permits and related authorizations, but
enforcement of the terms and conditions
of these authorizations is transferred to
the Federal Inspector. Transfer of en-
forcement authority from Federal agencies
to the Federal Inspector is limited in
scope to their participation in this proj-
ect and in duration to the pre-construc-
tion, construction, and initial operation
phases of the project.
The Decision and Report to the Con-
gress recommended an Executive Policy
Board with policy-making and super-
visory authority over the Federal Inspec-
tor. I plan to sign an Executive Order
upon approval of this Plan by the Con-
gress which will create an Executive Policy
Board which will be only advisory, but
which will enhance communication and
coordination among Federal agencies and
with the Federal Inspector. The Plan
modifies the Decision and Report in that
regard. The Federal Inspector will use
the policies and procedures of the agen-
cies involved in exercising the transferred
enforcement responsibilities to the maxi-
mum extent practicable. The Board pro-
vides the opportunity for agencies to con-
tribute to the policy deliberations of the
Inspector and exercises an oversight role
to insure that pipeline activities are car-
ried on within existing regulatory policy.
The Board is required to review the
budget of the Office of the Federal In-
spector and periodically report to me on
the progress of construction and on major
problems encountered. I am convinced
that the Federal Inspector must have au-
thority commensurate with his responsi-
bilities.
592
