Jan. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and unneeded rules while concentrating
greater enforcement efforts on the most
dangerous and particularly the most un-
healthy occupational environments. More
efficient management of this program will
serve the interest that both labor and
management have in better working
conditions.
Housing
We are committed to holding down
housing construction costs and eliminat-
ing unnecessary regulatory burdens, so
that the American consumer will have an
affordable choice in the housing market-
place. Our efforts will be accelerated this
year. We have also supported introduc-
tion of the new money market certificates,
which have helped the housing industry
by maintaining a steady supply of mort-
gage credit.
The Administration has supported the
provision of Federal housing assistance to
low-and-moderate income people, includ-
ing the elderly and the handicapped.
During the period of 1978 through
1980, the Administration will have com-
mitted resources for over one million
additional units of assisted housing for
low-and-moderate income renters and
homeowners. This is evidence of our com-
mitment to the goal of a decent home for
every American. In 1980, I am recom-
mending 325,000 units of housing for low-
and-moderate income persons.
The problems of providing adequate
housing in rural areas is especially acute.
Lack of available land, high site develop-
ment costs, widespread substandard, over-
crowded housing, and limited credit
opportunities continue to plague rural
areas. Government attempts to help are
often hampered by inappropriate, burden-
some regulations and paperwork. This
year the Administration will take steps to
assure that Federal regulations accommo-
date locally acceptable housing codes and
that the endless paperwork, inspections,
and processing requirements currently
mandated by the three major housing
agencies, HUD, FHA, and VA, are con-
solidated and streamlined.
Community Development
My Administration remains committed
to a partnership involving Federal, State,
county, and local governments, the pri-
vate sector, and community organiza-
tions. The Community Development
Block Grant program is a cornerstone of
that partnership, and I am proposing in
my FY '80 budget that it be funded at the
full authorization level. This will be an
increase of $150 million in FY '80 above
the FY '79 level.
In 1977, we developed the Urban De-
velopment Action Grant program and it
has already succeeded in leveraging $2.9
billion in private investment and creating
or saving 125,000 jobs. I am proposing a
continuation of the Action Grant pro-
gram next year, at the $400 million au-
thorization level.
Neighborhoods
My Administration has been devoted
to the preservation of neighborhoods and
the development of sound neighborhood
self-help projects. This goal has been evi-
dent in the emphasis on neighborhoods
in my urban policy as well as in the op-
eration of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development and other agen-
cies. Last year, as part of our urban policy,
we proposed and Congress passed the
Livable Cities and Neighborhood Self-
Help Development programs to enable
neighborhood groups and organizations
to rebuild their neighborhoods. In addi-
tion, Congressional passage of the Na-
tional Consumer Cooperative Bank makes
available new sources of financing and
136
