Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Mar. 27
agement of radioactive wastes, and many
others. Consistent with the wishes of Con-
gress, I have asked the Office of Science
and Technology Policy to coordinate pro-
grams involving many agencies using
interagency coordination through the
Federal Coordinating Council for Science,
Engineering, and Technology.
A fourth partnership is between uni-
versities and industry. Universities are the
chief performers of the fundamental re-
search that underlies technological ad-
vance; industry puts this research to work
and also identifies problems requiring new
knowledge. The flow of people and infor-
mation between the campus and industry
is an important element in both scientific
and technological advance. The National
Science Foundation is beginning to ex-
periment with projects that involve co-
operative activities by people in industry
and universities. Other efforts to
strengthen the partnership are needed in
the years ahead. I will give this issue at-
tention as I review the recommendations
coming from the study of industry inno-
vation.
We must also strive to increase public
understanding and participation in our
scientific and technology activities. The
changes induced by science and technol-
ogy are infused in the fabric of society,
profoundly altering the way we live. The
understanding of those changes and their
causes, as well as successful adaptation to
them, requires an informed citizenry. I
have supported measures, such as inter-
venor funding, that contribute to in-
formed public participation in decisions
where technology is important. Science
education—preparing our children for
tomorrow's technical society-will receive
emphasis in the proposed Department of
Education and programs of the National
Science Foundation. In addition, the Fed-
eral Departments and Agencies conduct-
ing research and development will con-
tinue to support programs that train
future generations of scientists and engi-
neers. My Administration is committed to
overcoming barriers that discourage
career opportunities for minorities and
women in science and technology.
Finally, if we are to make the best use
of our scientific and technological prog-
ress, we must maintain continuity and
consistency in our support and policies.
This Nation's scientific capability is the
greatest in the world, but it will not re-
main so in an environment of uncertainty
and changing priorities and policies. We
must recognize that it takes many years to
train new scientists and to complete some
research projects. Technology develop-
ment projects and many research missions,
such as our space probes, require sus-
tained work over a decade. If research and
development activities are started and
stopped abruptly, the chance of their suc-
cess is diminished and the probability of
benefits to the Nation decreased. The
Congress and the Administration must
join in recognizing the long-term nature
of many research and development activi-
ties. Together we must provide the neces-
sary assurances and commitments. The
policies of my Administration, as articu-
lated in this message, are intended to
serve that purpose.
CONCLUSION
In our lifetime the world has been re-
shaped by two prevailing forces of
change: the desire of peoples everywhere
for freedom from tyranny and the ad-
vance of science and technology.
Given the stunning achievements of
science, it is natural to wonder whether
545
