Mar. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
hundred and seventy-nine, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and third.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:43 a.m., March 20, 1979]
International Monetary Fund
Nomination of Donald E. Syvrud To Be U. S.
Alternate Executive Director.
March 20, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Donald E. Syvrud, of Mc-
Lean, Va., to be U.S. Alternate Executive
Director of the International Monetary
Fund. He would replace Thomas Leddy,
resigned.
Syvrud, 54, is Director of the Office of
International Monetary Affairs at the
Treasury Department. He has been with
the Treasury Department since 1971, and
has also been a Federal executive fellow
at the Brookings Institution and an inter-
national economist with the Office of De-
veloping Nations. He was an international
economist with the State Department
from 1954 to 1963.
National Advisory Council on
Indian Education
Appointment of Five Members.
March 20, 1979
ap-
The President today announced the
pointment of five persons as members of
the National Advisory Council on Indian
Education. They are:
Joy J. HANLEY, of Window Rock, Ariz., vice
president for academic and student affairs
at Navajo Community College in Tsaile,
Ariz.;
RUBY B. LUDWIG, of Grove, Okla., an elemen-
tary schoolteacher and learning disability
laboratory instructor;
WAYNE A. NEWELL, of Princeton, Maine, di-
rector of the Wabnaki bilingual education
program at the Indian Township School;
VIOLET E. RAU, of Toppenish, Wash., director
of the Yakima Indian Nation early child-
hood education programs and a child devel-
opment associate specialist for the University
Research Corporation Indian Migrant Pro-
grams Division;
ROBERT J. SWAN, of Havre, Mont., education
director of the Fort Belknap Community
Council, recently named National Indian
Educator of the Year by the National Indian
Education Association.
Recording Industry Association
of America
Remarks at a White House Reception.
March 20, 1979
It's nice to meet personally with a
group with whom I spend about 10 hours
a day. The music that you make not only
pleases the President of the United States,
but I think it extends the beneficial im-
pact of American life throughout the
world. As you well know, because you've
achieved this high standard of accom-
plishment, the American sound recording
industry has indeed been innovative,
dynamic, pleasant, profitable, and-
[laughter]-I was just trying to see which
one of those adjectives appealed to you
most. [Laughter]
But for people who have the talent to
both create and produce sound record-
ings, I want to express my thanks to you
as President. I've got a lot of friends in
this room. You've been my friends when
the Jimmy Carter performance was on
the top of the chart and also when it was
on the bottom. [Laughter] And I thank
you for it very much.
446
