Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 17
The continuing importance of histori-
cally black colleges and universities, not
only to students but also to this Nation's
social, economic and educational life,
cannot be over-estimated. This Admin-
istration is committed to enhancing their
strength and prosperity.
In moving toward this goal the De-
partment of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare criteria call for efforts to strengthen
the historically black public institutions
through increased financial support, new
and expanded programs, and the elim-
ination of educationally unnecessary pro-
gram duplication between them and their
traditional white counterparts. These ef-
forts are required to ensure that the his-
torically black colleges are able to par-
ticipate fully in the educational and so-
cial progress of our Nation.
I have repeatedly expressed my hope
that the historically black colleges will
be stronger when I leave office than when
my Administration began. I am asking
today that you personally join with me in
meeting this objective by initiating and
overseeing the following actions:
• Conduct a thorough review of the
operations within your department or
agency to ensure that historically black
institutions are being given a fair oppor-
tunity to participate in Federal grant and
contract programs. Ensure that an af-
firmative effort is made to inform black
colleges of the opportunity to apply and
compete for grants and contracts. Par-
ticular attention should be given to iden-
tifying and eliminating unintended bar-
riers that may have resulted in reduced
participation in and benefits from Fed-
eral programs by these colleges.
• Identify areas where historically
black institutions can participate more
effectively in your Department's activities.
Consider, for example, small research
contracts or grants which can be let with-
out competition, and new or existing co-
operative education programs which fa-
cilitate minority student access to Federal
employment.
• Where appropriate, establish goals
and timetables for increased participation
of historically black colleges in the activi-
ties of your department or agency. These
goals should reflect targets for increased
expenditures beyond your fiscal 1978
levels.
• Establish a forum for continuing con-
sultation with representatives from the
historically black colleges and universities.
Plan visits and other efforts to familiarize
appropriate staff in your agency with the
unique and indispensable resources at
black colleges.
Appoint a high-level liaison person
to oversee these activities.
I am asking Louis Martin, my special
assistant, in cooperation with the Secre-
tary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
to monitor the implementation of this di-
rective government-wide. I personally
plan to review periodically progress made
toward increasing access of historically
black colleges to all Federal agencies.
In a separate communication, I have
asked that Secretary Califano resume
publication of the Federal Interagency
Committee on Education's annual report
on patterns of Federal funding for histor-
ically black colleges.
I want to be certain that this Adminis-
tration's strong commitments to the Na-
tion's historically black colleges and the
contents of this directive are thoroughly
understood by everyone. Please be certain
that copies of this directive are circulated
to all appropriate individuals within your
department or agency.
JIMMY CARTER
49
