Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the People's Republic of China. Exit for-
malities and documentation shall be dealt
with in accordance with the laws of the
country in which the person concerned
resides. Entry formalities and documen-
tation shall be dealt with in accordance
with the laws of the country to which the
person concerned wishes to travel.
3. United States citizens entering the
People's Republic of China on the basis
of United States travel documents con-
taining Chinese entry visas will, during
the period for which their status has been
accorded, and in accordance with the
visa's validity, be considered United
States nationals by the appropriate Chi-
nese authorities for the purpose of en-
suring consular access and protection.
Such persons shall have the right of de-
parture from the People's Republic of
China without further documentation,
regardless of whether they may also be
regarded as citizens of the People's Re-
public of China, nor shall they lose the
right of consular protection or the right
of departure without further documenta-
tion if the period of validity for which
the status has been accorded has expired
during the course of judicial or adminis-
trative proceedings which prevent their
earlier departure.
4. Citizens of the People's Republic of
China entering the United States using
travel documents of the People's Republic
of China containing United States entry
visas will, during the period for which
their status has been accorded, and in ac-
cordance with the visa's validity, be con-
sidered nationals of the People's Repub-
lic of China by the appropriate United
States authorities for the purpose of en-
suring consular access and protection.
Such persons shall have the right of de-
parture from the United States without
further documentation, regardless of
whether they may also be regarded as
citizens of the United States, nor shall
they lose the right of consular protection
or the right of departure without further
documentation if the period of validity for
which the status has been accorded has
expired during the course of judicial or
administrative proceedings which prevent
their earlier departure.
5. If a citizen of the sending country is
arrested or detained in any manner, the
authorities of the receiving country shall,
without delay, notify the consular post or
embassy accordingly of the arrest or de-
tention of the person and permit access
by a consular officer of the sending state
to the citizen who is under arrest or de-
tained in custody.
6. Persons residing in the People's Re-
public of China who are entitled to re-
ceive financial benefits from the Govern-
ment of the United States of America
shall receive their benefits under mutually
agreed arrangements and in accordance
with each side's laws and regulations.
7. Persons residing in the United States
of America who are entitled to receive fi-
nancial benefits from the Government of
the People's Republic of China shall re-
ceive their benefits under mutually agreed
arrangements and in accordance with
each side's laws and regulations.
8. In addition to consular offices whose
opening has already been agreed upon,
the two sides agree to discuss the opening
of consular offices in other cities as the
need arises.
NOTE: Secretary of State Vance and Chinese
Foreign Minister Huang signed the texts of the
agreement prior to the signing of the cul-
tural and science and technology agreements
by the President and the Vice Premier.
210
