Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, March 9, 1979
Meeting With Prime Minister
Pierre Elliott Trudeau of Canada
Remarks on the Departure of the Prime
Minister. March 3, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon, every-
body.
Recently, Prime Minister Trudeau and
I were scheduled to meet this evening in
New York to attend the performance of
the Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra. We
were not able to do so, but we had a de-
lightful lunch today and maybe made
some good music together.
We were able to discuss international
and bilateral issues concerning the econ-
omy. We spent a considerable portion of
our time talking about energy matters. We
both are resolved to work much more
closely in the future even than we have in
the past. We discussed the possibility of
establishing a consultative mechanism so
that we might exchange ideas on energy
on a continuing basis.
We had a general review of world polit-
ical problems, some of the fast-changing
developments that are of interest both to
us and to Canada and others who want
peace and stability and a better quality of
life throughout the world. We share with
Canada, as you know, the longest open
border in the world. We benefit from the
stable and reliable and very valuable
friendship that we have with the Cana-
dian people. And I think it's accurate to
say that the relationship that we have
with the great Prime Minister of Canada,
Pierre Trudeau, is accurately mirrored in
this same context.
We've been successful in recent months
in resolving some potentially very difficult
issues concerning the exact border be-
tween our two countries and the open seas
and also resolving fisheries agreements.
These kinds of issues are ones that we
discussed and resolved successfully as a
matter of routine.
And I'm very grateful and honored and
pleased to have Prime Minister Trudeau
come and visit us for this substantive dis-
cussion. I think it is an indication of our
past excellent relationships and, I think,
an accurate precursor or prediction that
our relationships will be equally favorable
in the future for both countries.
Pierre, we're glad to have you again in
our home.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Thank you.
Well, I feel fortunate to have been able to
meet with President Carter at this time.
Naturally, there will be a lot of disap-
pointed Canadians in New York who were
hoping to see the President and myself
hearing these great Canadian and inter-
379
