Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Apr. 10
package-FMS financing, grant and eco-
nomic assistance-complement one an-
other in providing the type of compre-
hensive program called for under current
circumstances.
Construction of air bases in Israel is not
only a critical element in that country's
security, but is essential in order for Israel
to fulfill its undertaking to withdraw from
the Sinai within the three-year period
agreed in the Peace Treaty. This with-
drawal is, of course, of vital importance to
Egypt and to the continued momentum
of the entire peace process.
The provision of direct assistance to
Egypt will ensure that the Egyptians un-
derstand that our sensitivity to Israel's
security requirements is paralleled by a
concern for their security and national
development. Provision of FMS financing
to Egypt will enable the Egyptian govern-
ment to begin modernization of its armed
forces. In turn, this will enhance Egypt's
capabilities to fulfill legitimate needs for
self-defense to meet any threats which
might arise.
Both Egypt and Israel face immediate
economic problems as they enter the post-
Treaty era. The financial cost to Israel of
withdrawal from the Sinai will be sub-
stantial. For its part, the Egyptian govern-
ment has an urgent and critical need to
demonstrate to its people the economic
benefits of peace. The proposed legisla-
tion will provide funds to move quickly
to meet some new requirements; we like-
wise will work to accelerate implementa-
tion of our current programs.
Prompt and favorable action by the
Congress on the attached legislation will
provide the clearest possible signal of U.S.
determination to support the results
achieved thus far in the Middle East and
will give impetus to the search for a com-
prehensive settlement. The peace process
must not be allowed to languish. We seek
your support for a good beginning de-
signed to sustain momentum towards a
wider peace.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
Vice President Mondale's Visit to
the Nordic Countries and the
Netherlands
Remarks to Scandinavian and Dutch
Journalists Concerning the Visit.
April 10, 1979
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President, we
gave a brief report on what this trip is
about and the importance we place on our
relations with these nations and the fact
that right now, I think, in every case our
relationships are just about as good as they
could be. We have no serious or conten-
tious issues.
THE PRESIDENT. I might say that the
lights did not go out in the Oval Office.
[Laughter]
Well, I don't think there's anything
more important to us, to our country, than
to have a good relationship and a strong
alliance with those who share common
principles and goals with our country.
And this is obviously true with the nations
that the Vice President will be visiting
very shortly.
But it is equally important that we have
a chance for quiet and comprehensive dis-
cussions between the heads of state and
Vice President Mondale, who speaks di-
rectly and with authority for me. And I
look forward to the report that Vice Presi-
dent Mondale will bring back to our
639
