Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
May 2
ures to implement the results of the
Tokyo Round negotiations as quickly as
possible.
-The two countries will work with
others at the Summit meeting scheduled
for Tokyo in June to ensure that this
meeting makes a substantial contribution
to a healthier world economy.
-Bilateral and multilateral coopera-
tion among industrial nations to improve
the world energy outlook has become even
more important in recent years. It is im-
perative that the industrial nations, in-
cluding the United States and Japan,
increase energy production, enhance the
development of alternative energy
sources, and implement fully the agree-
ment on energy conservation reached by
the International Energy Agency on
March 2. The signing of the bilateral
U.S.-Japan Agreement on Cooperation in
Research and Development in Energy
and Related Fields represents a major
contribution to these objectives. The two
governments will study seriously the
pros-
pects for cooperative efforts in other areas
of basic and applied research.
-To meet the increasing demand for
energy, there is an urgent need to promote
further peaceful use of nuclear energy,
consistent with non-proliferation and the
requirements of safety and environmental
protection. They agreed to expand joint
research to enhance nuclear reactor safety
and reliability. The Prime Minister
stressed that, while sharing fully with the
President a common concern over the
danger of nuclear proliferation, for Japan
nuclear energy is the most reliable alter-
native to oil in the short and medium
term. The President and the Prime Minis-
ter agreed that the United States and
Japan, in full cooperation, should con-
tinue to pursue the policies of nuclear
non-proliferation, while avoiding undue
restrictions on necessary and economically
justified nuclear development programs.
The President and the Prime Minister
took special notice of the technical studies
in progress in the International Nuclear
Fuel Cycle Evaluation (INFCE) and
expressed their strong hope that these
technical studies will lead to satisfactory
results.
The United States and Japan should
improve their official development assist-
ance to developing countries. It is partic-
ularly important for them to strengthen
aid in the field of human resource devel-
opment and to strengthen support of re-
search and development in such areas as
health, food, and energy. The two coun-
tries will explore, through bilateral dis-
cussions and consultation with developing
countries, how to promote cooperation in
technical assistance and in research and
development in these areas.
-Japan, which has been the most im-
portant single customer for American ag-
ricultural exports, and the United States,
which has been Japan's most important
single supplier, will cooperate closely to
ensure that their mutually beneficial ag-
ricultural trade meets Japan's import
needs. Relevant authorities of the Gov-
ernments of the United States and Japan
will periodically exchange information
and meet to consult, as appropriate, on
the supply and demand situation of agri-
cultural products that figure in trade be-
tween the United States and Japan.
CULTURAL AND EDUCATION EXCHANGE
20. The President and the Prime Min-
ister noted with satisfaction that cooper-
ation and exchanges in the fields of
culture and education are flourishing and
are of major importance in deepening
mutual understanding and friendship be-
tween the peoples of the United States
and Japan. Both governments will seek to
767
