Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 13
son, Chilean vessels caught 76 sperm
whales despite the IWC prohibition of
sperm whale catches. During the 1977-
1978 season the Government of Chile es-
tablished unilateral quotas
unilateral quotas allowing
further catches of sperm whales despite
the continuing IWC prohibition, and
Chilean nationals acquired additional
whaling equipment and continued to hunt
in the area. It is therefore likely that
Chilean vessels continued to exceed the
IWC conservation quota for sperm whales
during that season.
Vessels of the Republic of Korea caught
43 fin whales in the waters of the western
North Pacific during the 1976 season ac-
cording to information received from the
Government of the Republic of Korea,
despite the IWC prohibition of commer-
cial catches of such whales. Information
subsequently received from the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Korea indicated
that such whales were not fin whales but
were Bryde's whales. However, since the
IWC quota for Bryde's whales was almost
entirely taken by Japanese and Soviet
vessels during the season, the Korean
catch of 43 whales, whether Bryde's
whales or fin whales, exceeded the ap-
plicable IWC conservation quotas during
1976. During the 1977 season vessels of
the Republic of Korea caught 1,033
minke whales despite the catch by other
countries of 248 of the 541 minke whales
permitted by the IWC, thereby exceeding
the IWC conservation quota for such
whales.
I have favored a ten-year moratorium
on all commercial whaling since I was a
member of the United States Delegation
to the United Nations Conference on the
Human Environment in Stockholm in
1972. Although we have not yet been able
to achieve such a moratorium, in recent
years we have made substantial progress
in establishing selective moratoria for
species of whales that need protection.
For example, in 1973 the IWC quota for
sei whales was more than 7,500 per year.
Since 1975, the IWC has maintained a
moratorium on the taking of sei whales in
the North Pacific Ocean. At the 1978
IWC meeting in London, the sei whale
quota was reduced to zero in the Southern
Ocean, leaving a total allowable catch of
only 84 sei whales per year in the North
Atlantic. At the recent special IWC meet-
ing in Tokyo, sperm whale quotas for the
North Pacific were reduced by 41%. In
addition, the IWC has become increasing-
ly responsive to scientific information
about the world's whales. As a result, since
1972 the annual allowable take of whales
from populations now subject to IWC
quotas has been reduced by nearly 60%,
from 46,000 to less than 20,000.
This progress had been threatened by
the continued failure of the Governments
of Peru, Chile and the Republic of Korea
to adhere to internationally accepted
measures for the conservation of whales.
During the past year the Department
of State has contacted the Governments of
Peru, Chile and the Republic of Korea
about this matter on a number of occa-
sions, stressing United States concern
about their whaling operations, urging
that they join the IWC or otherwise ad-
here to IWC quotas, and informing them
of possible application of the provisions of
the Pelly Amendment. At the June 1978
meeting of the IWC, the Government of
the Republic of Korea indicated its inten-
tion to join the IWC by its July 1979
meeting. The Governments of Peru and
Chile also indicated their intention to
join the IWC by that meeting, but stressed
their concern about minimizing the im-
pact on their fishing industries that would
result from immediate adherence to IWC
quotas.
267
