Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Jan. 23
We must never accept a permanent
group of unemployed Americans, with no
hope and no stake in building our society.
For those left out of the economy because
of discrimination, a lack of skills, or pov-
erty, we must maintain high levels of
training, and we must continue to provide
jobs.
A responsible budget is not our only
weapon to control inflation. We must act
now to protect all Americans from health
care costs that are rising $1 million per
hour, 24 hours a day, doubling every 5
years. We must take control of the largest
contributor to that inflation—skyrocketing
hospital costs.
There will be no clearer test of the com-
mitment of this Congress to the anti-infla-
tion fight than the legislation that I will
submit again this year to hold down infla-
tion in hospital care.
Over the next 5 years, my proposals will
save Americans a total of $60 billion, of
which $25 billion will be savings to the
American taxpayer in the Federal budget
itself. The American people have waited
long enough. This year we must act on
hospital cost containment.
We must also fight inflation by improve-
ments and better enforcement of our anti-
trust laws and by reducing government
obstacles to competition in the private
sector.
We must begin to scrutinize the overall
effect of regulation in our economy.
Through deregulation of the airline in-
dustry we've increased profits, cut prices
for all Americans, and begun-for one of
the few times in the history of our Na-
tion—to actually dismantle a major Fed-
eral bureaucracy. This year, we must be-
gin the effort to reform our regulatory
processes for the railroad, bus, and the
trucking industries.
America has the greatest economic sys-
tem in the world. Let's reduce government
interference and give it a chance to work.
I call on Congress to take other anti-
inflation action-to expand our exports to
protect American jobs threatened by un-
fair trade, to conserve energy, to increase
production and to speed development of
solar power, and to reassess our Nation's
technological superiority. American work-
ers who enlist in the fight against inflation
deserve not just our gratitude, but they
deserve the protection of the real wage
insurance proposal that I have already
made to the Congress.
To be successful, we must change our
attitudes as well as our policies. We can-
not afford to live beyond our means. We
cannot afford to create programs that we
can neither manage nor finance, or to
waste our natural resources, and we can-
not tolerate mismanagement and fraud.
Above all, we must meet the challenges of
inflation as a united people.
With the support of the American peo-
ple, government in recent decades has
helped to dismantle racial barriers, has
provided assistance for the jobless and the
retired, has fed the hungry, has protected
the safety, health, and bargaining rights
of American workers, and has helped to
preserve our natural heritage.
But it's not enough to have created a lot
of government programs. Now we must
make the good programs more effective
and improve or weed out those which are
wasteful or unnecessary.
With the support of the Congress, we've
begun to reorganize and to get control of
the bureaucracy. We are reforming the
civil service system, so that we can rec-
ognize and reward those who do a good
job and correct or remove those who do
not.
This year, we must extend major reor-
ganization efforts to education, to eco-
nomic development, and to the manage-
ment of our natural resources. We need to
enact a sunshine [sunset] law that when
government programs have outlived their
105
