Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Feb. 13
istrative and staff support activities within
the Office of the HEW Secretary and the
Education Division. It will allow im-
proved financial management and more
efficient administration of education pro-
grams. Separation of the education func-
tions from HEW will also promote im-
proved management of its closely-related
health and welfare responsibilities.
Third, it will provide greater account-
ability. Submerged beneath HEW's dom-
inant functions of health and welfare,
Federal education programs lack full-time
accountability at the Cabinet level. With
a separate Department of Education, one
Cabinet member will report directly to the
President and be accountable to the Con-
gress and the American people for the
conduct of Federal education policies.
Fourth, it will provide simpler, more
reliable, and more responsive support to
states, localities, public and private insti-
tutions, giving them a direct line of Cab-
inet-level contact with the Federal gov-
ernment.
Fifth, the new Department will allow
better coordination of education programs
with related Federal activities, such as em-
ployment programs and research. It will
also allow high-level consideration of the
impact of other Federal policies, such as
tax and energy, on education institutions
and students.
Under the proposal I am submitting
today, the Department of Education will
include more than 150 programs and 16,-
200 employees. With a budget of more
than $13 billion, this Department will be
larger than five other Departments includ-
ing Energy, Commerce, Justice, Interior
and State.
In addition to the 140 programs in the
Education Division of the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, the new
Department of Education will handle ed-
ucational activities now carried out by
several other departments. These include:
the U.S. Department of Agriculture
School, certain science education pro-
grams of the National Science Founda-
tion, the overseas dependents' schools of
the Department of Defense, the college
housing loan program of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, the
Law Enforcement Education and the Law
Enforcement Internship Program of the
Department of Justice, and the Migrant
Education programs of the Department
of Labor.
The proposed legislation establishes
within the Department of Education sep-
arate Offices for Civil Rights, Elementary
and Secondary Education, Postsecondary
Education and Educational Research and
Improvement, each headed by an Assist-
ant Secretary. It establishes an office to
administer functions related to the edu-
cation of overseas dependents of Depart-
ment of Defense personnel, an Inspector
General, and a 20-member Intergovern-
mental Advisory Council on Education,
appointed by the President, to promote
better relations with the various levels of
government and private institutions.
I urge the Senate and the House of
Representatives to act promptly on this
important proposal.
The White House,
February 13, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
International Whaling
Commission
Message to the Congress Transmitting
a Report. February 13, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
On December 14, 1978, Secretary of
Commerce Kreps certified to me,
265
