Mar. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
1979. No community will receive less than
$20,000 annually or will be eligible if its
per capita income exceeds 150 percent of
the national average.
The legislation also provides a standby
program of Federal fiscal assistance (Title
II), to State and local governments
through 1980. This assistance would be
provided if national economic conditions
deteriorate sharply, as evidenced by a na-
tional unemployment rate of 6.5 percent
or higher in any quarter. In that event,
governments with quarterly unemploy-
ment rates of 5 percent or more would
receive aid. This program should not in-
volve any budget outlays in the next two
years. The Administration does not ex-
pect the national unemployment rate to
rise above 6.5 percent. But, I urge the
Congress to authorize this standby eco-
nomic insurance program for State and
local governments as a hedge against eco-
nomic adversity and as an insurance policy
in the event of an unexpectedly large
downturn in the economy.
Our ability to act quickly to prevent the
problems resulting from an economic
downturn can reduce both the severity
and duration of any downturn. Help that
is delayed too long often takes effect after
the crisis, and contributes to inflationary
pressures during the economic recovery.
Together, this two-tier program ad-
dresses both immediate and prospective
needs: a carefully targeted program for a
limited number of fiscally strained com-
munities and a more comprehensive
standby program for State and local
governments to protect them against an
unexpectedly severe economic downturn.
This proposal meets a pressing and im-
mediate need and allows our Nation's
communities to plan sensibly for the fu-
ture. I urge Congress to enact this im-
portant legislation.
The White House,
March 6, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Senior Executive Service
Conversion Rights
Memorandum From the President.
March 6, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Senior Executive Service Con-
version Rights of Career Appointees to
Presidential Appointments
In my memorandum to you of Novem-
ber 8, 1978, I requested that
you forward
to me names of candidates for Inspector
General positions who possess exceptional
integrity and ability. This request re-
flected my desire to fill these Presidential
appointments strictly on the basis of merit.
Some candidates for these positions,
and for other Presidential appointments,
come from the career service and are now
occupying positions which will be placed
in the Senior Executive Service. If they
were to remain in their present assign-
ment, they would be entitled to convert
to the Senior Executive Service, but if
they should accept Presidential appoint-
ment prior to the effective date of the
SES, their entitlement to conversion is
less clear.
It is unmistakably the intent of Con-
gress that Inspector General positions will
be filled on a merit basis. It is equally
clear that the Congress intended to per-
mit career members of the Senior Execu-
tive Service to accept Presidential ap-
pointments while retaining full SES ca-
reer status and SES benefits (PL 95-454
ยง 3392 (c) and 3393 (b)).
392
