Mar. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
researchers from many branches of science
to advance knowledge on which future
gains in plant productivity, genetic breed-
ing, and nutrition ultimately will depend.
The competitive grant program-which
will help us meet our future agricultural
needs—merits strong Congressional sup-
port.
Water
Our understanding of the Nation's
water supply and how to use it wisely has
increased over the years, but many oppor-
tunities for improvement still remain.
River basin assessments, ground water
flow and recharge patterns, efficient irri-
gation methods, and pollution control
techniques are receiving careful attention
by the Departments of Agriculture and
Interior, the Environmental Protection
Agency, the Corps of Engineers, and
others. As greater demands are placed on
our water supply, particularly in the West,
we must understand how best to use and
conserve it. And we must assess the long-
term implications of our actions. Protect-
ing water quality is also important for
agriculture and in our urban and rural
communities. I am directing the Secre-
tary of Interior and Director of the Office
of Science and Technology Policy to set
research priorities aimed at meeting our
future water needs.
Ocean science and engineering have
opened a new region of the globe for ex-
ploration and resource development. As
we explore new areas of our continental
shelf and deeper water for oil and gas, we
must have the world's best technical
capability to protect our ocean and coastal
environment, to find new resources, and
to tap them efficiently. Science and tech-
nology will continue to play a major role
in these activities.
Department of Natural Resources
Developing and utilizing science and
technology requires effective Federal or-
ganization. My proposal for creation of a
Department of Natural Resources will
permit better integration of research and
development activities in the area of nat-
ural resources and the environment.
PROMOTING BETTER HEALTH FOR ALL
AMERICANS
As I stated in my State of the Union
Message, the opportunity to lead a health-
ier life is denied to many in our country
because health care services are inacces-
sible or unaffordable or inefficient. My
Administration is dedicated to correcting
this situation through initiatives that will
influence the structure, function, and
economics of our health services systems.
The biomedical capability developed in
this country since World War II is a mag-
nificent demonstration of our scientific
and technological prowess; it is the envy
of the world. The biomedical, social, and
behavioral sciences have made countless
contributions to the health of our people
in recent years. Over the past generation,
we have seen polio vaccine and new drugs
developed, the introduction of heart-lung
machines, organ transplantation, and a
new understanding of the chemistry of
the brain. And we have made major gains
against high blood pressure, heart attack,
stroke, specific kinds of cancer, birth de-
fects, infant and childhood disease, and
mental retardation and mental illness.
Much remains to be done. The Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare
is developing a health research strategy
with increased emphasis on promotion of
good health and prevention of disease.
534
