Jan. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
opened up
the prospect of broadened op-
portunities for exchanges between the two
countries in the fields of science, technol-
ogy and education as relations between
them improve. Both sides also believe that
such exchanges are conducive to the
pro-
motion of friendship and understanding
between their two peoples.
UNDERSTANDING ON AGRICULTURAL EX-
CHANGE BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND THE PEOPLE'S RE-
PUBLIC OF CHINA
During a visit to China of a delegation
led by U.S. Secretary of Agriculture
Robert Bergland in November 1978, dis-
cussions were held with Chinese officials
which resulted in understandings concern-
ing US-PRC agricultural exchange. It
was agreed that it would be of mutual
benefit to promote cooperation in agri-
cultural technology, economic informa-
tion, science and education, and trade in
agricultural products, and that contacts
between organizations and institutions of
all types in these fields should be facili-
tated.
It was noted that study groups had al-
ready been exchanged in the fields of
science and research, farm machinery,
citrus fruits, wheat and vegetables. It was
agreed that areas in which further ex-
changes should occur would include germ
plasm (seed research and selection), bio-
logical control of pests, livestock and
veterinary science, and agricultural edu-
cation and research management
methods. It was also agreed that, within
the next two or three years, cooperation
would be carried out in the fields of
forestry, agricultural engineering, im-
provement of grasslands and management
of pasturelands, cultivation of fruit trees,
medicinal plants, and the application of
remote sensing and computer technology
to agriculture. Such cooperation would
include mutual visits of, and joint re-
search by, students, scientists and techni-
cians.
The U.S. side agreed to facilitate con-
tacts between officials of the People's Re-
public of China and U.S. manufacturers
of agricultural equipment and supplies.
Each side expressed its interest in the sta-
tistical methods of agricultural economics
and experience in agricultural manage-
ment of the other side. It was agreed also
that, through the cooperator program of
the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
further discussions should be held regard-
ing the products and technology best
suited to conditions in China and that
USDA teams would begin visiting China
in early 1979. Reciprocal scientific teams
from the PRC will also begin U.S. study
visits in 1979.
It was agreed that the development of
agricultural trade between the two coun-
tries was in the mutual interest and that
its prospects were bright.
It was agreed that when study teams or
technical trainees are exchanged on a
one-for-one basis, the host country would
pay in-country costs; and that when the
exchange is not reciprocal, the sending
country will pay all costs.
UNDERSTANDING ON COOPERATION IN
SPACE TECHNOLOGY BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
During a visit to the United States in
November and December 1978 by a dele-
gation headed by Dr. Jen Hsin-min, Di-
rector of the Chinese Academy of Space
Technology, an understanding in princi-
ple was reached with a delegation headed
by Dr. Robert A. Frosch, Administrator
of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, on U.S.-Chinese cooper-
ation in the peaceful utilization of space
technology.
This understanding includes:
1. Cooperation in the development of
the civil broadcasting and communica-
204
