June 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
solar and renewable resource technologies
which can be used in residential and com-
mercial buildings, I have recently pro-
posed two additional tax credits, to be
funded out of the Energy Security Trust
Fund.
I am directing the Department of the
Treasury to send to the Congress legisla-
tion which will provide a 20% tax credit
up to a total of $2,000 for passive solar
systems in new homes. Credits will also be
proposed for passive solar in commercial
buildings. Passive solar applications are
competitive today, but we need to provide
incentives to owners, builders, architects,
and contractors to ensure early and wide-
spread use.
I am also directing the Treasury to pre-
pare and transmit legislation to provide a
tax credit for purchasers of airtight wood-
burning stoves for use in principal resi-
dences. This credit would equal 15% of
the cost of the stove, and will be available
through December 1982. There is a great
potential to expand significantly the use
of wood for home heating. It can help
lower residential fuel bills, particularly as
oil and natural gas prices increase.
With these levels of assistance, hot
water heating can be made fully competi-
tive with electricity. In many instances,
complete passive solar home designs, in-
cluding solar heating and cooling, will be
economically attractive alternatives.
A strong Federal program to provide
accurate and up-to-date solar information
to homeowners, builders, architects and
contractors will be coupled with these
financial incentives. The Department of
Energy has established a National Solar
User Information Program to collect,
evaluate and publish information on the
performance of solar systems throughout
the country. Expanding the government's
information dissemination systems
through seminars, technical journals, state
energy offices, and the Solar Energy Re-
search Institute will be a major thrust of
DOE's program in 1980. The four Re-
gional Solar Energy Centers will become
fully operational in 1980, providing infor-
mation to the general public and to groups
such as builders, contractors, and archi-
tects who will play key roles in the accel-
eration of solar technologies.
To be fully effective, however, these
incentives must be combined with a deter-
mined effort by the architects, engineers,
and builders who design and construct our
homes and offices, schools, hotels, restau-
rants, and other buildings we live and
work in. I am calling upon the deans of
our schools of architecture and engineer-
ing to do their part by making the teach-
ing of solar energy principles an essential
part of their curricula. The young men
and women being trained today must
learn to regard the solar energy and over-
all energy efficiency of the buildings they
design as no less important than their
structural integrity. I call as well on
America's builders to build and market
homes which offer the buyer freedom
from escalating utility bills.
In the end, it will be consumers of this
country who will make the purchasing
decisions that will dictate the future of
this industry. They must have confidence
in the industry and in the products which
it produces before they will be willing to
make necessary investments. To this end,
both industry and government must be
ever vigilant to assure that consumers are
well protected from fraud and abuse.
Significant opportunities for use of
existing solar technologies are also avail-
able in the agricultural and industrial sec-
tors of our economy. Industrial process
heat can be generated using solar tech-
nologies. Critical agricultural activities-
fueling tractors, running irrigation pumps
1102
