July 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and your dedication to the goal that I
have described for our Nation in the
energy field and the repairing of the con-
sciousness and the attitudes of our Nation.
you
I hope that you will feel not only a
sense of gratification that you came to
Camp David and that you're having lunch
at the White House, but also that will
consider yourself, Democrats or Republi-
cans, no matter whom you might support
politically in the future or have supported
in the past, that you will consider your-
self kind of a member of a team of people
who are dedicated to assuring that our
Nation will be stronger in the future, will
be more united in the future, that con-
fidence which has been lost will be re-
stored, and that there be a searching on
the part of every one of you among those
who listen to your voice-your peer group,
those who look to you for leadership to
make sure that our Nation is stronger in
the future.
I've made some, I think, good deci-
sions since we left Camp David. Some
have been controversial, but I think
they've been sound. There is no doubt in
my mind that I now have a stronger and
more cohesive and perhaps even a more
competent Cabinet. But at least we'll be
stronger and more cohesive.
I think the analysis of those who will
serve in the future will soon replace in
the Washington press the analysis of what
did occur when I made the changes. And
I think as people are assessed, who will be
serving in HEW and HUD and Trans-
portation and the Federal Reserve and
Treasury and in Energy, there will be an
assurance that we have replaced excel-
lent people with excellent people. This
I think you can help me with as well.
I'll be glad to answer, for about 10
minutes, any questions that you might
have. I have nothing to conceal from you.
And I would appreciate not only the ques-
tions but perhaps suggestions as well.
Does anybody have a comment or
question to ask?
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
The press release does not include a tran-
script of the question-and-answer session which
followed the President's remarks.
Meeting With United Nations
Secretary-General
Kurt Waldheim
White House Statement. July 30, 1979
President Carter met this afternoon
with United Nations Secretary-General
Kurt Waldheim for 50 minutes in the
Cabinet Room. The President congratu-
lated Secretary-General Waldheim on the
results of the Geneva meeting on Indo-
china refugees. The President felt the
Secretary-General's efforts were a key fac-
tor in the progress made on substantially
increasing funding pledges and commit-
ments from a variety of countries to re-
settle refugees.
On the Middle East, the President dis-
cussed U.S. policies for advancing the
peace process. The two leaders discussed
the question of a continued U.N. presence
in the Sinai. The President told the Secre-
tary-General that we will be consulting
closely with Israel and Egypt on this ques-
tion. The United States will remain in
close touch with the Secretary-General
and his staff.
The President urged the Secretary-Gen-
eral to continue to give top priority to
his efforts to resolve the problem of
Cyprus. He also discussed the Secretary-
1332
