Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and we're fighting. We have over 8,000
signatures to try to get this amended.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know which
particular provision of the law you refer
to, but I think in general the environ-
mental laws are very important.
MRS. ROUNDY. But our air isn't that
dirty. It comes from agriculture and from
the State of Kansas and the two Kansas
Cities and the airports. And our burning
of our leaves and yard waste and garden
waste, seasonal, will not add to this pollu-
tion.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. Some-
times when a city has a very high air pol-
lution to begin with, because of many
factors, including factories and automo-
biles and so forth-
MRS. ROUNDY. Well, we don't have
that.
MS. STAMBERG. Mrs. Roundy-
MRS. ROUNDY. They seem to think
burning yard waste-but the monitors
were inaccurate. We found that out. So,
we're trying to get another way of moni-
toring our air.
THE PRESIDENT. I understand. I know
in Atlanta, when I was living there as
Governor, the air pollution got very
high, and everybody was encouraged to
take their yard wastes for instance,
fallen leaves and branches and things of
that kind and make mulch out of them,
which is a very nice thing that all farm-
ers have done since I've been a farmer,
and then use that mulch for fertilizer. It
solves the problem of excessive burning
and air pollution and also gives you a
very valuable product at the end.
MRS. ROUNDY. That's true. I do some
of that. But these people who have 5 to
40 acres and are senior citizens, they just
can't do these things. And it's going to
take all of our money for our heating
bills. Now, Mr. President, last year my
oil, my heating bill was $183 to $235 per
month.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MRS. ROUNDY. And that was less than
half the price it is today, even though I
set my thermostat at 65 and 55. So, this
is going to exceed the income of these sen-
ior citizens, and what will they do for
taxes, food, and other utility bills?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a very good
question and a different question. I think
that, obviously, the two-
MRS. ROUNDY. Well, I think it ties in,
Mr. President, because we'll be using all
this extra oil to buy bags, this extra oil to
transport our garden waste to these land-
fills. And I think that's unnecessary when
we could burn them.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer your
question. I think one thing that can be
done if your house has a wood stove is to
use some of that waste for fuel. I do it
in my own home in Plains and also in the
White House.
The second thing is that we're trying
to provide some financial assistance for
people like you to help pay those extra
energy costs this winter. I've just sent to
the Congress this week, for instance, a re-
quest for $1.2 billion, to be added to $400
million we already have, to help pay those
high costs. And I'm also asking the Con-
gress to set aside about $22 billion every
year for the next 10 years to give people
some help on the very high energy bills.
You have put your finger, however, on
the best way to start solving the question,
and that is to save the amount of energy
that we have been wasting in the past.
MRS. ROUNDY. That is what we must
do, is to save, conserve, yes.
THE PRESIDENT. I think all three of
those things are important: to save energy,
to start with; to use fuels that are avail-
able to us, like wood in your case; and for
us to help with some financial help, which
will be coming to you later on this winter.
MRS. ROUNDY. Well, I'm a commission
member on aging in this area and in the
1900
