Nov. 5
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
This has been a difficult issue because of
the necessity for evolving a fair allocation
of gasoline and diesel fuel if our Nation
does face a severe shortage. Majority
Leader Byrd in the Senate and Majority
Leader Jim Wright in the House, Senator
Jackson, Senator Johnston, Senator Do-
menici, John Dingell in the House, and
Tim Wirth, Bud Brown, Toby Moffett,
and many others have helped to make
this legislation possible.
I'm very grateful to have the oppor-
tunity as President now to evolve a gas
and diesel fuel rationing proposal which
will be presented to the Congress and to
the public over the next few months. This
is an important responsibility. Charlie
Duncan, the Secretary of Energy, is here.
It'll primarily be his Department which
will build on the previous proposal, and to
provide additions or corrections to it to
accommodate the desires of the American
people, as expressed by the Congress.
This has not been an easy piece of leg-
islation to pass. [Laughter] I don't think
anyone standing behind me would dis-
agree with that fact. It's been a laborious
and detailed negotiation, and if we do face
a severe shortage, then I have adequate
authority. If the shortage is prospective in
nature, the prospect of a severe shortage,
then with the concurrence of the Congress,
the time for the implementation of the
rationing plan can be abbreviated.
I'm very happy that this has been ac-
complished. We now face additional
major decisions in the House and Senate.
This week, for instance, the Senate will
vote on the energy security corporation:
legislation which will permit our Nation
to strengthen our defenses, to avoid a
direct threat to our Nation's security, with
a heavy emphasis of conservation as a first
step, on a short-term basis; and increasing
emphasis in the middle term of gasohol
and other more readily available energy
measures; and then in the longer run, geo-
thermal supplies, solar energy, and syn-
thetic fuels.
Without the energy security corpora-
tion, it would be almost impossible to have
synthetic fuels and other supplies devel-
oped on a competitive basis; we'll have
an almost complete domination of energy
supply opportunities in our country by just
a few major oil companies. So, the passage
of the energy security corporation this
week by the Senate is crucial to provide
competition, to let our Nation have ade-
quate energy supplies, and also, of course,
to implement a major additional conserva-
tion effort-all of these factors to con-
tribute to our Nation's security.
I might say in closing that I'm very
grateful to the men and the women of the
House and Senate who have labored so
long over this legislation. I'd like to sign
the bill now, and then I'd like to call on a
couple of people to say a word for their
colleagues in the House and Senate.
[At this point, the President signed the bill.]
I will try to do a good job working with
Charlie Duncan to justify your confidence
in us and present to you a rationing pro-
gram that will be acceptable, adequate,
fair, and which would bring joy to the eyes
of all of us.
I'd like to call on John Dingell to say a
word.
REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL. Mr. Presi-
dent, thank you for the kind words you
said about my colleagues and I in the
House who did work very hard on this, as
you know. It was a bipartisan undertaking
at the end. [Laughter]
SENATOR DOMENICI. We just straight-
ened it out for you.
THE PRESIDENT. And there were some
bipartisan obstructions at the beginning.
[Laughter]
REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL. As a matter
of fact, you're correct. [Laughter]
But, Mr. President, the men you see
standing behind you, and I won't mention
2086
