Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 19, 1979
"Ask the President"
Remarks During a Telephone Call-out
Program on National Public Radio.
October 13, 1979
ANNOUNCER. From National Public Ra-
dio in Washington, this is "Ask the Presi-
dent," a live, 2-hour broadcast with Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter. President Carter will
be speaking with Americans by telephone
from the Oval Office. The questions will
not be screened before they are put to the
President. For technical reasons, listeners
cannot call in to the White House or
National Public Radio. NPR will call out
to questioners. For several weeks now, on
radio, television, and in newspaper ads,
Americans have been notified of this
broadcast. They were invited to send NPR
their names and phone numbers if they
wished to ask Mr. Carter a question. The
names are being selected at random, and
National Public Radio staff members are
now placing the calls.
Here now in the Oval Office with Presi-
dent Carter, NPR's Susan Stamberg, your
host for "Ask the President.”
MS. STAMBERG. Good afternoon, Presi-
dent Carter. It's good to have you with us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Susan.
I'm looking forward to it.
MS. STAMBERG. This is a format that
you enjoy a lot, isn't it, this radio-tele-
phone business?
THE PRESIDENT. It is. I've not only
done it here in the Oval Office, but for
instance, when I went down the Missis-
sippi River on a paddle-wheel steam-
boat-
Ms. STAMBERG. That's right.
THE PRESIDENT. -we stopped and
had a telephone call-in show. And in ad-
dition to that, whenever I have a chance,
I
go out into the country and, with several
hundred or sometimes several thousand
people present, take questions from the
audience in an unrehearsed way. You get
a lot different kind of question that re-
lates more directly to people than just the
ordinary political questions, very
good-
Ms. STAMBERG. Do you think they are
as intense the questions that you get
from citizens—as the sort that you
you would
get from the Washington press corps?
THE PRESIDENT. Without exhibiting
prejudice, I think they're much more in-
tense and much more heartfelt. It's a rare
thing for a citizen to have a chance to ask
a question directly to a President, and
quite often that remark or that question
is the most important thing in a person's
1885
