Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
what has occurred in Iran as something of
a disgrace for their own religious faith,
and they don't see this as typical of what
Moslems believe.
I might add, also, that this is not typi-
cal of the Shiite faith, either. It's the mis-
guided actions of a few people in Iran
who are burning with hatred and a desire
for revenge, completely contrary to the
teachings of the Moslem faith.
U.S. REACTION TO IRANIAN SITUATION
Q. Mr. President, there's a feeling of
hostility throughout the country toward
Iran, because of the hostages. Senator
Long said that the taking of our Em-
bassy in Iran, in his words, is an act of
war. There are rumors, since denied, that
our Navy has been called up for service. I
ask you, as our Commander in Chief, is
war possible, is war thinkable?
THE PRESIDENT. It would be a mistake
for the people of our country to have
aroused within them hatred toward any-
one; not against the people of Iran, and
certainly not against Iranians who may
be in our country as our guests. We cer-
tainly do not want to be guilty of the
same violation of human decency and
basic human principles that have proven
so embarrassing to many of the Iranian
citizens themselves.
We obviously prefer to see our hostages
protected and released completely
through peaceful means. And that's my
deepest commitment, and that will be my
goal. The United States has other options
available to it, which will be considered,
depending upon the circumstances. But I
think it would not be well-advised for me
to speak of those specifically tonight.
IRANIAN STUDENTS IN THE UNITED STATES
Q. Mr. President, we have had 55,000
Iranian students in this country. We've
been very good to them, very hospitable.
Even the new Finance Minister of Saudi
Arabia was a student who once demon-
strated in Washington against law and
order. Shouldn't we be very careful in
letting any of these students come in
here? Shouldn't we screen them in the
future and make them agree that they
will not demonstrate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's very diffi-
cult for an Iranian citizen or a student to
get a visa at the American Embassy in
Iran at this time [Laughter] And I think
the influx of Iranians to our country now
would be minimal.
I'm determined to enforce the law
about Iranian students. Some of them
have violated the law. They are now being
screened; they are being assessed in their
commitment and the legality of their
presence here. We have already finished
this procedure with more than 22,000.
About 17,000 have proven to be here
completely legally and are indeed full-
time students. Among the other 5,000,
about several hundred have already de-
parted; others are now having to prove
that, contrary to the earliest evidence,
they do indeed have a right to be in our
country. If they are here illegally, they
will be expelled.
There is one exception to that rule: If
a citizen of Iran can prove that if he or
she returned to Iran that they would be
executed or abused because of their politi-
cal beliefs, they can seek asylum here. And
if that asylum, in our judgment, is justi-
fied, we will provide it for them.
But this procedure is going forward in
accordance with American law, in accord-
ance with American fairness, in accord-
ance with the full principles of the United
States Constitution.
2172
