Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
what you say, but we'll also advertise
and not only voluntary public service ad-
vertising that the radio and newspapers
and television might do as a public service,
but also we'll have some paid advertising
to tell you and your families specifically
this is what you can do.
I might add one other point. Almost
every agency in the Federal Government
now and many local governments are
sending out little pamphlets like in wel-
fare checks or social security checks, say-
ing, "These are the things that you can do
in your own home to save energy."
And last week-week before last-I sent
every chief executive, every mayor and
every chairman of every county commis-
sion in the whole United States, 6,000 of
them, a letter, and I gave them ideas on
what they could do in their own county to
save energy. I used a few examples of
people that are already doing a good job.
And one of those few examples that I used
was this county, because the leaders have
already done it.
We've got a long way to go. We can get
there.
SUPPORT FOR THE PRESIDENT
Hello.
Q. Mr. President, I voted for you in
1976. I campaigned for you, and I'm
going to vote for your reelection in 1980.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. No answer
yet.
Thank you.
WAYS TO CONSERVE ENERGY
Q. You see, I ride my bicycle to school
every day. I was wondering, how else can
we conserve energy?
THE PRESIDENT. What's your name?
Q. Patricia Kirby.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. How old are
you, Patricia?
Q. Eleven and a half.
THE PRESIDENT. Eleven and a half.
I hope you all heard. Patricia rides her
bike to school every day, and she wants
to know what other ways she can save
energy. Well, I think you can talk to your
parents and make sure that your mother
and father-do you have any brothers and
sisters old enough to drive?
Q. No.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, encourage them
all to obey the speed limit.
Also, I think you might plan 1 day a
week, the whole family get together, and
say, "What can we do 1 day a week when
we don't even use the automobile?," like
going on a picnic, you know, or doing
something the whole family together—
taking a hike, or maybe get your mother
and daddy to go on a bike ride with you,
like on a Saturday, instead of driving all
over the place.
Another thing that you can do is to
make sure that the lights in your home are
turned out when they're not being used.
And encourage your folks to set the ther-
mostats as they should be in the sum-
mertime not any lower than 78 degrees,
and in the wintertime not any higher
than 65 degrees. We've been doing that in
the White House ever since the first day
I got there.
And you can tell your mother and father
that if they want to insulate their home
that there's a tax credit that they can get
to help them pay for that cost of making
their home, your home, more efficient.
And if they want to put in a solar heating
unit to heat water in your house, then
there's another tax credit of $2,000 that
you can get for that.
So, there are a lot of little things that
you can do around the house. One thing
that you might do instead of using an
electric clothesdrier, you might rig up a
clothesline in the back of the yard and let
the Sun dry the clothes, see?
So, I think the best thing for a family
1576
