Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
1
Camp David in July. While I was search-
ing for a clear approach to the very com-
plicated subject of energy, not knowing
quite how to address a longstanding, un-
answered question in our society, Lane
Kirkland¹ called for boldness with a
simple and startling answer about what
to do concerning energy. "Mr. President,"
he said, "the issue is freedom."
Now, there's a third story with even
deeper dimensions-about our Nation's
basic values and how we can reassert
those values and how I believe we've
already begun to do so.
Last week, I watched the television
arrival of His Holiness Pope John Paul II.
When he came down from his plane, he
knelt to kiss the earth of our country,
and then my wife, Rosalynn, greeted him.
And he made a brief but powerful and
eloquent statement about America the
beautiful.
He said essentially that he respects us
individually as a nation and that we are
good people and that he loves us. It was
a rare moment in our lives, an emotional
moment, a moment for history.
But immediately, the TV commenta-
tor turned to his colleagues and said, "It
was a gracious speech, gentlemen, but
there was nothing new in it. Did you
think so?" And another one said that the
Pope looked very tired, and then the
third comment was, "I don't believe he
can speak English well enough to carry on
a conversation."
For television viewers, a beautiful and
significant moment was kind of glossed
over and made trivial. But that was a
transient damage, because the character
of John Paul and our Nation's hunger to
restore the unchanging ethical and
spiritual standards as a part of American
life has made his visit to the United
1
¹ Secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO.
States of America a triumph, not only for
him as a great spiritual leader but also
for us. It brought out for all the world to
see the finer elements of our character as
Americans.
These three episodes, one with Bob
Georgine, one with Lane Kirkland, one
with the Pope's visit to our country, con-
trast the powerful forces that face us in
our day-by-day lives as Americans and
the choices that we have to make, both
as individuals and as a nation. These
choices are between cynicism and faith,
between despair and confidence, between
weakness and courage.
These are basic choices in our personal
lives. They're also basic choices in our
economic and political lives as a nation.
They are choices that I discussed with
you and other Americans in my television
address that Sunday evening in July
when I came back from Camp David. In
that speech, I outlined my vision of a
rebirth in American values and American
spirit.
As President, I have a chance to think
a lot and to talk a lot and to listen a
lot to people who understand our coun-
try. And I recognize the problems of
America, but I also recognize our
strength. I know that we can meet those
challenges, I know that we can answer
those difficult questions, and I know that
we can solve those tough problems. But
first we must restore our confidence in
one another and our faith in the future.
All else pales in importance when com-
pared to this absolute necessity for us to
have confidence in one another and con-
fidence in the future of our Nation.
Second, we must revitalize our basic
human values like freedom, patriotism,
duty, trust, family, compassion, love. Our
outpouring of affection for the Pope
showed how deep and strong those values
1867
