Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 17
needed debate of educational issues, the
Federal Government has confused its role
of junior partner in American education
with that of silent partner.
The time has passed when the Federal
Government can afford to give second-
level, part-time attention to its respon-
sibilities in American education. If our
Nation is to meet the great challenges of
the 1980's, we need a full-time commit-
ment to education at every level of gov-
ernment-Federal, State, and local.
The Department of Education bill will
allow the Federal Government to meet its
responsibilities in education more effec-
tively, more efficiently, and more respon-
sively.
First, it will increase the Nation's
attention to education. Instead of being
buried in a $200 billion-a-year bureauc-
racy, educational issues will receive the
top-level priority they deserve. For the
first time, there will be a Cabinet-level
leader in education, someone with the
status and the resources to stir national
discussion of critical education concerns.
Second, it will make Federal education
programs more accountable. For the first
time there will be a single Cabinet Secre-
tary, responsible full-time for the effective
conduct of Federal education programs.
Third, it will streamline administration
of aid-to-education programs. Separating
education programs from HEW will
eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy, cut
redtape, and promote better service for
local school systems. For the first time
there will be a direct, unobstructed rela-
tionship between those who administer
aid-to-education programs and those who
actually provide education in our coun-
try.
Fourth, a Department of Education will
save tax dollars. By eliminating bureau-
cratic layers, the reorganization will per-
mit direct, substantial personnel reduc-
tions. By enhancing top-level management
attention to education programs, it will
mean improved educational services at
less cost.
Fifth, it will make Federal education
programs more responsive. Placing educa-
tion in a highly visible department of its
own gives the American people a much
clearer perspective on what the Federal
Government is doing in education and
who is responsible for these activities. It
allows people to better decide what the
Government should and should not be
doing in education.
Sixth, a Department of Education will
ensure that local communities retain con-
trol of their schools and education pro-
grams. That is essential if our schools are
to serve their students properly, and the
Department of Education will, therefore,
not permit the Federal Government to be-
gin making decisions on education policy
that are best made at the local level.
The Department of Education bill will
permit improved administration of the
Government's health and human service
programs, whose functions are closely re-
lated. It will allow the Government to
focus greater attention to the needs of
those Americans who need it most-the
poor, the disabled, and the elderly.
Today's signing fulfills a longstanding
personal commitment on my part. My
first public office was as a county school
board member. As a State senator and
Governor I devoted much of my time to
education issues. I remain convinced that
education is one of the noblest enterprises
a person or a society can undertake.
I would like to thank the leadership of
both houses of Congress for bringing this
historic measure to final passage. I would
like to pay particular tribute to the leader-
ship role of Chairman Jack Brooks, Sena-
tor Abe Ribicoff, Senator Chuck Percy,
and Congressman Frank Horton. Your
relentless dedication to this legislation has
earned you the gratitude of every citizen.
I would like also to salute the active
participation in this legislative struggle
1959
