Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 15
of law, be presented to the President for
his approval or disapproval. By giving
Congress an additional role in this deci-
sion without requiring the legislative
process to be followed, section 408 vio-
lates the principle of separation of
powers.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 3363 is Public Law
96-60, approved August 15.
Fishery Conservation and
Management Act Amendments
Statement on Signing S. 917 Into Law.
August 15, 1979
Today I have signed into law an act
to amend the Fishery Conservation and
Management Act of 1976 to provide ap-
propriations for that act for fiscal years
1980, 1981, and 1982, and for other
poses.
pur-
A major substantive amendment con-
tained in this act establishes a procedure
designed to protect whales. This amend-
ment, initially introduced by Senators
Magnuson and Packwood, provides for
reductions in fishing allocations within
our 200-mile fishing zone to nations which
are certified by the Secretary of Com-
merce to be diminishing the effectiveness
of the International Whaling Conven-
tion. The bill will allow the certified
nation up to 1 year to remedy the condi-
tions leading to the certification before
its fishing allocation is completely ter-
minated. Certification under this act
would also result in certification under the
Pelly amendment (section 8 of the Fish-
ermen's Protective Act) which provides
for embargoes of fish imports from cer-
tified nations.
I applaud Senator Magnuson, Senator
Packwood, and the Members of the House
who sponsored this bill. The protection
and conservation of the world's dwindl-
ing number of great whales is a major
environmental concern of my administra-
tion, the Congress, and the American
people. I believe that it is necessary for
us to demonstrate our Nation's commit-
ment to the conservation of whales. This
bill will provide a useful tool in situa-
tions where no others are available to us.
This bill also amends section 8 of the
Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 to
specifically require the Secretaries of
Commerce and the Interior, as appropri-
ate, to promptly investigate and act upon
any actions by foreign nations that might
be cause for certification. It also provides
specifically for termination of certifica-
tions once the original conditions have
been rectified. These are definite improve-
ments to the Pelly amendment.
With regard to both the Packwood-
Magnuson and Pelly amendments, the
Secretaries of Commerce and the Interior
should work with the Secretary of State
to take prompt action to ensure that all
avenues of negotiation are fully ex-
hausted before certification is made
against any foreign nation. However, in
those negotiations all nations will be in-
formed of the implications of these two
amendments and the determination of
this Government to use them if remedial
action is not undertaken. Certification
under this act will of course take place
only to further the purposes of this act,
that is, to provide strong support for the
International Convention for the Regu-
lation of Whaling and for the conserva-
tion of the whales.
I believe it is important also that this
act makes clear the original intention of
the FCMA when it was passed in 1976.
These amendments require that Ameri-
can-owned vessels engaged in harvesting
fish in the Fishery Conservation Zone
must be built in America in order to be
1435
