Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
2
and many
provements, including rehabilitating older been working successfully for more than
structures for energy efficiency.
years,
of them are warranted
for up to 10 years. But people do not yet
realize that solar systems work here, and
we continue to need massive amounts of
money to make solar curriculum guides
and resource people available to the edu-
cational projects.
We have also actively pursued a re-
cycling program in District 12. We now
have once-a-month curbside pickup, and
our goal is to have collection of separated
recycling materials in conjunction with
our regular weekly refuse pickup. The dis-
trict planning process in St. Paul has been
a highly successful vehicle in shaping the
future of the city. Involving citizens in
the decisionmaking process has created an
impetus which is necessary to renew the
vitality of our core city.
We hope District 12 has and will play
an important part in the continuing re-
vitalization. Our interests lie in many
areas, and we feel that the diversity of our
projects are necessary to help deal with
the multifaceted energy problem. We
especially look forward to working with
Federal, State, and local officials on
Mayor Latimer's proposed energy park.
Thank you very much.
MAYOR LATIMER. Thank you very
much.
SOLAR ENERGY PROJECTS
The next speaker is Russell Doty, who
is an attorney and has done considerable
research professionally in solar and alter-
native energy sources and the kinds of
ordinance and statutory changes that
might be needed to adapt to the new
technology.
Mr. Doty?
MR. DOTY. Mr. President, Mrs. Carter,
Ramsey County has 30 to 50 solar instal-
lations, and from these projects and the
400 to 700 other operating solar systems
in Minnesota, we have confirmed that
Minnesota's climate is definitely suitable
for solar applications. For example, one
Twin City solar system was producing 90-
degree tapwater on Christmas Day 2 years
ago. Many of Minnesota's systems have
The effect of education is dramatic.
Your July speech created so much interest
that the Minnesota solar dealers who I've
talked to who have been on the verge of
going broke now believe that they may
even be able to make it. But interest alone
does not mean that solar soon will be avail-
able to everyone who is interested.
Even though we have a low-income
solar loan program administered through
the Minnesota Housing Finance Agency,
and even though we now have a combined
Federal-State tax credit that defrays up
to 50 percent of the solar systems' costs,
most people cannot afford the initial in-
vestment, that two to ten thousand dollar,
upfront cost of the solar system. Energy
utilities finance that upfront cost of power-
plants by floating bonds that are amortized
over long periods. And they float tax-free
bonds for some of that plant. Now, solar
energy-generating plants also should be
paid for by long-term financing-but
financing that allows the people and not
the utilities to own their energy-generat-
ing systems once the costs are amortized.
Your proposed loan grant and small
energy business assistance programs have
and will help, but those funding sources
won't and don't provide enough money
to go around. And under them, the larger
established firms likely will continue to
ace out smaller applicants who are just as
creative. You can help solve that prob-
lem-and this is my most important
point-by advocating
point by advocating Federal legisla-
tion to enable St. Paul and other munici-
1464
