Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 27
there, we'll take our battle to the confer-
ence committee and then back to the
House and Senate floors for the assessment
of the conference committee decision.
But if any change is made in what we
originally proposed, it ought to be
stronger, rather than weaker, because of
subsequent events that have occurred.
WAGE AND PRICE GUIDELINES
Q. Mr. President, I believe two out
of three American people holding jobs
are not members of labor unions. What
would you like to see for them in the year
1980 for the guideline for wage increases?
THE PRESIDENT. The most im-
por- Oh, I was preanticipating your
question. I started to say that one of the
most important things we could do is to
pass the labor law reform legislation that
was proposed by us to the Congress earlier
in my administration.
We would like for all of the wage earn-
ers and business executives to comply with
the voluntary wage and price guidelines
that have been established by us. These
have been and are being modified as we
accumulate more information and more
data. And of course, now we have what
we call the national accord, a joint ap-
proach to this very sensitive question,
where labor and business and the Gov-
ernment voluntarily work with
another, whereas previously, up until this
month, the guidelines were imposed by
the Government, in effect, on a reluctant
labor and business community. This is a
major step forward, and I think that the
results will be good.
I'd like to add quickly that we've
had excellent response on both prices and
wages during this past year. Wage in-
creases have been very compatible with
those in previous years, in 1978, for in-
stance. We've had good cooperation in
almost every respect. On the items that
can be put under the umbrella of our
price guidelines, we've had very good re-
sponse from business.
The major things that have broken the
inflation control effort and forced prices
up have been: number one, energy; sec-
ondly, things like forest products and
heavy demand for homes-we've had an
almost 2-million-home-per-year building
rate-and, of course, food, which is im-
possible, in my opinion, to have prices
controlled.
But on items that are sold, we've had
good response from the business commu-
nity as well. I think the new accord will
help us in the future to make our guide-
lines more effective. And I hope that the
same guidelines would apply equitably
between members of labor unions and
those who are not.
PUBLIC WORKS AND WATER PROJECTS
Q. Mr. President, in the area of public
works and water projects, there's a bill
in the House that's nearing the floor and
one in the Senate committee that deals
with cost-sharing ratios for the local units
of government that are different from
what you've previously said are your
guidelines. Does that make it veto ma-
terial that they haven't adhered to your
guidelines on a higher local share of the
total project cost?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't answer that
question. My recollection is that the pro-
posal we made to the Congress had at
least tacit approval from State leaders and
others in the country before we presented
it. Subsequently, an alternative was put
forward.
I would have to assess the legislation
in its entirety before I could decide
whether to veto or not veto it. If it was a
decided improvement over what we have
now and would make water projects, in-
cluding dams, be built on the basis of
merit and not political porkbarrel con-
siderations, then I would probably sign
2049
