Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The Soviet Union does not admit that
the unit in question is a combat unit.
However, the Soviets have made certain
statements to us with respect to our con-
cern: that the unit in question is a train-
ing center, that it does nothing more than
training and can do nothing more; that
they will not change its function or status
as a training center. We understand this
to mean that they do not intend to en-
large the unit or to give it additional
capabilities.
They have said that the Soviet per-
sonnel in Cuba are not and will not be a
threat to the United States or to any
other nation; that they reaffirm the 1962
understanding and the mutually agreed
upon confirmation in 1970 and will abide
by it in the future. We, for our part, re-
confirm this understanding.
These assurances have been given to
me from the highest level of the Soviet
Government.
Although we have persuasive evidence
that the unit has been a combat brigade,
the Soviet statements about the future
noncombat status of the unit are signifi-
cant. However, we shall not rest on these
Soviet statements alone.
First, we will monitor the status of the
Soviet forces by increased surveillance of
Cuba.
Second, we will assure that no Soviet
unit in Cuba can be used as a combat
force to threaten the security of the
United States or any other nation in this
hemisphere. Those nations can be con-
fident that the United States will act in
response to a request for assistance to
meet any such threat from Soviet or
Cuban forces.
This policy is consistent with our re-
sponsibilities as a member of the Orga-
nization of American States and a party
to the Rio Treaty. It's a reaffirmation in
new circumstances of John F. Kennedy's
declaration in 1963 "that we would not
permit any troops from Cuba to move off
the island of Cuba in an offensive action
against any neighboring countries."
Third, I'm establishing a permanent,
full-time Caribbean joint task force head-
quarters at Key West, Florida. I will
assign to this headquarters forces from
all the military services responsible for
expanded planning and for conducting
exercises. This headquarters unit will
employ designated forces for action if
required. This will substantially improve
our capability to monitor and to respond
rapidly to any attempted military en-
croachment in this region.
Fourth, we will expand military ma-
neuvers in the region. We will conduct
these exercises regularly from now on.
In accordance with existing treaty rights,
the United States will, of course, keep our
forces in Guantanamo.
Fifth, we will increase our economic
assistance to alleviate the unmet economic
and human needs in the Caribbean region
and further to ensure the ability of
troubled peoples to resist social turmoil
and possible Communist domination.
The United States has a worldwide
interest in peace and stability. Accord-
ingly, I have directed the Secretary of
Defense to further enhance the capacity
of our rapid deployment forces to protect
our own interests and to act in response
to requests for help from our allies and
friends. We must be able to move our
ground, sea, and air units to distant areas,
rapidly and with adequate supplies.
We have reinforced our naval presence
in the Indian Ocean.
1804
