Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 28
CHARLES S. BENSON, a professor of education International Exposition
at the University of California at Berkeley,
an expert on the economics of education;
THEODORE M. BLACK, SR., a retired Army lieu-
tenant colonel who serves on the New York
State Board of Regents;
JOHN E. COONS, a professor of law at the Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley, and co-
principal investigator on the Childhood and
Government Project at Berkeley;
JOSEPH O. GARCIA, director of the California
School Finance Reform Project at San Diego
State University School of Education;
ROBERT GRAHAM, Governor of Florida, who
was chairman of the Florida Senate's educa-
tion committee from 1972 to 1975 and has
also served as a member of the National
Commission to Reform Secondary Schools;
TERRY HERNDON, executive director of the
National Education Association;
EDWARD T. HUGHES, auxiliary bishop of Phil-
adelphia, Pa., and former chairman of the
Association of School Superintendents of the
U.S. Catholic Conference;
VICTORIA LEDERBERG, a professor of psychology
at Rhode Island College and member of the
Rhode Island General Assembly (also desig-
nated Chairman of this Panel);
DOROTHY L. MATTISON, a public school music
teacher with the Sullivan County (Tenn.)
school board and a member of the Bristol,
Tenn., city council;
JAMES A. MCDERMOTT, a Seattle, Wash.,
psychiatrist and consultant to the Washing-
ton State Department of Social and Health
Services Division of Juvenile Rehabilitation
and King County Juvenile Court;
ALBERT SHANKER, president of the American
Federation of Teachers and a vice president
of the AFL-CIO;
CARL SHARIF, assistant to Mayor Kenneth
Gibson of Newark, N.J., a former consultant
on the development of Neighborhood
Education Development Centers (storefront
schools);
WILLIAM SIMMONS, superintendent of Wayne
County (Mich.) Intermediate School Dis-
trict, and an adjunct professor of education
at Wayne State University;
MARGARET C. SIMMS, chairman of the eco-
nomics department at Atlanta University and
director of the Institute for Urban Affairs;
CAROLYN WARNER, State superintendent of
public instruction for the State of Arizona.
on Energy
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Proposal for Federal Participation.
August 28, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with statutory require-
ments, I am transmitting to you my pro-
posal for Federal participation in the In-
ternational Exposition on Energy to be
held in Knoxville, Tennessee from May
through October 1982. The Congress has
already received an FY 1980 budget
amendment request, in the amount of
$20.8 million, to support Federal partici-
pation. The Department of Commerce is
submitting the authorizing legislation as
well.
It is my determination that Federal
participation is in the national interest.
The Exposition will provide for an inter-
national exchange of ideas on energy de-
velopment, innovative energy technology,
energy conservation, solar energy, syn-
thetic fuels and other subjects important
to the national interest. Moreover, the
Exposition will stimulate tourist travel to
the United States, thereby improving our
balance of trade, promote international
cultural exchange and accelerate capital
growth and investment in the Knoxville
area.
My proposal includes all statutory re-
quirements:
(1) assurance that the Exposition
meets all criteria for recognition
and has been recognized;
(2) a statement that the Exposition
has been registered by the Bureau
of International Expositions on
April 27, 1977; and
(3) a plan prepared by the Commerce
Department and other interested
1525
