Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 9
In Florida, I don't know how the cau-
cus results will come out. This is one of
the evidences of an increasingly early at-
tention focused on a Presidential race. I
don't think it is in the best interests of our
country to start so early. The importance
of the Florida caucuses, I think, will be
assigned by the press, not by anything that
I do. I don't intend to go down there to
campaign. We do have people working
for me in Florida, which I appreciate.
And I think that since this is a first test be-
tween myself and other candidates who
also are mounting an effort among their
supporters, it will be significant.
But I cannot predict the outcome of
the caucuses. I've seen no polls, have no
indication about what the outcome might
be.
VISIT OF THE POPE
Q. Mr. President, clearly the Pope on
his visit to the United States and in
Washington left an extraordinary impres-
sion beyond simply the religious.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Have you reflected on the meaning
of the Pope's visit to the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. Could you discuss that?
THE PRESIDENT. In addition to being
with him in public and when we met with
the members of my family in the White
House, I had an extensive private con-
versation with the Pope, and we dis-
cussed this particular question. We were
both surprised at the degree of warmth
and enthusiasm among American people
in welcoming the Pope. I expected the
welcome to be warm and friendly, but I
had no idea that it would be that enthu-
siastic and that large a number of people,
and neither did he.
I think there's an innate hunger in our
country for moral and ethical and reli-
gious principles, things that do not change
during a time of rapid change brought
about by a technological revolution
throughout the world. I believe there's a
hunger for things that are decent and
honest, for principles of which we can be
proud. I think the Pope as a religious
leader accurately mirrors for many peo-
ple those aspirations and hopes.
I think it shows that this hemisphere
is the most deeply religious, perhaps, in
the world, certainly the most deeply reli-
gious Christian population in the world.
We had long discussions about what this
meant in other nations, the threat of
atheism as espoused and enforced by the
state against the inherent desire of peo-
ple for religious belief.
But I believe this was one of the most
dramatic and, I think, potentially the
most beneficial visits we've ever had from
a leader in the world. I was very thrilled
to meet him and believe that his visit will
have benefits for our country.
DEPLOYMENT OF U.S. FORCES
Q. Mr. President, in your speech on
Cuba the other night, you spoke about
wanting to increase the capabilities of
our rapid deployment force.
THE PRESIDENT. Forces.
Q. Forces. I wondered if you could say
under what circumstances you would be
willing to intervene militarily in the Mid-
dle East.
in
THE PRESIDENT. I see no prospect at
this point for our intervention militarily
any place in the world. That would be
a judgment that I would only make if I
thought the security of our country was
directly threatened.
SENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY
Q. Mr. President, the other night in
Queens, in the context of answering the
question about your leadership and Sen-
1839
