Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 26
report for this past year, that was com-
pleted the end of September-we've cut it
from a $66 billion down to a $27 billion.
deficit already, and we're still on our way
to making sure that in the future we have
a balanced budget for our Federal Gov-
ernment. That's not a callous thing, that's
a good thing for all Americans.
The last thing that I'd like to say to
you is this: We need a nation with confi-
dence in one another, confidence in our
neighbors, confidence in our institutions,
our churches, our schools, confidence in
our Government.
A government leader can't always do
what you like, but you have got to have
confidence in the system of government
in this country. And I know that we've
had a lot of things happen to us during
the 8 years before I became President that
shook the confidence of America in our
own government, things of which we were
ashamed, unprecedented failures in gov-
ernment. Those times are gone.
We've still got problems. We've still
got challenges. We've still got questions
to be answered, but we can solve problems
together. We can overcome obstacles and
challenges together. We can answer diffi-
cult questions together, but there's got to
be a sense of participation.
And I hope that every one of you to-
night who have contributed your money—
I hope you'll contribute more in the
future-will also contribute your time in
this next 12 days, because it would be a
devastating blow to New Jersey if,
through overconfidence or lack of con-
cern about your own lives and your own
government and your own State, you
didn't participate to the fullest degree in
making sure that Brendan Byrne still has
for the next 2 years a strong Democratic
General Assembly in New Jersey to back
him, to make a great State even greater
in the future.
I'm proud of New Jersey, because
you're my State, too. I'm proud of this
country. I'm proud of the Democratic
Party. But working together with unity,
we can make everything of which we're
proud even better. You're my partners;
I'm proud of you.
God bless every one of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:47 p.m. in
the East Room at the Stadium Club, Giants
Stadium. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Richard Coffee, chairman of the New Jersey
State Democratic Party.
Prior to his remarks, the President attended
a private reception for New Jersey State legis-
lative candidates in the Pegasus Room at the
Stadium Club.
East Rutherford, New Jersey
Interview With Dick Leone of WNET-TV.
October 25, 1979
MR. LEONE. Good evening, I'm Dick
Leone.
We want to welcome President Carter
to New Jersey. In a little while he will
speak at a fundraising dinner here at the
Meadowlands Sports Complex.
HOUSING FINANCING AND CONSTRUCTION
President Carter, earlier this week a
couple of friends of mine, actually a
young couple, told me that after months
of looking for a new house, they had to
give up the search, because there's no
mortgage money. And in talking to bank-
ers in the area, I find that's generally true,
with the high interest rates. What kind of
hope can you hold out to people like that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, the
best hope is that we'll get the inflation
rate coming down, which I think will
happen before the end of this year, and
therefore, interest rates can go down.
2027
