Oct. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
been blessed by God not only with beauty
but with great human and natural re-
sources, with oil, with coal, with gas, with
uranium, and with the greatest of all, the
Sun. And how this great treasure is uti-
lized by people now and in the future will
be primarily up to you.
Your choice of wise leaders, your work-
ing closely with them, your demand that
we maintain the highest possible stand-
ards of service and accountability to you
will determine whether our decisions are
wise or ill-considered. We're determined
to make the wise decisions. And I'm glad
that you've got forceful leaders like Bruce
King that will speak up when there is a
danger to what you hold to be so precious.
Our country faces difficult challenges,
tough problems, confusing issues, hard
questions to answer-but we've always
had within us a strength and the courage
and the unity when it was needed to meet
any challenge, any threat to our country
successfully.
We now face a threat to our own Na-
tion's security that's very serious and
about which all of you should be aware,
and that is the threat of overdependence
on imported oil for our country. We now
import half the oil we use, and along with
all that oil that we import, we also import
inflation and we import unemployment.
Next year we expect to spend on for-
eign oil $70 billion—money that we could
use here in our own country to give us a
better life, to correct the defects in our
society, and to let us have confidence and
vision for the future. We must finally ad-
dress this difficult issue, and that will be
the main subject of discussion tonight
when I meet for 2 or 3 hours with the
Governors representing the Western
States.
I have no doubt that we can meet this
challenge successfully if our country is
united and if we don't forget our great
heritage and the great promise of the
future.
I'm very proud also that we have com-
mon goals and common purposes and
common standards, ethics, morality, re-
ligious beliefs, of which we can be truly
proud.
Many things change in a modern tech-
nological world. Sometimes those changes
are so fast, so rapid that it disturbs our
lives. But this past week with the visit of
Pope John Paul, we were reminded viv-
idly of things that don't change—love,
honesty, families caring for one another—
think
these things don't change. And
the tremendous reception that we gave
to this distinguished and beloved visitor
is a true picture of the character of the
American people.
We've got a wonderful country because
of you, because of our people, and because
of the character that we have always ex-
hibited in a moment of test or trial. And
I hope that you will stand united and
never lower your standards and never
forget that our Nation is, our govern-
ments are what you are and what you
demand. Together, all of us, we can make
the greatest nation on Earth even greater
of the character that we've always ex-
what I pray for. And I know you join
with me in this hope and this dream and
this expectation.
all.
Thank you very much. God bless you
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:23 p.m.
Following his remarks, the President went to
the Four Seasons Hotel in Albuquerque to at-
tend a meeting of the Western Governors'
Policy Office.
1852
