Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
roads, it is not-with road-use taxes
directly related to gasoline sales-it
is not in the best interest of cities or
counties to develop bikepaths, efficient
mass transit systems, force carpooling,
and other means that would mean tre-
mendous gasoline savings to in our
energy program-can other revenues be
released to particularly aid in these efforts
of the counties and the cities?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't want to claim
or leave the impression that everything a
city or a county or a family does in saving
energy must be with the help of the Fed-
eral Government. A lot of the initiative
has got to come from individuals and from
local communities.
My wife recently visited a small—well,
a fairly good-sized town named Davis,
California. Right, Rosalynn? That com-
munity, on its own initiative, with some
already prescribed Federal programs, put
in biketrails and helped people to decide
how they could save energy in many dif-
ferent ways.
They gave Rosalynn, for instance, a
free gift, which she's authorized to keep,
of a solar clothes drier. It was a 20-foot
rope with five or six clothespins. [Laugh-
ter]
I try to run 4 or 5 miles every day. I
did this morning, I think at Lock 18, be-
fore I came up here. And I think a lot of
people would enjoy the beauty of a place
like Burlington if a few times a week or
maybe every day, instead of riding a half
mile or a mile to work, you'd walk there
and back, or ride a bike. And this kind of
approach would be very helpful as an in-
spiration to others if it was adequately
publicized.
The Federal programs are being de-
signed more and more in housing and ur-
ban development, in community plan-
ning, in transportation, in agriculture, in
almost every aspect of American life, to
conserve energy. This is an area where we
are just beginning to scratch the surface.
This has not been part of our lives, as you
know, in our country with $2-a-barrel oil.
Now with $20-a-barrel oil becoming in-
creasingly scarce, we've got to do this
together.
I think one of the best things is for lo-
cal communities to take the initiative and
to let that lesson be learned at the State
level, and then at the Federal level, in-
stead of depending on the Federal Gov-
ernment to tell you all what to do.
Your question, though, about how Fed-
eral transportation funds can be better
designed to help conserve energy at the
local level is a very good one.
The new Secretary of Transportation,
Neil Goldschmidt, is a former mayor of
Portland, Oregon. He has a special inter-
est in transportation, and he's also done
one of the best jobs in the whole country
in Portland in conserving energy in the
transportation area. So, I would guess
that his new approach will be very bene-
ficial to all the country and would also
help to answer your question that you've
raised, which is a very good one for the
whole world, our whole country to know
about.
We'll try to make sure the Federal pro-
grams in the future do a better job of
saving energy, even at the local, county,
and city level.
SYNTHETIC FUELS; FOOD PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, I'm Leo Talbot from
Mount Union, Iowa. I'm a farmer. Part
of my question was answered by the first
gentleman, but I would still like to ask
this question concerned about our prod-
uct that we have out here with God's
help and willing, we'll have for the next
thousands of years as a synthetic fuel. We
raise corn, and I wondered what the Gov-
ernment was doing, how much emphasis
they are putting upon this corn product,
1500
