Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 14
ernor's office here on the coast where
Defense and the State and local people
will all be working together. So, my office
will be here, and we'll be in touch with
Jack, I know, somewhere along the line.
But we want to, firsthand, move into the
location like you have, to come here and
see it. But we're going to set up our office
here and use it, Senator, for the benefit
of all the people here at Gulf Coast Mar-
ine Research Center, that is also funded
by the Feds and State, thanks to our lead-
ership in Washington.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
12:30 p.m. at the Ingalls Shipyard, a division
of Litton Industries.
Pensacola Naval Air Station,
Florida
Remarks Following an Inspection Tour of
Areas Damaged by Hurricane Frederic.
September 14, 1979
I would like to say just a word that I
think is important, not only to you who
are assembled here in Pensacola and in
Florida and those who might hear my
voice later on in Alabama and Mississippi
but for the entire Nation.
Our hearts go out to those who have
suffered so much in Hurricane Frederic,
but I think that the most overwhelming
sense that we have is one of gratitude that
in spite of one of the most severe hurri-
canes which has ever hit our Nation, be-
cause of the close working cooperation be-
tween local and State and Federal officials
and many volunteers and citizens who
came forward, that the loss of life has
been minimal. My reports have shown
and my observations have also proven to
me that this is perhaps even more a de-
structive hurricane than was Hurricane
Camille 10 years ago, when about 250
people lost their lives. But because we had
a massive evacuation effort, when 500,000
people moved further inland, we have
minimized, thank God, the loss of life.
The damage has been severe. I just flew
in from Pascagoula, over Dauphin Island
and down the gulf shore area. And hun-
dreds and hundreds of places where homes
formerly existed, there are no homes at all,
and it's impossible even to tell where the
building lots were located. Mobile has
suffered very severe damage.
We have a fine organization already in
place, with all the Federal agencies being
administered from a single place and with
the closest possible cooperation from Gov-
ernors and other State officials, from
mayors and county officials in every com-
munity involved.
The damage is extremely severe, and
the Federal commitment to helping all of
you and all those who were damaged
repair what has been done and restore the
quality of your lives is complete and it's
permanent. The repair of this damage is
going to take a long time. It can't be ac-
complished in a few weeks or even a few
months. But we are dedicated to provide
unemployment compensation for those
who are not presently employed because of
the loss of their jobs because of damage,
low-interest loans for homes, low-interest
loans to repair businesses, help for farmers
who've lost their crops. And we'll try now
to restore the vital services, transportation,
electric power, telephones, working with
the private organizations for power and
telephones that are doing so well.
I'd like to point out that after a few
days the intense concern and the unselfish
attitude and the cooperative spirit might
tend to fade away. I hope that you all
won't let that happen. We're going to
have to have a sustained effort of taking
care of one another. Government can do
1675
