Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 2, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and Broadcasters From
Minnesota. October 26, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I'm grateful that you've
come this afternoon. We had a previous
meeting planned, and we had a conflict
of schedules, and you couldn't come. I'm
glad to have you here.
I want to reserve as much time as pos-
sible for your questions, not for statements
from me.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
We are constantly at work trying to
preserve the peace which our Nation en-
joys. I think it's been 10 Presidents ago
since we've had a time when no service
people were killed in combat—a remark-
able fact that I just learned this morn-
ing: 56 years ago; I think President
Harding was the last one. I hope we can
keep that posture. And it's dependent en-
tirely, I think, on having a strong nation,
united with resolved will and an adequate
defense capability.
We want to get along well with the So-
viet Union and meet with them on a
peaceful, competitive basis. We are pro-
ceeding with SALT, which I think is the
most important decision that's likely to be
made by our Government while I serve in
this office. We've strengthened NATO.
I think we've moved very firmly and
aggressively to encourage new friendships
around the world. India now has very
good relationships with us. Under Mrs.
Ghandi, they were inclined strongly to-
ward the Soviet Union. Our new opening
with China, a fourth of the nations' popu-
lations, has been very successful so far.
We've not damaged our relationship, so
far as anyone can tell, with the people of
Taiwan. And this is a fine balancing act,
which I think has been fairly successful at
this point. We've also had a chance to
open up the possibilities for increased
benefits with relations among the African
nations and ourselves.
In the Mideast we've had some limited
success so far in bringing a permanent
peace to that region. We are continuing
this effort, with a larger dependence at
this time on direct negotiations between
Egypt and Israel. We play a role; we will
increase our role if desired by the two ma-
jor participating parties. Both of them are
bound by the Camp David accords, which
extend in the future toward and including
a comprehensive peace, involving, of
course, the resolution of the very difficult
question of the Palestinian rights.
In the domestic area we are trying to
deal with the chronic inflation which has
been on us now 10 or 11 years. A major
factor here is the resolution of the en-
ergy question and the evolution within
the Congress, in perhaps the most com-
plicated and difficult legislative challenge
the Congress has ever faced, and that is
2047
