Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 24
And I would also be remiss if I didn't
say to the many people here from the
Department of Energy that I look for-
ward to working with you and all of your
excellent associates. I'm especially pleased
to see Jim Schlesinger here. The Presi-
dent has articulated very well the Ameri-
can attitude towards Jim Schlesinger.
Jim has done an outstanding job during
a very difficult period. He has had to or-
ganize a complex new department while
simultaneously attacking one of the most
difficult problems facing our Nation.
We're all indebted to Secretary Schles-
inger.
There are also many of my personal
friends here, and many of these people
have traveled a long way. My family and
I are most appreciative to all of you for
being here.
Mr. President, I'm deeply honored to
have been selected by you to be your Sec-
retary of Energy. This is a terribly im-
portant responsibility, and I accept it with
humility. The problems are enormous.
We must reduce our dependence on im-
ported oil. We must move forward ag-
gressively on programs of conservation
and energy efficiency. We must utilize
the genius of American technology to
make use of the Sun and other renewable
resources, and we must and can find en-
vironmentally sound ways to utilize our
tremendous domestic energy resources.
In trying to do these things, Mr.
President, and implementing your en-
ergy policy, I plan to maintain an active
and an open dialog with all elements of
American society that have an interest
in energy matters, with public interest
groups, consumer groups, environmental
groups, labor groups, industry and busi-
ness groups, all interested publics.
This is an effort that cannot be ac-
complished by the Secretary of Energy
alone or by any single department of gov-
ernment. This is an effort that requires
the closest possible cooperation within
your total Administration, with the Con-
gress and, most importantly, it requires
the continuing cooperation and support
of the American people.
The energy problems directly impact
all Americans. They affect the very fabric
of our economic structure. The successful
management and resolution of these prob-
lems requires the involvement of indi-
vidual Americans making millions of in-
dividual decisions, to understand the im-
portance of conservation, the importance
of energy efficiency, and the importance
of developing alternative energy sources.
The problems and the responsibilities
are huge, but I want you to know, Mr.
President, that I approach my assignment
with a sense of optimism, dedication of
purpose, enthusiasm, and with a commit-
ment to do my very best. I'm convinced
that we can find the right balance in our
answers to these problems to assure all
Americans a safe and secure energy
future.
And lastly, Mr. President, I thank you
for giving me this opportunity to serve
my country. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. And now since we've
had the thermostat turned so low for this
ceremony, we can turn it back up.
[Laughter]
All of you are welcome to come over
to the reception, where you can person-
ally shake hands with Charles and Anne
and his family.
Charles, if you don't mind, you might
follow me through the door so that you
can stand in place so that all of you can
1517
