Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
The technology to meet today's en-
vironmental standards is available for
cleaning up the gas in water discharge
streams, also for controlling dust, and for
disposing of the solid waste. This tech-
nology is already in use in refineries and
electric powerplants and improved tech-
nology is the subject of a number of re-
search programs. We've estimated that the
cost for environmental protection would
be roughly 15 to 20 percent of the total
synthetics plant investment.
Finally, I would like to comment on the
outlook for new technology. At the present
time there is a substantial research pro-
gram in this country on coal synthetics. A
large program will continue to be needed
because of the diversity of the coals, the
locations, and the products. The primary
target will continue to be cost reduction.
Realistically, I believe a 20- to 30-percent
lower cost, exclusive of inflation, can be
expected over the next 20 years. This will
not be easy to achieve, but improvements
in gasification and liquefaction technology
as well as in the purification steps can be
expected.
New catalysts are the best hope for these
improvements. Also, we can expect
gradual improvements in equipment de-
sign, materials of construction, and process
control systems as coal synthetics plants
are built and operated. The best tech-
nology available will be used in a never-
ending striving for lower costs.
In summary, coal synthetics are costly,
but they are an important option for high-
quality fuels, particularly for transporta-
tion and home heating. Large coal re-
sources have the potential to supply U.S.
needs for synthetics for many decades.
Costs can be reduced through advancing
technology, and progress is being made.
Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it might be
better for me to wait until after the
presentations.
BIOMASS
DR. PRESS. Shall we move next, then, to
Dr. Thomas Stelson. Dr. Stelson, whom
you know, is vice president of research at
Georgia Tech, and he will tell us about
biomass and its contribution to our energy
needs in the future.
DR. STELSON. Mr. President, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I'm delighted to have this opportunity
to speak a little bit about the energy poten-
tial of biomass. Even though oils and gases
and coals vary in character, biomass varies
even more. It's a general name for a com-
plex and diversified group of materials
that are produced by living organisms.
And these organisms have the capability
of converting solar energy and other mate-
rials into forms of stored energy. In fact,
on a geologic timescale, biomass is the
source of coal and oil and gas as well.
On a short timescale all biological
materials can be converted into energy,
and they can be converted into all forms of
energy-gas, liquid, or solid. So, the pos-
sibilities are enormous. There are literally
millions of materials and many possible
projects that could convert them into use-
ful energy
forms.
The two characteristics that are proba-
bly different is that biomass, like solar, is a
renewable energy source. But it's a little
better than direct solar in that it's stored
in biological form, and it can be used with-
out the daily or annual cycles that create
problems in solar energy utilization. The
other thing that's, I think, very interesting
about biomass possibilities is that it's very
small-scale in its opportunities, and it can
be very labor-intensive and can contribute
more than any other form, except possibly
1541
