Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
gree of their compliance with our own they were derived from very ancient
human rights standards.
This is sometimes a cause of major
diplomatic protests from those countries,
but we do it. And I think that their
awareness that they are being assessed by
us and by Amnesty International and
other countries are very important fac-
tors. I doubt now in the last 22 years
that there is any government leader on
Earth, either in totalitarian countries or
democratic countries, including myself,
who don't frequently stop and say, "What
are we doing that would cause the con-
demnation of the world to come on us
because we are violating human rights?"
We're making some progress; but still
have a long way to go.
INDIAN RESERVATIONS
Ms. JOHNSON. Along with that ques-
tion, Mr. President, I'd like to ask about,
you know, the Indians. I've been aware-
'cause this is an area that we've got reser-
vations, in Minnesota and throughout the
Midwest area and South Dakota and
such that with the energy crunch as it is
today, that the energy companies-oil,
electricity are coming into some of these
reservation lands and in some way trying
to get hold of the land and take it over to
produce energy,
energy, whatever that you
know, uranium, especially, I'm thinking
of, in the Black Hills area in South
Dakota.
Can there be any assurances that those
treaties that were made with the Indians
will not be violated by the Federal
Government?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, the assurance lies
under the constitutional guarantees of
honoring civil rights or human rights of
those Indians. And as you probably have
noticed in the last few years, the Federal
courts have been much more inclined to
honor the Indians' rights, even though
treaties. They were violated for many
generations. Now I think there's a sub-
stantial movement toward honoring those
original treaties.
MS. STAMBERG. Thanks very much,
Ms. Johnson.
Let's move on now, President Carter, to
another question. This one from Peg
Ormsby, in Weston, West Virginia. Go
ahead, Ms. Ormsby.
DAM AND WATER PROJECTS
MS. ORMSBY. Hello, President Carter;
we're grateful for the chance to talk to
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I'm hon-
ored to have a chance to talk to all of
you.
MS. ORMSBY. You're asking us to
make sacrifices in the name of the energy
crisis and to help control inflation, and
you said that the Federal Government is
doing everything it can to help with these
problems. But here on the local level, in
Lewis County, West Virginia, we're fight-
ing to keep the Federal Government
from building the expensive Stonewall
Jackson Dam.
Now, this dam would destroy existing
coal, oil, and gas reserves as well as using
an enormous amount of energy in its
construction. Alternatives to the dam
exist, but they haven't been explored.
President Carter, this dam was never
reviewed under your water projects cri-
teria. EPA has challenged its justification.
So, how can you tell us here on the local
level, who feel the results of Federal proj-
ects and Federal dictates, that the Gov-
ernment itself is doing everything it can
to save energy and fight inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Peg, I can't say that
the Government's doing everything it can;
say we're doing a lot, and we're trying
as best we can.
I
1914
