Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 3
And now, I would like to introduce
Justice Thurgood Marshall, who will ad-
minister the oath of office to our new
Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare.
Thank you.
[At this point, Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court Thurgood Marshall administered the
oath of office.]
SECRETARY HARRIS. Mr. President, Mr.
Justice, and friends:
It is an honor for me to be before you
today as the Secretary of the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare. And
may I say that for some of us, it is really
a great day when Justice Thurgood Mar-
shall swears in Pat Harris, because the
Justice and I first met-I remember him
from that meeting because he was a great
man, I was just a young whippersnapper
who had been sent over by Elmer Hender-
son, who's out there someplace when we
were sitting at the Department of the
Navy trying to get them to do right, as we
did so often-we were on the other side.
That really makes it a great day.
When President Carter asked me to
serve as Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare, I had deep concerns. But
after careful consideration, I agreed to do
so. I agreed because I believe that there
are no issues of our time that are more
important than those dealing with the
young, the poor, the handicapped, the
infirm, and the aged. These are the people
I served at the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, and the Presi-
dent did me and HUD great honor by say
ing that we had done our job well and
that he wished me to transfer my concern,
my skills, and my time to doing the same
kind of job on a much broader scale at
HEW.
It will be a difficult and an arduous
task, but I shall do my best. And I am
confident that with the help of the people
who share the President's concern and our
concern for the most vulnerable Ameri-
cans, we will succeed.
Although we live in the mightiest, the
wealthiest, and the most powerful nation
on Earth, all of our accomplishments are
called into question and challenged by
the reality of poverty, inadequate educa-
tion, and deficient health care that tor-
ment and trap so many of our fellow
Americans. But I see these great prob-
lems to be the challenge of our time, and
Americans have never been afraid of
challenge. It is at the core of our identity,
and it is at the center of our national
purpose. The Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare is at the center of
the great national challenge and debate
over these issues.
I want to assure everyone in this room
and all others who view or hear this event
that I will work tirelessly and resolutely to
establish a separate department of educa-
tion, to control the cost of hospital care,
to bring reform and dignity to the Ameri-
can welfare system, and to enact national
health insurance. We're going to do them
all.
Furthermore, this member of the Cab-
inet, and other members as well, have an
interest in the general well-being of the
people that goes beyond our specific re-
sponsibilities of office. Therefore, we will
be working diligently on such things as
the President's concern and the concern
of all of us about the cost of energy and
home heating fuels for poor and moderate
income Americans. These concerns can
only be met by the passage of the wind-
fall profits tax, and I believe with the
help of the American people, these things
will come about.
By nature, Americans are optimistic,
but as the President noted in his televised
address, the events of the past decade and
a half have shattered much of that con-
fidence. In November of 1976, however,
nearly 41 million Americans said, "Jimmy
Carter is the man to help restore that con-
1393
