Aug. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
knowing that these traditions will be de-
manded practices for many years to come.
Finally, I simply want to state that
serving in your Cabinet has been a great
personal honor. I value my friendship
with you, and I hope that you will call
upon me whenever I can be of service.
Warm personal regards.
Sincerely,
GRIFFIN B. BELL
Griffin Bell
[The President, The White House]
NOTE: The texts of the letters were made
available on August 4.
kinds, and which has been a discouraging
thing for economists and for the Congress
and for Presidents and other administra-
tive officials at all levels of government.
This inflationary problem has been ex-
acerbated in recent months by the ex-
tremely rapid increase in energy costs. In
the last 6 months, OPEC has raised energy
prices 60 percent, and the retail price of
energy in our country has increased more
than that in the last 4 months alone.
How to deal with this serious problem
of inflation, how to keep a sound dollar,
how to keep a strongly growing economy
in our Nation, how to deal with the prob-
lems of housing and unemployment, and
to meet the social needs of our people is
Department of the Treasury and indeed a challenge that is great, not in-
the Federal Reserve System
Remarks at the Swearing In of G. William
Miller as Secretary of the Treasury and Paul
A. Volcker as Chairman of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
August 6, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. One of the enjoyable
and gratifying aspects of being President
of our great country is to be able to call
upon distinguished Americans to serve
our country. The two most important
economic posts in our Government are the
Secretary of Treasury and the Chairman
of the Federal Reserve System. And I
don't believe that anyone whom I have
read and listened to very closely in the
last few days have contradicted the fact
that we have two superbly qualified men
who will be serving in these two important
posts in the days ahead.
Our country is facing troubled times
economically. We've now experienced
more than a decade of persistent inflation,
which has sapped away the confidence of
American people in the future, which has
put an additional and unnecessary bur-
den on the shoulders of our people of all
surmountable, but requires the best
leadership and the best minds and the
most intense and sincere dedication.
I think all of us know that there must
be experience in these two posts. There
must be competence and there must be
dedication. There's no doubt that Paul
Volcker and Bill Miller exemplify these
characteristics to an utmost degree-an
unchallenged, uncontradicted degree.
In addition, it's important for our
country that the leadership in our eco-
nomic community have the confidence of
America, of people who labor at all levels
of employment at the business execu-
tives, bankers, the financiers, government
officials. These two men must have the
confidence of our Nation, and they do.
It's also extremely important for every-
one who lives in our country to know that
the Secretary of Treasury and the Chair-
man of the Fed have the confidence of the
financial world, because the stability of the
dollar, the persistent attack on the prob-
lems of inflation are absolutely crucial to
maintaining the leadership that our coun-
try must maintain-and also that there be
a stable purpose of our Nation exempli-
1402
