Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 24
obstacles to overcome, which I've just de-
scribed, because I know that I have the
overwhelming support of the American
people for our human rights policy. I hope
that in the future it will never be weak-
ened, but further strengthened. And I
believe that it is accurate to say that there
are very few, if any, national leaders
around the world who are not reminded
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:01 p.m. in
the Rose Garden at the White House.
The President was presented with a citation
in the form of an acrostic spelling out his name
and a shofar, a ram's-horn trumpet, symboliz-
ing the President's leadership in advancing the
cause of human rights.
constantly now, because of the American Aid for Kampucheans
position, that deprivation of human rights
not only hurts them in their own country
but helps to tear down the esteem and re-
spect and influence and the well-being of
their country vis-a-vis the other nations
of the world.
It's a constant subject for discussion and
attention no matter how the government
might be, how totalitarian in its orienta-
tion or composition, or how callous they
have been in the past toward basic hu-
man rights. In spite of the fact that it's a
little bit difficult for us in our free Nation,
under a democratic government with
strong public support, we ought to recog-
nize how extremely difficult it is, how
extremely dangerous it is, how much cour-
age is required from those who live under
constant oppression to demand, in some-
times a weak and faltering voice, their
basic human rights. And I believe that
they will be strengthened because of the
result of this ceremony.
of
I accept this with gratitude not because
any accomplishment of my own or cour-
age on my part, because that's not appli-
cable here, but because you have recog-
nized that the President of the United
States ought always to withstand any pres-
sure that contravenes the furtherance of
our basic commitments, our basic beliefs,
our basic principles, our basic obligation
to our fellow human beings, our basic obli-
gation to the God we worship.
Thank you very much for honoring me
in this way. I'm deeply proud to be with
you.
Remarks Announcing Additional Relief
Efforts. October 24, 1979
Thirty [37]ยน years ago a holocaust began
which was to take the lives of more than 6
million human beings. The world stood by
silently in a moral lapse whose enormity
still numbs the human mind.
We now face, once again, the threat of
avoidable death and avoidable suffering
for literally millions of people, and this
time we must act swiftly to save the men,
women, and children, who are our
brothers and sisters in God's family.
Five days ago, the International Com-
mittee of the Red Cross and the United
Nations Children's Fund appealed jointly
for $111 million in aid to help the millions
of Kampucheans, formerly known as
Cambodians, who are facing death from
starvation during the next 6 months. We
must respond to this appeal, and we must
also help the related need for food and
medicine and shelter for refugees who are
fleeing from Kampuchea to Thailand.
Here is what we must do, and this is
what we will do: First, as to the Red
Cross and United Nations joint appeal,
I'm today directing that $3 million in ex-
isting refugee aid funds be made available
immediately to UNICEF and to the Inter-
national Committee of the Red Cross, in
addition to the $2 million that I ordered
transferred last week.
Printed in the transcript.
2011
