June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
try to give a lead in these very difficult
world problems.
Finally, Mr. Chairman, may I join my
colleagues in thanking the Emperor for
his wonderful hospitality, in thanking you,
Mr. Prime Minister, for steering us
through sometimes very difficult debates
to a successful and succinct communi-
que and I'm particularly pleased about
the "succinct," as well as the "success-
ful" to thank also the security forces,
who've made a tremendous effort, and to
thank all of the administrative staff,
who've attended to every meticulous de-
tail.
We thank you for your generosity, for
your kindness, and we wish you well in the
future.
Thank you.
PRIME MINISTER OHIRA. Thank you.
Prime Minister Clark?
PRIME MINISTER CLARK. Thank you
very much, Mr. Prime Minister. And as
the Prime Minister of a nation that is a
good neighbor to Japan, separated only
by a little bit of ocean, I wanted to begin
by expressing on behalf of the government
and the people of Canada my very real
congratulations to you personally and to
your colleagues in government, and our
very real appreciation to the people of
Japan for the excellent way in which ar-
rangements have been made for a summit
that I think the world will see is an his-
toric summit.
[In French] For Canada this summit
was of the greatest importance, since the
main issue to be discussed was energy.
Canada, in fact, is privileged, since it has
abundant energy resources, and it is in-
cumbent upon us to develop them as fast
as possible for our own use as well as for
other countries.ยน
ยน Translation provided by the Canadian Em-
bassy in the United States.
[In English] My Government conse-
quently is going to take all necessary ac-
tion to achieve our own domestic goals of
energy self-sufficiency for 1990. The work
of this summit meeting provides a solid
foundation from which we can launch
this major Canadian effort.
In the immediate future, we in Canada
are faced with the problem of declining
oil production in our major producing
province of Alberta. Until the mid-1980's,
our oil production from conventional
sources in that Province will decline and
decline dramatically. Consequently, im-
ports into Canada must rise.
[At this point, the Prime Minister again spoke
in French. He then translated his remarks as
follows.]
Faced with the world oil shortage and
in our own economic interests, I am firmly
decided to keep imports as low as possible.
We shall achieve this target by accelerat-
ing our energy conservation program, re-
placing oil by other energy sources, and
by developing as quickly as possible energy
sources of nonconventional character.
In keeping with that commitment, I
have pledged Canada at this summit to
reduce our net oil imports in 1985 to
600,000 barrels per day, from the pro-
jected need of 650,000 barrels per day.
Now, I'm convinced, Mr. Chairman,
and colleagues, that working together, the
countries represented at this summit will
deal effectively with the energy problems
now facing us. I'm convinced that, work-
ing together, all of the people of my coun-
try in Canada will be able to achieve the
goals which we have established here of
moving towards energy self-sufficiency.
Now, while we have all, throughout the
summit, been very concerned about the
impact of the energy situation on indus-
trialized countries of the world, I am very
pleased that attention has also been paid
to the special energy problems of the
1196
