Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 20
past, and our families can survive the cur-
rent changes and stresses. They are too
precious-the families are too basic, too
essential not to survive. Ultimately, the
family may emerge from this test even
stronger if we are successful and the
American people are successful in facing
facts and acting together.
This will obviously not be automatic,
and it will obviously not be easy. We all
know that change is nothing new. The
people who created this country were en-
gaged in changes that shook old institu-
tions and old ways of living profoundly;
the pioneers who pushed west, the immi-
grants who added to the rich diversity of
our people were cut off from old certain-
ties and faced with troubling change just
as we are today. They, too, had to live
with dramatic, often wrenching change
in their lives, and they had to adapt to
new patterns of living.
They quickly learned and this is im-
portant to rely on each other, to build
new families and new communities. They
saw a change not as something to be
feared, but as an opportunity. They
learned to hold onto their real values and
not let them change, values that bound
together families. They learned to work
for the family as individuals. They learned
to let the families strengthen communities,
and they learned to let those communities,
based on the families, strengthen and de-
velop a nation.
There's a difference. In those times—
revolution, moving west, the assimilation
of broad and diverse types of people
those fearsome changes had a strong tend-
ency to bring families together for mutual
support, mutual reassurance, mutual love.
These days, the changes that affect us
have a tendency to fragment families, to
drive one part of a family in one direction,
a different part of a family, maybe a dif-
ferent generation, in an opposite direc-
tion. That tendency, which is the new
thing, will be a major subject for you to
address.
We often feel nostalgic about a past
that seems to be simpler and sometimes
seems to be better, and we can learn from
the past. But we must not limit our vision
of what a good family is just to what a
family was in the past. Instead, we must
find meaning in today's challenges and
today's realities, which we cannot change,
honestly, creatively, with courage and
with compassion.
Our people are searching not for an
artificially constructed family unit that
we might try to impose on them, but
they're searching for freedom to make
their own decisions and for opportunity,
as they always have. And this search is
having profound effects on the modern
family. For many it's already proven to
be liberating and rewarding, but it also
leaves many who are unsure, who are
lonely and afraid. Lily Tomlin jokes
that we are all in this alone. [Laughter]
But for many of our people, these words
seem not funny, but tragically true. Too
many feel that they have no one to whom
they can turn in a moment of crisis or a
moment of need.
These problems that I've described to
you so briefly are real, but they are also
the kinds of problems that families have
always specialized in solving. Many of our
toughest problems, from energy to the
decay of our cities, from inflation to cop-
ing with old age, even the strengthening
of a nation's spirit can be resolved if every
family does its share and takes seriously
its responsibilities to its own members and
to the community.
Families, as you well know, are more
than just households. They are a network
of relationships rooted not only in kinship
based on blood but a kinship based on
shared experiences, shared joys and sor-
rows, and I think, most of all, in shared
1287
