Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
For example, last January, I set forth
an austere budgetary policy for fiscal
1980, working toward a balanced Federal
budget in the future to meet our serious
inflation problem. I intend to hold that
course steady and to enforce the program
I've put forward to deal with successfully
the inflation problem of our Nation. If we
fail to do so, American workers, businesses,
consumers will lose faith in the Govern-
ment's willingness to cope with inflation.
The value of the dollar would weaken and
further aggravate our inflation rate.
I will also not hesitate to take action to
avoid a serious recession. Now more than
ever, Congress must enact our existing
proposals, which you helped to develop,
for targeted fiscal assistance and counter-
cyclical aid to hard-pressed local govern-
ments when the unemployment rate goes
up very much. These are proposals which
are important, but inflation is still our Na-
tion's most serious economic problem, and
I'm determined to stick with my policies
to fight inflation. And also here I need
and expect your help.
In closing, let me say this: You are
fellow public servants along with me.
These are the kinds of choices that I have
to make, because finally I only have one
constituency-all the people of this Na-
tion. These are people that you represent.
Every one of your constituents is a con-
stituent of mine. For 203 years, our
Nation has stood proud and free. We
have met challenge after challenge. We've
overcome them all for one fundamental
reason. In a crisis, we Americans have
always stood together.
On the way here from Washington this
morning on the airplane, Congressman
Ike Skelton gave me a letter, and I'd like
to read it to you.
"Mr. President: You will recall that
I was a polio patient at Warm Springs,
Georgia, in the late 1940's. While I was
there, I copied Franklin D. Roosevelt's
undelivered address where the original
is located. From that speech, may sug-
gest that you use his words that ended
the speech as follows, and I quote from
Roosevelt, 'The only limit to our realiza-
tion of tomorrow will be our doubts of
today. Let us move forward with strong
and active faith.""
And Ike Skelton continues, "I memo-
rized those words as a teenager, and they
summarized what you said last night in
your address to the Nation. Most respect-
fully, your friend, Ike Skelton."
We have had some serious doubts in our
Nation about our Nation. Today, not only
our Nation's economy but our very inde-
pendence is threatened. Our freedom is
beyond price. We must not let it be en-
dangered by the energy problem. As a
people, as a nation, let us join together in
our struggle to secure our Nation's energy
independence with all the fullness that we
have in our great Nation and our will to
live in freedom. We must fight together
for our Nation, and, together with our re-
newed dedication and our renewed faith
in America, we will again, as Americans,
join together, lead our Nation to victory.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:06 a.m. in
the H. Roe Bartle Convention Center ballroom.
His remarks were broadcast live on radio and
television.
Detroit, Michigan
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at the Annual Convention of the
Communications Workers of America.
July 16, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. President Glenn Watts,
Communications Workers of America, my
fellow Americans:
I'd like to say a few words before I
begin to take your questions.
1247
