Oct. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We've had good luck throughout the
country, Dick, and we are now making an
assessment among the different communi-
ties around the Nation to see where mort-
gage money is short.
Up through the end of September, we
had not experienced at all a reduction in
new home starts, because the figures then
were 1.9 million homes per year were
still being built at an annual rate. We've
sustained, in spite of high interest rates,
so far, almost 2 million homes being built
in our country per year, which is near the
alltime record, and we've been very proud
of this.
But Bill Miller, who's the Secretary of
the Treasury, is now making a survey
throughout the Nation to see where mort-
gage money might be scarce, and the
Home Loan Bank Board is very con-
cerned about the possible consequences of
this.
So far, we've been able to reduce the
unemployment rate among construction
workers by more than 40 percent since
I've been in office by focusing the atten-
tion of the Government to work with pri-
vate sector interests to keep the construc-
tion business going well. We are con-
cerned about this, but so far we've held
up pretty well.
INFLATION AND ENERGY
MR. LEONE. I guess the more general
economic question is, has the Fed gone
too far in recent days in raising reserve re-
quirements and forcing interest rates up
to historically unprecedented highs?
THE PRESIDENT. That's always a ques-
tion. I think the number one threat to our
country, economically speaking, though
is inflation. We've tried to approach it at
a multiple level, that is, different ways at
the same time.
As you well know, I don't have any
control over the Fed, none at all. It's care-
fully isolated from any influence by the
President or the Congress. This has been
done for many generations, and I think
it's a wise thing to do.
We've tried to hold down Government
spending. We've cut the budget deficit
considerably since I've been in office. We
just got the figures for last year, for in-
stance, and the deficit has been dropped
down to $27 billion. It was $66 billion
when I was running for President in 1976.
We've tried to approach the key cause
of inflation after many years of delay, that
is, the unnecessary and excessive import-
ing of foreign oil. Energy is the main driv-
ing force in the high inflation rate
now. As a matter of fact, energy alone,
not counting anything else, adds 4 per-
centage points to the inflation rate and,
therefore, indirectly, 4 percentage points
onto the interest rates. As a matter of
fact, if it were not for energy, which has
been jacked up in price by OPEC because
we import so much oil, our inflation rate
this summer would be the same as it was
in 1978, same as it was in 1977.
The Congress is approaching the end of
their consideration of a package of legis-
lation that, I believe, will be successful in
the long run in cutting down our excessive
oil imports. Next year we'll spend $70 bil-
lion on foreign oil. And we not only import
a lot of foreign oil, but we also import
inflation, which I've already mentioned,
and also unemployment.
This is a long-overdue thing. It's been
one of the most difficult political battles
I've ever been in. But if the American
people will conserve, save all they can, and
we can shift toward supplies of oil and nat-
ural gas and coal that we already know
about in our own country, and develop
new sources of energy, like solar energy,
for instance, I think in the future we'll
see a much more stable economy and
2028
