July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sources were limitless until 1973, when
we had to face a growing dependence on
foreign oil.
and start walking, stop cursing and start
praying. The strength we need will not
come from the White House, but from
These wounds are still very deep. They every house in America."
have never been healed.
Looking for a way out of this crisis, our
people have turned to the Federal Gov-
ernment and found it isolated from the
mainstream of our Nation's life. Wash-
ington, D.C., has become an island. The
gap between our citizens and our Gov-
ernment has never been so wide. The peo-
ple are looking for honest answers, not
easy answers; clear leadership, not false
claims and evasiveness and politics as
usual.
What you see too often in Washington
and elsewhere around the country is a
system of government that seems inca-
pable of action. You see a Congress twisted
and pulled in every direction by hundreds
of well-financed and powerful special
interests. You see every extreme position
defended to the last vote, almost to the
last breath by one unyielding group or an-
other. You often see a balanced and a
fair approach that demands sacrifice, a
little sacrifice from everyone, abandoned
like an orphan without support and with-
out friends.
Often you see paralysis and stagnation
and drift. You don't like it, and neither
do I. What can we do?
First of all, we must face the truth, and
then we can change our course. We sim-
ply must have faith in each other, faith
in our ability to govern ourselves, and
faith in the future of this Nation. Restor-
ing that faith and that confidence to
America is now the most important task
we face. It is a true challenge of this
eration of Americans.
gen-
One of the visitors to Camp David last
week put it this way: "We've got to stop
way: "We've got to stop
crying and start sweating, stop talking
We know the strength of America. We
are strong. We can regain our unity. We
can regain our confidence. We are the
heirs of generations who survived threats
much more powerful and awesome than
those that challenge us now. Our fathers
and mothers were strong men and women
who shaped a new society during the
Great Depression, who fought world wars,
and who carved out a new charter of
peace for the world.
We ourselves are the same Americans
who just 10 years ago put a man on the
Moon. We are the generation that dedi-
cated our society to the pursuit of human
rights and equality. And we are the gen-
eration that will win the war on the en-
ergy problem and in that process rebuild
the unity and confidence of America.
We are at a turning point in our his-
tory. There are two paths to choose. One
is a path I've warned about tonight, the
path that leads to fragmentation and self-
interest. Down that road lies a mistaken
idea of freedom, the right to grasp for our-
selves some advantage over others. That
path would be one of constant conflict be-
tween narrow interests ending in chaos
and immobility. It is a certain route to
failure.
All the traditions of our past, all the les-
sons of our heritage, all the promises of
our future point to another path, the path
of common purpose and the restoration
of American values. That path leads to
true freedom for our Nation and our-
selves. We can take the first steps down
that path as we begin to solve our energy
problem.
Energy will be the immediate test of our
ability to unite this Nation, and it can also
be the standard around which we rally.
1238
