Aug. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
So, that's one message I want to give
to you. We must have a secure nation by
cutting down on waste and producing
more American energy.
And the second thing I want to say is
that our country is strong enough to ac-
complish this task. Down through his-
tory—and you're part of history, right
here in Dubuque-every time our Nation
has had a serious problem or a challenge,
we have been strong enough and united
enough to meet that challenge, to over-
come that problem, to answer that
tion. But almost always in the past, we've
ques-
help you to make the greatest nation on
Earth even greater in the future.
And now I'd like to come out and shake
hands with as many of you as I can reach.
And I thank you for coming out to meet
us.
BYSTANDER. Jimmy, I've been waiting
since 5 o'clock!
THE PRESIDENT. I'll be right there.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 a.m. at the
docking site of the Delta Queen.
been able to identify the problem, like in Women's Equality Day, 1979
the First World War, we knew our Nation
was in danger, the Second World War,
Proclamation 4674. August 20, 1979
of America
A Proclamation
the Great Depression. And recognizing By the President of the United States
the danger to our country, we bound our-
selves together. Our families became
stronger, our communities became
stronger, we had respect for and we sup-
ported our local officials, our State offi-
cials, our Federal officials. We didn't let
a chasm open up between ourselves and
the Federal Government. We felt that it
was our government, and we cherished it.
If we didn't like something it did, we
changed it at election time, but between
elections we gave it our support and our
respect.
Now with the energy shortage and 12
years of inflation, Americans have tended
to get discouraged. We've kind of lost con-
fidence in ourselves and lost confidence in
one another. We've tended to become
divided; we've got too many special inter-
est groups grasping for some advantage.
Now's the time for us to unite again and
face this serious energy problem, which
directly threatens our Nation's security,
together, in an unselfish attitude.
There is no doubt in my mind that we
can do it, and if you will help me, I will
On August 26, 1920, fifty-nine years
ago, the 19th Amendment became a part
of the United States Constitution, guar-
anteeing women the right to vote.
As we celebrate the anniversary of that
victory for all Americans, we applaud the
courage of the women and men who
struggled for generations to achieve it.
But the 19th Amendment was only one
step on the long journey toward full
equality for women.
Through persistent and dedicated ef-
fort, women have made great strides to-
ward achieving that equality in recent
years. But the need for the Equal Rights
Amendment is still compelling. Today, I
reiterate my continued commitment to
make the ERA a part of our Constitution.
The ERA does not legislate that men
and women are the same. It simply says
that the law cannot penalize women be-
cause they are female. Nor does the ERA
impose new, unwanted roles on women.
1476
