Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Office of Management and Budget shall
determine shall be transferred to the ap-
propriate agency, organization, or com-
ponent at such time or times as such Di-
rector shall provide, except that no such
unexpended balances transferred shall be
used for purposes other than those for
which the appropriation originally was
made. The Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget shall provide for ter-
minating the affairs of any agency abol-
ished herein and for such further meas-
ures and dispositions as such Director
deems necessary to effectuate the pur-
poses of the reorganization plan.
(b) Pending the assumption of office by
the initial officers provided for in section.
2 of this reorganization plan, the func-
tions of each such office may be per-
formed, for up to a total of 60 days, by
such individuals as the President may des-
ignate. Any individual so designated shall
be compensated at the rate provided here-
in for such position.
SECTION 9. Effective date
The provisions of this reorganization
plan shall take effect October 1, 1980,
or at such earlier time or times as the
President shall specify, but not sooner
than the earliest time allowable under
section 906 of title 5 of the United States
Code.
The Cyprus Conflict
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. September 25, 1979
To Speaker Tip O'Neill (To Chairman
Frank Church)
In accordance with the provisions of
Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the
following report on progress made dur-
ing the past 60 days toward the conclusion
of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus
problem.
In my last Cyprus report to the Con-
gress, dated July 25, I noted that UN Sec-
retary General Waldheim and his staff
were seeking to bring the two parties back
to the conference table. Unfortunately,
the recess in the intercommunal talks con-
tinues, largely because the two sides still
have major differences both with regard
to their approach to this negotiation and
to the content of a final settlement of the
Cyprus problem.
The UN Secretary General, through his
staff, is continuing to consult informally
with the parties. He has had some success
in creating a foundation on which the
talks might resume. We are giving strong
and continued support to this effort. We
have frequently discussed the situation
on Cyprus in a frank manner with all
parties, reminding them that negotiation
is preferable to stalemate, and that their
broad interests would be served by a re-
turn to the conference table. Other inter-
ested third parties have made similar
points to them.
Despite the difficulties, we continue to
believe that a way can be found to end
the present impasse and to permit the two
sides to commence a serious negotiation
of the Cyprus problem.
This Administration will continue to
strive for progress in that direction. In
pursuit of this goal, we shall remain in
close touch with the United Nations, the
parties to the Cyprus dispute, and our
close European allies.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Frank
Church, chairman of the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee.
1738
