Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
are within the souls and the hearts of
Americans.
And third, we must regenerate our
sense of unity. We must draw again from
that deep reservoir of spirit that's always
been available to us when our Nation was
in danger or when we faced a serious
challenge. And today we do face some of
the most serious economic and interna-
tional challenges in history. Energy, em-
ployment, inflation, world peace are of
special concern to me as President.
In the last few months, I believe we
have turned a corner. I see a growing
willingness to pitch in, to recognize prob-
lems, to face them courageously, and to
try to solve those problems together. The
labor movement has helped to lead this
change.
We are finally building up good mo-
mentum in the Congress after long years
of delay in major energy legislation.
Last year, with your help, we passed
part of an energy bill that can reduce im-
ported oil by 22 million barrels a day by
the end of this coming decade. But even
with those huge savings and the savings
that we expect to get from increased con-
servation, if we do nothing more, we will
be importing more oil by 1990 than we
import today. We've still got a long way
to go. And we will not accept this threat
to our Nation's very security.
At Camp David, I also turned to Marty
Ward, to Jack Lyons, and they told it to
me straight: "This country needs a new
energy base, Mr. President, and we've
got to start right away." And I have a
clear message from Bob Georgine, from
Charlie Pillard, Bill Sidell, Jay Turner.
They tell me that we must stop exporting
American jobs and stop importing infla-
tion. And they also tell me that there's
some construction workers in this country
ready to fill those new jobs when we
create them.
Americans are ready and we will save
much more energy in the future than we
have ever tried to save in the past. But
we also have got to build and produce
more. We need more American oil,
American gas, American coal, American
solar power, American nuclear power,
American synthetic fuels to run our
homes and factories, and we're going to
produce them without further delay-
American energy for American people,
for American jobs, and to cut inflation.
If you'll help me, we will not fail.
I want to tell you this: This will not
be an unpleasant sacrifice on the part of
Americans. It will be and can be a pleas-
ant thing, a notable achievement. We'll
get from it a sense of patriotism.
We must have an energy security cor-
poration financed by a windfall profits
tax on the unearned profits of the oil
companies. I'm determined to get it. If
you'll help me, we will not fail on that.
This will finance and this might be
of interest to you-one of the biggest con-
struction projects in the history of the
world-a brand-new American indus-
try-American industry—with American
technology and American jobs on a scale
which will even exceed the construction
of our Interstate Highway System. With-
out even counting any indirect benefits,
in construction alone, it will create more
than 145,000 jobs.
But I need your help with the windfall
profits tax in the Senate, because the oil
companies are pushing for loopholes that
could give them nearly $100 billion of
this proposed tax and which would only
produce only a small increase in American
oil and American gas. This would all be
at the expense of programs to help the
poor pay rapidly rising energy costs, to
give us a better transportation system, to
develop synthetic fuels. This we cannot
1868
