Aug. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
totally eradicate the basic sources of the
malady.
Because inflation has built up over such
a long period, it will not easily or quickly
be dislodged. What is needed is a compre-
hensive, sustained, and total war against
inflation. What is needed is an integrated
strategy marshaling all the policy weapons
at our command until we achieve uncon-
ditional surrender.
As I have often said in my former role
as Federal Reserve Chairman, monetary
policy certainly cannot do the job alone.
But a disciplined monetary policy is a key
element. President Carter has made an
excellent choice in Paul Volcker as my
successor. He is superbly qualified. I am
sure that Paul and the other able and
dedicated Governors of the Federal Re-
serve and the Presidents of the Federal
Reserve Banks who serve on the Open
Market Committee can be counted on in
their independence to maintain the proper
monetary stance.
At the same time, those of us with re-
sponsibility in the administration must
apply ourselves with full diligence to im-
plementing the other elements of the Pres-
ident's economic strategy a disciplined
fiscal policy, a program for moderation of
wage and prices, commitment to a sound
and stable dollar, expansion of exports,
balance in our international accounts, a
comprehensive energy program to reduce
our dependence on imported oil, to con-
serve energy in every way, and to develop
alternate energy sources within our
borders.
And certainly the President's program
on energy should be enacted as promptly
as possible, including the windfall profits
tax.
And we must pursue the other ele-
ments-reduction of unnecessary Govern-
ment regulation and other cost-raising
Government actions.
We must encourage employee training,
capital investment, and the research and
development and the other initiatives that
are essential to increase our productivity.
Of course, economic activity is not of
itself the essence of our national purpose.
There are higher aspirations concerning
the spiritual and humanistic values of
American life and human society. But it
is not likely that these higher goals can
be attained in the complex and inter-
dependent world without a sound
economy.
Employment opportunities for every
American, production of the goods and
services we need at stable prices, advances
in science and technology, molded in
humane application, all are a precondi-
tion.
Without a vigorous economic system,
we cannot assure the adequacy of our
national security. We cannot provide suffi-
ciently for the poor and the aged and the
infirm and the veterans who have served
this country. We cannot revitalize our
cities. We cannot guarantee proper shel-
ter or education or medical care for all
Americans. We will be handicapped in
maintaining American leadership in a
fragile world.
A sound economy is thus the basis for
pursuing our national goals. The govern-
ment must lead the war against inflation,
but the campaign most surely will suc-
ceed only if every American plays his full
part.
Support of all our citizens is needed to
endure a period of austerity, fairly shared,
so that we may again be able to enjoy the
bounty of this great land. We must have
the compassion to cushion the burden in
these austere times from those least able
to protect themselves. It is a period of
testing. Do we have the will, the deter-
mination, the character to persevere?
1404
