Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
But we have had a gracious welcome
here. My wife, Máirín, and I have been
especially touched by the warmth of that
welcome, and I think the spirit of it em-
phasized the spirit of America through
the ages. Just over 400 years ago, the pop-
ulation of the United States, that is, the
area occupied by the United States, was
less than the population of my country
now. And into this territory people have
flowed from all over the world, people of
Europe, from Africa, and of Asia, and
they have made their home here. And
you
in America have provided them with the
hospitality which all the bounty of na-
ture has made possible and, as well, the
virtue of good and just government has
secured.
In Europe today, we face the problems
that the United States faced many, many
years ago. Europe is now integrating, as
the States once did. And although the
times are not the same, the European
Community now has a comity of nations,
each acutely conscious of its
sovereignty, but each willing to compro-
mise in the interests of the greater good,
as the States once did in America and still
do today. But we have our problems in the
process of this evolution, problems in
which you have given an example for the
rest of us to overcome.
I think the United States can be truly
said as the world's outstanding exam-
ple of unity in diversity. And the
words in your motto, "E Pluribus Unum,"
describe not just aspiration but attain-
ment. And we outside the States, those of
us in Ireland and in other countries in
Europe, look on your achievement with
pride and genuinely with pride, since
so many of our forebears were part of that
achievement. But to you Americans be-
long the real pride, because you must
live every day with the burden and with
the responsibility which America's power
brings in the world today.
As the President has said, Ireland cur-
rently holds the Presidency of the Euro-
pean Community, and in that capacity
we represent fellow Europeans at numer-
ous international conferences, including
the United Nations. We in Europe see
ourselves as a community in an interde-
pendent world, as a potent and growing
force, building on our relations with both
developing and developed countries in a
friendly and a cooperative spirit.
In pursuing this policy, the EEC's re-
lationship with the United Nations is par-
ticularly significant. You, Mr. President,
have said and we welcome what you'd
said in this respect-that you see Euro-
pean strength and unity not as a threat,
but as a boon. The plain truth is that
Europe and the United States need each
other. Interdependence is not just an
empty phrase; it describes a fact.
I don't have to go into the problems
that we face together in the world of to-
day: the depletion of resources, the abuse
of human rights, the increase in arma-
ments and nuclear proliferation, starva-
tion and global confrontation. We both-
not just as a small nation, like Ireland is-
but we both, in our capacity as a member
of the European Community, with the
United States, have to face up to these
problems.
We have the problems of new technol-
ogy, and we're moving into worlds where
none of us has ever been: the shift in the
balance of trade involving the develop-
ing countries and we must look after
them as well-and the demographic
changes which can alter the whole struc-
ture of a society. And all these problems
can be dealt only in a coordinated
way, and certainly I can see much dam-
age being done in a return to an old-
fashioned protectionism or economic na-
tionalism. You, Mr. President, have ex-
pressed time and time again the value to
the West and the developing world of
Multinational Trade Negotiations de-
signed to avoid just such dangers.
2100
