Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
ceived close scrutiny and personal ap-
proval from Attorney General Griffin Bell,
Deputy Attorney General Benjamin Civi-
letti, and Director William Webster.
The law enforcement Charter would
bring together in one statute the authori-
ties and responsibilities that the FBI now
exercises as a matter of custom and prac-
tice.
Although most departments and agen-
cies operate under detailed statutory
schemes, the FBI has lacked a statutory
framework, although it is one of the most
important and sensitive of all Executive
Branch agencies. A one-paragraph 1908
law creating the Bureau is all that pres-
ently exists. The controversies in past years
regarding particular actions of the Bu-
reau, such as those directed at Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., and various other per-
sons and organizations, are to some degree
attributable to this lack of statutory di-
rection. It was these controversies which
led me to call for a clear and binding
charter for the FBI when I ran for Presi-
dent. Statutory safeguards would insure
that the Bureau exercises its responsibil-
ities in a manner sensitive to the funda-
mental rights of all Americans. The public
must be assured that the FBI is acting
properly under the law.
We need to recognize that the FBI
serves a vital national function and that
it has rendered distinguished service to the
Nation. It has set a standard for compe-
tence, dedication and professionalism of
which we should all be proud. We must
be careful to maintain the fundamental
capability of an institution which has
served us so well. This Charter maintains
that capability. Under Director William
Webster the conduct of the Bureau has
been exemplary and I applaud his leader-
ship.
A clear definition of the authorities and
responsibilities of the FBI is essential to
its proper functioning and is in the best
interest of national law enforcement and
the proper administration of justice. En-
actment of this Charter will enable FBI
agents to carry out their duties with
greater certainty, confidence, and effec-
tiveness.
The bill I submit today reflects three
fundamental objectives:
• The Charter should be a document
of broad principles, not a long detailing
of procedures. It should enumerate the
FBI's jurisdiction, functions and powers
and set forth the limits on its activities,
but should leave to the Attorney General
the power to issue specific detailed pro-
cedures and guidelines.
• With few exceptions, coupled with
procedural safeguards, the investigative
power of the FBI should be limited to the
detection, prevention and prosecution of
federal crimes. This will prevent the un-
restricted accumulation of information
concerning individuals not suspected of
criminal conduct.
• The Charter should strike a proper
balance between the true needs of law
enforcement and the civil liberties guar-
anteed by our Constitution. The greater
the potential for impairment of rights, the
stronger the authorization and account-
ability systems required.
The Charter authorizes the FBI to em-
ploy traditional and lawful investigative
techniques in carrying out its responsi-
bilities. These include confidential in-
formants, undercover agents, and under-
cover operations.
Two primary types of criminal investi-
gations are authorized: investigation of
criminal acts that violate federal law and
investigations into criminal enterprises
that involve racketeering or terrorism. No
investigation may be commenced unless
based on "facts and circumstances that
reasonably indicate" a criminal violation.
1335
