July 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
that you have made for the Ambassador
and all those that assisted him; also for
Charlie Vanik, chairman of our trade
subcommittee, Russell Long, Abe Ribi-
coff, Guy Vander Jagt, Bill Frenzel, all of
the people who and, of course, Barber
Conable who participated in a major
bipartisan effort. This, indeed, should set
an example and should set the pace
for
other things we're doing in areas that are
vital to the future security of America.
I well remember back in the summer of
'73, when the Ways and Means Commit-
tee met long hours, hard decisions, draft-
ing a creative new piece of legislation that
took a totally new approach to the whole
problem of trade. And we set up a proce-
dure during those hard months that laid
out for the Congress a timetable without
which we would not be here today. And
so,
I think this whole effort from the very
beginning to the end should be studied as
an example for other decisions that we
can make in this Government, at a very
critical time when we're going to all have
to begin working together better than we
have sometimes in the past.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to thank all of
you again and particularly the Members
of Congress. It would be nice if I could
call on many others, because there were
so many who played leadership roles. But
because of the press of time and because
there are so many who had a role in this,
I think I'll thank the rest of them from the
bottom of my heart for the great role they
played and all of you played in making
this momentous achievement possible.
Thank you very much, everyone.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. at
the ceremony in the Rose Garden at the White
House.
As enacted, H.R. 4537 is Public Law 96-39,
approved July 26.
United States-Australia
Agreement on Nuclear Energy
Message to the Congress Transmitting the
Agreement. July 27, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Con-
gress, pursuant to Section 123 d of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended
(42 U.S.C. 2153 (d)), the text of the pro-
posed Agreement Between the United
States and Australia Concerning Peaceful
Uses of Nuclear Energy and accompany-
ing annex and agreed minute; my written
approval, authorization and determina-
tion concerning the agreement; and the
Memorandum of the Director of the
United States Arms Control and Disarma-
ment Agency with the Nuclear Prolifera-
tion Assessment Statement concerning the
agreement. The joint memorandum sub-
mitted to me by the Secretaries of State
and Energy, which includes a summary
analysis of the provisions of the agreement,
and the views of the Members of the Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission are also
enclosed.
The proposed agreement with Australia
is the first such agreement submitted to the
Congress since enactment of the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Act of 1978, which I
signed into law on March 10, 1978 and
which, among other things, calls upon me
to renegotiate existing peaceful nuclear
cooperation agreements to obtain the new
provisions set forth in that Act. In my
judgment, the proposed agreement for
cooperation between the United States
and Australia, together with its agreed
minute, meets all statutory requirements.
I am particularly pleased that this first
agreement is with Australia, a strong sup-
porter of the Non-Proliferation Treaty
and of international non-proliferation ef-
forts generally. The proposed agreement
1314
