Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cause of extensive public and private
property damage caused by Hurricane
Frederic.
The President attended a reception for
members of the Conference of National
Volunteer Organizations held in the East
Room at the White House.
September 14
The President met at the White House
with:
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale,
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance,
Secretary of Defense Harold Brown,
Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the
President, Hedley W. Donovan,
Senior Adviser to the President, and
Dr. Brzezinski;
-John M. Craig, a participant in the
Tampa, Fla., town meeting.
The President participated in a briefing
on the administration's programs and
policies, given for civic and community
leaders from Florida in the East Room at
the White House.
The White House announced that the
President has signed two Presidential de-
terminations under the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961. One states his determination
that $4.8 million should be appropriated
to provide assistance to the victims of Hur-
ricane David in the Caribbean. The other
authorizes furnishing $10 million to Yugo-
slavia from the fiscal year 1979 Economic
Support Fund. These funds will be used
for reconstruction following the earth-
quake there.
The President announced that he has
appointed Hugh Carter, Jr., Special As-
sistant to the President for Administra-
tion, to be a member of the President's
Commission on Executive Exchange. This
Commission runs an executive interchange
program between the Federal Govern-
ment and private industry.
The President left the White House for
a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
The President declared a major disaster
for the State of Maryland as a result of
severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on
September 5 and 6, which caused exten-
sive property damage.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nomi-
nations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 10, 1979
NEIL GOLDSCHMIDT, of Oregon, to be Secre-
tary of Transportation, to which office he
was appointed during the last recess of the
Senate.
DONALD F. MCHENRY, of Illinois, to be the
Representative of the United States of
America to the United Nations with the
rank and status of Ambassador Extraordi-
nary and Plenipotentiary, and the Repre-
sentative of the United States of America
in the Security Council of the United
Nations.
HORACE G. DAWSON, JR., of the District of
Columbia, a Foreign Service information
officer of Class one, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Republic
of Botswana.
KENNETH M. CURTIS, of Maine, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States of America to Canada.
GEORGE B. ROBERTS, JR., of Pennsylvania, a
Foreign Service officer of Class one, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipoten-
tiary of the United States of America to the
Cooperative Republic of Guyana.
NANCY V. RAWLS, of Florida, a Foreign Serv-
ice officer of Class one, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Republic
of Ivory Coast.
RICHARD DAVID VINE, of California, a Foreign
Service officer of Class one, to be Ambassa-
dor Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to Switzerland.
RICHARD NOYES VIETS, of Vermont, a Foreign
Service officer of Class two, to be Ambassa-
dor Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the United
Republic of Tanzania.
1679
