Aug. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We are already buying between 85 per-
cent and 90 percent of all the oil that
Mexico exports. So, we are already doing
what a lot of Americans don't know
about. We would buy 100 percent of all
Mexico's exported oil if Mexico wanted
to sell all their oil to just one customer.
But I can understand the Mexicans' atti-
tude. They want to have not all their eggs
in just one customer's basket. So, they do
sell 10 percent or 15 percent of their oil
to other countries-Japan and some Euro-
pean countries.
So, we have an excellent relationship
already with Mexico on oil; we're nego-
tiating on natural gas. I hope that this
will be a successful negotiation. I will be
meeting personally with President López
Portillo in Washington next month hope-
fully to conclude these negotiations.
We've got a good relationship with Mex-
ico, and we intend to keep it that way.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. I'm Lucy Codella from White
Plains, New York. Mr. President, there
has been proposed a new department of
education in Washington. Will this new
department have any serious impact on
the programing and the management of
the present private, elementary, and sec-
ondary schools?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say it would
have a beneficial impact. First of all, to
have a separate department of education
will actually decrease the Federal bu-
reaucracy, the cost of administration, and
the number of employees.
Secondly, this department will give a
higher profile, a higher degree of aware-
ness and publicity to the problems of
education than you can possibly have with
education buried under health and wel-
fare.
Another thing that's important, and
that is that the State and local officials
and also the private school officials will
have a single identifiable person with one
responsibility with whom they can deal.
My own belief is that this will result in a
lesser interference of the Federal Govern-
ment in the affairs of the State and local
public schools and also the private schools.
You won't have as many lawsuits and
withholdings of funds and so forth if you
can have a routine natural communica-
tion and consultation and cooperation
between the education officials, private
and public, and the Federal Government
to begin with. I think we can have fewer
regulations, fewer forms, fewer require-
ments for Federal grants.
In the last 22 years, we have had more
increase in Federal aid for education with
less interference than ever before in his-
tory, even during those days in the sixties
when President Johnson was in the White
House. It's been a superb achievement.
We will have within the new depart-
ment an assistant secretary of education
just for private schools, private education.
So, I have no doubt that the relationship
between the private schools and the Fed-
eral Government will be better with the
new department of education than it has
been in the past.
U.S.-ITALIAN RELATIONS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Guy Arigo from
Revere, Massachusetts. The Italian Gov-
ernment has been undergoing a serious
governmental crisis. Is there any change
in our Government's position with respect
to possible changes in the Italian Govern-
ment which eventually may bring a direct
communistic participation in the Italian
executive branch of government?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very proud of the
fact that the United States of America has
an excellent relationship with the Govern-
ment of Italy. We have deplored the vio-
1414
