June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
able weapons and other military materiel
essential to Korea's defense. Within the
constraints of our worldwide arms trans-
fer policy, we intend to continue to make
such equipment available. With respect to
the possibility of reintroducing ground
combat forces into Korea in the event of
renewed conflict, the United States Gov-
ernment is prepared to take whatever ac-
tion may be necessary to fulfill its security
commitment.
U.S. POLICY TOWARDS EAST ASIA
Q. Northeast Asia appears to be in a pe-
riod of change or adjustment in the bal-
ance of power, even though a delicate
strategic equilibrium still exists there. The
normalized relations between the United
States and the People's Republic of
China, Sino-Japanese friendship treaty,
the Soviet naval buildup in the area, rival-
ry or even conflicts among the Communist
nations (including Southeast Asia), and
North Korea's obstinate intransigence in
peace efforts are some noticeable recent
events.
Mr. President, how do you assess the
situation there, and what is your policy
toward this critical area? Do you plan to
announce any comprehensive policy
statement like a "Carter Doctrine" or
"Tokyo Doctrine” during your trip to
Tokyo and Seoul late June?
A. Our policy toward East Asia is
based on several consistent principles de-
signed to maintain stability, further pros-
perity, and take account of changes
occurring in the region. The basic ingre-
dients of that policy are well known to
you: American determination to remain
actively involved as a Pacific power; the
cornerstone alliance with Japan; our firm
security commitment to the Republic of
Korea; improvement of relations with the
People's Republic of China; strong sup-
port for ASEAN and ANZUS; encour-
agement of trade and economic develop-
ment throughout the region.
We have been responsive to change. We
have normalized our relations with China,
while Japan has concluded the peace and
friendship treaty with Peking. We would
like to see a reduction of tensions on the
Korean peninsula, provided that this can
be accomplished with officials of the
South Korean Government as full and
equal participants in the process. We are
improving the quality of the 7th Fleet.
At the same time, we have moved to
strengthen key relationships with allies of
the region. Our partnership with Japan
has never been more productive. Our se-
curity commitment to Korea remains un-
shakable. We have concluded an agree-
ment with the Philippines, enabling us to
maintain stable access to our bases
through the next decade. We have in-
creased support for ASEAN.
Our Asian policy serves the interests
of the United States and its Asian allies
well. I have no plan to change it.
U.S.-R.O.K. RELATIONS
Q. Senior administration officials in
their congressional testimony or public
speeches stated that your trip to South
Korea will mark the end of a difficult
phase in the U.S.-R.O.K. relationship
and "begin a new period of better mutual
understanding and confidence." Mr.
President, what is your perspective for the
U.S.-R.O.K. relations in 1980's-politi-
cal, economic, security, and so forth?
A. The outlook for the relationship be-
tween the United States and the Republic
of Korea in the 1980's is excellent. The
dramatic pace of Korea's economic de-
velopment of the past few years shows
every sign of continuing, and in the 1980's
we expect Korea to be one of our most
important trading partners and a major
market for U.S. exports. The South will
1152
