Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
September 29
The President met at the White House
with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs.
The President met in the Roosevelt
Room with members of his advisory panel
on the Soviet troops in Cuba, including
George Ball, Roswell Gilpatric, Henry
Kissinger, John McCone, Dean Rusk,
Brent Scowcroft, McGeorge Bundy,
Averell Harriman, Sol Linowitz, David
Packard, James Schlesinger, Clark Clif-
ford, Nicholas Katzenbach, John McCloy,
and William Rogers.
The President declared a major disaster
for the State of Florida as a result of severe
storms and flooding, beginning on or about
September 14, which caused extensive
property damage.
The President declared a major dis-
aster for the State of North Carolina as a
result of severe storms and flooding, begin-
ning on September 21, which caused ex-
tensive property damage.
The President declared a major disaster
for the Commonwealth of Virginia as a
result of severe storms and flooding, begin-
ning on September 21, which caused ex-
tensive private property damage.
The White House announced that
Robert J. Lipshutz, Counsel to the Presi-
dent since his inauguration, formally sub-
mitted his resignation to President Carter
and announced that he is returning to At-
lanta to join the law firm of Haas, Hol-
land, Levison and Gibert on November
1. In his new private practice, Mr. Lip-
shutz will be President Carter's personal
attorney and cotrustee of his personal
trust, as well as chairman of the proposed
Carter Presidential Library commission.
The White House announced that the
President has signed a determination that
withdraws the designation of Ethiopia as
a beneficiary developing country for pur-
poses of the Generalized System of Pref-
erences.
The President left the White House for
a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
October 1
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David.
October 2
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison.
The President attended a luncheon for
country music performers, held in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
October 3
The President met at the White House
with:
-Dr. Brzezinski;
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale,
Secretary of Health, Education, and
Welfare Patricia R. Harris, Secre-
tary of Transportation Neil Gold-
schmidt, Secretary of Labor Ray
Marshall, Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development Moon Lan-
drieu, Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr., As-
sistant to the President, Stuart E.
Eizenstat, Assistant to the President
for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and
Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the
President for Intergovernmental Af-
fairs, to discuss domestic policies;
1823
