Dec. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
You've helped us in the evolution of
our SALT treaty, and your strong support
for it plays a major role in shaping opinion
in our own country. The recent decision
made in the European Community,
Atlantic Alliance nations on theater nu-
clear forces have felt the benefit of your
strong leadership. We joined together
many months ago in strengthening this
NATO Alliance. And, of course, we share
as well a determination that in the future
our efforts on controlling both conven-
tional and nuclear weapons will be
successful.
We had long discussions in Tokyo
earlier this year about how to deal with
the increasing price of energy and the
prospective shortage of energy on a world-
wide basis. And I'm very grateful that we
do share that responsibility, because you
add great strength to our own efforts and
help to induce other countries to be re-
sponsible and forthright in meeting this
challenge in a successful way.
Our people have been deeply grateful
and filled with admiration at the success-
ful efforts that you have brought to re-
solving the longstanding problems in
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. And we hope that
soon that nation, because of your own
efforts, will be blessed with a majority-rule
government, and will be free of war and
combat, and can indeed have peace and
join the democratic nations of the world.
I want the American people to get to
know you, Madame Prime Minister, as I
have come to know you and admire you.
And I particularly want to emphasize that
our people in Great Britain, the United
Kingdom, and the United States have
always seen our finest achievements in
times of crisis and in times of challenge. I
particularly want to thank you personally,
on behalf of all Americans, and remind all
the citizens of this country that from the
very first moment when American hos-
tages were captured and held illegally in
Iran, your government has been in the
forefront of those who have helped us in
every way; both privately and through
diplomatic means, and through public
means, you've been staunch allies, staunch
friends, staunch supporters of ours. And I
deeply appreciate it.
I might say in closing, Madame Prime
Minister, that this is typical of the inter-
relationship which our two nations have
always enjoyed in the past. You are at
home here. This is not your first visit.
Many Americans already know you and
admire you from a distance. And I'm very
grateful that you've come at this time, not
a time of dormancy or a time of self-satis-
faction, but a time of crisis and a time of
challenge, as a strong leader of one of the
great nations on Earth.
Madame Prime Minister, we deeply
appreciate your visit; the people of my
government, the people of our Nation
welcome you to the United States. Thank
you very much. God bless you and the
people whom you represent.
THE PRIME MINISTER. Mr. President,
thank you very much for your warm wel-
come and for the very generous terms in
which you expressed it. I'm delighted to
be back in Washington and to have the
opportunity of meeting you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and many other friends once again.
I don't need to dwell on the emotion
which any British Prime Minister must
feel on taking part in this ceremony on the
White House lawn for the first time. The
United States is the most powerful force
for freedom and democracy the world
over, and we salute and we honor you.
Our meeting, Mr. President, extends a
long and historic series. The friendship
between our two countries stretches far
into the past. It rests on a natural affinity
and affection which stand above the buf-
fetings of fate and fortune. The relation-
2258
