Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
fication of coal, and other actions that can
make us more energy self-sufficient.
Q. Is there anything immediate you
can do to reduce the gas lines in the
United States?
THE PRESIDENT. My information is
that in the next few weeks-hopefully
sooner there will be an increase in sup-
ply of gasoline to the affected areas. The
oil companies and the Department of
Energy-and I talked to the Vice Presi-
dent this morning—all agree that the per-
centage of gasoline being allotted in the
affected areas will be increased to about
97 percent¹ of what it was last year, a
much better supply than we have experi-
enced the last couple of weeks.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:27 a.m. out-
side the U.S. Ambassador's residence.
Following his remarks, the President left for
the French Embassy for breakfast with French
President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, British
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and Ger-
man Chancellor Helmut Schmidt.
Earlier at a meeting in Geneva, Switzerland,
members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries set a price ceiling for
petroleum of $23.50 per barrel.
1
¹ On the same day, the White House Press
Secretary issued the following notice to the
press.
For your information on the President's
statement and questions and answers this
morning—
After reviewing the briefing material pro-
vided to the President, it appears that it is
more accurate to speak of an increase to a
range of 95 percent to 97 percent of last year's
supply of gasoline, rather than the 97 percent
figure which the President used.
You should note, however, that the Presi-
dent is committed as a primary goal to take
the necessary steps to prevent a shortage of
home heating oil. It could become necessary
to reduce the amount of gasoline being pro-
duced this summer to avoid running out of oil
to heat our homes this winter.
To make sure there is no misunderstanding,
the President also asks that I relay to you this
comment:
Tokyo Economic Summit
Conference
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Reporters. June 29, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first of all, let me
make an opening comment, and then you
can ask questions. I'll be brief.
First of all, the Japanese did a superb
job, under very difficult circumstances, in
putting together arrangements for my
state visit and also for a very important
conference. Secondly, I thought the re-
sults of the economic summit conference
were superb. They equaled our highest
expectations, and we accomplished sev-
eral important goals.
First of all-and this was the most con-
troversial all the way through-specific,
tangible, individual nations' quotas or
goals or imports for 1979, 1980, and ex-
tending through 1985. The individual
European quotas will be assigned to those
countries at the next European Commu-
ity meeting in Dublin this fall, and then
"Even if we reach the 97 percent figure,
there is no guarantee that gasoline lines will
end without significant conservation efforts.
We will still have a substantial shortfall com-
pared to projected demand, and the amount
of gasoline available to the average motorist
will be reduced by the necessity of providing
priorities to such essential users as ambulances
and fire-fighting vehicles."
For your additional information, to reach
the 95 percent to 97 percent figure, it will be
necessary for oil companies to draw down their
crude stocks by about 20 million barrels, as we
have asked them to do. It will also be neces-
sary for crude oil imports to continue to aver-
age 6.2 million barrels per day or better, which
is consistent with import levels over the past
3 weeks and with our IEA pledge to reduce
consumption by 5 percent compared to pro-
jected demand.
1183
