Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
by the year 1990, and at the same time
help to control inflation.
There's no way that we can avoid, at
this time, having high interest rates, be-
cause interest rates go with inflation, and
the best way to get the interest rates down
is to reduce inflation.
One other comment I might make very
quickly is that we've tried to do it through
Government action as well. For instance,
we've cut the Federal budget deficit since
I've been in office more than 50 percent,
by $36 billion. We have about 20,000
fewer Federal employees now than we had
in 1976, in spite of the fact that we are
delivering more services. And we've cut
down the portion of our gross national
product, everything America produces,
that's being collected and spent by the
Federal Government. These kinds of
things in the long run will have a good
impact on inflation.
So far, we are dealing with it on a broad
base. I believe that the inflation rate will
turn downward during the end of this
year and, I hope, continue downward in
the years ahead.
MR. BOLES. Okay. I like that answer,
Mr. President, because, you know, like I
said, my apartment where I live is in-
sulated. So, that has really cut down the
cost as far as heating. And a lot of people
are saying, well, that costs too much and
this and this. But you've got to have that
because it saves a lot on heating bills.
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the long run
our awareness that energy supplies might
be short and the prices very high will en-
courage Americans to do what we've al-
ways needed to do, that is, stop waste of
energy and have conservation efforts on
our own.
I hope that every American listening,
by the way, to my voice now, every fam-
ily will kind of get together before the day
is over and decide how that particular
family can cut back on the waste of en-
ergy in their homes, on their jobs, or trav-
eling. That will be the biggest single one
thing that we can do to control inflation
in the future.
MR. BOLES. Just like me, personally, I
will drive to work every day-and I don't
live too far from my job-but in the win-
tertime I will drive, too. But if there was
some mass transportation, I wouldn't have
to depend on my car. We have buses. But
when I leave at 1 o'clock in the morning
to go home, then there's no buses anymore,
and I don't want to take my chances.
THE PRESIDENT. That's a good point. I
hope you've got more than one person in
your car when you go to work.
MS. STAMBERG. Mr. Boles, thank you
so much for joining us today. We appre-
ciate it.
President Carter, that sparks a question
from me, and that is, there are nations
in Europe, also Japan, where they're pay-
ing $2 a gallon for gasoline.
THE PRESIDENT. Or even more, $2.70.
Ms. STAMBERG. Or more, yeah. But
their inflation is lower than ours and their
unemployment rate is lower than ours.
Why can't we do that?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me tell you why.
In the past our gasoline prices have-
say, just even in recent months, have
been 90 cents. If gasoline prices all over
the world go up 10 cents a gallon, and
ours go from 90 cents to $1, that's about
an 11-percent inflation rate. Are you with
me so far?
MS. STAMBERG. Sort of.
THE PRESIDENT. But say in a foreign
country-Italy or France if the price of
gasoline to begin with was $2.40 and the
price only went up 10 cents, then the in-
flation rate in percentages would be much,
much less, like 3 percent or less. So, since
their prices have always been so high on
energy to start with, and ours have been
much lower, any increase in the price of
1892
