Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
MR. SCOTT. Mr. Carter, inflation is the
number one concern among many Amer-
icans, and apparently you've made it a
priority. But how far will you go to curb
inflation, and how lasting will your moves
be?
THE PRESIDENT. The move is lasting,
and I'm not going to back down in fight-
ing inflation. And at my last press confer-
ence somebody asked me if I would stick
with it even if it cost in political approval
of popularity. I will.
I think in the long run our commitment
to control inflation, which has been with
us more than 10 years now-I'm the
fourth President to have to deal with it—
is a commitment that cannot be aban-
doned. We've had a concern that putting
pressure to hold inflation down might
hurt the poor and the working families of
this country, who are the ones who suffer
most from inflation itself. So, we focused
our attention on very narrowly defined,
targeted programs to maintain the em-
ployment opportunities for people in spite
of our effort to control inflation. And
we've been remarkably successful, more
than we ever dreamed, as a matter of fact.
In the first 22 years that I was in office,
we added a net increase of 82 million
jobs in spite of very high inflation rates.
And in the process, we've also made funds
available for home construction, because
we did not want the homebuilding indus-
try to take a nosedive. In the past, as in-
flation and interest rates have gone up,
the
first ones to suffer were the homebuilders
and the construction workers and families
that need homes. But we've maintained
that homebuilding rate at almost 2 million
homes per year, and that rate is still hold-
ing up.
Last month, for instance, we built at a
rate of 1.88 million homes per year in our
country. So, we've held up job opportu-
nities, we've held up homebuilding pro-
grams and, therefore, jobs, in spite of
heavy inflation pressures.
We're going to stick with the control of
inflation by doing some basic things-not
wasting money, having tight fiscal poli-
cies, making sure that we cut out redtape
and regulations from the Government,
which holds down inflation. We've been
very tight on the number of Federal em-
ployees in spite of increased services.
We've cut Federal employees about
20,000, and we've tried to maintain
throughout the Government a commit-
ment toward holding the budget deficit
down. In fact, we've cut the budget deficit
almost 60 percent since I've been in office,
about $36 billion. That combination is
very difficult to maintain, but so far we've
done a good job.
The last thing I want to say on a fairly
lengthy answer is that it's a long-time
process. We cannot expect immediate re-
duction of inflation that's been with us for
10 years in spite of OPEC price increases ;
we can't expect miracles. And the second
thing is that the American people are go-
ing to have to all do our share. In home
heating oil, every homeowner is going to
have to conserve energy, do everything
they can to keep from wasting energy,
which helps them personally, also helps
our country.
MR. FOELL. Mary Richardson.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. President, on
the subject of a possible Carter-Kennedy
contest.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Ms. RICHARDSON. Does the fact that
you are here with us today, that you have
given 1 hour of your time to local televi-
sion, indicate that you're worried about
your political standing in New Hampshire
and in Massachusetts?
1985
