Nov. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ing so. The Executive Order requires all
agencies to review each form to identify
those cases where small organizations can
be exempted or given simpler forms. Sen-
ator John Culver deserves credit for lead-
ing the development of this concept of
special consideration for small organi-
zations.
Finally, the Order mandates a "sunset"
process. This process will be similar to the
legislation I am supporting to mandate
sunset reviews for regulations, spending
programs, and tax expenditures. The
Paperwork Order requires that each form
terminate every five years unless a new
decision is made to continue it.
We also need legislation to build a
complete paperwork control program and
extend it to all agencies. Representatives
Jack Brooks, Frank Horton, and Tom
Steed and Senator Lawton Chiles have
taken the lead in developing a Paperwork
Reduction Act which will strengthen and
unify existing paperwork oversight. The
Federal Reports Act is insufficient in this
regard. It gives OMB power to disap-
prove many agencies' forms, but the inde-
pendent regulatory commissions
reviewed by the General Accounting Of-
fice and tax, education, and health man-
power programs have no central review
at all. These loopholes represent 81%
of the total paperwork burden, of which
tax forms are 73%.
are
This legislation will close these loop-
holes, providing central oversight for all
forms. It also strengthens the paperwork
clearance process by allowing members
of the public to refuse to fill out forms
that have not been properly cleared.
The legislation will provide additional
tools to cut duplication in paperwork
requirements. When several agencies
want to collect overlapping data, the bill
will empower the OMB to assign one
agency to do the job. The bill will also
deal with the special problems of statisti-
cal systems. One cause of duplication is
that agencies collect statistical data under
pledges of confidentiality, and these
pledges hamper sharing the data. The bill
will authorize such
such sharing while
strengthening safeguards to ensure the
data is used only for statistical purposes
and never to abuse personal privacy.
These provisions will also strengthen our
Federal statistical systems, which are cru-
cial to economic and other policymaking.
While controlling the paperwork im-
posed on the public, we must also hold
down paperwork within the Government
itself. I am therefore submitting to the
Congress the Reports Elimination Act of
1979. This bill, together with adminis-
trative action we are taking now, will
eliminate or simplify 278 annual agency
reports, saving at least $5.5 million per
year.
This overall paperwork reduction pro-
gram has been developed in a cooperative
effort with the leaders of the Senate Gov-
ernmental Affairs and House Govern-
ment Operations Committees. Working
together, we will continue the progress on
cutting away red tape.
I urge the Congress to act promptly on
the two bills I have discussed.
The White House,
November 30, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Ambassador at Large and
United States Coordinator
for Refugee Affairs
Nomination of Victor Palmieri.
November 30, 1979
The President has asked me to say on
his behalf that he intends to nominate
2182
