Oct. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
So, I think in general our policy is an
adequate and a good one, and I intend
to maintain the thrust of it.
MINORITY EMPLOYMENT
Q. Mr. President, I think earlier this
year, you had a memo to the agencies and
departments which discussed black insti-
tutions and contracts and awards. It
seems as though that memo has lost some
of its teeth in the process. Is there any
way that that could be regenerated so
that the employment of minorities in the
country and through the colleges can in-
crease?
THE PRESIDENT. We've had some suc-
cess with the unemployment rate among
minorities. Even this past month, as you
know, the unemployment rate among
women, teenagers, and minorities
dropped. And we've been pleased at the
average rate of unemployment through-
out the country. It's still extremely high,
however, comparatively speaking, among,
say, black teenagers or other minority
teenagers.
In addition to that, we have helped the
Congress write a law so that public works
projects, when assigned to individual
communities, would include at least 10
percent of the total money going into con-
tracts with minority-owned businesses. I
set as a goal for our administration a
tripling in 1 year of the portion of Fed-
eral purchases from minority businesses.
It was a billion dollars. I set as a goal for
the end of this year $3 billion. I think
we'll hit a little below my goal, about
$22 billion.
Also, I think in other ways, like the
hiring of black employees or the minority
employees, we've done a good job. I
think I've appointed more judges, for in-
stance, who are black than all the other
Presidents in the history of our country
combined. It's not been adequate, but
we've made a major step forward. And
we are assessing any failures that we've
experienced for instance, in purchasing,
where I wanted to reach $3 billion, and
we will only reach $22 billion. I have
gotten identified now those agencies that
did not meet the tripling goal that I set
for them, and they are being especially
encouraged by me to meet their goals
next year.
We are making progress—not enough.
Judy [Judy Woodruff, NBC News].
THE NATIONAL SPIRIT
Q. Mr. President, Senator Kennedy
has suggested that instead of complaining
about, I believe, what you call the malaise
that the country is experiencing, that
what the President should do now is ask
the people to roll up their sleeves to try
to pull the country out of its problem.
And in effect, he spoke of a can-do spirit
that harkens back to the 1960's.
THE PRESIDENT. Is this a campaign
speech for him or [laughter].
Q. No, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
Q. What merit, if any, do you see in
that suggestion that he made, and also,
how vulnerable do you think you are on
the issue of leadership?
THE PRESIDENT. Obviously there is a
degree of malaise in the country. People
are discouraged about the current situa-
tion. They are doubtful about the future;
they are saving less than they ever have
been in the past; and they have a serious
concern about confidence in one another
and sometimes about the Government
itself.
When I made my speech to the Nation,
I think, on July 15, on a Sunday evening,
I pointed this out. But I said that our
country is inherently strong, capable, and
1842
