Aug. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
campaign for Democrats or for me. It's a
campaign for a stronger country and a
comprehensive energy policy.
Q. What do you think of this boat?
THE PRESIDENT. I like it. Don't you?
Q. The boat's leaving.
THE PRESIDENT. I can't believe it. The
boat's going to leave me. The boat's leav-
ing. I've got to get on board.
NOTE: The exchange began at approximately
4:30 p.m.
As printed above, the item follows the press
release.
Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin
Remarks at a Picnic Sponsored by the
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
Company. August 19, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, everybody. I'm
really proud that all of you came to the
picnic that Rosalynn and I and Amy have
put on with you, along with 3M Com-
pany. We're glad to be your cohosts and
also the guests of a very fine example of
the free enterprise system of our country.
3M was the first company in our Na-
tion that was given the national award for
conserving energy. And I think what they
have done is typical of what has been done
throughout the State of Wisconsin.
When your former Governor, Pat
Lucey, who's now a very distinguished and
able Ambassador to Mexico, was in office,
he initiated some conservation measures in
Wisconsin which have been good as an ex-
ample for the entire Nation. You as a peo-
ple in Wisconsin use 20 percent less energy
per person than the average throughout
our country, in spite of the fact that you
rank 12th in industrial production and
in spite of the fact that on normal days
you have cooler weather than we do in
Georgia-but I think today you've equal-
ed the Georgia climate and temperature.
But you haven't done well enough. And
neither has anyone in the United States
done well enough in saving energy.
Our country has a great challenge be-
fore us at this time. There is no conflict
between the two things that we must do.
One is to conserve energy, to stop waste,
and secondly, to produce more energy in
our own Nation.
Our Nation's security is threatened be-
cause we're too dependent on foreign oil.
So, everyone in the United States must
do as we have done in the past when our
country was in danger or when it was
threatened-unite with one another, in-
stead of being divided one from another,
and realize that every single American is
important, cut back on waste of energy in
your driving habits, obey the speed limits,
join in the vanpool system that 3M is do-
ing in other parts of the country-will
soon be doing here-make sure that you
don't waste energy in your home, do every-
thing you can to save precious energy. And
secondly, we'll have to use more solar
power. We'll have to use more coal from
within our own country, and we'll produce
more oil and gas and synthetic fuels. If we
do those things, there's no doubt in my
mind that we can meet this present chal-
lenge.
Our country, as you well know, is the
greatest nation on Earth. We're the
strongest nation politically; we're the
strongest nation economically; we're cer-
tainly the strongest nation militarily. And
we've got something else as well. God has
blessed us above all other peoples with
natural resources, not only a great river,
one of the best avenues for traffic and also
freight and also passengers in the whole
world one of the most enjoyable trips,
I think, imaginable anywhere-but, of
course, we've also been blessed with energy
reserves.
In our Nation we've got 25 percent of
all the energy reserves in the whole world.
1472
