Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 30, 1979
National Child Abuse Prevention
Month, 1979
Proclamation 4704. November 26, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
America's children are our most pre-
cious resource, and in this final month of
the International Year of the Child I urge
all Americans to consider what they can
do to prevent child abuse and neglect.
The needs of children are best met in
families where provisions can be made
for the special needs and limitations of all
family members. Even loving parents
sometimes fail to provide adequate super-
vision, or find themselves in situations.
where needs are not met or emotions are
difficult to control.
I urge communities and helping orga-
educational and health services in their
communities to strengthen families dur-
ing the critical child-rearing years.
Working together, with sensitivity and
concern, we can reduce the incidence and
lifelong damage of child abuse.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim the month of Decem-
ber, 1979, as National Child Abuse Pre-
vention Month.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of
November, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:04 p.m., November 26, 1979]
nizations to work with families to alleviate Office of Personnel Management
conditions that result in the abuse and
neglect of children. I especially urge all
those who feel unable to cope with prob-
lems to seek out help.
Our Nation's children are our Nation's
future. We all share in the responsibility
for making sure they grow up in a health-
ful environment. I appeal to public agen-
cies, private organizations and the busi-
ness community to support needed social,
Nomination of J. Jackson Walter To Be
Director of the Office of Government
Ethics. November 26, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate J. Jackson Walter, of
Tallahassee, Fla., to be Director of the
Office of Government Ethics, a new posi-
tion.
Walter is currently at the Office of
Government Ethics and was previously
2153
