Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 24
Energy, and I have to tell you that it was
not Jim Schlesinger's first choice as a
Cabinet officer to be the Secretary of
Energy. He recognized the complexity
and the challenge of it, and also the un-
certainty of proposing to the Congress the
creation of a major new Cabinet-level
department. But he agreed to serve, and
he has served well.
Last November after a year and half
of intense effort in the Congress, we had
approved about 65 percent of the energy
legislation that had been proposed. At
that time Dr. Schlesinger came and said
that he thought it was time for him to
step down since he had done that job, that
he had scars on him from all directions
and that he thought it was time for some-
one, perhaps, to take over with a fresh ap-
proach, and I asked him to stay on longer.
Last January, he came back to me at
the beginning of the session and said,
again, that he was ready to step down,
that he thought he had done his job as
well as he could. Since we had not passed
any legislation then or even evolved a
followup proposal concerning oil, I
asked him to stay again until we could
evolve a program concerning oil and
avoid the increasing delay that was hurt-
ing our Nation at that time. He agreed to
do so. And now that we've proposed to
the Congress a very fine proposal for deal-
ing with the oil issue, I have finally
agreed to let Jim Schlesinger step down in
this post.
Obviously the choice of his successor is
one that has been a very important one
for me, and I've chosen someone who ful-
fills every possible requirement for the
job. This is an issue that is becoming of
ever more important consideration for
Americans.
When I made my Sunday evening
speech July 15th, I said that the strength
of America lay ultimately in the inex-
haustible resource of the American
people.
I've just finished a 7-day trip down the
Mississippi River, and I have been rein-
spired with the commitment of Ameri-
cans to deal in a confident way with the
future, to unite among themselves, to
conserve energy to the utmost of their
own ability and also to see hammered out
here in Washington a comprehensive
series of legislative proposals that will
give us a sound basis for a complete en-
ergy policy in the future.
There is no limit, in my opinion, to
what we in our country can do if our peo-
ple are united. I've just written all 6,000
chief executive officers of the cities and
towns and counties of our Nation. Many
have acted on their own initiative; more
will do so in the future.
Our energy security is threatened. As
you know, we still import too much oil
from foreign countries, about half the oil
that we use. So, we must conserve; we
must produce more oil and other forms of
energy in our country-solar energy; we
must also increase, as you know, the pro-
duction of geothermal supplies, synthetic
fuels, including gasohol; make sure that
nuclear power is produced in a safe fash-
ion; and insist upon a better transporta-
tion system and a means by which we can
deal with the poor families, who are
especially afflicted by the rapidly increas-
ing and uncontrollable cost of oil.
The inflation figures issued just in the
last few hours, when broken down by
component parts, show that about one-
half of the increase in our inflation rate is
caused by increase in energy costs. This
1515
