July 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
closely with the United Nations, the Cyp-
riot parties and our allies both to over-
come the present, hopefully temporary,
difficulties and to help ensure ultimate
success in the negotiations.
The Turkish Cypriot side has not yet
given final endorsement to the procedures
worked out in Nicosia on May 18-19 con-
cerning the formation of a joint comrnit-
tee to trace and account for missing
persons in Cyprus. With the assistance of
expert organizations such as the Interna-
tional Red Cross, the proposed joint com-
mittee should be in a position to resolve
this long-standing humanitarian problem.
I enclose with this report a copy of
Secretary-General Waldheim's compre-
hensive report on May 31 to the United
Nations Security Council on the United
Nations operation in Cyprus.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Frank
Church, chairman of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee.
Wharton School of Finance and Com-
merce and the University of Pennsylva-
nia Law School. He also received the di-
ploma of The Hague Academy of Inter-
national Law in 1962.
He served as assistant public defender
in Philadelphia from 1959 to 1961, and
earlier practiced law there. He was an
associate professor of law at the Univer-
sity of Virginia from 1961 to 1964.
From 1964 to 1968, Wertheim was
with the Peace Corps, serving as Deputy
General Counsel and then as associate di-
rector of the Peace Corps in Brazil. He
has been with Ginsburg, Feldman and
Bress since 1969. In 1977 he served as
Alternate U.S. Representative to the
United Nations Conference on Law of
the Sea.
Wertheim is a trustee of Arena Stage.
He is also a director of the nonprofit As-
sociates for Renewal in Education, Inc.,
a member of the American Civil Liberties
Union, and was a founding trustee of the
Capitol Children's Museum.
President's Commission on the
Merit Systems Protection Board Coal Industry
Nomination of Ronald P. Wertheim To Be
a Member. July 25, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Ronald P. Wertheim, of
Washington, D.C., to be a member of the
Merit Systems Protection Board for a term
expiring March 1, 1981.
Wertheim is a partner in the Washing-
ton law firm of Ginsburg, Feldman and
Bress, specializing in Federal litigation
and practice before Federal regulatory
agencies.
He was born September 7, 1933, in
Philadelphia, Pa. He is a graduate of the
Statement on Receiving the Commission's
Report. July 25, 1979
Increased coal production is a crucial
element of the energy program I outlined
to the Nation on July 16. The bold and
constructive recommendations of the
Coal Commission played an important
part in the design of that program, and I
deeply appreciate the work that the Com-
mission has done. Today's discussion with
the Commission and with representatives
of the Congressional Coal Caucus was
helpful in underlining the importance of
a more active immediate effort to convert
1302
