July 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tend to take that sort of action, what effect
might that have on the price of the oil?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer your
question as President instead of as a candi-
date, okay?
Q. I was hoping you would answer as
both. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. [Referring to Mayor
Goldschmidt] He'll be here this afternoon.
I have promised the people of New Eng-
land that they will have adequate home
heating oil this fall and have set as a tar-
get goal 240 million barrels of oil to be in
storage and ready in October. This can be
compared with last year's inventory at
that time, I think, of 133 [233] ¹ million
barrels.
We have had a depletion of our oil
stocks, not only crude oil stocks but also
the number two, number six distillates,
as well as gasoline. None of those stocks
have yet come up to their normal range,
because we lost 100 million barrels of
crude oil, ordinarily which would have
been bought from Iran early this year.
We're rebuilding those stocks, and this is
the top priority for me now among the
variables that I have to deal with.
The refineries are now operating above
90 percent capacity, which is almost 100
percent for them as far as their capability
is concerned. At the beginning of last
month, they were only operating at like 82
percent capacity. Part of this is because
of our urging to them to produce more
home heating oil. Part of it is because
we've had increased supplies of crude oil
coming into our country.
So, I think that I would be perfectly
willing to be judged in February on the
performance of my administration. Jack
Watson, who works with local officials
and with my agencies and also with Gov-
ernors, is monitoring this on a daily basis,
¹ Printed in the transcript.
and he feels quite sure that we are on
schedule.
ENERGY PRODUCTION
Q. Mr. President, John Still, WWEE
Radio, Memphis. With the push towards
renewable energy supplies, how will fu-
ture energy projects be protected against
some small technicality that could stop it
in its tracks, such as the $100 million Tel-
lico Dam project that was stopped by a
3-inch fish.
And the second part of my question,
with additional appropriations from Con-
gress to the Clinch breeder reactor project
last week, will you continue your opposi-
tion to it?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, my opposition to
the Clinch River breeder reactor is un-
shakable. And I think it's a waste of
money, and I intend to continue to oppose
it, I believe successfully.
We have about a half billion dollars,
which I have proposed on an annual
basis, to proceed with research and devel-
opment in breeder reactor technology. At
the time we need a breeder reactor, at
that moment, we will freeze the design
and build an advanced design breeder re-
actor. I don't think this will come during
my own administration. It'll come later
than that. But I see no reason to waste
hundreds of millions of dollars in building
a breeder reactor plant which we do not
need, which is already obsolete before it's
completed.
That answers the second part of your
question.
The first part is: The energy produc-
tion board [Energy Mobilization Board],²
when passed by the Congress and it's
making good progress-will be responsi-
ble for the expeditious decision of whether
2 Printed in the transcript.
1324
