July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I don't know how to answer your ques-
tion. I'm not trying to justify that some-
body ought to suffer. I do not believe that
the working people of this country ought
to suffer.
One additional problem that we face
is, as I said last night, that the produc-
tivity of the American workers, not
through your fault, but because of differ-
ent things, has been going down-in most
countries it's still going up. We still have,
however, the highest worker productivity
in the world.
The American worker is still the most
productive in the world. And I would say
that with a flexible attitude, which I do
have, working with great labor leaders
who represent you, I believe we can come
out with a wage and price guideline that
will do the maximum amount to hold
down inflation and at the same time ac-
commodate local problems and also re-
gional problems and also the problems of
certain kinds of workers who, like the
woman you described already, has too
low an income.
speech last night. Do you remember what
it was? I asked all of you, whenever
you've got a chance, to-what? To say
something good about our Nation.
Look, we live in the greatest nation on
Earth, but quite often we get so bogged
down, so concerned about a transient
problem. Now, inflation's bad, gas lines
are bad, home heating oil shortages are
bad, sometimes unemployment is bad;
but we still live in the greatest nation on
Earth. And quite often we don't remem-
ber it, and we don't express our apprecia-
tion for it.
I believe one of the things that can pull
our Nation back together to give us con-
fidence, to give us unity, to restore Amer-
ican values, to improve the quality of our
families, to strengthen our communities,
to strengthen our churches, to strengthen
our schools, to strengthen our government,
to make sure that you can govern your
own selves better, to make sure that all
government officials-mayors and county
commissioners and Governors and Con-
gressmen and Presidents-will listen to
I can just promise you I'll do the best your voice better, is to remember what
we've got.
I can. I'll work with Glenn Watts and
others to make sure that future wage and
price guidelines are fair. I think the one
we set up as a target was fair at the time
we did it. And now we're ready to revise
it when it's been in effect for 1 year.
Let me say this in closing-I've been
here now for 55 minutes—I think you've
seen an outstanding cross-section of the
expression of interest and a few congratu-
lations, a few concerns, a few criticisms
that come from the American people.
I've learned in the process, and I'll con-
tinue to learn. In fact, we'll have to learn
together.
There's one thing I want all of us to do.
I asked you to do it at the end of my
We've got a democracy, strong, firm,
made up of free people, the best free en-
terprise system on Earth. Research, de-
velopment God's given us 24 percent of
all the energy supplies in the world; the
Middle East all put together only has 5
percent. And I think we've got reason to
be confident. And one thing that can
bring back confidence is for your neigh-
bor to hear you saying, "There might be
some things I don't like about it, but the
United States of America is still the great-
est place on Earth to live, and our coun-
try's going to be even greater in the
future."
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:34 p.m. in
Convention Hall "C" at the Cobo Hall Con-
vention Center.
1258
