Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ber that you've got a friend in the White hibition against the acceptance of Iranian
House.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 a.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
In his opening remarks, the President re-
ferred to Charles Benton, Chairman of the
National Commission on Libraries and Informa-
tion Science.
Iranian Situation and United
States Energy Conservation
Remarks at a White House Briefing for State
Governors. November 16, 1979
First of all, let me welcome you here
to the White House and express my ap-
preciation for your willingness to join in
with me in perhaps one of the most dif-
ficult and complicated challenges which
our Nation has ever faced in peacetime.
I deeply appreciate the letter I got from
Governor Bowen and Governor Lamm
expressing your support for what we are
trying to do, and also suggesting on your
own behalf that the Governors would
espouse and pursue a fast-track conserva-
tion program, that you are dedicated to
the sharing of information and new ideas
among yourselves and with other agencies
of government, both local and Federal,
that you will work with the private sector
as much as possible to encourage long-
range conservation measures. And I
understand as well that you intend to
have a major conservation conference
sometime before too long.
This kind of support from you is very
important to me. Governor Brown in
California and others immediately ex-
pressed your approval and your willing-
ness to help in putting into effect the pro-
oil to our country, and the overwhelm-
ing sense that I have is that we have a
nation which is united, eager to do the
best we can under difficult circumstances,
and highly supportive of what we are at-
tempting to accomplish in Iran.
I've just gotten a report that there are
maybe 80,000 Iranians demonstrating
outside our Embassy in a highly emotional
state, and we are trying as best we can to
protect the honor of our country and to
protect the lives of the hostages, who are
courageous, dedicated, and who deserve
every protection that we can give them.
I would like to add one word of cau-
tion, if you don't mind, and I hope that
you'll relay it to the people back home
who listen to your voice. I've had a large
number of expressions of support for us,
sympathy for our hostages, and the expres-
sion of strong condemnation for what is
going on in Iran by Iranians, particularly
those who live in our country, who have
lived here for years as responsible citizens.
And it would be a serious mistake for us
to deprive them of their rights or deprive
them of their citizenship or deprive them
of our friendship.
There is an inclination in a time of crisis
to condemn every person who has con-
nections with Iran, but I hope that you
will caution all Americans, as I'm trying
to do now, not to abuse the fine tens of
thousands of Iranians who live in our
country and who have a voice to speak
out, as they have to me directly; and also
to recognize that in Iran it's the radicals
and the militants and the irresponsible
elements there who are responsible for the
tragedy which we are trying to prevent.
We are trying to act with circumspec-
tion, but also with firmness. Ours is not a
country that responds or ever will re-
2132
