Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 29
study, which is in an advanced stage, will
provide more precise information on the
size and nature of emigration, including
data on the number of emigrants who an-
nually enter the United States, how many
return to Mexico, their contribution to the
U.S. and Mexican economies, and the
degree to which they draw upon and con-
tribute to social services in the United
States. President Carter agreed on the
importance of statistical consistency in
approaching questions of migration and
was pleased to learn of the progress of
the survey.
President Carter described the steps he
has taken to ensure that all Departments
and Agencies of the United States
Government give priority to the protection
of the human rights of all persons in the
anced presentation, positive in tone.
President Carter also referred to the
energy plan proposed to the U.S. Congress
and agreed on the need to devote in-
creased efforts to alternative sources.
Finally, there was a review of the latest
developments on the Middle East and
SALT II Treaty.
Trade With Argentina
Proclamation 4694. September 29, 1979
STAGED REDUCTION OF RATES OF DUTY
ON CERTAIN PRODUCTS TO CARRY OUT
A TRADE AGREEMENT WITH ARGEN-
TINA
United States, whether or not they are By the President of the United States
American citizens.
Both Presidents repeated their commit-
ment to combat the smuggling of undocu-
mented persons, which constitutes a seri-
ous threat to human rights.
Following their review of bilateral mat-
ters, President López Portillo and Presi-
dent Carter discussed recent developments
in Central America and agreed that prog-
ress toward a democratic government in
Nicaragua had improved the prospects of
peace in the region and a greater respect
for human rights. They committed their
governments to continue supporting the
Nicaraguan Government of National Re-
construction with a view toward assisting
it in the task of economic and social recov-
ery. Both Presidents exchanged points of
view on the Caribbean.
President Carter congratulated Presi-
dent López Portillo on his proposal to the
United Nations on rationalized produc-
tion and consumption of energy, both in
the industrialized countries and the devel-
oping countries, saying that it was a bal-
of America
A Proclamation
1. I have determined, pursuant to sec-
tion 101 (a) of the Trade Act of 1974 (the
Trade Act) (19 U.S.C. 2111(a)), that
certain existing duties of the United States
are unduly burdening and restricting the
foreign trade of the United States and that
one or more of the purposes of the Trade
Act would be promoted by entering into
the trade agreement with Argentina iden-
tified in the third recital of this proclama-
tion.
2. Sections 131 (a), 132, and 133 of the
Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2151(a), 2153,
and 2154) and section 4(c) of Executive
Order No. 11846 of March 27, 1975, have
been complied with.
3. Pursuant to Title I of the Trade Act
(19 U.S.C. 2111 et seq.), I have, through
my duly empowered representative, on
August 10, 1979, entered into a trade
agreement with Argentina, effective Octo-
1791
