Aug. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
bilities, she transformed this weak de-
partment into one of the most strong
and able and effective and sensitive in
government.
Hers has been a sterling performance
as a manager with a heart. All who know
her realize that she is bold, strong, out-
spoken. Anyone who looks to Pat Harris
as a "yes woman" would be both foolish
and ill-advised. [Laughter] I have never
been that foolish, and I have never been
advised. [Laughter]
She fights for her beliefs, and her be-
liefs are sound and she wins her fights.
She has a big heart. With her background
and with her experience, with her innate
sensitivity and compassion, she has
brought to that agency a superb record
of performance. And if there's one area
where my own political fortunes have
been enhanced tremendously by the ac-
tions of a Cabinet officer, you could cer-
tainly not overlook the new confidence
that local and State officials have in our
Government, who have to deal with hous-
ing, urban development, the reconstitu-
tion, the rebuilding of our communities,
and the provision of housing for those
who often suffer by the lack of it.
She's now coming to serve the needs in
health, education, and welfare. She will
be following a good man, a man who has
the same kind of concern and compassion
for those who are served by this agency.
There is no doubt in my mind that
there will be no slackening of effort, no
lessening of commitment, no deviating
from a path of superior service. And I
know Pat Harris well enough to look for-
ward with great anticipation to her
ability, once a path has been described
and delineated, that she can work har-
moniously with every other member of the
Cabinet, all the other Federal agencies,
the local government, the State govern-
ment officials, the constituency groups,
the Congress in an effective way. She's
got a superb batting average on the hill in
getting legislation passed.
We now have great challenges in the
Congress, hospital cost containment, the
only specific piece of legislation before the
Congress this year positively to deal with
the increasing threat of inflation. Its pass-
age hangs in the balance, and it's going to
require an absolutely superb team effort
to get it passed. I have no doubt that Pat
Harris can lead that team effort.
I'm dedicated to passing through the
Congress and implementing in a care-
fully phased and responsible way a com-
prehensive health program. And I will
look to Secretary Harris to work with the
Congress, particularly Senator Kennedy,
to work with the labor organizations, the
constituency groups, to make sure that our
comprehensive health program is indeed
passed by the Congress and is imple-
mented.
We have a crying need to enhance the
status of education in our country. The
new department of education can pro-
vide this role if it's effectively founded in
law, adequately staffed by me with the
support and the nurturing from Secre-
tary Harris.
And the final thing I'd like to say about
her is that she has a special relationship
with the poor, the homeless, the disad-
vantaged, the black, those who can't speak
English very well, the aged, and others
who will be and have been looking for
succor and nourishment and a helping
hand and a dependable hand from the
Federal Government. Her heart is in the
right place.
With all those characteristics, there
could not possibly be a better person to
head this important agency, and I am
grateful to her for being willing to serve
me as President, you as leaders of our Na-
tion, and particularly those who will bene-
fit from her service as the Secretary of
HEW.
Pat, I thank you.
1392
