Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 25
the President and will undertake special
assignments which the President may re-
quest from time to time.
Mr. Donovan will work in the White
House and report only to the President.
He will assume his responsibilities in mid-
August. The details and duration of these
responsibilities will be determined by the
President and Mr. Donovan.
Mr. Donovan retired on June 1 as edi-
tor-in-chief of Time, Incorporated, a
position he had held since 1964. From
1959 until 1964, he was editorial director
of Time, Incorporated. He joined For-
tune magazine in 1945 as a writer and in
1953 moved up to managing editor, a
position he held until 1959.
Mr. Donovan graduated from the Uni-
versity of Minnesota in 1934 and was a
Rhodes Scholar at Oxford. He was a re-
porter with the Washington Post from
1937 to 1942. He then served in the
United States Navy during most of the
Second World War.
He was born May 24, 1914.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 3 p.m. to reporters assembled
in the Briefing Room at the White House.
The press release also includes a transcript
of the question-and-answer session which fol-
lowed the announcement.
The Cyprus Conflict
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. July 25, 1979
To Speaker Tip O'Neill (To Chairman
Frank Church)
In accordance with the provisions of
Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the
following report on progress made during
the past sixty days toward the conclusion
of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus
problem.
In my last report to the Congress on
Cyprus, dated June 4, I took note of the
decision reached by President Kyprianou
and Turkish Cypriot leader Denktash
during their May 18-19 meetings to re-
sume intercommunal negotiations on June
15. These negotiations resumed as sched-
uled under the chairmanship of United
Nations Under Secretary General Perez
de Cuellar. A number of procedural is-
sues were settled in the course of the first
session. Unfortunately, however, differ-
ences soon arose over the interpretation
of the ten-point communique agreed
upon in Nicosia on May 18-19, which
serves as a broad agenda for the talks. The
Greek Cypriots took the position that the
Varosha issue should be discussed first in
accordance with point five of the commu-
nique which states that "priority will be
given to reaching agreement on the re-
settlement of Varosha." The Turkish
Cypriots, on the other hand, maintained
that point two of the communique, deal-
ing with the overall basis for the talks,
should be discussed first.
When it became clear that these differ-
ences of approach could not easily be
overcome, Under Secretary General Perez
de Cuellar decided to recess the negotia-
tions on June 22 and to pursue a compro-
mise resolution through informal con-
sultations with the parties. These consul-
tations have now been in progress in Nic-
osia for some four weeks. As of this
writing, no firm date has been set for re-
convening the talks, although there have
been indications of greater flexibility and
the elements of a solution are beginning
to emerge. Our assessment is that given
sufficient determination on the part of all
concerned a practical way can be found
out of these current difficulties that will
permit the negotiators to return to the
table within a short time. I assure you that
this Administration will continue to work
1301
