Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 22
become interested in having both ships
that carry oil be made safer so that the
disasters don't take place nor to control
the pumping of oil from the wells in the
offshore regions. So, we have no way at
this point of requiring another country-
Mexico or others to pay for damage that
might occur from an oil spill carried to
our shores.
We are discussing with other nations
means by which we can control these oil
spills, first of all, and make a reserve sup-
ply of funds for damage to private indi-
viduals. It hasn't happened yet.
The other part of this, of course, is the
control of the spills from our own toxic
materials that in the past have not been
covered at all. I have sent to the Congress
now a proposal which would mean that
every producer of a toxic material-which
would include those that we have to use
every day, like herbicides and pesticides—
would have to put a small amount of
money into an insurance fund so that
later on, maybe many years later, when a
dump near a city which contain toxic
materials did damage a person's property
or a person's life, that they might be paid
for that damage out of the reserve fund.
And part of that money would be used to
ensure that those toxic materials are
placed so that the spill would not occur.
This is an area of government that has
just begun to be explored. But we are
pushing for that agreement among na-
tions. It hasn't been reached yet.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. It's a
good question.
John, it's one that we need to pursue a
little further.
SOUTHEAST ASIA REFUGEES
Q. Mr. President, my name is Phillip
Good. I'm from Burlington, Iowa, and
I'm a student at Southeastern Commu-
nity College and also a part-time em-
ployee at the Hawk Eye. You said that
when we import oil, we also import infla-
tion and unemployment. Well, I'll agree
with that, but isn't it also true when we
bring in the boat people, we're also bring-
ing in unemployment and inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Phil.
That's a good question and I'm glad you
asked it.
How many people here have ancestors
that were Native Americans? I see two or
three hands back there whose parents
were Indians.
Let me remind you that the United
States is a country of immigrants. We are
a country of refugees. Whether your
parents came here 300 years ago or
whether your parents came here one gen-
eration ago or whether you've only been
here a few months, the United States has
always been a nation with an open heart
and with open arms to receive those
people who were seeking for religious
freedom or seeking for a better way of
life.
The refugees who are now leaving
Southeast Asia were our allies in the re-
cent Vietnam war. They are now being
persecuted by a Communist government
in Vietnam, which has taken away from
them their basic rights. They leave that
country; almost half of them drown in the
ocean before they can find a place of
safety. Our Nation has joined in with
other nations throughout the world to re-
ceive these refugees. We've now received,
I think in all-those that are here and
those that are being processed—about
220,000. That is 1 refugee-man, woman,
child-for every 1,000 Americans. And
we are very carefully placing those refu-
gees, when they come into our country, in
areas where the unemployment rate is
low.
1497
