Oct. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
recognizes Israel's right to exist and en-
dorses United Nations Resolution 242 as
a basis for Middle East peace.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press].
Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Carter's fifty-second news
conference began at 3:30 p.m. in Room 450 of
the Old Executive Office Building. It was
broadcast live on radio and television.
United States Ambassador
to Mexico
Exchange of Letters on the Resignation of
Patrick J. Lucey. October 9, 1979
Dear Pat,
With deep regret I accept your resigna-
tion as Ambassador to Mexico as of No-
vember 1, 1979.
During your years in Mexico you
brought political skills and personal stat-
ure to one of America's most important
and difficult diplomatic assignments.
These years were but the latest example
of your dedication and commitment to
public service.
Your leadership has contributed sig-
nificantly to a new frankness and balance
in our cooperation with Mexico. The re-
cently concluded visit of President López
Portillo was a reminder of how much we
have accomplished. Formal agreements
on natural gas sales, prisoner exchanges,
civil aviation, and improvements in the
mechanisms through which we manage
major United States-Mexican issues have
advanced the vision of our relationship
with Mexico that you and I have shared
since the outset of my Administration.
Since the time that we began our serv-
ice as Governors together, I have valued
the courage, effectiveness, and good judg-
ment that you bring to public policy. The
Secretary of State joins me in thanking
you and in wishing you all success as you
return to Wisconsin.
Rosalynn and I especially appreciate
the advocacy of efficient and humane
government that we know we can count
on from Pat and Jean Lucey.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Patrick J. Lucey, American
Ambassador, Mexico City]
Dear Mr. President:
October 8, 1979
For almost two and a half years now,
I have served as this country's ambassa-
dor to Mexico. It has been a stimulating
experience for me, and I hope it has been
constructive for the policies and the peo-
ples of both countries. I have enjoyed my
work here and my working relationship
with you and Secretary of State Vance.
However, I now have decided to resign
from this position, effective November 1,
1979, and to return to Wisconsin.
I leave not with regret but with a sense
of satisfaction because it is clear that
Mexico and the United States have ac-
complished a great deal together since
your Administration took office. The
strength and the importance of the rela-
tionship between the two countries has
perhaps never been more apparent than
over the last month. As the successful
meetings between you and President Ló-
pez Portillo just a few days ago demon-
strated, it is a relationship based on
mutual respect and appreciation. In
addition, the new intergovernmental
agreement on the guidelines for a natural
gas contract has been well received in
both countries. That agreement has more
than symbolic importance-it offers real
potential for helping us solve our energy
problems. But these are only the most re-
cent achievements.
1846
