Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 6
mouth College in 1958 and an M. Div.
from Andover Newton Theological
Newton Theological
School in 1963. He served in the U.S.
Army in 1959.
From 1965 to 1972, McCall was project
director for the Taconic Foundation.
From 1967 to 1968, he was deputy admin-
istrator of the New York City Human
Resources Administration. From 1971 to
1975, he was executive director of the
Florence and John Schumann Founda-
tion. He has been a New York State sen-
ator since 1974.
McCall is an ordained minister of the
United Church of Christ and a preaching
minister at Metropolitan Community
United Methodist Church in Harlem. He
is secretary for the Urban Church of the
United Church of Christ and serves as a
consultant to the Ministerial Interfaith
Association of Harlem.
McCall is chairman of the New York
City Council Against Poverty, the Citi-
zen's Voter Education Committee of New
York State, the editorial board of the New
York Amsterdam News, and the National
Association of Minority Broadcasters. He
is president of Inner City Broadcasting
Corp. and serves on the advisory board
of the African American Institute.
Aid for Kampucheans
White House Statement. December 6, 1979
Starvation still threatens millions of
Cambodian lives, despite a massive inter-
national relief effort. This sad reality is
due to no failure of global concern. The
international community has offered the
means and has the will to allay the suffer-
ing of the Cambodian people.
Growing quantities of food and medical
supplies are now reaching that country,
but too often the relief cannot get through
to those in need. Instead, the flow of aid
is deliberately blocked and obstructed by
the Vietnamese and Heng Samrin author-
ities. Their Soviet allies have not brought
any discernible influence to bear to allevi-
ate the situation, while supporting Viet-
nam heavily.
-Relief supplies are piling up in
Phnom Penh and other points of initial
delivery, because local and Vietnamese
authorities continually change or delay
agreed arrangements for distribution.
-Taxes and tariffs are collected on the
delivery of relief supplies—in effect, im-
posing a surcharge on human survival.
-We continue to receive reports that
relief supplies are diverted or stockpiled
for the use of military forces and that
what distribution does take place is
skewed to favor officials and supporters of
the Heng Samrin regime.
-There is even interference with the
attempts of the Kampuchean people to
feed themselves. For example, refugees
have reported the mining of rice fields to
prevent a harvest.
In the face of widespread human
anguish, this delay and diversion of hu-
manitarian efforts is unconscionable.
As many as 2 million Cambodians may
have died under the brutal Pol Pot
regime. Now, in the wake of a Vietnamese
invasion and occupation of Cambodia,
the long-suffering people of that country
face a new wave of oppression, hunger,
and disease.
To counter this mounting tragedy, we
call upon responsible leaders in both
Hanoi and Moscow to recognize and act
upon the compelling humanitarian re-
quirements of the Cambodian people-
which they thus far have not done. We
call on them to cooperate fully with the
international community in opening all
routes for supplies to enter Cambodia-
which they thus far have not done. We
2197
