Dec. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
year, 3 or 4 percent compounded an-
nually. In contrast, our own defense
spending has declined in real terms every
year from 1968 through 1976. This is
creating a real challenge to American
leadership and to our influence in the
world.
We will almost certainly face other
challenges, less direct, though no less
serious. The 1980's are very likely to bring
continued turbulence and upheaval, as
we've experienced in the 1970's. Problems
of energy price and energy supply will
continue to strain the economy of the de-
veloped world and will put even more
severe pressures on the developing na-
tions. Political instability, which is already
serious enough, may even intensify as the
newer nations struggle to cope with these
problems, which are serious enough for us.
As in the past, when the winds of
change threaten to arouse storms of con-
flict, we must be prepared to join our
friends and our allies in resisting threats
to stability and to peace. The steady build-
up by the Soviets and their growing in-
clination to rely on military power to ex-
ploit turbulent situations call for calm,
deliberate, and sustained American re-
sponse.
Through the mid-1970's, the United
States relied on the defense strategy and
also on force structures devised during the
early 1960's, a time when we enjoyed
strategic nuclear superiority and a tactical
nuclear monopoly, when Soviet seapower
was limited and the Soviet military pres-
ence outside Eastern Europe almost non-
existent. All that had changed by the time
I took office as President.
Beginning in 1976 and continuing in
my own administration, we've set out to
counterbalance the growth in Soviet mili-
tary power by launching new efforts that
draw on our own considerable strengths.
During each of the last 4 years, there has
been a moderate increase in real defense
spending. In Europe we've taken steps, as
you know, to reverse a decade of relative
decline in the military strength of the
Atlantic Alliance.
When I first began to meet with At-
lantic Alliance leaders almost 3 years ago,
I found them very troubled by the state of
our military strength in the Atlantic
Alliance. I promised to raise our own level
of defense spending, in real terms, by
some 3 percent per year, and our NATO
Allies responded by making the same
pledge. With American leadership, NATO
also took the crucial step of adopting a
bold, long-term defense program, which
will extend over 15 years. That program
is helping us to increase our capacity to
deter or to defeat any surprise attack that
may be launched against our European
allies and, therefore, against ourselves.
We are also taking steps to redress the
balance in other theater nuclear forces.
This action, as you know, we've been
pursuing in the last few days.
In the early 1960's, the United States
removed its medium-range missiles from
Europe. We could do this then, because
there was overwhelming United States
strategic superiority. But the Soviet Union
did not show similar restraint. The ac-
celerating development of their relatively
missile is a major escalation in theater
long-range, mobile, multiwarhead SS-20
nuclear armaments. With the advent of
rough strategic parity, this new missile
creates a potentially dangerous weakness
in NATO's ability to deter aggression. In
the SALT II negotiations, we carefully
protected our freedom to correct this
weakness.
Just a few hours ago, I was informed
that the NATO Alliance resolved to
strengthen its theater nuclear weapons to
offset actual Soviet deployments. The
2234
