Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
directing agencies to take certain individ-
ual actions and to form two task forces
to coordinate their activities.
I therefore direct that your Depart-
ment:
Assign a representative to a wildlife
law enforcement committee chaired by the
Department of the Interior which will in-
clude representatives from the Depart-
ments of Treasury, Justice, Agriculture
and Commerce. The committee will re-
view agency enforcement experiences,
priorities and problems, expedite review
of agency trade regulations, help coordi-
nate federal trade enforcement policies
generally and
and keep agency heads
informed.
• Establish and chair a plant enforce-
ment task force which will include repre-
sentatives from your Department and the
Departments of Justice, Interior and
Treasury. The task force will investigate
the illegal trade in plants and will bring
appropriate prosecutions.
Assign representatives as appropriate
to interagency teams, chaired by the De-
partment of the Interior, which will audit
wildlife import documents to discover
fraudulent documentation.
• Place greater emphasis on coordinat-
ing your review of quarantine-related im-
port documents with other documents re-
lating to wildlife imports to protect the
quarantine program from the filing of
fraudulent documents and to improve
enforcement.
• Use special agents to investigate the
illegal trade in plants.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Secretary of Com-
merce
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, illegal trade in fish and
wildlife was identified as a significant en-
vironmental problem. Recent criminal
and civil investigations have indicated
that this trade runs to tens of millions of
dollars a year and can introduce serious
diseases. It is important that we strengthen
the individual and collective abilities of
agencies to deal with this problem.
We must establish a coordinated fed-
eral wildlife enforcement program. To
improve the effectiveness of this program,
I am submitting legislation that
strengthens wildlife enforcement laws. I
am also directing agencies to take certain
individual actions and to form two task
forces to coordinate their activities.
I therefore direct that your Depart-
ment:
Assign a representative to a wildlife
law enforcement committee chaired by
the Department of the Interior which will
include representatives from the Depart-
ments of Treasury, Justice, Agriculture
and Commerce. The committee will re-
view agency enforcement experiences,
priorities and problems, expedite review
of agency trade regulations, help coordi-
nate federal trade enforcement policies
generally and keep agency heads informed.
Assign representatives as appropriate
to interagency teams, chaired by the De-
partment of the Interior, which will audit
wildlife import documents to discover
fradulent documentation.
• Give higher priority to investigating
illegal trade in fish and wildlife.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum for the Secretary of the
Interior
In my Environmental Message of
August 2, 1979, illegal trade in fish and
wildlife was identified as a significant en-
1377
