Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 30
required some adjustments in the foreign Commission has made a major contribu-
and domestic policies of all 35 nations.
I am extremely pleased that the U.S.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe has taken the lead in assessing
U.S. implementation and identifying
areas where American performance can
be improved. The Commission's report,
"Fulfilling Our Promises: The United
States and the Helsinki Final Act"-re-
leased on November 8-is the first com-
prehensive review by any CSCE signa-
tory which takes into account criticism
from other Helsinki states as well as do-
mestic observers.
CSCE signatory states which suppress
human rights cannot in good conscience
justify their record of compliance. But
I believe our record of implementation
has been second to none, even among the
other democracies among the 35 partici-
pating states. American political history is
testimony to the firm foundation of civil
liberties enshrined in our own Constitu-
tion with its Bill of Rights, long before
Helsinki.
As this report points out, our work is
never complete. Our own traditions, re-
inforced by the Helsinki Final Act, pledge
us to strive constantly for improvement
in both domestic, civil, and economic
rights, and in the expanded cooperation
with other participating states. This re-
port should go far to persuade other
CSCE governments that the United
States is serious about its obligations
under the Helsinki accords.
I also hope that it will stimulate other
Helsinki countries to undertake similar
public assessments of their performance.
Implementation of the Final Act is criti-
cal to peace and security in Europe and
for our own Nation. We cannot permit
the Helsinki agreement to become mean-
ingless words on parchment. We must
bring it to life, and I believe the CSCE
tion to that end.
Department of Transportation
and Related Agencies
Appropriation Act, 1980
Statement on Signing H.R. 4440 Into Law.
November 30, 1979
This bill, H.R. 4440, includes funding
for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The ICC's regulation of trucking and
railroads is a top item on the regulatory
reform agenda for 1980. I have submitted
far-reaching bills to Congress to cut away
the regulations that overburden these in-
dustries. The Commission itself has
launched administrative reform actions.
Chairman Howard Cannon of the Sen-
ate Commerce, Science and Transporta-
tion Committee and Harold Johnson and
Jim Howard of the House Public Works
and Transportation Committee recently
announced that they intend to seek pas-
sage of trucking reform legislation by
June 1, 1980. Therefore, they and their
colleagues who wrote this appropriation
bill have asked the ICC to continue build-
ing a record of reforms but not to imple-
ment any major policy changes before that
date. The regulatory reform we need
should best come through legislation, and
I applaud the chairmen's determination
to press forward. If, of course, appropri-
ate legislation is not enacted, I would ex-
pect the Commission to proceed with all
powers to implement reform initiatives.
As to rail reform, I congratulate Chair-
men Cannon and Russell Long of the Sen-
ate Commerce Committee and Harley
Staggers and James Florio of the House
Interstate and Foreign Commerce Com-
mittee for moving legislation this session.
I hope that the Congress will resist pres-
2185
