Dec. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
cannot flaunt with impunity the expressed
will and law of the world community. The
Security Council must act to enforce its
demand that Iran release the hostages.
The world community must support the
legal machinery it has established, so that
the United Nations and the International
Court of Justice will continue to be rele-
vant in settling serious disputes which
threaten peace among nations.
I can think of no more clear and com-
pelling challenge to the international com-
munity than the one we face today. The
lives of over 50 innocent people are at
stake; the foundation of civilized diplo-
macy is at stake; the integrity of interna-
tional law is at stake; the credibility of the
United Nations is at stake. And at stake,
ultimately, is the maintenance of peace in
the region. As we call on the Security
Council to act, on behalf of international
law and on behalf of peace, we again call
on the Government of Iran to end this
crisis by releasing the hostages without
delay.
And now, because our holy days ap-
proach a time to think of peace-I
would like to add a few special words for
the American people, indeed the people of
good will in all countries, including Iran,
who share concern for 50 innocent human
beings who hope, themselves, for peace
and for the salvation of their lives.
Henry Longfellow wrote a Christmas
carol in a time of crisis, the War Between
the States, in 1864. Two verses of that
carol particularly express my thoughts
and prayers and, I'm sure, those of our
Nation in this time of challenge and of
concern and of crisis. And I would like to
quote from that poem:
"And in despair I bowed my head.
'There is no peace on earth,' I said.
'For hate is strong and mocks the song
Of peace on earth, good will to men.'
Then pealed the bells, more loud and
deep,
'God is not dead, nor does he sleep.
The wrong shall fail, the right prevail,
With
peace on earth, good will to
men.'
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Mr. President, do you have
any hope of observers getting to see the
hostages on Christmas Day?
THE PRESIDENT. We don't know what
the answer to that question is. We always
hope, but we don't expect it to happen.
Q. Sir, do we have the votes in the
Security Council?
THE PRESIDENT. We'll have to answer
that question later.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:01 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Price Controls on Heavy
Crude Oil
Executive Order 12186. December 21, 1979
CHANGE IN DEFINITION OF HEAVY OIL
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, including
the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act
of 1973, as amended (15 U.S.C. 751 et
seq.), Executive Order No. 12153 is
hereby amended by deleting Section
1-102, renumbering Section 1-103 as
1-102, and deleting in Section 1-101 the
figure "16.0° API” and inserting in lieu
thereof "20.0° API.".
The White House,
December 21, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:50 a.m., December 26, 1979]
2278
