Oct. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Office of Federal Procurement Policy to
introduce procurement policies and regu-
lations that will remove barriers now in-
hibiting the government from purchasing
innovative products. Special attention will
be given to substituting performance for
design specifications and, wherever feasi-
in research, as part of a broader program
of improved communication with industry
by the Justice Department and the Fed-
eral Trade Commission. This statement
will provide the first uniform anti-trust
guidance to industrial firms in the area of
cooperation in research.
5. Fostering the Development of Small ble, selection will be on the basis of costs
over the life of the item, rather than
merely the initial purchase price.
Innovative Firms. Small innovative firms
have historically played an important role
in bringing new technologies into the mar-
ketplace. They are also an important
source of new jobs. Although many of the
initiatives in this Message will encourage
such companies, I will also implement
several initiatives focused particularly on
small firms.
First, I propose the enhancement by
$10 million of the Small Business In-
novation Research Program of the Na-
tional Science Foundation. This program
supports creative, high-risk, potentially
high-reward research performed by small
business. Further, the National Science
Foundation will assist other agencies in
implementing similar programs, with total
Federal support eventually reaching $150
million per year.
Second, in order to experiment with
ways to ease the ability of small firms to
obtain start-up capital, I will help estab-
lish two Corporations For Innovation De-
velopment to provide equity funding for
firms that will develop and market promis-
ing high-risk innovations. These not-for-
profit firms will be established with State
or regional capital and the Federal
government will provide each with match-
ing loan funds up to $4 million.
6. Opening Federal Procurement to
Innovations. The Federal government is
the Nation's largest single purchaser of
goods and services. Through its purchases,
the Federal government can influence the
rate at which innovative products enter
the market.
For that reason, I am directing the
7. Improving our Regulatory System.
During my Administration, I have already
taken a number of actions to help assure
that regulation does not adversely affect
innovation. Working with the Congress,
I have moved successfully toward deregu-
lation of airlines and other industries, and
I expect the pressure of competition to
trigger innovative new ways to cut costs
and improve service. In environmental,
health and safety regulation, I have em-
phasized the use of cost-impact analysis,
where appropriate, to take account of the
burdens on industry in the regulatory
process. To provide better coordination
between the regulatory agencies, I have
created the Regulatory Council, com-
posed of the heads of 35 regulatory
agencies. This Council is working to re-
duce inconsistencies and duplications
among regulations, to eliminate needless
rule-making delays, to reduce paperwork,
and to minimize the cost of compliance.
I am today proposing additional steps
to improve our regulatory system. First,
the Administrator of EPA will intensify
his efforts, wherever possible, to use per-
formance standards in regulations, speci-
fying only the required goal, rather than
the means of achieving it. Second, all Ex-
ecutive Branch environmental, health and
safety regulatory agencies will prepare a
five-year forecast of their priorities and
concerns. This information will give in-
dustry the time to develop compliance
technology. Third, all administrators of
Federal executive agencies responsible for
clearance of new products will be directed
2072
