Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 6
fied by these two men and others, like my-
self, who will work with them.
I'm determined to maintain a steady
course, to maintain a sound fiscal policy.
I'm determined to maintain a responsible
policy concerning our monetary systems,
and also a sound and conservative budget
policy. Now is no time to change course.
Now is no time to deviate from the pur-
poses that we have espoused, that we have
described to the American people and to
the rest of the world.
I am absolutely confident that Bill
Miller and Paul Volcker will join me in
that commitment, and I am gratified to
have them as partners with me, with the
other administration officials, and with
the Congress and the American people in
pursuing this steady course based on a
responsible fiscal, monetary, and budget
policy.
The first to be sworn in will be William
Miller, who has served in a distinguished
way as Chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board, who has a superb record as a cor-
porate leader, who is a clear and evocative
spokesman, both in public and in private
counsels, who has shown already his abil-
ity to deal with the problems that I've
outlined concerning inflation, a strong
economy, employment, the meeting of our
social needs in our country. And I'm
grateful and honored as President to ask
Judge Leon Higginbotham to administer
the oath of office as Secretary of the
Treasury to a fine American and a dis-
tinguished public servant, William Miller.
Judge Higginbotham.
[At this point, Judge A. Leon Higginbotham
of the Third Circuit administered the oath of
office.]
I'd like to say in introduction that Bill
Miller will serve not only as Secretary of
the Treasury but also as the chief economic
spokesman of my administration and the
economic coordinator of my administra-
tion.
Bill Miller.
SECRETARY MILLER. Mr. President, it
seems I was standing in this very spot on
a similar occasion not so long ago, about
17 months. At that time, I would have
predicted that I would serve out my term
Chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board and then return to private life. I
only hope my economic forecasts prove to
be more accurate.
Many of my friends have been puzzled
by my move from the secure and inde-
pendent halls of the Federal Reserve to
an insecure and exposed seat in the Cab-
inet. There should be no mystery. In these
difficult times, every American should be
willing to serve his President and his
country to the best of his abilities. If each
does his part, the total impact will have a
powerful influence on our effectiveness
and on our confidence.
Today, in dealing with the economic
conditions we face, we have a towering
challenge. We have inherited the most
distressing economic environment in 50
years. Inflation is a clear and present
danger. It has struck at our Nation's
vitality. If it is not checked, then it will
threaten our democratic system itself.
Never in its history has America expe-
rienced peacetime inflation of such magni-
tude and such duration as we've seen dur-
ing the decade of the seventies. It is
unprecedented.
This virulent cancer of inflation has
built up over some 15 years. Its incubation
period coincided with larger events which
divided our Nation and weakened our
resistance to this dread disease. As a con-
sequent, inflation has become deeply em-
bedded in our economic structure. We can
no longer effect a cure by cyclical treat-
ment. We must attack the root causes and
1403
