Dec. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sion. She's interested in good symphony
orchestras. She's interested in teaching
ethics to young people. She's interested
in a fine quality of justice in the court
system of our country. She believes in
excellence, and she believes in the value
of individual human beings, and she sees
education as a means of binding all these
varied interests, purposes, and opportu-
nities together.
I've talked to Shirley about this oppor-
tunity and the fact that the classroom
is just one place among many where
Americans can constantly expand their
educational opportunities also, of
course, in the museums, in the concert
halls, through the public media, in the
workplace, in libraries, and in the en-
counters among Americans themselves.
We have tried to improve education in
our Nation from the Federal level, recog-
nizing that the encroachment in the de-
cisionmaking process for the management
of schools, the establishment of curricu-
lum, the choosing of persons to teach and
to administer ought to be entirely a local
and a State responsibility. But the Federal
Government has a role to play. We've had
a greater increase in Federal aid to the
educational system than any other admin-
istration ever, in the period of 3 years
that I've been in office. That's just part
of the problem and the opportunity.
I'm very glad now to introduce to you
Judge Shirley Hufstedler, who will be
the first Secretary of Education. She
started out herself in the career as a sec-
retary. She then taught part-time, typing.
She taught shorthand. She taught Eng-
lish. She taught music. And now, she is
becoming a secretary once again.
[Laughter] Having completed that full
circle, I know she'll be eager to address
you now.
Judge Shirley Hufstedler.
JUDGE HUFSTEDLER. Mr. President,
Mr. Chief Justice, Mrs. Carter, members
of my dear beloved extended family, col-
leagues, friends of education:
It is, of course, for me, a glorious day.
It is for education an event of great
visibility in the creation of the Depart-
ment of Education. But the beginnings of
today involve many people and many
things, but most of all it began with an
idea, an idea by which the values of the
United States and the meaning of educa-
tion for every person could be demon-
strated to the country and to the world
through the creation of an equal partner-
ship at the Cabinet level for the Depart-
ment.
Ideas, like children, can never reach
their full potential without faith, without
love, without determination, and without
nurturing. This Department could not
have happened and that idea could not
be well begun unless the administration
created a climate in which that nourish-
ment could occur.
But even with the nurturing strength of
the administration for education, the idea
could not have grown this far but for the
thoughtful cooperation of myriads of
people in this country-on the Hill, in
the communities, among scholars, among
leaders to make it happen. This De-
partment can never nourish the idea of
education unless those who were against
the idea and those who were for it will
come together in a spirit of cooperation
to make all these ideas come true.
I would hope, Mr. President, that we
can see new coalitions, new hope, new
faith, new charity, and new dedication to
the concept of education. In the words
of George Washington, "Let us raise a
standard." And the standard, if you
please, that I would like each of you-
and all the people who cannot be here,
but who are represented by each of you—
2200
