Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 2
Unity (OAU) and the OAU meeting lasting profession. You bear a great respon-
July. President Carter complimented
President Tolbert on his leadership as
head of the OAU and praised President
Tolbert's efforts to resolve outstanding
problems in the region.
Those attending the meeting were:
U.S. Side
The President
Deputy Secretary of State Warren Chris-
topher
David Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs
Richard Moose, Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs
Ambassador Robert Smith, U.S. Ambas-
sador to Liberia
Parker Borg, Director of West African
Affairs, Department of State
Jerry Funk, National Security Council
staff member
Liberian Side
President William R. Tolbert, Jr.
Foreign Minister Cecil Dennis
Ambassador Francis Dennis, Liberian
Ambassador to the United States
J. Bernard Blamo, Minister of Education
D. Franklin Neal, Minister of Planning
and Economic Affairs
sibility in a free society. Our people de-
pend on you to bring them the facts on
issues and problems that affect their lives
and the future of our nation. Their opin-
ions are often based as much on your
interpretation of events, what you point
out as important and relevant, as on the
events themselves. The pressure of dead-
lines is compounded by your desire to get
all the facts. I am sure the satisfaction you
derive from doing a good job and meet-
ing those constant challenges is in propor-
tion to the obstacles.
The variety of your concerns, the
breadth of your knowledge, the quality of
understanding that you bring to the task
of finding out what is happening is im-
portant to our nation. Just as we in gov-
ernment have a sworn duty to serve the
people, you have a professional duty to
uphold their right to know. Our Founding
Fathers considered that duty as basic to
our freedom as the structure of govern-
ment. We share a duty to serve and be
accountable to the people, just as we
share a need to retain our humility and
compassion in the face of heavy respon-
sibility and great power.
I commend you for your commitment
to a proud tradition which has served our
William Bull, Counselor, Embassy of nation with honor and distinction. Each
Liberia
National Newspaper Week,
October 7-13, 1979
Message of the President. October 2, 1979
On the occasion of National Newspaper
Week, I am pleased to greet the men and
women who gather and report the news.
Yours is indeed a noble and challeng-
of you has my best wishes for continuing
success.
JIMMY CARTER
Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations
Remarks at the Swearing In of Reubin O'D.
Askew. October 2, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Well, after 3 years of
effort, I have finally gotten Reubin Askew
1807
