Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Of equal importance, no other bill be-
fore the Congress will have such a direct
effect on reducing the cost of living for all
Americans. A vote for this bill will clearly
and properly be seen by the public as a
vote to reduce inflation. It will also be
seen as a measure of Congress's commit-
ment in working to fight inflation.
We cannot now afford to turn our backs
on the solution developed by two House
Committees after several years of difficult
work. The time for delay and additional
study is past. The time for positive action
against inflation is now. I urge you to take
that action by voting for Hospital Cost
Containment legislation.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to each Member of the House of Repre-
sentatives.
Aid for Kampucheans
Remarks at a White House Meeting on Relief
Efforts and the First Lady's Trip to Thailand.
November 13, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very grateful that
all of you have come to the White House
to talk about one of the most important
issues that faces humanity and will face it
in our lifetime. It's a rare occasion in hu-
man memory when there has been a pos-
sibility of holocaust, threatening to de-
stroy an entire race of people. It hap-
pened, perhaps, in the time of the Ar-
menians, earlier in this century, and later,
of course, among Jews and others in the
time of Hitler, and now among the peo-
ple of Cambodia, or Kampuchea, as it's
presently known.
There also is a rare occasion when in
the life of a great nation its government
and its people can react in an unselfish,
dynamic, and effective way to alleviate
extraordinary human suffering, such as
the case, again, with the refugees and the
starving people of the Cambodian region.
I was very pleased that the three Sena-
tors, then my wife and Dr. Richmond,
Mrs. Young and her group, and now a
group of Congresswomen and others
have been to that region to dramatize the
need for action, and also to bring back
tangible recommendations on how the
suffering might be alleviated more effec-
tively.
It's a difficult issue to resolve. There
are major obstacles to overcome: obstacles
of war, over which we have no con-
trol in that long-troubled part of the
world; the issue of diplomatic bridges
that are very hard to cross; and also, of
course, are very serious problems in ad-
ministration, in dealing with the bureau-
cratic needs, to derive help from those
eager to give and actually to deliver it
effectively to those who are most in need.
Rosalynn and Senators Danforth,
Baucus, and Sasser, Dr. Richmond, and
others have brought back very specific
recommendations on what might be done.
I'm not going to try to preempt their re-
ports to you. They can make their reports
much better than can I. I'm one of those
who's listening, and, like you, I am eager
to act in accordance with the best inter-
ests of those who are crying out for assist-
ance.
There are three basic areas of re-
sponse: One is the United States Gov-
ernment itself-and the Congress has
reacted very well in approving almost $70
million worth of aid. And I will go to the
Congress for additional aid if it's neces-
sary. Second is an appeal to private or-
ganizations, volunteer organizations of
all kinds, represented by many of you
here. And that's a resource of assistance
which is eager to be tapped and which
has already done yeoman's work, even
before governmental help could be
effective. And the third recommendation
is concerning international relationships.
2112
