Aug. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
fied after the Congress returns, hospital
cost containment, and other items of leg-
islation.
I would be glad to answer your ques-
tions about these or any other subjects if
you have questions to ask.
QUESTIONS
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
adequate bill in the Senate"-which I
think is irresponsible—“and then in con-
ference committee we will work out the
differences." I think that's a dangerous
game, and I would personally oppose that.
I think the Senate ought to pass an
equivalent tax to what I proposed, which
is what the House proposed, because there
would be no area, if the Senate passed an
inadequate tax, to bargain without hav-
Q. On the windfall profits thing, if it ing substantial reductions below what we
gets a compromise, if it is accepted with a
compromise, do you anticipate that the
compromise would give you the amount
of money you need to get all of these pro-
grams through?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if some of the
compromises that have been passed in
the House of Representatives should pre-
vail, then the windfall profits tax is ade-
quate. They, I think, unwisely made the
tax terminate in 1990. I think it would be
better to have the tax be permanent, be-
cause many of the energy production
projects will be very long-range in nature,
and they should have an assured source
of funding beyond the year 1990. How-
ever, they did increase the percentage of
the tax from 50 percent to 60 percent.
They made some other changes. But, in
general, I would say that the net income
from the windfall profits tax, as passed by
the House, was equivalent to what we
proposed originally.
The Senate Finance Committee has
mentioned some exceptions to the wind-
fall profits tax that would gut the tax. For
instance, a change in the definition of
certain kinds of oil and exclusion for so-
called small producers would mean that
the tax would lose forty, fifty, sixty bil-
lion dollars below what we advocated.
This would certainly not be acceptable.
There is some talk among some of the
Senate leaders, "Well, we'll pass an in-
need.
PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE GOVERNMENT
Q. Mr. President, one of the topics
you touched on in your historic address
to the Nation had to do with national
confidence.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. And I'm wondering if you still feel
that you can provide that confidence. The
polls have been brutal with you. And it
is perhaps the key issue in many people's
minds, confidence in the White House,
confidence in the administration, confi-
dence in Washington. Will you address
that question?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the lack of
confidence is very broad. There is a lack
of confidence of people in themselves.
There's a lack of confidence in what their
quality of life will be in the future, com-
pared to the present and the past. There's
a lack of confidence in many institutions.
The press and the Congress are two, by
the way, that are lower than confidence
in the White House. And there's a lack
of confidence in the President, which does
concern me very much.
I believe that this absence of confidence
is unwarranted. Our Nation is prosper-
ous. Our Nation is at peace. Our Nation
has a fine prospect for the future. Our
Nation is the strongest on Earth eco-
nomically, militarily, politically. Our al-
1426
