Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 4
planning program which has become a
crucial element of our national effort to
reduce wasteful health care spending. It
complements my proposed hospital cost
containment legislation.
The success of health planning has de-
pended upon the voluntary participation
of over 50,000 citizens in all parts of the
country. A renewed health planning pro-
gram will enable these and other citizens
to more effectively and efficiently allocate
resources to meet the health needs in their
own communities. This bill also recognizes
the critical role that States must play in
the planning process. An important new
authority will provide Federal assistance
to permit closure of excess hospital beds or
their conversion to more appropriate and
needed uses.
This legislation was enacted after a long
and difficult passage through the Congress.
I am disappointed that the bill contains
amendments which may weaken the au-
thority of planning agencies to control un-
necessary spending and continues un-
needed construction authorities. Yet the
health planning structure remains intact
and, with enactment of this legislation,
has been given new life. I now look for-
ward to a period of solid accomplishment
as we move toward the goal of assuring all
Americans equal access to quality health
care at reasonable cost.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 544 is Public Law 96-79,
approved October 4.
Energy Mobilization Board
Legislation
Statement on Senate Approval of the
Legislation. October 4, 1979
I want to commend the Senate for its
overwhelming vote today approving an
energy mobilization board. That vote rep-
resents a major step forward in the joint
effort of the Congress and my administra-
tion to achieve energy security for our Na-
tion.
The bill that passed today substantially
reflects the proposal I made to the Con-
gress in July. This board will have the
power to cut through unnecessary proced-
ural delays in order to ensure that priority
energy projects will be expeditiously con-
sidered and constructed, while environ-
mental values and State and local deci-
sionmaking are preserved.
I want to express my appreciation for
the diligent bipartisan efforts of Senators
Jackson, Johnston, Hatfield, and Dome-
nici. I call upon the House to follow the
Senate's actions promptly, so the board
can soon begin its important tasks.
United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural
Organization
Nomination of Barbara W. Newell for the
Rank of Ambassador While Serving as U.S.
Permanent Representative. October 4, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Barbara W. Newell for
the rank of Ambassador during her serv-
ice as U.S. Permanent Representative to
the United Nations Educational, Scien-
tific and Cultural Organization (UNES-
CO) in Paris. She replaces Esteban
Torres, who has been appointed Special
Assistant to the President.
Newell has been serving as Represent-
ative to UNESCO in a consultant capac-
ity since earlier this year. She was
previously president of Wellesley College
and a professor of economics there.
1819
