Sept. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
links, microwaves, and mobile radio. The
FCC currently assigns many of these fre-
quencies through "comparative hearings"
which impose months or years of delay
and waste FCC resources. Under the cur-
rent system, once a frequency is assigned
there is no incentive to use it efficiently.
That is a problem because growing num-
bers of users, here and abroad, are crowd-
ing the limited space in the radio spec-
trum.
We need assignment systems that are
fast, flexible, and that provide incentives
to use the spectrum efficiently. The legis-
lation should give the FCC authority to
design new procedures which use market-
place forces, such as auctions, leasing, and
re-sale. These procedures will help ensure
that the spectrum is used sensibly, just as
similar tools are employed for oil leases
and other limited natural resources.
• The antitrust laws should remain ap-
plicable as before. It should be explicit
that the legislation is neutral as to pend-
ing and any future litigation.
• The technical quality of the tele-
communications network should be pro-
tected. The legislation should not impede
cooperation between the carriers to plan
and manage national systems. To provide
for technical quality, national security,
and emergency preparedness needs, the
FCC should retain authority to set tech-
nical standards and ensure that facilities
are capable of interconnection where ap-
propriate.
• Public participation in regulatory de-
cision making should be encouraged.
Effective participation by the users of
telecommunications services will help the
FCC and state regulators make their diffi-
cult decisions. Such involvement should
be encouraged through open proceedings
and by providing funding for groups that
could not otherwise afford to participate
and that represent an important interest
that would not otherwise be heard.
I congratulate Chairman Lionel Van
Deerlin of the House Communications
Subcommittee and Chairmen Howard
Cannon and Ernest Hollings of the Sen-
ate Commerce Committee and the Com-
munications Subcommittee and their col-
leagues for the extensive and informative
hearings they have held and the thought-
ful bills they have introduced covering the
issues I have outlined and other important
communications matters. My Administra-
tion will continue to provide assistance on
specific provisions. I urge Congress to
move forward with this important effort.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 21, 1979.
Interstate Commerce
Commission
Nomination of Reginald E. Gilliam, Jr., To Be
a Member. September 21, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Reginald E. Gilliam,
Jr., to be a member of the Interstate Com-
merce Commission.
Gilliam is legislative assistant to Sen-
ator John Glenn.
He was born December 29, 1944, in
New York City. He received an A.B. from
Lincoln University in 1965 and a J.D.
from Harvard Law School in 1968.
From 1968 to 1969, Gilliam was a staff
attorney in Utica, N.Y. He was an assist-
ant professor at the State University of
New York in Albany, N.Y., from 1969 to
1972. From 1972 to 1975, he was assistant
1702
