Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
sufficiency. Even seeking self-sufficiency
we realize our obligation and interdepend-
ence. In fact, Mr. President, we know
that Minneapolis has always looked to us
for leadership. And we have never
failed them. We shall not this time, either.
Mr. President, with these bases, St.
Paul has created a number of decision
processes which allow us to raise aware-
ness and action levels. These include, first,
a decentralized neighborhood planning
process which recently received the award
as one of the best in the Nation; second,
designation by your administration as the
test area for the negotiated investment
strategy—and a wise decision it was, sir-
third, a nationally recognized mixture of
foundation grants, private investment, and
governmental expenditures for urban
renovation; and fourth, a State and re-
gional decision process on energy and land
use. Our State department of energy has
been viewed as the pioneer in energy
planning and data collection.
Mr. President, we've been successful in
establishing the processes. Now we must
be even more creative in utilizing them. In
this view, we are discussing establishment
of a model citizen educational process on
energy, gardening, housing, economic de-
velopment, and governmental forms and
functions. Next, establishment of an urban
extension service tied to our neighborhood
planning process is being researched. And
third, creation of an expanded partici-
patory planning process on St. Paul, the
eighties and beyond, is being explored.
Mr. President, we see a city where for
the first time information, education,
leadership, systems planning, and invest-
ment are being integrated. Here in St.
Paul awareness can and shall be trans-
lated into action.
Mr. President, look about you. You see
a city with faith in itself and the ability to
become even more of a model for what
neighborhoods, cities, and our society can,
with vision, become.
Thank you.
MAYOR LATIMER. Mr. President, I
really appreciate your generosity, and
that's what I call it. I might add, by the
way, that I broke up my vacation to come
back here, too. [Laughter] But I've got
more little kids than you have, and I
couldn't afford to bring them all back
with me, and I regret that. But it was very
generous for you to do this. I know that.
I do feel very strongly that you have
sparked a sense of mission in dealing with
the energy issue, because it will affect
poor and rich alike. You've also said
something else today that I have been
preaching and repeating here, and that is
that we are at another crossroads. And
the energy problem is not merely a prob-
lem but also a productive solution, that
energy is going to be a job-producing en-
tity, that energy indeed can pull the com-
munity together, as you have pointed out.
I think that we can take a very posi-
tive approach to the solutions to energy.
And I also believe we can do it locally
here, as so beautifully pointed out by
Mr. Lefko.
I repeat to Mrs. Carter and to Amy and
to the President, thank you so very, very
much for blessing our city with your own
presence and the presence of your fam-
ily.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
I can truthfully say, from the bottom
of my heart, this has been an enjoyable
and an inspirational meeting.
We live in the greatest nation on Earth,
and we are blessed beyond all people. And
1466
