Aug. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
is simple—who will benefit from the in-
creased prices of oil caused by decontrol,
the oil companies or the American peo-
ple? I'm determined that the American
people will be the ones to benefit.
As I've emphasized over and over
again, we need the revenues from the
windfall profits tax to increase the pro-
duction of synthetic fuels, to harness solar
energy, to provide the means to spur en-
ergy conservation, to develop mass transit,
and to help our poorest citizens to cope
with rising energy prices.
The Senate Finance Committee, how-
ever, is currently considering some very
broad exemptions to the tax, loopholes big
enough to sail an oiltanker through. In
many cases, these exemptions will not in-
crease American production at all. In
some other cases, the exemptions or loop-
holes will increase American production a
very small amount. The cost of that in-
creased production will be enormous to
the American people.
I've made my position clear on what
should be done about energy. My propos-
als have been made both to the American
people and to the Congress. As I travel
through the heartland of America this
coming week on kind of a working vaca-
tion, I intend to explain to the American
people the magnitude of the choices
which now are before the Congress. I'm
confident that they will share my convic-
tion that we need an effective windfall
profits tax without major exceptions and
without unwarranted loopholes. Only
then can our Nation be assured of the
resources for genuine energy security for
the United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:03 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Oval Office at the
White House.
Price Controls on Heavy
Crude Oil
Executive Order 12153. August 17, 1979
DECONTROL OF HEAVY OIL
By the authority vested in me as Presi-
dent by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, including
the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act
of 1973, as amended (15 U.S.C. 751 et
seq.), and notwithstanding the delega-
tions to the Secretary of Energy in Exec-
utive Order No. 11790, as amended by
Executive Order No. 12038, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1-101. Effective August 17, 1979,
prices charged in the first sale of heavy
crude oil are exempted from price con-
trols adopted pursuant to the Emergency
Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973, as
amended. For purposes of this section, the
term "heavy crude oil" means all crude
oil produced from a property, but only if,
during the last month prior to July 1979
in which crude oil was produced and sold
from that property, such crude oil had a
weighted average gravity of 16.0° API or
less, corrected to 60° Fahrenheit.
1-102. The Secretary of Energy, or his
delegate,
delegate, shall expeditiously conduct a
public inquiry as to what other types of
heavy crude oil, if any, should be exempt-
ed from price controls adopted pursuant
to the Emergency Petroleum Allocation
Act of 1973, as amended, in order to
maintain or increase production of such
crude oil. Upon completion of that in-
quiry, the Secretary shall make a recom-
mendation to the President as to what
other types of heavy crude oil, if any,
should be exempt from price controls.
1-103. The Secretary of Energy may
pursuant to Executive Order 11790, as
amended by Executive Order 12038,
1450
