Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
So, I think this is a good balance, and
I've not tried to withdraw into a shell. I
think I've been more open maybe the last
few months than even before.
U.S. POLICY TOWARDS ISRAEL
Q. Mr. President, Simon Weber, Jewish
Daily Forward, New York. As an ethnic
newspaper, we have a special interest in
Israel-
THE PRESIDENT. So do I.
Q. —and of course we are concerned
with all the problems of the United States.
But there is a feeling in the Jewish com-
munity your administration is kind of
pressing hard on Israel, in the case of
Lebanon, in the case of the Palestinians.
Would you explain that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I will. I think I
would prefer to let Foreign Minister
Dayan speak for me. I'm sure you're
familiar with the comment that he made.
Q. Yes.
THE PRESIDENT. And he has a good
clear insight into the relationships, both
public and in the private negotiations be-
tween Israel and the United States. I
could not have said it better. Neither
could Jody Powell have said it better.
We have opened up public discussion
and public debate and private negotia-
tion on matters that were previously
avoided because they are controversial.
But I think it's well to remember that
about a year ago, we had the Camp David
accords signed, not just by me, not just by
President Sadat, but by me, Begin, and
Sadat. And then about 6 months ago, we
had the Mideast peace treaty signed and
approved by all three of us. The progress
has been sometimes faltering, sometimes
epitomized by dispute, sometimes by alle-
gations that the United States has been
unfair to Israel or unfair to the Arab
countries or unfair to Egypt or unfair to
the Palestinians or unfair to Lebanon.
I think we've had a well-balanced
approach. We have, as a primary con-
cern-primary concern-the security of
Israel, the existence of Israel, leading
toward peace for the people who live in
Israel with not just Egypt but all their
neighbors. That's our first concern. And
along with that, of course, is to seek for a
comprehensive agreement between Israel
and all her neighbors. I think we've had
good progress so far.
We believe that there can be no perma-
nent peace without a resolution of the
Palestinian question in all its aspects, to
use the language that Prime Minister
Begin himself adopted in the Camp David
accords. And I think as far as Lebanon is
concerned, we deplore violence in the
northern part of Israel and the southern
part of Lebanon, no matter where it origi-
nates. We abhor the use of terrorism by
some of the Palestinians to effectuate their
cause. We think this is a sad and deplor-
able mistake. And we hope to see a rela-
tionship between Israel and the people of
Lebanon, including Palestinians, which
would lead to a peaceful relationship.
But we don't put any pressure on Israel.
It would be counterproductive if we did.
And I believe that Prime Minister Begin
would join in with Foreign Minister
Dayan in certifying that our approach has
been responsible and fair.
I can't deny that there have been occa-
sions when the Israelis have felt that we
took a biased position, and I can't deny
either that there have been times when
the Arab countries feel that our position is
biased toward Israel. But I describe to you
the same order of priorities that I would
describe to Sadat: first of all, the existence
and security of Israel; secondly, the effec-
tuation of peace between Israel and her
neighbors, all her neighbors; and third, a
recognition that a resolution of the Pales-
1857
