Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 19
$52 billion, I remind you to distressed
cities, stronger local tax bases, and grow-
ing confidence in our cities. That's what
the Carter administration brought to the
cities; that was a Carter administration
creation.
And for those who tell you that an ad-
ministration cannot plan what it wants to
do and bring that plan to fruition, today's
celebration of the anniversary of the
UDAG proves that they are wrong. We
can plan; that's what the Carter admin-
istration has demonstrated here. And as
I've said so many times in recent weeks,
you ain't seen nothin' yet in terms of the
future.
And one of the reasons you ain't seen
nothin' yet is the distinguished Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development,
Moon Landrieu. Moon.
SECRETARY LANDRIEU. I am what they
say in vaudeville is a straight man. I speak
between Pat Harris and the President of
the United States for as many minutes as
it takes. [Laughter] So, in a few moments
I expect the President to be here.
I just came from a luncheon over at
the Federal City Council, which is a group
of businessmen, politicians, citizens in-
terested in the city of Washington, D.C.,
as a place to live, as distinguished from
the seat of government. And Mrs. Kath-
erine Graham was the principal speaker
and gave a fascinating talk on the begin-
ning of that council, which, she pointed
out, started back in 1954 as a thought of
her husband's, the late Philip Graham,
who, being devoted to Washington and
being concerned about what he saw as a
deterioration of a great city, began a series
of articles in the Washington Post which
began to search for ideas and for analysis
of what was happening to Washington,
D.C., and perhaps all cities in the United
States. It just so happens that today
marked the 25th anniversary of the begin-
ning of that effort.
And it occurred to me that many peo-
ple were in the field of concern about ur-
ban America a long, long time before I
ever came on the scene in the early 1970's
and late 1960's. And it also occurred to me
that it took some 10 years from that
point-and I don't mark that as neces-
sarily the very beginning of the effort, but
at least of one effort in one city—that it
took until 1965 to organize the Depart-
ment of HUD, which was the first formal
recognition, the first gathering together
of the resources of this country for an all-
out effort on what was obviously a grow-
ing urban problem.
By that time, we had already been into
400 years of physical development and re-
development of the United States, and
we had been a nation for almost 200
years. And yet it took that period of time
in which to formalize our concerns in the
way of a department dedicated to that
purpose. And it actually took another 10
to 12 years before we could formulate a
comprehensive urban policy.
There are too many people in this
room to thank individually who began
that program, and there are too many
people in this room who are consulted in
the process to thank individually. But it
did result in the President of the United
States, President Carter, establishing a
task force to examine the possibility of
creating for the first time a very compre-
hensive national urban policy, which
would not only use the resources of the
one department that was defined as an
urban department but which would also
use all the resources of the Federal Gov-
ernment to redevelop the cities of this Na-
tion and the urban centers of this Nation.
And the cornerstone of that policy
came out with the funny name of Urban
Development Action Grants. And it has
1967
