Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 17
THE PRESIDENT. I've asked the mayor
to let me say just a word.
We have three more presentations to
make, but there are three themes that run
through all these presentations. One is
there is no possibility of success without a
joint, cooperative effort. One person alone,
a President or a mayor, Congress, can't do
it. It has to be a joint effort. Secondly,
every one of the programs proposed
even the cogeneration plan or the people-
mover, the weatherization of homes—is
already dependent upon Federal funds as
kind of a core basis for a much broader,
magnified effort by everyone else. And
third, every one of these proposals so far
doesn't make life more dismal. It makes
life better. It is not a sacrifice to get to
work efficiently, not to have traffic jams,
to have an easy way to shop, to save heat
in your homes, not to throw away heat in
the generation of power, and as you well
know, every time you don't burn either
coal or gas or oil, air pollution goes down.
So, those three things-a cooperative
effort, the Federal Government must and
is helping and can help more with the
windfall profits tax, and third, conserva-
tion-makes our life better and not worse.
It's a good thing for us to remember, and
I know you'll watch this and see if what
I've said is true for the last three speakers.
Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
MAYOR LATIMER. Thank you.
The sixth speaker is Greg Haley, who is
an architect, has been very active in his
community, and, in particular, has been
working on community planning in his
neighborhood and would like to talk about
that aspect of it.
Greg?
COMMUNITY PLANNING
MR. HALEY. Good evening, Mr. Presi-
dent, Mrs. Carter, ladies and gentlemen:
I am representing District 12 Commun-
ity Council. District 12 is one of 17 neigh-
borhood planning areas created to facili-
tate citizen participation in the city of
St. Paul. The council and other neighbor-
hood groups have been working diligently
on projects that deal either directly or
indirectly with energy concerns. Our plan
has been developed over a 3-year period
by residents and businessmen. The city
will use it and other district plans to help
formulate an overall city plan.
The principal element of our plan is to
propose the residential and industrial de-
velopment of the vacant and under-uti-
lized railroad land that bisects our district.
New housing would fill a need for uni-
versity students and provide homes for
families who prefer to live and work in the
city. Industrial development would help
stem the flow of companies to suburban in-
dustrial parks, decrease employee com-
muting time, and provide a centralized
distribution point for goods and services.
The University of Minnesota's inner-
campus transit system will pass through
this redevelopment area, affording trans-
portation to students and staff living in
the neighborhood. This under-utilized
railroad land and adjacent properties
make up Mayor Latimer's proposed en-
ergy park. At the very least, the energy
park could be a refreshing alternative to
urban redevelopment. We hope it can be
a stimulating learning tool and a model
for other cities to emulate.
Our neighborhood is also pursuing
solutions to energy-related problems on a
smaller scale. We have volunteer staff in
the home improvement centers who will
give out information on reinsulating and
renovating older homes and how to fi-
nance the work. We have formed a local
development company composed of busi-
nessmen and residents to help small busi-
nessmen secure financing for capital im-
1463
