Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 11
made by Annex II, Section A of Annex
III, and Sections B(1) through (4) of
Annex IV of this proclamation shall be
effective with respect to articles entered,
or withdrawn from warehouse, for con-
sumption on and after the effective dates
specified in those annexes;
(b) The modifications provided for in
Section A of Annex II to this proclama-
tion which are authorized by Section 601
(a) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979
(93 Stat. 267) shall apply to articles en-
tered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for
consumption on and after the date desig-
nated by the President when he deter-
mines that the requirements of Section 2
(b) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979
(93 Stat. 147) have been met with re-
spect to the Agreement on Trade in Civil
Aircraft;
(c) The Special Representative shall
make any determinations relevant to the
designation of the effective dates of the
modifications of the TSUS made by Sec-
tions B through G of Annex III, and Sec-
tions B(5) through (10) of Annex IV of
this proclamation, and shall publish in
the FEDERAL REGISTER the effective date
with respect to each of the modifica-
tions made by these sections; such modifi-
cations shall apply to articles entered, or
withdrawn from warehouse, for consump-
tion on and after such effective date;
(d) The modifications to the TSUS
made by Section C of Annex IV to this
proclamation, relating to special treat-
ment for the least developed developing
countries (LDDC's), shall be effective
with respect to articles entered, or with-
drawn from warehouse, for consumption
on and after the effective dates as pro-
vided for in Section B of Annex IV;
whenever the rate of duty specified in the
column numbered 1 for any TSUS item
is reduced to the same level as the corre-
sponding rate of duty specified in the
column entitled "LDDC" for such item,
the rate of duty in the column entitled
"LDDC" shall be deleted from the TSUS,
and when the duty rates for all such items
in Annex IV have been deleted, the modi-
fications to the TSUS made by Section C
of Annex IV to this proclamation shall
be deleted;
(e) Section A of Annex IV shall be-
come effective on January 1, 1980.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eleventh day of
December in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
9:50 a.m., December 12, 1979]
NOTE: The annexes are printed in the FED-
ERAL REGISTER of December 13, 1979.
Cheese and Chocolate
Crumb Imports
Proclamation 4708. December 11, 1979
IMPORT LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN
CHEESE AND CHOCOLATE CRUMB
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Import limitations have been imposed
on certain dairy products, including cer-
tain cheese and chocolate crumb, pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 22 of
the Agricultural
the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as
amended, 7 U.S.C. 624, (Section 22).
Those limitations are set forth in Part 3
of the Appendix to the Tariff Schedules
of the United States (TSUS).
Sections 701 and 703 of the Trade
Agreements Act of 1979, P.L. 96–39 (The
2227
