Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
MS. STAMBERG. Thanks for the correc-
tion. Thanks very much.
We have no more time, I'm afraid
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, sorry.
Ms. STAMBERG. President Carter.
We've come to the end of it. Thank you
so much for taking part in this broadcast.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've thoroughly
enjoyed it, Susan. I hope we can do it
again.
MS. STAMBERG. I want to thank the
thousands of citizens who wrote in asking
to speak with the President and thank all
of you who did get a chance to pose ques-
tions. "Ask the President" was made pos-
sible with funds provided by the Corpora-
tion for Public Broadcasting. Stay with us
for some analysis of the President's re-
marks in a few moments.
This is NPR, National Public Radio.
NOTE: The program began at 12 noon.
Kennedys-King Day Dinner
Remarks at the Annual Dinner Honoring
John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy, and
Martin Luther King, Jr. October 13, 1979
Thank you, my good friend Walter
Fauntroy, Mayor Barry, who spoke so elo-
quently about future plans for the city
and for mine and his relationship, Mrs.
King, distinguished guests, fellow Demo-
crats, and fellow citizens of the District of
Columbia:
I've been reading lately about Mayor
Barry's attempts to find a house to live in.
[Laughter] He has my sympathy. I under-
stand his problem. It took my wife and
me 2 solid years—[laughter]—of hard
work to get the exact house we wanted in
the District. [Laughter] And we could not
have succeeded without the help of many
of you. And I have particularly enjoyed
the high quality of the garbage collec-
tion-[laughter]—in our residence, Mr.
Mayor.
It's especially appropriate that the
Democratic Party of this District should
honor the recent heroes of our country,
for it was only recently that your own
struggle for the right to vote was honored.
The early days of that struggle were shad-
owed by the cruel and heart-rending
deaths of John F. Kennedy, Robert F.
Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Jr. They
championed the cause of the voiceless—
people whose silent pain became an ocean
roar that swept across our Nation, help-
ing to wash away ancient hatreds and
prejudice and discrimination and fear.
Their success was made possible by the
people who stood with them, their closest
loved ones, like Coretta Scott King, who
spoke on this platform a few minutes ago.
We finally won some of the battles which
they began. And, as you know, old barriers
have been falling so that many people can
now share more fully the life in a nation
dedicated to freedom and equality. This
has been especially true here in the Dis-
trict. Yet for all of our victories, the right
for full citizenship must continue.
Our strong District Democratic Party,
represented by this enormous crowd to-
night, is proof of some of those victories.
You won the right to vote for President
in 1964. It took you 10 years to win the
right to vote for local officials, in 1974.
You've got a good record. In 1964, 1968,
1972, you cast at least or almost 80 per-
cent of your votes for the Democratic can-
didate for President. This is the kind of
careful, balanced political judgment that
I really admire. [Laughter] This District
is truly the most Democratic place in our
country and, therefore, a good place to
live. And it inures a great deal of justifi-
able credit to you.
In 1976 you were able to improve even
on that remarkable early record, casting
1920
