Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
you, and thank you for coming and being merous governmental agencies. I went to
here with us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, maʼam.
I might say the young people in the
back that had the banner which I couldn't
read-it was already torn when I saw it—
you know, this is a free country. And I'm
President, and I think it's very good-
even when people express themselves that
way—I'm not embarrassed by it. I think
the reaction of all of you, because you
were disturbed, did its job. There's no
need for me to embarrass them. So, I think
it's a proper place in our country for peo-
ple to raise a banner or to ask the Presi-
dent a difficult question or to shout out
a criticism.
I don't have any problem with that.
It's a free country. I want to keep it that
way.
SOLAR ENERGY
Q. President Carter, first I'd like to say
I'm getting a little tired of everybody giv-
ing you such a hard time in the press, you
know. I think they need to I think
you've been doing a great job, and if you
just hang in there, I think things will be
a lot better for you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. But one of the things
THE PRESIDENT. You don't have to ask
a question. That's good enough. [Laugh-
ter]
Q. No, I have to.
One of the things I'd like to show you
that I did read in the paper was
that
you
declared war on energy. What I've been
doing with a few people-Warren
Wether, Steve Cook, Mike Flanders was
in 1976, these two architect students at
Florida University developed a passive
solar house that won the State of Florida
competition and went to the finalist
position in the United States. We've been
working on that project for 3 years. We've
done numerous things and talked to nu-
Washington with a friend of mine, and
we gave a piece of paper that I have here,
I want you to read also I have a little
something I want you to take home, I
think you'll find interesting to read.
[Laughter]
I went to Washington and I went to
220 Congress and Senate offices, and I
gave a piece of paper to each one, each
aide or representative or someone. And
out of 220 people that promised to write
me a letter asking for more information
about my solar houses, it was people like
Congressman Gibbons and Senator Stone
that wrote. Senator Stone and Congress-
man Gibbons have been doing a lot of
help, but I'd like to know why, if we have
these 220 people who are so concerned,
why they don't even write me a letter to
find out about this house that was the
finalist position we've been working on for
3 years?
I think that we have a solution, a major
solution to the energy housing problem.
I've spent hundreds of dollars on phone
calls. I've talked to numerous agencies.
Everybody passes a buck; it's a total run-
around system. I went to the Small Bus-
iness Administration here; they told me
they wouldn't even give me an energy-
related loan. The man further suggested
that I take my project to Saudi Arabia
and sell it to Saudi Arabians.
Not only that, when I was in Wash-
ington, I talked to a few aides—which
I won't ever name. They suggested that
I don't fool with the Government-the
Government's a waste of my time, it's
too much redtape-and I go out and find
private investors. Well, you need money
for private investors, because I don't want
to go to jail with the SEC problems. We
have spent $9,000 in 6 months on this
project. The project is completed. We are
ready to build the first prototype. We
have no funds to build it.
You declared war on energy, and I
1573
