Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
children take that farmland and continue
to use it.
So, we are making modifications in the
size of inheritance that is excluded from
inheritance taxes to preserve relatively
small estates. And I hope that we'll con-
tinue to close loopholes for the very
wealthy. I agree with your basic premise.
MS. WILLIAMS. Thank you very much.
MS. STAMBERG. Thank you, Ms. Wil-
liams.
On the line now from St. Paul, Minne-
sota, is Cassandra Johnson. Go ahead, Ms.
Johnson.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Ms. JOHNSON. Thank you. Good
morning, Mr. President. I have a question
involving human rights that I would like
you to answer. I first of all would like to
say that I'm really pleased that you've
made that an issue and that you have
raised the consciousness level throughout
not only our own country but throughout
the world. My question involves three
countries which we support-South Ko-
rea, Chile, and the Philippines-who are
gross violators of human rights to their
own people in their own country.
I would like to know, is there any way
that we as a country and you as a Presi-
dent who is for human rights can put
more pressure, especially on the Philip-
pines, to ease the tension and release the
political prisoners in those countries?
THE PRESIDENT. Cassandra, we utilize
every legitimate means to influence both
leaders and governments of other coun-
tries to move toward a deeper honoring
of human rights. There have been some
substantial indications of progress in this
hemisphere and, indeed, throughout the
world in recent years, I think possibly
because of our emphasis on human rights.
Literally tens of thousands of prisoners
have been released from incarceration,
and we've seen major moves away from
totalitarian governments toward more
democratic forms of government.
Just yesterday, for instance, I welcomed
here the new Ambassador from Uganda,
who has spent a lot of time in our country
when Idi Amin, supported by the Soviet
Union, was violating human rights in the
grossest and most obnoxious way. Now
the new government is much more in-
clined toward honoring human rights.
In the Philippines, there has been a
good bit of progress made-still they
don't measure up to standards that we
ourselves would espouse in this country.
And I visited South Korea not too long
ago and had some very strong and
heart-to-heart talks with President Park,
letting him know that the relationships
between his country and ours would be
severely damaged with any indication of
violation of human rights. Following that
visit, large numbers of prisoners were re-
leased. But recently, as you've seen in the
legislative body of South Korea, the op-
position party members have resigned in
protest because one of their leaders was
excluded, a Mr. Lee.*
So, we are trying to encourage and
sometimes even force other countries, as
best we can legitimately, to shift toward
a greater honoring of human rights. In
international lending institutions, for in-
stance, we don't vote for economic aid-
except for the most narrowly defined
humanitarian purposes, like food for
starving people-unless that country does
honor human rights as assessed by us. And
I'm required each year to give to the Con-
gress a report on every country with
whom we deal at all, concerning the de-
*The President later said that he had in-
tended to refer to Mr. Kim Yong Sam. [Printed
in the transcript.] See page 1919.
1913
