Nov. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
1956 and served as a foreign affairs of-
ficer at the State Department. He took
Indonesian language training in 1958-59
and was a political officer in Jakarta from
1959 to 1960. From 1960 to 1961, he was
consular and administrative officer in
Medan, and from 1961 to 1964, he was
economic officer in Jakarta.
From 1964 to 1968, Toussaint was at
the U.S. Mission to the United Nations,
as adviser, then senior adviser for political
and security affairs. He attended the Im-
perial Defense College in London in
1969-70 and was counselor for political
affairs in Tehran from 1970 to 1972. From
1972 to 1975, he was Deputy Chief of
Mission in Jakarta.
In 1975-76 Toussaint attended the sen-
ior seminar in foreign policy. He was Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary of State for In-
ternational Organization Affairs from
1976 to 1977 and deputy coordinator of
the United Nations Conference on Sci-
ence and Technology from 1977 to 1978.
Visit of Prime Minister Lynch
of Ireland
Toasts at the State Dinner. November 8, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Prime Minister and Mrs.
Lynch, Jack and Máirín, we're delighted
to welcome you to the White House again,
the first time in your role as the head of a
great nation. I know that everyone here
who is of Irish descent feels particularly
at ease, because-as Jack pointed out to
the
group of enthusiastic welcomers this
morning—the architect of the White
House was a very famous Irishman,
trained in Dublin, from Kilkenny, named
James Hoban. And those of you who have
visited Ireland know that this White
House bears a very strange and not acci-
dental resemblance to the home of the
Irish Parliament. So, we're very delighted
to have you here in an Irish home where
many Irish Presidents have served.
Jack Lynch is famous in Ireland for
many things: first of all, as an athlete
who was noted for his prowess on the
playing fields. And he's also famous as a
political leader, a man of quiet courage,
a gentle man, a man who's a moderate
leader, who's strong and courageous.
Our country has benefited greatly from
many famous Irishmen as well-Daniel
Boone, John Wayne, Bing Crosby, John
L. Sullivan, and, in a more modern day,
George Meany, Tip O'Neill, and many
others that I don't have the time to name.
Many assembled in this room are proud
of their Irish blood. And I think that one
of the most famous, George M. Cohan,
expressed it very well when he said that
he was "a real live nephew of my Uncle
Sam," and later in the same song, "I'm
proud of all the Irish blood that's in me.
This could be kind of a theme song of
many Americans.
Once, when an American visited Dub-
lin, the former mayor, Mayor Briscoe said,
"On behalf of 30 million Irishmen, I wel-
come you to Dublin." And he later said,
"I'm talking about 5 million in Ireland
and 25 million in the United States."
[Laughter] Both figures were slight exag-
gerations, but we do have 20 million
Americans here who are Irish or of Irish
descent, and on St. Patrick's Day, Mr.
Prime Minister, there are at least 200
million [laughter]—Americans who are
Irish.
Americans are particularly proud of
Ireland and what you have done. Not
many people, not enough people know
that Ireland has the fastest growing econ-
omy in Europe—a nation which is now
a better and better place to live for young
and old; a nation playing a growing
leadership role in the councils of Europe
and indeed the entire world; a nation
which has benefited, as have we, with
2098
