Aug. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
has not caught national attention, the
Governor of Minnesota has felt it was
serious enough to send a telegram asking
for a Taft-Hartley injunction. I think
that was turned over to the Labor De-
partment, and they turned thumbs down.
Does the administration see any point if
that strike continues that at some point
that Taft-Hartley might become a pos-
sibility?
THE PRESIDENT. That's always an
option.
I think you know that the Taft-Hartley
law has very tight constraints on its own
implementation. You have to be able to
prove in court, for instance, that the na-
tional security of our Nation is threat-
ened. I don't remember the exact legal
language, but that's one of the aspects
of it.
Ray Marshall, who's quite well ac-
quainted with the Taft-Hartley Act and
its provisions, has consulted with the
White House staff, my legal staff, and
also with the Justice Department, and
decided at this point that implementation
of the Taft-Hartley Act is not justified.
We hope that the strike will be re-
solved quickly, and we'll continue to
monitor the situation. But at this time we
don't think the Taft-Hartley implemen-
tation is advised.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
Q. Sir, assuming that you are going to
seek renomination and given the crisis of
confidence, so to speak, that I think you
alluded to earlier, what sort of case
would you make, sir, for your own renom-
ination and reelection? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. That's a lot of as-
sumptions. [Laughter]
I don't know how to answer that ques-
tion. I'd rather wait until later on this year
to make an announcement of my own
decision. I think if I decide to run again,
I would have a good chance to get re-
elected.
Q. On what basis—if I may follow up,
sir, on what would you pin your strategy?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are only
two bases that I think are legitimate. One
is the record of my own administration
and the description to the American
people of future achievements or actions
that I think would be well-advised for
the next administration. I think we've
got a good record.
CHRYSLER CORPORATION
Q. Mr. President, could you tell us
what plans are being made to help the
Chrysler Corporation?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I can
expand any further on what Bill Miller
said yesterday. My own suggestion is you
get a copy of his statement. I approved
this approach to the Chrysler problem.
The staff in the White House and also
several of the agency heads, including
Cabinet officials, evolved a series of op-
tions for me. We had a meeting here in
the Oval Office, and I approved the plan
that Bill Miller described yesterday.
It involves two or three elements. One
is a maximum dependence on the free
enterprise system, including the lending
institutions and Chrysler itself and others
involved, to resolve this problem;
secondly, that any role of the Federal
Government would be adequate, but min-
imal, and that the Federal Government
and its investment would be protected
well. And I'd say the third element would
be a sharing of responsibility among all
those involved of any sacrifice that would
be inherent in the process. I think that
what Bill Miller described is adequate, if
we can get the coordinated approach that
he has described.
1430
