Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 30
goal. I pointed out that we are at a cross-
roads, deciding between increased diver-
sity and division on the one hand, or to-
ward increased unity and a common pur-
pose on the other.
It became obvious to me over a long
period of months, accentuated at Camp
David, that we do have a severe energy
problem, but that our basic problem in
this country goes much deeper than en-
ergy. But in the resolution of the energy
question, in the solution of it, in the meet-
ing of it, courageously, in unifying our-
selves to achieve our energy goals, in that
process, we have a chance to show again
the strength of America, the ability of our
people to work together, and the ability of
us demonstrably to be successful. And I
think that process will have far-reaching
effects, far beyond that of energy.
There is no easy answer. There is no
free lunch. There is no quick solution to
problems that have been evolving in our
Nation for many years, decades, even gen-
erations. But I am convinced that this is
a time to meet those challenges, persist-
ently and courageously. The people have
responded well. Hundreds of organiza-
tions have already sent me word, "We are
supporting you, Mr. President."
When I went to Kansas City to speak
to the county officials-Democrats and
Republicans the outpouring was almost
unanimous in pledging their support to go
back home and organize community effort
to conserve energy, to seek for new ways
to strengthen our Nation and its purposes,
and to bind people together again in a
spirit of harmony and cooperation.
In closing my remarks, let me say that
you were carefully chosen. There were a
limited number of people from through-
out our Nation who could come to Camp
David. And I deeply appreciate every one
of you being willing to do it. It was a
time of criticism of me and some doubt
about what was going on there. And you
came partially on faith, perhaps partially
out of curiosity. But it was a very con-
structive thing for me and for my admin-
istration and, I think, for the Nation. And
I thank you for it.
There was a wide diversity of opinion
expressed, and as all of you know, I lis-
tened about 90 percent of the time and
talked about 10 percent of the time. And
I took careful notes, not only on a scratch-
pad but in my mind and in my heart,
and I'll never forget some of the advice
that you gave me. I'm not the kind of
person who responds easily to criticism. I
hate to admit that I have defects and that
I have made errors. But over a period of
a few days, I began to see how construc-
tive and how helpful this could be to me
as President. Because you are natural
leaders, chosen to come to Camp David
because of that, and because you repre-
sent a broad and diverse spectrum of
America, and also because you and I in
many ways, I hope in every instance, have
broken the ice between us, I think your
advice to me in the future will be ex-
tremely valuable.
I hope that you will retain the sense of
friendship and the sense of ease in com-
municating with me in the future that you
had at Camp David. You need not be em-
barrassed about giving me tough advice
and very personal criticisms and sugges-
tions in the future. We've already crossed
that bridge. And I would hope that I've
got a special group of people now through-
out the Nation who can deal with me as
a human being and without restraint and
with a maximum degree of frankness. In
that way, you can be an extra benefit to
me and to our country.
And I would like to ask you, in addition,
to add your influence and your support
1331
