Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
would be warm, but the overwhelming
nature of it was indeed one of the most
remarkable events of the entire world.
He and I talked about many things.
We talked about weapons. We talked
about peace. We talked about Ireland,
and we talked about the Middle East.
We talked about China. We talked about
hunger. We talked about charity. We
talked about abortion. We talked about
families. We talked about communism.
We talked about freedom. We talked
about the role of the church in this hemi-
sphere and the spread of the gospel in
countries where missionaries are now ex-
cluded. We talked about the relationship
between the church and the state and
how the efforts of public and private lives
might be harnessed in common causes.
Pope John Paul's visit merits our con-
tinuing thoughts and reflections. His
message to America was first and fore-
most a spiritual message. In his address
to Catholic University, he said, "Ma-
terialistic concerns are never sufficient to
fill the heart and mind of a human per-
son. A life reduced to the sole dimension
of possession of consumer goods, of
consumer goods, of
temporal concerns will never let you dis-
cover and enjoy the full richness of your
humanity."
The Pope's message and his visit stirred
our Nation's Capital and, indeed, the en-
tire world, and it stirred particularly the
lives of our countrymen whenever he vis-
ited a streetcorner or a community or a
small or a large church.
Looking for truth in a time of doubt,
people have found in this good man a re-
affirmation of those values that hold our
society together-the fundamental values
of love, unity, charity, family. In normal
circumstances, we Americans have a very
difficult time expressing our sentiments
about these kinds of things. But they are
as real as any of our more tangible con-
cerns. John Paul's visit showed that these
feelings are always within us.
People were waiting for someone to say,
"God bless America." And it sounded, I
believe, particularly good coming from
the lips of a world leader whose life is de-
voted to the service of God-Pope John
Paul II.
I spoke to the Nation about this great
underlying sense of community and patri-
otic values in my July address on Sunday
evening, following a long period of con-
sultation and meditation at Camp David.
I believe such values are as important now
as they were to our mothers and fathers
and our ancestors when they first arrived
in this country-either 3 years ago, 30
years ago, or perhaps 300 years ago-im-
migrants to a new land, determined to
build a new life in what Pope John Paul
has christened our "continent of hope."
If Pope John Paul left our Nation with
one central message, it was this: We need
to put our deep moral beliefs into action.
And that's what you do, and I'm proud of
you for it. "The poor," he said, "are our
brothers and sisters." Instead of throw-
ing them "crumbs," we should treat them
like "guests at our family table."
Your great organization, the National
Conference of Catholic Charities, personi-
fies this standard of compassion. For 250
years, you've put your faith and your val-
ues into action. You've translated your vi-
sion of mankind and your philosophy into
a working, living reality.
It's hard to imagine how differently our
Nation would have grown had it not been
for your own historic commitment. Gen-
erations ago, when government welfare
programs were scarce or nonexistent, it
was your organization and others like it
that provided welcome and initial nour-
ishment to millions of immigrants who
reached our shores. To the huddled
masses, it was not the government, but the
1926
