Dec. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and other actions made, issued, taken, or
entered into under the provisions of such
Executive orders and not previously re-
voked, superseded, or otherwise made in-
applicable, shall continue in full force and
effect until amended, modified, or ter-
minated by appropriate authority.
1-102. (a) The Secretaries of State,
the Treasury, Commerce, and Transporta-
tion, and the heads of other government
agencies and private persons, as appro-
priate.
The White House,
December 16, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:16 a.m., December 17, 1979]
agencies, shall retain the authority and National Unity Day, 1979
responsibility for the enforcement of Ex-
ecutive Orders 11322, 11419, and 11978
Proclamation 4709. December 16, 1979
with respect to transactions occurring By the President of the United States
prior to the effective date of this order.
(b) The revocation, in Section 1-101
of this order, of such prior Executive
orders shall not affect:
(1) any act done or omitted to be done
or any suit or proceeding finished or
started in civil or criminal cases prior to
the revocation, but all such liabilities,
penalties, and forfeitures under the
Executive orders shall continue and may
be enforced in the same manner as if the
revocation had not been made; or
(2) any violation of any rules, regula-
tions, orders, licenses, or other forms of
administrative action under those revoked
orders during the periods those orders
were in effect.
1-103. (a) The Secretaries of State,
the Treasury, Commerce, and Transporta-
of America
A Proclamation
Fifty American citizens are being held
hostage in Iran by a mob and a govern-
ment that have become one and the same.
The United States has made it clear to the
leaders of Iran that we hold them per-
sonally and fully responsible for the well-
being and safe return of every American
in their hands.
The people of the United States are
unanimous in their concern for their fel-
low citizens held in Iran. Americans have
shown this concern in numerous ways that
are consistent with our country's respect
for law-the ringing of church bells, let-
ters to the Iranian Mission at the United
themselves.
tion, and the heads of other government Nations, and messages to the hostages
agencies, shall take the appropriate meas-
ures to implement this order.
(b) In carrying out their respective
functions and responsibilities under this
order, the Secretaries of the Treasury,
Commerce, and Transportation, and the
heads of other government agencies, shall,
as appropriate, consult with the Secre-
tary of State. Each such Secretary and
agency head and the Secretary of State
shall also consult with other government
A most fitting symbol of this concern is
the American flag itself. We respect our
flag because we know that it stands for
freedom. It stands for justice. It stands for
human dignity. It stands too for our
united determination to uphold these
great ideals.
To demonstrate support for the hos-
tages in Iran, the Congress has, by joint
resolution, designated December 18, 1979.
2252
