Oct. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Many families have already been strained
to the breaking point by social and eco-
nomic forces beyond their own control.
Some families indeed have broken. The
tragic results are all around us, in alco-
holism, drug addiction, social alienation,
and crime.
Three years ago in Denver, I told you
there was a gap in the way our country
makes public policy-the lack of an ex-
plicit, conscious concern for how govern-
ment policies and activities affect families.
I said at the time that a nonpolicy toward
families by government has the same ad-
verse consequences as an antifamily policy
would have.
I promised that my administration
would make a conscious commitment to
strengthen the American family, and I
promised to consult with you and your
own officials so that I might have the
proper guidance. We set to work on that
commitment, and in every policy area,
economic and otherwise, we have sought
to assist and to support families. We rec-
ognize that spiritual uplift for a person
can only follow if the bare necessities of
life are provided.
I'm proud of my administration's rec-
ord in pursuing this approach. We've add-
ed, for instance, more than 8 million new
jobs to combat perhaps the greatest twin
threats to the family-unemployment and
poverty.
We've undertaken to reform our
Nation's ineffective, inefficient welfare
programs, programs that for too long have
been antiwork and antifamily. We've
finally gotten this legislation out of the
Ways and Means Committee in the
House, and I need for you to help me get
it the rest of the way through the Con-
gress. Only by building up public aware-
ness and public support for a proposal like
this can it overcome the inertia of the
Congress and arouse the support that will
encourage the Members of Congress to
give it their support.
We've greatly increased funding for so-
cial services, for health, for housing, and
for education, and we are today working
to pass comprehensive health insurance,
another long overdue aid to families. I also
hope to implement major improvements
in our policies and programs concerning
foster care and adoption. Such programs,
if poorly administered, have often hurt
rather than helped children and families.
In dozens of other ways, we've sought to
build a strong commitment to preserve
and protect American families in all their
diversity.
We've worked for the passage of im-
portant new legislation to combat child
abuse, sexual exploitation of children, and
discrimination in employment because of
pregnancy. We've extended Head Start,
we've begun new programs to deal with
adolescent pregnancies, and we've ex-
panded the Foster Grandparents program.
With your help, we've reformed the
food stamp program to eliminate fraud
and to make it more available to poor
families by eliminating the requirement to
pay cash for food stamps.
We've strengthened the social security
system and put it on a sound basis, and
we've removed some of its antimarriage
features.
We've enacted new laws and regula-
tions to promote part-time employment
and flexible time schedules, both of which
will permit employees to adjust their
workday to fit today's family responsibili-
ties.
I've also asked Congress to appropriate
$1.6 billion this year to ease the burden of
rising energy costs on poor people, who
most need this assistance, and then I've
also asked the Congress to provide $2.4
billion annually for the next years for this
purpose. With your help, we can win
1928
