Aug. 8
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
his wife and several ministers of his
Government.
Attending the meeting on the U.S. side
were the President, Secretary of State
Vance, National Security Adviser Zbig-
niew Brzezinski; Acting Assistant Secre-
tary of State for African Affairs William
Harrop, Ambassador to Guinea Oliver S.
Crosby, and Jerry Funk of the National
Security Council staff.
Attending on the Guinean side were
President Sékou Touré; Madame Andree
Touré, wife of the President; Ismael
Touré, member of the National Political
Bureau and Minister of Mines and Geol-
ogy; Moussa Diakité, member of the Na-
tional Political Bureau and Minister of
Housing, State Lands and Urban Affairs;
President of the National Legislative As-
sembly Damantang Camara; and Guin-
ean Ambassador to the United States
Mamady Lamine Conde.
Office of the Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations
Nomination of Reubin O'D. Askew To Be
Special Representative for Trade Negotiations
and Designation of Alonzo L. McDonald, Jr.,
as Acting Special Representative.
August 8, 1979
The President will nominate Reubin
Askew to be the Special Representative
for Trade Negotiations with the rank of
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipo-
tentiary. This position will continue to be
considered a Cabinet-level post. Governor
Askew will succeed Robert Strauss, who
is resigning the post effective today. The
President earlier this year named Mr.
Strauss as Ambassador at Large for the
Middle East negotiations. Mr. Strauss
will now be able to turn his full attention
to that area.
Following confirmation, Governor As-
kew is expected to assume his duties as
Special Trade Representative on or about
October 1. In the interim, Alonzo L. Mc-
Donald, Jr., who is now the Deputy Trade
Representative, will be the Acting Spe-
cial Representative for Trade Negotia-
tions.
Ambassador Strauss has been anxious
to leave these responsibilities for quite
some time, and we wanted to make this
transition as soon as possible.
Both Ambassador Strauss and Ambas-
sador McDonald have pledged to work
closely with Governor Askew to ensure a
smooth transition. The President is, of
course, pleased that Governor Askew has
agreed to join the administration in a
position of this importance. The President
served as Governor of Georgia at the
same time that Governor Askew was in
office in Florida. The men came to know
each other well during that time. The
President has long admired Governor
Askew's abilities as a leader and as an
administrator.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
announcement at 2:43 p.m. at the regular news
briefing for reporters, held in the Briefing Room
at the White House.
Federal Farm Credit Board
Nomination of Two Members.
August 8, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate two persons to be members
of the Federal Farm Credit Board for
terms expiring March 31, 1985. They are:
JEWELL HAALAND, of Clarkfield, Minn., a
retired farmer who served on the Grain
Terminal Association for 21 years and is
active in National Farmers Union activities;
and
DWIGHT L. TRIPP, JR., of Auburn, Maine, a
dairy farmer who raises registered holsteins
(reappointment).
1418
