Sept. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
missiles or ICBM's located in silos, such as
our Minuteman, are becoming vulnerable
to attack. A mobile ICBM system will
greatly reduce this vulnerability.
Therefore, I decided earlier this year to
proceed with full-scale development and
deployment of a new, large, mobile ICBM
known as the MX. I made this decision to
assure our country a secure strategic de-
terrent now and in the future. The MX
will enable us to continue with a modern-
ized, unsurpassed, survivable strategic de-
terrent ICBM, submarine-launched, and
heavy bomber triad—ICBM's, submarine-
launched ballistic missiles, and the heavy
bomber triad, armed with cruise missiles.
Clearly, the way we base the MX to en-
hance its own security from attack is vital
to the ability it has to defend our country.
At the time that I made the decision to
build the MX, I established five essential
criteria which the basing system would
have to meet. First, it must contribute to
the ability of the strategic forces to survive
an attack. Second, it must be verifiable so
as to set a standard which can serve as a
precedent for the verifiability of mobile
ICBM systems on both sides. Third, it
must minimize the adverse impact on our
own environment. Fourth, its deployment
must be at a reasonable cost to the Amer-
ican taxpayer. And fifth, it must be con-
sistent with existing SALT agreements
and with our SALT III goal of negotiat-
ing for significant mutual reductions in
strategic forces.
In light of these criteria and after full
consultation with Secretary of Defense
Harold Brown and my other principal
advisers, I've decided upon the following
configuration for basing the MX missile
system. The MX will be based in a shel-
tered, road-mobile system to be con-
structed in our western deserts, the total
exclusive area of which will not exceed
25 square miles. This system will consist
of 200 missile transporters or launchers,
each capable of rapid movement on a spe-
cial roadway connecting approximately
23 horizontal shelters.
Let me point out how this meets the
criteria that I've established. First, it in-
creases the survivability of our missiles by
multiplying the number of targets which
would have to be attacked, because not
knowing in which of the 23 shelters the
missile was located, all 23 shelters would
have to be targeted in order to be sure to
attack the missile.
The capacity of the missiles to move
rapidly ensures that no attacker will be
able to find out ahead of time where the
missiles might be located and attack just
those locations only. In fact, the missiles
would be able to change shelters during
the flight time of an enemy ICBM. More-
over, the system is flexible enough so that
we can adjust the scale of deployment
either up or down in response to a future
enemy threat, or to progress on future
SALT negotiations.
Secondly, the system is adequately veri-
fiable. The special roadways will be con-
fined to designated areas, and the asso-
ciated missile transporters will be inca-
pable of moving other than on those des-
ignated roadways.
The shelters will be designed so they
may be opened in order to demonstrate
that no extra missiles are hidden within
them. These and other features will make
this system adequately verifiable.
Third, the system minimizes the impact
on the environment. The shelters are flush
with the ground. The public will retain
access to the area. Only the shelters them-
selves will be fenced off. The entire sys-
tem, as I said earlier, will take only about
25
square miles of land out of public use.
1600
