Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 31
the public that we do have a problem in
energy is welcomed and also a recent de-
velopment. For a year and a half, in spite
of numerous TV appearances and ad-
dresses to the Joint Session of Congress
and all the publicity that I could arouse
about legislative proposals, the public still
didn't show, in public opinion polling,
that they believed there was a problem
and didn't accept the fact that we im-
ported any oil, a majority of them. So, I
think it has been productive.
I thought the session today was perhaps
the most enthusiastic, most exciting that
I have had. There was a lot of spirit there.
I don't know if you all had a chance to
watch it on television.
But I will be glad to answer any ques-
tions you might have on any subject that
you choose.
ENCOUNTER WITH RABBIT
Q. Mr. President, I am fascinated by
the amphibious attack by the rabbit.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Are you? Okay.
Q. I wish you would tell us about what
happened, if you would. I would appre-
ciate it.
THE PRESIDENT. I will try to say this
without castigating the press. [Laughter]
I have lived all my life on the farm, ex-
cept when I was in public office recently
or in the Navy, and I have grown up
with wild animals, including rabbits. I
was out fishing on a small pond in Web-
ster County, I think in April. I am not
sure about the month. I was by myself
in the boat, and I saw this animal swim-
ming across the pond toward me. I
thought it was a beaver at first, since
there are beaver and otter in that par-
ticular pond. And when it got closer, I
saw that it was not either one of the two
animals, but it was what appeared to be
a rabbit.
When it got close enough that I could
see that the rabbit was going to come in
the boat with me, I took the boat paddle
and hit water at the rabbit, and he even-
tually and reluctantly turned away and
went to the shore.
And to be frank about it, I didn't think
about it anymore until the Secret Service
said, "What was that animal that was
trying to get in the boat with you?" I
said, "It was a rabbit." Immediately all
my Georgia friends said rabbits don't
swim, it is impossible for it to be a rabbit.
About a week or two later, it appeared
that a White House photographer who
was on the bluff overlooking the pond
had taken a photograph. When we looked
at the photograph, I knew it was a rabbit,
but it was hard to tell in the photograph.
So, I had him blow the photograph up.
It was plainly a rabbit.
The rabbit, I don't think, was trying
to attack me. My guess is that the rabbit
had been startled by some dogs or some-
thing and had jumped in the pond and
was just looking for a dry place to crawl.
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
Q. Mr. President, if we can turn the
conversation to a lighter topic. [Laughter]
This business of not talking to the PLO is
not your policy, and yet you are following
it. We have seen that that policy has
caused the departure of one of your most
devoted and apparently an official to
whom
you are most devoted.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. How long are you going to continue
observing this policy, and does it make
any sense in a country which prides itself
on open discussion of all issues with all
parties that you are continuing to ban
from negotiation with the PLO?
THE PRESIDENT. Our commitment,
made by Secretary Kissinger, as you know,
to the Israelis at the time they were nego-
tiating Israeli withdrawal from Egypt, was
that we would not recognize nor negotiate
1579
