Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 26
a much greater contribution to our Na-
tion's security, because we won't be de-
pendent on uncertain foreign sources of
oil.
WINDFALL PROFITS TAX
MR. LEONE. In this part of the country,
in the New Jersey, New York area, about
78 percent of all the energy is oil, and it's
nearly all imported. So, I think people are
aware of the pressures. On the other hand,
while they recognize that OPEC is no
friend of ours, they're more incensed than
anything, I think, over the oil company
profits which have, in the last week, been
announced at over 100-percent increases
for many of the largest companies. And I
think they tend to say, "Why isn't the
President doing something about those
profits?"
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've had a pro-
posal to the Congress for more than 2½
years, up in April of 1977, to put a tax
on the oil companies, to take back part of
the unearned profits that they've received,
and turn that money over to the general
public. We call it the windfall profits tax.
And I believe that this year you'll see the
Congress pass a windfall profits tax, if
the people's voice can remain strong.
The House has already passed the wind-
fall profits tax basically as we proposed it.
The Senate Finance Committee has not
passed an adequate windfall profits tax. It
will now go to the Senate floor. I think it's
accurate to say that Senator Pete Williams
and Senator Bill Bradley from New Jer-
sey are strongly in support of a good
energy package, including the windfall
profits tax.
When that is done, we'll cut down tre-
mendously on the amount of profits that
the oil companies will keep―roughly $270
billion over the next 10 years-and that
money can be used to help poor people pay
the increasing cost of energy in their own
homes, to develop better forms of trans-
portation, including public transportation,
and develop synthetic fuels and other
energy supplies in our own country. If
that profits tax does not pass, then the oil
companies would keep those profits.
I might point out that a lot of the profits
that are shown by the oil companies is
earned overseas. And if the Congress
doesn't pass an adequate windfall profits
tax, then we would have to take other
steps to make sure that the oil companies
don't profit off of the increased prices of
energy.
But I think if we can get the windfall
profits tax, we'll have a good, sound energy
program. We'll leave the oil companies
with enough money to explore for new
supplies of oil and natural gas in our own
Nation. And we'll have great benefits to
the poor people, to those who want better
transportation, and those who want to see
our country using energy derived from the
United States.
But the windfall profits tax is the key
to it. And I can predict to you, I believe,
on this program, that it will pass the Con-
gress in a satisfactory fashion this year, be-
cause the American people have finally
become aroused about it.
HOME HEATING OIL
MR. LEONE. Let me ask you about a
related prediction. The price of home
heating oil is almost a dollar a gallon now
in this area. There's a lot of concern about
whether it'll be available. New York and
Connecticut have passed laws already to
help the poor pay for it; it's under discus-
sion in New Jersey. I know that when you
were in New Hampshire recently, you
made a pledge that there would be
enough heating oil to get them through.
Can we get a similar kind of commitment
here in this part of the country?
2029
