Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 26
that acceptable to you, or if that survives
in both Houses, would you veto the
legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. This action today by
the House illustrates once again the
timidity of the Congress in dealing with
a sensitive political issue. I criticized the
House when they failed to pass the ra-
tioning plan a few months ago. The
House leadership has now promised me
that an adequate rationing standby plan
would be passed.
I don't object to the one-House veto
if it's done expeditiously. I think only 15
days would elapse. What I do object to are
the other restraints that have been placed
on the evolution of a standby gasoline
rationing plan. Under the proposed plan,
even before it got to the floor of the
House today, for instance, we could have
a 50-percent shortage of gasoline, which
would almost devastate our Nation's
economy, and unless that shortage lasted
for 20 days, I could not implement a
rationing plan.
So, I hope that the House and the Sen-
ate will rapidly pass an adequate standby
rationing plan so that I can develop one,
have it on the shelf, if we have a severe
and sustained shortage of gasoline, assure
that we have equitable distribution. And
I have no objection to the House, within
2 weeks, either approving the plan that I
have tried to put into being, or if either
House wants to veto it, they can do that.
But I need the authority to go ahead
with a good plan and make sure that it
can be implemented rapidly when and if
it's needed.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
NOTE: President Carter's fifty-first news con-
ference began at 9 p.m. in the East Room at
the White House. It was broadcast live on
radio and television.
Trade Agreements Act of 1979
Remarks on Signing H.R. 4537 Into Law.
July 26, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I think the number of
people who are assembled here and the
kind of people who are assembled here in
the Rose Garden is indicative of the im-
portance of the legislation that I am
about to sign.
I will sign into law in a few minutes
perhaps the most important and far-
reaching piece of trade legislation in the
history of the United States.
The Trade Agreements Act of 1979
received an overwhelming, bipartisan
mandate from both Houses of the United
States Congress. And this is an achieve-
ment of cooperation that's almost un-
precedented between the executive branch
of Government, the Congress, business,
labor, farmers, consumers, others inter-
ested in the economic strength of our
country. This degree of unity and coop-
eration sets a prime example, a demon-
stration of what we can do during these
troubled times when divisiveness is so
often a part of the American scene.
I'd like to pause here and make a very
important observation. I know that every-
one will agree with what I am about to
say. Special Trade Ambassador Robert
Strauss did a masterful job throughout
the Tokyo negotiations and throughout
the equally important negotiations with
the United States Congress, and I want
to congratulate him. As modest as he is-
[laughter]-I knew that if I didn't make
that comment, it might go unmade.
[Laughter]
I would like to say as President,
though, that the first time I went to an
economic summit meeting in London,
there was a general knowledge-not be-
lief that the Tokyo Round that might
1311
