Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, November 16, 1979
Iranian Students in the
United States
Announcement on Actions To Be Taken by the
Department of Justice. November 10, 1979
The President has directed the Attor-
ney General to identify any Iranian stu-
dents in the United States who are not in
compliance with the terms of their entry
visas, and to take the necessary steps
to commence deportation proceedings
against those who have violated appli-
cable immigration laws and regulations.
As an initial measure, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service of the Depart-
ment of Justice will issue a notice requir-
ing all Iranian students to report their
present location and status immediately to
the nearest INS office, and will take addi-
tional steps to locate and identify such
students to determine legal status. For
students found to be in illegal status, de-
portation proceedings will be conducted
in accordance with constitutional due
process requirements.
Oil Imports From Iran
Remarks Announcing Discontinuance of
United States Imports. November 12, 1979
We continue to face a grave situation in
Iran, where our Embassy has been seized
and more than 60 American citizens con-
tinue to be held as hostages in an attempt
to force unacceptable demands on our
country. We're using every available
channel to protect the safety of the host-
ages and to secure their release.
Along with the families of the hostages,
I have welcomed and I appreciate the
restraint that has been shown by Ameri-
cans during this crisis. We must continue
to exhibit such constraint, despite the in-
tensity of our emotions. The lives of our
people in Iran are at stake.
I must emphasize the gravity of the
situation. It's vital to the United States
and to every other nation that the lives of
diplomatic personnel and other citizens
abroad be protected and that we refuse
to permit the use of terrorism and the seiz-
ure and the holding of hostages to impose
political demands.
No one should underestimate the re-
solve of the American Government and
the American people in this matter. It is
necessary to eliminate any suggestion
that economic pressures can weaken our
stand on basic issues of principle. Our
position must be clear. I am ordering that
we discontinue purchasing of any oil from
Iran for delivery to this country.
These events obviously demonstrate the
extreme importance of reducing oil con-
sumption here in the United States. I
urge every American citizen and every
American business to redouble efforts to
curtail the use of petroleum products. This
action will pose a real challenge to our
2109
