Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 7
understand one another. Terrorism is the
professed motivation for many with deep
religious beliefs. Our country now sees
throughout the world large numbers of
refugees as a result of religious wars.
It's encouraging indeed to have people
assembled here from 45 or so nations, wor-
shiping God in many different ways,
working together for peace, for the sur-
vival of human beings with noble pur-
poses, one of which is to educate leaders-
religious leaders, also government leaders.
And I am grateful for it.
The control of nuclear weapons, the
control of conventional weapons, the
opening up of avenues of communication
and understanding, the alleviation of
hunger, suffering, poverty, disease, are all
common purposes regardless of our par-
ticular religious commitment. And I be-
lieve that this conference I believe
your third; the first in Japan, the second
in Belgium, you've honored us with your
third-can have increasingly far-reaching
beneficial effect throughout the world.
I know that in your own deliberations
at Princeton you've reached a new level of
humility, a realization that none of us
knows all the answers, that we benefit
from listening to one another, and that
there is a place for us to become brothers
and sisters without regard to national
God bless you. I hope that in your own
way that you will remember me and other
world leaders, who are responsible for
many of the world's ills and perhaps the
future alleviation of those ills, that you
will remember us in your prayers.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:06 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
MX Missile System
Remarks Announcing the Configuration for
Basing the Missile System. September 7, 1979
Good morning, everybody. I have a
statement to make about the new strate-
gic deterrence system which I consider to
be quite significant. Some analysts would
equate it with two other major decisions
made by Presidents in this century: The
first, to establish the Strategic Air Com-
mand itself under President Truman, and
the subsequent decision by President Ken-
nedy to establish the silo-based Minute-
man missile system.
For nearly 30 years now our Nation has
deterred attack and has kept the peace
through a complementary system of land,
sea, and airborne nuclear forces, com-
boundaries and without regard to religious monly known as the strategic triad. By
differences. And this doesn't mean that we
have to abandon or weaken our own deep
faith or our own patriotism or our own
love and affection for our own kind. We
can be individuals, we can be proud of
our country, we can be fervent believers
in our own religion and still work for
peace and harmony, good will, love, a
sense of brotherhood throughout the
world. And because of these noble aspira-
tions that you have, I am very proud as
the President of a great country, a coun-
try where many different faiths are repre-
sented all of your faiths are represented
among Americans—to welcome you here.
maintaining the special strengths and the
advantages offered by each of the three
separate forces, we make it impossible for
any enemy to counter all of them.
My administration is now embarked on
a program to modernize and to improve
the ability of our entire strategic triad,
all three systems, to survive any attack.
Our bomber force is being strengthened
with nuclear-tipped cruise missiles. Our
strategic submarine force is being up-
graded by Trident submarines and Tri-
dent missiles. However, as a result of in-
creasing accuracy of strategic systems,
fixed land-based intercontinental ballistic
1599
