Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The basic thrust of what we're trying
to do depends primarily upon conserva-
tion-the saving of energy, the elimina-
tion of waste. That's it, as far as the num-
ber one priority is concerned. It's
something that every single American can
do, every single American has to do. It's
something that can bring our people to-
gether. It is not an onerous task. It need
not cause us concern about the future.
It's a challenge that can be met effectively
and pleasantly. And the benefits accrue to
each American who acts to save energy,
and it's a patriotic gesture at the same
time.
So, conservation is first. We've made
some progress already; we've got a long
way to go. We also need to turn toward
replenishable supplies of energy, energy
that can be restored every year or every
minute. Solar energy, energy derived from
growing plants-these kinds of things can
become a major element in our life in the
future. And we predict, if our programs
are put into effect, that by the year 2000,
20 percent of all our energy will be de-
rived directly from solar sources.
Georgia produces enough biomass,
enough biomass,
growing crops, growing trees, to produce
three times as much energy as the total
that we consume in our State. And we
now waste about one-third or sometimes
one-half of our total timber products,
because of ill-advised harvesting tech-
niques. We're trying to move on those
areas.
We need to increase the amount of oil
and gas produced in our country from
conventional sources. And we are giving
to the oil companies tremendous in-
creased income under my own proposals
that will let them have that amount of
revenue which they require.
But the other sources that we need to
tap-synthetic fuels, the increased use
of coal, geothermal supplies, unconven-
tional gas, unconventional oil—not yet
have we made adequate progress in these
areas. But we've got now in the Con-
gress-recently making very good prog-
ress because the people are finally
aroused—an energy policy proposal that
is adequate and which will restore to our
country energy security.
Recently we had a vote in the Senate
Energy Committee, 15 to 3, to set up an
energy mobilization board, a board de-
signed to cut through redtape and to
expedite a decision on whether or not
a particular energy-producing project
would be built or would not be built. It's
not designed to cut through State law or
Federal law or to change Western water
law. It's designed to cut through govern-
ment redtape and delay and obfuscation
and unnecessary regulations.
If a plant is well advised, if it's got a
good site, and if it doesn't violate laws,
it's acceptable on the basis of assessing its
merits, it ought to be built. And if it's got
a defect in it-the wrong place at the
wrong time or the wrong concept-it
ought not to be built. But the thing is, a
decision ought to be made, yes or no.
Now sometimes it takes 7 or 8 years just
to get that exact same answer, either yes
or no. But by the time the decision is
made, the cost of the plant is tripled or
quadrupled, the factors involved in fi-
nancing the plant have changed, the peo-
ple have been discouraged, and we've
been deprived of a necessary element in
our energy society.
security corporation, not a Government
We also are trying to set up an energy
agency, an extra-Government agency like
the one designed to produce synthetic
rubber during the Second World War or
to put the communications satellite in
orbit. This would be authorized to have
80 ongoing projects, at any one time, to
1724
