June 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
last point is we will try to provide a com-
mon approach to the OPEC nations and
others who export energy, oil, so that
there will be an assured, stable supply of
oil and natural gas on the international
market, and so that there will be a stable
and predictable price for energy.
These are some of the considerations
we will explore, both bilaterally and
among the entire group at the summit.
MEETINGS WITH PRIME MINISTER OHIRA
Q. Mr. President, you are going to
meet Mr. Ohira twice within a month or
so. What do you expect to accomplish
by this meeting vis-a-vis your Japanese
relationship?
THE PRESIDENT. The most important
thought in my mind is a tremendous
amount of commonality between Japan
and the United States. We have the same
basic goals: to preserve peace in the Asian
region, to enhance exchange of goods and
people and ideas, to provide a greater se-
curity for the people in our country, Ja-
pan, and in other Asian nations.
We share a common interest in com-
merce, scientific development, technologi-
cal advances, international trade, the re-
duction of protections-barriers to trade,
stable and a sound international monetary
system, tourism. We explore common
ideas of education and culture. So, the
overriding consideration is how much we
share, both now and in the future.
The second point is that we have a few
problems between us, because we are high-
ly developed, technological nations. We
have very aggressive outlooks on life,
great confidence about the future, hard-
working people, innovative. We, therefore,
on occasion, compete with one another.
We have developed a very beneficial habit
of discussing our problems quickly-with-
out timidity or restraint and openly, so
that the people of both countries can
know what the difficulties are and what
progress is being made.
Quite often, the focus of publicity is on
these few differences and how we struggle
to resolve them without delay and with-
out embarrassment. What we forget is
how relatively insignificant these differ-
ences are, compared to the great area of
cooperation and mutual advantage.
I was pleased at the result of my dis-
cussions in this room with Prime Minister
Ohira in May. I found him to be a sound
and experienced and enlightened leader,
and a warm and forthcoming, friendly
leader. And I felt the progress that we
made to alleviate some of our trade differ-
ences was very beneficial and encourag-
ing. We will continue with that progress.
I have no doubt that we will both have
a more fruitful experience with the eco-
nomic summit because of our meetings on
a bilateral basis before the economic
summit begins.
U.S.-JAPANESE TRADE
Q. In his recent speech in Washington,
former Governor John Connally accused
Japan of still closing its market to certain
American products, particularly citrus,
beef, and grain. Specifically, he stated,
and I quote, "If I were President of the
United States, I would say to the Prime
Minister, 'Unless you are prepared to take
American goods and services, you better
tell your people they better be ready to
sit on the docks of Yokohama in their
own Toyotas watching their own televi-
sions.'" My question, first, is how do you
respond to Mr. Connally's statement, and
also, thus far, to what extent do you feel
the issue of trade imbalance between the
U.S. and Japan have been alleviated or
resolved?
1146
