Dec. 4
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
MASON H. ROSE V, a city councilman and
attorney in Rolling Hills, Calif., Chairman of
the National Advisory Committee of the
Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Board;
ROBERT G. SAMPSON, of Arlington Heights,
Ill., vice president and special assistant to
the president of United Airlines, Inc., a
member of People to People International
Committee for the Handicapped and its
affiliate, Disabled Professionals;
HALE J. ZUKAS, coordinator for community
affairs and cofounder of the Center for
Independent Living in Berkeley, Calif., an
organization working with the disabled com-
munity there.
The President also announced the
designation of Veterans Affairs Admin-
istrator Max Cleland as Chairman of this
Board.
1980 Democratic Presidential
Nomination
Remarks Announcing Candidacy.
December 4, 1979
I speak to you this afternoon at a som-
ber time. Fifty Americans continue to be
held captive in Iran, hostages of a mob
and a government that have become one
and the same. This crisis, precipitated by
this unlawful and unprecedented act, has
demanded my closest attention since the
first moment that it began.
But the process of democratic self-
government is the heart of our liberties
and our strength, and it must go forward.
Every 4 years, in good times and in bad,
in times of peace and in times of war, in
times of crisis and in times of calm, the
American people elect a President. So it
has been since 1789, and so it will be in
1980.
For the last month, I have curtailed my
political activities, and I would have pre-
ferred to postpone this announcement
until a later time. However, election laws
in certain States require formal declara-
tions of candidacy within the next few
days.
Therefore, I formally declare that I
am a candidate for reelection as Presi-
dent of the United States of America.
I intend to be renominated by the
Democratic Party, and I intend to ask the
Democratic Convention to renominate the
most effective Vice President in the his-
tory of the United States-Walter Mon-
dale. We intend to lead the Democratic
Party to victory next year, and we also
intend to lead the Nation in continuing
the good work which all of us have begun
together.
As President, I have had to make some
very difficult decisions, and I expect to
make some more. I've made some mis-
takes, and I have learned from them. I've
fought some bitter fights against selfish
special interests, and I expect to go on
leading the fight for the common good of
the American people. I carry some scars,
and I carry them with pride.
I also carry the knowledge, strength-
ened by my own experience in this office,
that the greatness of our Nation and the
goodness of the American people will pre-
vail. We've set a firm and constructive
course for the history of our people. It is
a difficult course, but it's a right one and
we must not turn aside.
The course of a great nation is not
changed overnight. The problems we face
are very difficult. There are no easy solu-
tions, and I promise none. But there are
solutions.
In the past 3 years, the United States
has begun to move in a new and better
direction. We are a strong nation. We are
a nation at peace. We are enhancing our
nation's security. We are improving social
and economic justice, and we are leading
2192
