Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
General's continuing efforts to find a solu-
tion to the Namibian situation.
Those attending, along with the Presi-
dent, were the Vice President, Deputy
Secretary of State Warren Christopher,
Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs Zbigniew Brzezinski,
Ambassador to the United Nations An-
drew Young, Assistant Secretary of State
for International Organization Affairs
Charles William Maynes, and NSC staff
member Lincoln P. Bloomfield.
Accompanying the Secretary-General
were Under Secretary-General for Politi-
cal and General Assembly Affairs William
Buffum and Director, Executive Office of
the Secretary-General, Albert Rohan.
Council on Wage and
Price Stability
Nomination of R. Robert Russell To Be
Director. July 31, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate R. Robert Russell
to be Director of the Council on Wage
and Price Stability (COWPS). He would
replace Barry Bosworth, who has resigned
as Director effective August 3. The Presi-
dent said he will designate Russell as Act-
ing Director effective August 4.
Russell, of Escondido, Calif., has been
Deputy Director of COWPS since 1978.
He was born February 17, 1938, in Rock
Springs, Wyo. He received a B.A. from the
University of California at Santa Barbara
in 1961 and a Ph. D. from Harvard Uni-
versity in 1965.
From 1965 to 1966, he was on the pro-
fessional staff of the Council of Economic
Advisers. He was associate professor of
economics at the University of California
at Santa Barbara from 1966 to 1973. He
was on the faculty of the University of
California at San Diego from 1973 to
1978, as associate professor, then professor.
Russell was a Woodrow Wilson gradu-
ate fellow and a Harvard graduate fellow
and received a National Science Founda-
tion Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship. He
is the author of a book and numerous arti-
cles and papers on economic matters.
Panama Canal Commission
Nomination of Lt. Gen. Dennis P. McAuliffe,
USA, To Be Administrator. July 31, 1979
The President today announced his in-
tention to nominate Lt. Gen. Dennis P.
McAuliffe to be the Administrator of the
Panama Canal Commission. This position
was created by the Panama Canal treaties
and would be established by the legisla-
tion now pending in Congress to imple-
ment the treaties.
McAuliffe has been Commander in
Chief of the United States Southern Com-
mand in Quarry Heights, Canal Zone,
since 1975 and has over 35 years of active
service in the Army.
He was born April 8, 1922, in New
York City and holds a B.S. in military
science from the U.S. Military Academy
and an M.S. in electrical engineering from
the University of Pennsylvania.
McAuliffe was the Army member of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman's Staff
Group from 1966 to 1967, and served as
Executive Officer to the Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1967 to 1969.
He served in Vietnam from 1969 to 1970,
as Assistant Division Commander of the
1st Infantry Division, then Deputy Senior
Adviser to III Corps and Military Region
3 (concurrently Commanding General of
1333
