Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 11
we take steps to even increase the safety
that presently exists.
As far as the waste disposal is con-
cerned, we have been working since I've
been in office on this very complicated
subject with the Congress and with
others. We don't have a final solution yet.
Things that had been considered in the
past as the best disposal possibilities have
not proven to be well-advised. One of the
earliest ones was dumping in the oceans.
That was stopped years ago. Another one
is the burying in the ground, like at Han-
ford Works in Washington. Some of the
containers have ruptured, and some of
the nuclear materials have gotten into the
underground water supply. But I think
that this can be a question that's resolved.
You happen to come from the State
that's been in the forefront of production
of nuclear materials, with the Savannah
River plant and with the Barnwell site
that was designed for the disposal of
wastes and for reprocessing originally. I
don't know the final answer on that yet.
The other thing I'd like to say is that
we have an international nuclear fuel
cycle evaluation study that we initiated in
the economic summit conference in Lon-
don in 1977. Its report will be completed
this year. It's been a report evolved by
the representatives of more than 50 na-
tions, including the Soviet Union, South
Africa, all of the Western allies and so
forth. And I would guess that when this
report is completed that it would be at the
forefront of our agenda when we have
our economic summit conference next
year in Venice.
Conventional energy was in the fore-
front of the summit conference in Tokyo.
My guess is that nuclear power in all its
aspects would be in the forefront next
year. So, there's an international move
toward the resolution of this question.
And I think I've given you too long an
answer. But it's a complicated subject,
and I'll try to
STEEL IMPORTS
Q. Mr. President, while imported fuel,
imported oil is a big problem, imported
steel in Pittsburgh is a big problem.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q. We have the trigger-pricing mecha-
nism. But if we do get into a recession,
capital orders will fall, and that could be
a continuing, worsening problem. Has the
administration planned anything to deal
with imported steel and how it would
impact a very basic industry?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say at this
point that we have a plan evolved that
could be put into effect. We consider the
trigger-mechanism process to be working
very well. It has enough flexibility in
it to accommodate anticipated changes
brought about by worldwide shifts in pro-
ductivity and economic growth. Bill Miller
is well acquainted with the steel industry.
And I think you know that the results in
American production and in profits for the
steel industry have been well served by the
present trigger mechanism that's been put
into effect. We've done this with a mini-
mum adverse reaction from our trade
allies, including Japan.
So, we'll monitor the situation. If it ap-
pears to be running into a problem, we'll
use the flexibility inherent in this system
and modify it if necessary. But I can't tell
you that that is not needed at this point.
We will be prepared for it if the time
should come.
GRAIN PROCESSING STRIKE IN MINNESOTA
Q. Mr. President, the grain miller
strike in Duluth-Superior has effectively
shut down that port. And it's compounded
the problem that's been caused by the
boxcar shortage. Although the strike itself
1429
