June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We will cooperate to keep the Repub-
lic of Korea safe and secure. There need
be no concern about this. As Korea grows
stronger, the United States will do its
part to preserve the military balance and
to deter aggression.
We must take advantage of changes in
the international environment to lower
tensions between South and North and,
ultimately, to bring permanent peace and
reunification to the Korean peninsula.
We must work together to build a
world in which the rule of law and the
freedom and dignity of the individual
govern all the affairs of mankind.
Finally, Mr. President, you have a say-
ing in Korea, "Even something as light as
a piece of paper can be lifted more easily
together." None of the goals I've men-
tioned are light or easy. But I'm con-
vinced that we can achieve them by work-
ing together in the spirit of cooperation
and friendship that has united us down
through the years.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rise
and join me in a toast to President Park,
to the great people of the Republic of
Korea, and to our common efforts for co-
operation, for friendship, and for peace.
This is an extraordinary occasion, and
I would like to make an extraordinary re-
quest, that we jointly honor a man who
has served both our countries so well.
With your permission, Mr. President, I
would like to ask General Vessey to join
us before this group.
This is a citation to accompany the
award of the Defense Distinguished Serv-
ice Medal to John W. Vessey, Jr.
"General John W. Vessey, Jr., United
States Army, distinguished himself by ex-
ceptionally distinguished service as a
Commander-in-Chief, United Nations
Command, and R.O.K.-U.S. Combined
Forces Command, and as Commander,
United States Forces, Korea, Eighth
United States Army, during the period
November 1976 to June 1979.
"General Vessey's superb performance
has been clearly evidenced by outstand-
ing leadership and managerial skills.
With a keen perception of complex and
sensitive military and political relation-
ships, he solidified elements of the Armed
Forces of the Republic of Korea, United
States, and representative armed forces
of other allied nations into a cohesive and
formidable military force.
"In doing so, he conceived and refined
new objectives and operational concepts
which he persuasively articulated to the
highest government officials of both na-
tions. A significant historical milestone
was reached during his tenure with the
birth of the R.O.K.-U.S. Combined
Forces Command.
"With General Vessey as its first Com-
mander this organization of diverse na-
tional and military backgrounds has
progressed into a most effective com-
mand, which has greatly enhanced par-
ticipation by Republic of Korea armed
forces in directing defense operations.
"General Vessey's professionalism and
concerned leadership have been impor-
tant factors in guiding the development
of the military forces of both nations. His
performance in a position of vital national
interest and sensitivity has been clearly in
keeping with the highest traditions of the
military profession and reflects great
credit upon himself, the United States
Army, and the Department of Defense."
I would like to ask General Vessey to
join us on the platform.
It's with great pleasure and an honor
for my country, General Vessey, that I
pin this medal on your breast as a token
of your superb performance for the
United States of America and for the
Republic of Korea.
GENERAL VESSEY. [In Korean] To-
1206
