Dec. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
paigns of violence and agreed that such
campaigns only delay the day when peace
and reconciliation can come to Northern
Ireland. The President reaffirmed U.S.
policy concerning the tragic problem of
Northern Ireland as set forth in his state-
ment of August 1977.
In security matters directly affecting
their two countries, the President and the
Prime Minister (1) applauded the de-
cision taken last week by NATO govern-
ments to proceed with effective modern-
ization and deployment of theater nuclear
forces and with arms control proposals de-
signed to reduce, on a basis of equality,
nuclear weapons of both NATO and the
Warsaw Pact; (2) agreed that the earli-
est possible ratification of the SALT II
treaty would significantly contribute to a
safer and more stable international secu-
rity environment.
The President and Prime Minister
agreed on the importance of maintaining
United Kingdom conventional forces, in-
cluding provision of modernized equip-
ment and reserves. The Prime Minister
agreed that it was essential for America's
European Allies to share equitably in any
collective defense buildup to meet the
needs of the common defense.
During her visit to the United States,
the Prime Minister is also meeting with
Secretary of Defense Brown, Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Jones,
and other senior defense officials; Mem-
bers of Congress; Chairman Volcker of
the Federal Reserve Board; U.N. Secre-
tary-General Waldheim, and the Presi-
dent of the U.N. General Assembly.
Prime Minister Thatcher invited the
President to visit the United Kingdom at
a mutually agreeable date, and the Presi-
dent accepted the invitation with pleasure.
a credible British strategic deterrent force American Hostages in Iran
and U.S./U.K. strategic cooperation. The
leaders agreed that their governments
should continue their discussions of the
most appropriate means of achieving these
objectives for the future. In this connec-
tion the President and Prime Minister
discussed the importance of increased
efforts to strengthen NATO's defenses,
both nuclear and conventional. The Presi-
dent reviewed the new U.S. Five-Year
Defense Plan, noting that in order to
carry out that plan the United States will
be increasing defense spending, in real
terms, steadily over the next 5 years.
White House Statement. December 18, 1979
The President and Prime Minister re-
affirmed their strong support for the
NATO Long-Term Defense Program and
for the NATO aim of 3-percent real
growth in annual defense spending. The
Prime Minister noted plans for further
significant increases in the U.K. defense
budget to improve the effectiveness of
There continue to be confusing and
sometimes conflicting reports that Ameri-
can citizens being illegally held as hos-
tages might be placed before some type of
public trial or tribunal. As we made clear
on November 20, such an action would be
a further provocation to the United
States and to the world community. The
gravity of the situation created by the
illegal and irresponsible holding of the
hostages would be compounded by any
such public exploitation of American
citizens. The authorities in Iran would
bear full responsibility for any ensuing
consequences.
As also stated on November 20, the
United States is seeking a peaceful solu-
tion through every available channel.
2268
