Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
|
tions, shall also consult with the Congress
and with State and local officials.
1-205. The Commission shall prepare
a final report setting forth its recommen-
dations for addressing its Agenda for the
Eighties and shall present the report to
the President and to the Congress by De-
cember 31, 1980.
nonpartisan forum to recommend a Na-
tional Agenda for the Eighties.
The Presidential Commission is a di-
rect outgrowth of the President's extensive
discussions at Camp David this summer,
when he determined to organize a longer
term review of issues of primary priority
to the country and developments that will
1-206. The Commission shall terminate shape them in the decade ahead.
on February 15, 1981.
1-3. Staff and Support
1-301. The Chairperson of the Com-
mission shall appoint an Executive Direc-
tor of the Commission.
1-302. To the extent permitted by law,
Executive Agencies shall provide funds,
facilities, support, services and assistance
for the Commision and its subgroups,
and such information and advice as the
Commission may request.
1-303. Notwithstanding Executive Or-
der 12024, the functions of the President
under the Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App. I), except that of
reporting annually to Congress, shall be
performed by the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget with regard
to the Commission and its subgroups. The
Director is authorized to further delegate
these responsibilities.
The White House,
JIMMY CARTER
October 24, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:08 p.m., October 24, 1979]
President's Commission for a
National Agenda for the Eighties
Announcement on the Establishment of the
Commission. October 24, 1979
The President signed an Executive or-
der today establishing an independent,
President William McGill of Columbia
University was designated Chairman of
the Commission and announced that the
group would begin immediately its orga-
nization planning to launch its work.
Within the framework of its broad
mandate, the Commission will identify the
specific issues appropriate for examination
and designate panels for indepth review
and discussion of these subjects. Con-
sultative groups from the Congress and
from State and local officials will be
asked to exchange ideas regularly with
the Commission.
Both in the makeup of the Commission
itself and through its inputs from various
organizations, the Commission is expected
to have access to the broadest possible
spectrum of our national views and think-
ing. The Commission will be composed
initially of 50 private citizens appointed
by the President. As the Commission de-
fines and organizes its work, the President
will select, at the request of the Com-
mission, up to an additional 50 members.
A partial initial list of Commission mem-
bers was announced today.
To ensure the nonpartisan nature of
the deliberations, the President has des-
ignated that the Commission present its
report to the President and to the Con-
gress by December 31, 1980.
The President's Executive order
pledged the cooperation of all Federal
agencies in the furthering of the Commis-
sion's work.
2014
