Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
new rivers have been recommended for
study. As part of the Administration's
Alaska proposals, 33 additional rivers
have been proposed for National Wild
and Scenic Rivers designation.
Development along the banks of our
rivers continues to outpace our ability to
protect those rivers that might qualify for
designation. This problem is particularly
acute near urban areas, where there are
greater demands for recreational oppor-
tunities which can partly be met by river
protection.
We need to speed up the process for
studying Wild and Scenic Rivers for
designation and to consider the protec-
tion of rivers or parts of rivers which can
protect important natural ecosystems.
Moreover, the Federal government should
set an example of sound management for
state, local, and private landowners by
taking an aggressive role in protecting
possible Wild and Scenic Rivers which
flow through our public lands. Accord-
ingly, I am directing the following ac-
tions be taken:
• federal land management agencies
shall assess whether rivers located on
their lands and identified in the Na-
tional Inventory prepared by the
Heritage Conservation and Recrea-
tion Service are suitable for inclusion
in the Wild and Scenic Rivers Sys-
tem; if so, these agencies shall take
prompt action to protect the rivers-
either by preparing recommendations
for their designation or by taking im-
mediate action to protect them;
• all federal agencies shall avoid or
mitigate adverse effects on rivers
identified in the National Inventory;
and
⚫ the Secretary of Agriculture and the
Secretary of the Interior shall jointly
revise their Guidelines for evaluat-
ing wild, scenic, and recreational
rivers to ensure consideration of river
ecosystems and to shorten the time
currently used to study rivers for
designation.
In addition to the new policy initiatives,
I am reaffirming my support for four river
segments proposed in my last Environ-
mental Message and recommending four
new river segments which will add a total
of 930 miles to the Wild and Scenic Rivers
System:
• Gunnison River, Colorado (new)
Encampment River, Colorado (new)
• Priest River, Idaho (new)
• Illinois River, Oregon (new)
• Bruneau River, Idaho (1977 Mes-
sage)
• Dolores River, Colorado (1977 Mes-
sage)
Upper Mississippi River, Minnesota
(1977 Message)
• Salmon River, Idaho (1977 Message)
I am also directing the Secretary of the
Interior to develop, through the National
Park Service and with full public partici-
pation, a conceptual master plan for the
Upper Mississippi River in Minnesota. I
expect this planning process to determine
the specific requirements for protecting
the river corridor and providing public
access, campgrounds and other recrea-
tional facilities on the lands now in private
ownership. The conceptual master plan
for this important national resource will be
developed in cooperation with the Min-
nesota Department of Natural Re-
sources, affected Indian tribes, and the
public. It will be completed by April 1980.
In my last Environmental Message, I
proposed 20 river segments for study as
potential additions to the National Wild
and Scenic Rivers System. Several of those
rivers have already been designated. Ex-
cept for rivers where subsequent develop-
ment has affected the river's qualifica-
1365
