June 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the European Community will be respon-
sible for monitoring those goals. The cu-
mulative total will not exceed their 1978
import levels.
We, the Canadians, and the Japanese
also adopted goals. Our 1985 goal for im-
ports will not exceed the lower of either
1977 or 1979, no more than 8.5 million
barrels per day.
The second thing that we did was to
commit ourselves individually and jointly
to pursue, with the full resources of our
nations, the development of alternative
forms of energy.
The third thing we did about energy
was to issue, for the first time, a very sig-
nificant comment about the OPEC na-
tions' recent actions. I won't go into that
now. My guess is that that will be the
most newsworthy item. It's the first time
that the other nations of the world have
expressed ourselves clearly and forcefully
about the unwarranted increases in oil
prices levied against the rest of the world
by the OPEC countries. The fact that
seven industrialized nations have agreed
on the text jointly, I think, is significant.
We also aroused, I think, a great deal
of interest in the refugee question. We
called upon Vietnam to restrain the out-
flow of refugees and to minimize its im-
pact on the people concerned, particularly
the refugees themselves. We have agreed
to double our own monthly quota of ref-
ugees coming from Vietnam. The Japa-
nese have agreed to double the percent-
age of financing for the United Nations
High Commissioner's fund on refugees.
There were other elements in the com-
munique that will be issued when we get
back to the New Otani Hotel, but those
were the most significant items. Perhaps
you would have a followup question.
Q. It sounds like you won your
point-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Q.—in terms of the ceilings and the
freeze, that they took the American plan.
Is that basically it?
THE PRESIDENT. They did, and we
were gratified at this.
Q. Was there a fight about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there was a
constant debate. I think the problem was
that the European Community had de-
cided collectively at Strasbourg not to
deviate from the collective target. This
was a much less restrictive target, because
they could absorb the increased produc-
tion from the North Sea and not be lim-
ited to individual countries' goals. They
had a difficulty in departing from the
Strasbourg agreement.
Q. How did you convince them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we felt very
deeply about it. And I think that the
longer we discussed these issues, the more
they saw that the outcome of the confer-
ence would be disappointing if it was ex-
pressed in generalities and if the particu-
lar nation-by-nation quotas were not very
specific and stringent. There was a gen-
eral feeling, the longer we were here—
I think sharpened by the very high in-
crease in OPEC prices that we have a
serious worldwide problem. And we were
ready for the first time to take action.
that we have never been willing to take
before.
Q. When were you able to turn the
corner on that, Mr. President, in terms
of getting the agreement and clearing
that item?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there was an
amendment offered a half an hour be-
fore we left to go back to a collective
European quota-[laughter]-between
1980 and 1985. But this amendment, sup-
ported by three other people there, was
finally-
Q. So it went down to the last half
hour.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, to the last half
hour.
1184
