Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 26
that means to the American people. This
reorganization plan, so far as I know,
never got any media attention. But earlier
this month, three Governors in the gulf
coast region called me about the damage
being done by Hurricane Frederic. Be-
cause we had reorganized our emergency
services-eight different programs now
into one; five agencies now into one,
under one solid and competent adminis-
trator-we were able to guarantee effec-
tive assistance for their States in minutes.
In the past, it could very well have taken
weeks or more, and then the assistance
would not have been well coordinated or
effective.
We've faced up to the problem of a
social security system that was headed
down the road toward bankruptcy. And
again, at some considerable political cost,
we put the social security system back so
it was secure again, and we kept faith
with millions of hard-working Americans,
both young and old, who had their faith
shaken during the '74, '75, and '76 period.
We're delivering on another promise,
too-the promise that we would maintain
an America that is strong and an America
at peace. NATO is revitalized. Our alli-
ances are strengthened. And under this
Democratic administration and under
this Democratic Congress, not one single
American life has been lost in combat,
and I thank God for that. And we've
maintained this peace without retreating
1 inch from our responsibility to America
or to our allies-not with saber-rattling
rhetoric, but with calm, reason, and
persistence.
And we've made historic progress to-
ward peace in the Middle East. A year
ago, we had the Camp David accords; 6
months ago, a Mideast peace treaty. It's
imperative that all of us—and these days,
especially, American Jews and American
blacks must unite in securing peace and
justice in that historically troubled land.
This is no time for division; it's no time
for criticism. It's a time for searching to-
gether for a common ground.
We've created a new and beneficial re-
lationship with one-fourth of all the hu-
man beings who live on Earth, in China.
We've taken the lead, and we continue the
Democratic Party's tradition, of seeking
to prevent the proliferation of nuclear
weapons. We've dared to put the issue of
human rights on the permanent interna-
tional agenda. Only the history books will
ever record how many jail doors are open
and how many formerly oppressed people,
who lived under a totalitarian regime,
now know the benefits of human freedom
and a chance to choose their own leaders.
Our concern with human rights, which
is a foundation of the Democratic Party,
begins here at home. We've chipped away
at decades of neglect, and we've tried to
root out examples of blatant prejudice.
We've placed minorities, qualified in
every way, in many decisionmaking jobs
in the Federal Government.
Government. We've
whacked away subtle forms of discrimina-
tion. We've improved the enforcement of
Federal equal opportunity laws. We've
brought more minorities and more women
into our judicial system than in all the
rest of American history combined. And
we are not through yet. And we have
waged an intense State-by-State effort for
the adoption of the equal rights amend-
ment. And we are not through yet.
I could go on and on about the achieve-
ments of this administration and this
Democratic Congress. It's a record of
courage and of dedication and of leader-
ship. But the truth is that, despite our
record of accomplishment, much of what
we do here in Washington too often seems
confusing and irrelevant to millions of
Americans. You who are in the Congress
share that problem. You know that your
1769
