Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Las Vegas, Nev., as a member of the Na-
tional Advisory Council on Economic
Opportunity.
Duncan is president of the Clark
County (Nevada) Welfare and Economic
Rights Organization and executive direc-
tor of Operation Life, Inc., a self-help
community project.
Department of Education
Legislation
Statement on Senate Approval of the
Conference Report. September 24, 1979
The Senate's approval of the confer-
ence report on the department of educa-
tion bill is a major step toward improved
government efficiency. Placing Federal
education programs in a separate depart-
ment will allow us to manage these pro-
life, the hopes and dreams, joys and sor-
rows of those who have raised a great
Nation from a bountiful land.
Because it expresses the simple human
emotions we all share, country music is in
tune with our everyday experiences,
whether we live on a farm or in the city.
This authentic American art form has
grown to be one of the most popular styles
of music in our Nation today.
It is fitting, therefore, that October be
designated as "Country Music Month." I
commend the Country Music Association
for its contribution to this annual observ-
ance, and I invite all Americans to join
me in saluting the talented performers
who have given us so many hours of listen-
ing pleasure through country music.
JIMMY CARTER
grams in a more effective, commonsense Financial Reform Legislation
manner. It will cut redtape, reduce man-
power levels, and save tax dollars. It will
also mean better service—at less bureau-
cratic cost-for the State and local insti-
tutions which provide education in our
country.
Statement on the Senate Banking Committee's
Approval of the Legislation.
September 24, 1979
I would like to thank Senator Ribicoff
for his excellent leadership in bringing this
reorganization to final Senate passage.
Country Music Month,
October 1979
Message of the President.
September 24, 1979
Every year at this time the harvest sea-
son is celebrated throughout the hills and
valleys of rural America, where country
music has its roots. Country music chron-
icles the richness and fullness of American
I am deeply gratified by the Senate
Banking Committee's approval of my fi-
nancial institutions deregulation legisla-
tion.
For the past decade, the Federal Gov-
ernment has imposed a ceiling on the in-
terest rates that savers can receive on
their deposits in banks and savings insti-
tutions. Those ceilings have cost the
American people billions of dollars in lost
interest annually, and they have become
increasingly unfair to the small saver.
Especially during a period of high infla-
tion, it is simply unacceptable for the
Government to force the small saver with
a passbook account at a commercial bank
to accept a 54 percent yield when large
1728
