Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 16
then come down, not in parachutes in the
ocean, but down-gliding, landing on air-
strips just like airplanes. That same space
shuttle then can unload its valuable cargo
with all the data they've collected, or in-
struments that have been tested. It can
reload and take off again into space.
This
means that we now have a way at a
reasonable price to have routine trips
into space and back, for the first time, as
you know.
So, I think we've approached the time
when we can continue very advanced,
very exciting research programs, trips to
the planets, and even beyond, and have
equipment tested in the space shuttle on
a routine basis.
The first priority will be defense and
our Nation's intelligence. The next will
be the leasing of space, just like you rent
part of a freight car or part of a truck
body going across the country to trans-
port material. We'll lease that space, that
cargo space to private companies. When
those needs are met, we'll lease additional
space to some of our allies and friends
around the world, and it'll be done to
keep the space shuttles going.
I've already approved four space shut-
tles. The first ones will be fired from the
east coast. Later, the space shuttles will
be fired from the west coast. Because of
various reasons, if you want to go east
and west, parallel pretty much with the
Equator, you fire the shuttles from the
east coast. If you want to go over the
poles, north and south, you fire from
Vandenburg Air Base in California. Soon
we'll be doing it both ways.
So, I think we're making great prog-
ress to make routine achievements out of
what was formerly just an experimental
effort in space. I think the prospects are
right for our country. We're ahead of any-
body else in this program, and I'm deter-
mined to stay ahead of everybody else.
WHEAT EXPORTS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Mike Agnew. I
am from Local 2336 in Washington, D.C.
And I'd like to have you share with us
this afternoon your views on the ever-
popular slogan, "A bushel of wheat for a
barrel of oil."
THE PRESIDENT. I was hoping that all
my answers could be popular. [Laughter]
But this answer is not going to be popular.
Our Nation produces 14 percent of all
the world's wheat. Of all the wheat sold
among countries in foreign trade, about
40
percent of it is produced in the United
States. Every time our Nation's farmers
produce 100 bushels of wheat, 60 bushels
are exported to foreign countries.
As you know now, the price of wheat
varies up and down, around $4 a bushel.
The price of oil is up as high as $22,
sometimes $35 a bushel [barrel]. It would
be impossible to find anyone in Mexico or
in the Persian Gulf area or in Venezuela
or in Nigeria that would swap us a $22
barrel of oil for a $4 bushel of wheat.
A lot of people have said, "Well, why
don't we cut off wheat shipments to the
OPEC countries and force them to bring
their prices down?" Let me remind you
of this: First of all, the OPEC countries,
in general, particularly those in the Mid-
dle East, have a very tiny population.
Saudi Arabia, for instance, produces
about 82, 9 million barrels of oil a day.
They only have five or six million people.
A little tiny country in Europe could pro-
vide all the wheat that Saudi Arabia
needs out of their surplus. If we cut off
all wheat shipments to any country that
produced oil, they could very easily get
their wheat anywhere else. We could not
punish them accordingly.
Another thing is that if I put an em-
bargo on the shipment of American farm-
ers' wheat to any oil-producing country,
1251
