Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 15
Pursuant to Section 408(b) of the De-
partment of State Authorization Act, Fis-
cal Years 1980 and 1981 (93 Stat. 405),
I hereby determine that it is in the na-
tional interest of the United States to con-
tinue sanctions against Zimbabwe-Rho-
desia at this time.
You are requested, on my behalf, to re-
port this determination promptly to the
Speaker of the House of Representatives
and the Chairman of the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the Senate.
You are further requested to report to
me immediately upon the conclusion of
the present Constitutional Conference on
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia being held in Lon-
don, describing the conclusions of that
conference and your recommendations for
action by the United States with respect to
the termination of sanctions.
tion of the conflict in Zimbabwe-
Rhodesia; however, the negotiations pres-
ently being conducted by the United
Kingdom with the parties have not yet
been concluded, and differences still re-
main. A termination of sanctions at this
stage could lead all the parties to harden
their positions and would jeopardize the
chances for a successful settlement for
Zimbabwe-Rhodesia.
The British Government has not yet
concluded negotiations that would end
the rebellion in Rhodesia. They have
stated that this will occur when the British
Governor arrives in Salisbury and assumes
authority. At the present time, the great
bulk of British sanctions remain in force
and none of our major allies has taken
action to terminate sanctions.
The negotiations are now at a critical
This determination shall be published stage. We hope they will be rapidly and
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:25 p.m., November 20, 1979]
JUSTIFICATION FOR PRESIDENTIAL DETER-
MINATION UNDER SECTION 408(b) of
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE AUTHOR-
IZATION ACT, FISCAL YEARS 1980 AND
1981 CONCERNING SANCTIONS AGAINST
ZIMBABWE-RHODESIA
PROBLEM
Section 408(b) of the Department of
State Authorization Act, Fiscal Years
1980 and 1981, requires that sanctions
against Zimbabwe-Rhodesia be terminat-
ed by November 15, 1979, unless the Presi-
dent determines that it would not be in
the national interest of the United States
and so reports to the Congress.
JUSTIFICATION
Encouraging progress has been made in
recent months toward a peaceful resolu-
successfully concluded. While the talks
continue, it would be premature for the
United States to alter its position on sanc-
tions. We would, however, be prepared to
lift sanctions when a British Governor as-
sumes authority in Salisbury and a process
leading to impartial elections has begun.
Our policy will continue to be that no
party should have a veto over fair settle-
ment proposals.
This issue will be kept under contin-
uous review and the President will
promptly notify the Congress when con-
ditions warrant the lifting of sanctions.
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. November 15, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report six
new deferrals totalling $511.1 million and
two revisions to previously transmitted de-
ferrals increasing the amount deferred by
2121
