Sept. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
purpose is to work with you in a renewed
effort to bring all of our collective exper-
tise, experience, and knowledge to bear
to generate the highest level of perform-
ance in the Federal government.
I am convinced that there is much that
we can learn and must learn-from
sources outside the Federal government
to improve the efficiency of our operations
and our delivery of public services. The
Council brings us an added dimension to
help identify and solve the difficult and
persistent problems of managing complex
government institutions. I have asked the
Council to focus its attention especially
on the more practical problems affecting
the delivery of services to the public. In
turn, I am asking you to view the Coun-
cil as a resource to advise and assist you in
addressing your critical management
problems.
The Council will keep me informed of
its activities and will bring significant
problem areas to my attention. I urge you
to seize the opportunity which the Coun-
cil represents and renew your commit-
ment to an efficient and responsive Fed-
cral government.
JIMMY CARTER
President's Management
Improvement Council
Appointment of 19 Members and Designation
of Cochairpersons. September 14, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of 19 persons as members of
the President's Management Improve-
ment Council. He also announced that
Alan K. Campbell, Director of the Office
of Personnel Management, and James T.
McIntyre, Jr., Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, will be Co-
chairpersons of the Council.
The President's Management Improve-
ment Council consists of leading repre-
sentatives of Federal, State, and local
governments, private industry, labor orga-
nizations, and academic and professional
organizations. The role of the Council will
be to advise the President on management
problems and issues in the Federal Gov-
ernment and to assist in efforts to improve
Federal Government management and
program performance.
The Council holds its first formal ses-
sion at 11:30 a.m. today in the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board building imme-
diately following a brief introductory
ceremony in the White House. At the ses-
sion, the Council will consider manage-
ment issues involving the General Serv-
ices Administration, the Health Care
Financing Administration, Federal debt
collection, and reduction of Federal travel
costs.
The persons appointed to the Council
today are:
ROBERT P. BILLER, professor and dean of the
School of Public Administration at the Uni-
versity of Southern California;
DOLPH BRISCOE, JR., former Governor of
Texas, now chairman of the board of the
First State Bank of Uvalde (Texas) and the
Security State Bank in Pearsall, Tex.;
ALAN K. CAMPBELL, Director of the Office of
Personnel Management;
HUGH A. CARTER, JR., Special Assistant to the
President for Administration;
W. GRAHAM CLAYTOR, JR., Deputy Secretary
of Defense;
JOSEPH E. CONNOR, chairman and senior
partner of Price Waterhouse and Co., the
New York accounting firm;
ALAN L. DEAN, vice president for adminis-
tration of the United States Railway Asso-
ciation;
1670
