June 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
guard at the entrance, so please give me
your signature later.
I know you, like us, try to do your best,
and so do I. I think we, the young peo-
ple, must always try to do our best, like
you. So, the question, Mr. President:
What do you most expect young Jap-
anese people to do for world peace?
Please give me your frank opinion.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much.
I might say, first of all, that your
English is perfect, and I want to con-
gratulate you already on doing such a
superb job. You've obviously done your
best in your study of our language. One
of the things that you could do in the
future is to be a professional interpreter
at the United Nations. [Laughter]
It's very important for young people
of this age to learn about other people
and learn about other nations on Earth.
There is a genuine worldwide hunger, in
my opinion, for friendship, for under-
standing, and for peace.
One of the responsibilities of the lead-
ers of nations like my own and like yours
is to search for better degrees of under-
standing. Not much more than a week
ago, I was in Vienna, Austria, meeting
with President Brezhnev and other lead-
ers of the Soviet Union to search for
ways to control nuclear weapons and to
have peace and friendship between the
Soviet Union and the United States.
Beginning tomorrow, I will be meet-
ing with leaders from Japan, from Can-
ada, Great Britain, from Germany,
France, Italy, and from the European
Community, searching for ways for us
to have better understanding. It's a mis-
take, however, for young people like you
or for average citizens like those who live
in Shimoda to leave this responsibility
only to elected leaders. It's very impor-
tant for you to study and to learn about
others and to encourage your own lead-
ers to explore not for war, but for peace,
not for subjugation of citizens, but for
freedom. And the very wonderful democ-
racy that you enjoy gives us a chance to
learn about others in an unrestricted
way. A free press is also very important.
I hope sometimes you can come to the
United States to visit us. If you come
while I'm still President, we would love
to have you come to the White House to
see my family personally.
Also, I would like to [applause]—
Q. Thank you very much, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. If you will bring your
books up here, I will be glad to sign them
when I get through, okay?
PRESIDENT'S CHILDHOOD
Q. President Carter, when you were a
child, what sort of strongest reminiscence
do you have? What do you recall the most
of your childhood?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the strongest
memory I have is the closeness of my fam-
ily. I lived on a farm, and we had a life-
style much more similar to what it was
2,000 years ago than what it is today. We
worked in the fields together, and we trav-
eled very little. I always knew that my
mother and father were near, and we were
very closely bound together. We had very
little contact with the outside world.
Later, of course, with the modern techno-
logical age, with television, telephones,
with travel by all people, the family struc-
ture became much less close together. And
I would say that's the most vivid memory
of my youth.
Also, I lived in the fields and on the
farm, in the woods, along the streams.
And when I'm now in the White House
in Washington, my greatest hunger is to
be alone, away from security, away from
the press, and to be in the fields and the
woods again. Maybe after I am no longer
1172
