Sept. 14
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
just a limited amount. The vast contribu-
tion of repair and human care must come
from volunteers. This is the character of
our Nation, and when we are tested as a
country, we always respond successfully.
I hope that as we rebuild the areas of
our gulf coast, which have in many cases
been completely destroyed, that we'll be
looking forward to the future with cau-
tion, building on our experiences. Camille
was 10 years ago, and we don't know
whether a year from now or 10 years from
now we'll have another severe hurricane.
As we do rebuild and repair, we ought
to have in mind how we can minimize
damage in the future.
I think the early warning that came
to you was a tremendous achievement.
We now have the ability to track hurri-
canes and to predict their course. Some-
times you may have to move from your
home and the hurricane didn't strike. I
hope that the next time the Governor asks
you to move, you'll do it immediately,
because I have seen many places that had
people not responded, not knowing for
sure that the hurricane would strike, they
would have lost their lives. They've lost
their homes.
The last thing I want to say is this: We
ought not be discouraged. We are sensi-
tive about your needs. We'll be available
when we can to help you. And I would
like to congratulate every Member of the
Congress, every Governor, every State
official, every local official, every Red
Cross worker, every volunteer who has
accommodated so far the intense need of
many people and have minimized the
damage which has come to us.
We have many things for which we can
be thankful, and the saving of human life
is one of the most important.
The country will not forget you, those
people who were not severely injured in
this storm. We'll be partners with you in
the days and weeks ahead. And I pray
that this damage can be minimized and
that your own lives might be restored
very quickly to a normal state so that we
can enjoy the privileges and the honor of
living still in the greatest country on
Earth.
I've appreciated the aid and the help
and the reports that I've gotten from
many officials. Those lined up behind me
come from almost every community
around here. Some are in charge of school
systems; some, transportation systems;
some, administering cleanup operations.
And they've come to let me as President
know, in some cases we are doing well, in
some cases we need certain things. But
together, as partners, we've done a good
job so far, and I have no doubt that in
the future we'll continue to do so.
Thank you very much. You have my
admiration and my appreciation, my
pledge of support, my congratulations.
May God bless all of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:35 p.m. at
Forrest Sherman Field.
United States Ambassador
to Chad
Nomination of Donald R. Norland.
September 14, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Donald R. Norland, of
Grantham, N.H., to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Republic of Chad.
He would replace William G. Bradford,
resigned.
Norland has been Ambassador to the
Republic of Botswana, the Kingdom of
Lesotho, and the Kingdom of Swaziland
since 1976.
1676
