Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 20
Small Community and Rural
Development Policy
Remarks Announcing the Policy.
December 20, 1979
Being here this afternoon to announce
the administration's small community and
rural development policy is a very special
occasion for me. It's special, because I
know how important this policy will be to
rural America, and I know how important
rural America is to our country.
As a life-long resident of Plains, Geor-
gia, and as a farmer; as an organizer and
the original manager of a seven-county
rural area planning and development
commission; as a State senator, repre-
senting a rural district; as a Governor,
representing a predominantly rural State;
and as a President: I feel that I know
rural America.
I know its greatness; I know its beauty.
I know its diversity and its resilience in
time of trial and trouble and testing. I
know its strength, and I know the charac-
ter of the people who live in rural
America. I know the critically important
role that it plays in the production of food
and fiber, of energy and of wood, min-
erals. I understand the ultimate, strategic
value of the land, and what it will mean in
the future, as a force for peace, and the
beneficial influence of our Nation around
the world. And I also know the problems
of rural America: its pockets of poverty;
its problems of isolation; the hardships
and deprivation of some of its residents,
which they still have to endure.
I grew up on a farm, within 7 or 8 miles
of my town, of my present home. My
wife's ancestors and mine are buried, who
were born in the 1700's; we haven't
moved very far. I remember my life on the
farm during the Depression, when we
didn't have electricity, we didn't have
tractors. We did the work with our hands.
Wages for an able-bodied man were a dol-
lar a day. And health problems and edu-
cation problems and racial discrimination
problems were very difficult to overcome.
We made a lot of progress. And I am
convinced, as President, that we ought not
to measure the quality of life of people
according to how densely the area is popu-
lated. I don't care if a thousand years from
now Plains still has 700 people; but I
would like to make sure that those 700
have a good education, good homes to live
in, good transportation opportunities,
good health; that they know what's going
on in the rest of the world; that they have
a purposeful life; that they have jobs;
and that the quality of their life will equal
that of any other community in this
country.
For the first 150 years or so of our
Nation's existence we were primarily a
rural nation. National policy and rural
policy were often almost always the same.
More lately, as our cities have grown and
the suburbs have grown, we've become
predominantly an urban nation. But now
the demographic trends of the 1950's and
1960's, the migration of people from the
rural areas into the cities has reversed.
And since 1970 the population of the rural
areas has increased 40 percent more than
has the population in our urban centers.
The rural economy is also growing. It's
becoming more diverse. In contrast to the
rural America known by myself and by
my parents and my grandparents and
yours, a much larger proportion of the
rural residents are now employed, not in
agriculture as such, but in manufacturing
and trade and the provision of services to
other human beings. These changes create
new demands, new challenges, new op-
portunities. They require us to take stock
of who we are and what we want in life.
They point to the need for wise use and
continued productivity of the bountiful
2273
