Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 11
For instance, one example about sacri-
fice: If the Chrysler top echelon-I don't
mean the four or five, but several thou-
sand who are at the top level in earnings
in Chrysler—would forgo projected salary
increases and fringe benefits and bonuses,
this involves tens of millions of dollars in
itself. And I would think that that would
be one of the kinds of things that could be
done within Chrysler without decimating
the company or putting it on its knees.
We look on Chrysler as a very impor-
tant part of our national economy, includ-
ing both productivity and the provision
of jobs. But I think that's about the best
I can describe in general terms. But the
specifics have already been spelled out by
Bill Miller.
HEATING OIL SUPPLIES AND PRICES
Q. Mr. President, one of the most press-
ing problems in New England is the
prospect of very high prices and perhaps
low availability of heating oil. What are
the reports that you get, and what plans
are you contemplating to help the situa-
tion?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we'll meet our
goal of the 240 million barrels of oil to be
in reserve by the end of October. Last
year I think we had 233 million barrels
in reserve and the years before that a less
amount. But we've advocated the high
figure just in case there is an extremely
severe winter. So, the reserves, I think,
will be there, and we are monitoring this
daily and have no reason for concern.
There are a series of options that I can
execute if we start falling behind the
progression toward reaching that goal.
As far as price is concerned, I can't
control the price that OPEC sets. They
have increased their prices in the last 6
or 8 months alone 60 percent on basic
crude oil. And of course, products from
crude oil have increased an equivalent
amount. What we are doing to compen-
sate for this is to advocate to the Con-
gress special aid for low- and middle-
income families that would help them
pay the extra costs that are inevitable. I
think the answer in the opening state-
ment that I made would be the best
answer for that. I need not repeat it.
Ms. BARIO. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll take one more
question.
MOON LANDRIEU
Q. Yes, sir. If a member of the news
media outside of Washington came to
this town and read the newspaper or
listened to reports on radio and television,
he might think that the nomination of
Moon Landrieu might be in trouble.
Would that be an accurate observation,
sir?
THE PRESIDENT. No. No, I don't think
that's accurate at all. And I hope you
don't get all your impressions of Wash-
ington by reading the local newspapers.
[Laughter]
Moon is an honorable man. He went
out of the mayor's office with the highest
possible esteem of his own people whom
he had served. All of his actions, both
as mayor and since he's been mayor, have
been well known and highly publicized
in the press.
He'll go through the normal confirma-
tion proceedings. The questions that have
been raised about his involvement in the
real estate business, since he got out of
mayor, will be completely answered. And
I have no concern about this at all. I trust
him, and he will be an excellent Cabinet
officer.
I am very glad that you are here. If
you don't mind, I would like to get a
photograph with each one of you indi-
vidually before you go to lunch. And I
1431
