Aug. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
others and I have got complete confi-
dence in him.
Q. Let me try the Cuban thing from a
different angle.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not going to
answer questions about Cuba. I'm going to
let Secretary Vance make the statement.
Q. With regard to its potential impact
on SALT, would you comment on that
aspect of it?
THE PRESIDENT. No. Let's let the Cuban
thing be handled by the State Department.
I've instructed them what to say, and I
think it's best to let them say it.
Q. What is your information about this
allegation that Richard Harden may have
perjured himself in the Vesco matter?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know anything
about it.
Q. There are stories to the effect that
Phillip Heymann apparently told some
members of the grand jury that he felt
that was the case, although I think he has
not commented on it.ยน
Q. He apparently said this in July.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know anything
about it.
Q. Mr. President, I understand you
gave some serious thought to Leonard
Woodcock as U.N. Ambassador. Is that
correct?
THE PRESIDENT. We considered a lot of
people. Leonard Woodcock was one of
them. But it's so important right now that
we have a continuation of our present
policy with the People's Republic of China
1 News reports had stated that Assistant At-
torney General Heymann's remarks allegedly
were made in connection with Special Assistant
to the President for Information Management
Richard M. Harden's testimony during an in-
vestigation into charges that White House aides
had attempted to interfere illegally in U.S.
efforts to extradite Robert Vesco from the
Bahamas. The financier had left the United
States to avoid facing charges of fraudulent
business activities.
that I think he's better qualified to stay
there for the time being.
Q. Did you make your decision before
the Kennedy Airport confrontation this
week, and were you persuaded one way
or the other by that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I made a final
decision after I met with Ambassador
McHenry in Washington a couple of days
ago. But McHenry was recommended to
me as the first choice of a lot of people,
and he's a man that I have known very
closely since I've been President-because
of his work in southern Africa in particu-
lar. He's really an expert on the Far East,
including the Pacific region, but he's
acquired probably the best working
knowledge of southern African problems
of anyone we have.
Q. Was he Andy Young's first choice?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me not get into
that.
Q. What effect will his appointment
have on U.S. relations with Third World
and developing countries, Africa particu-
larly?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they would
guarantee that our present relationships,
which I consider to be an improvement
over the past, will be continued.
Q. I hate to replow the whole ground
at the risk of a second-day denunciation
of ABC. Is it a possibility that the Israelis
bugged Ambassador Young's apartment,
or some other intelligence service other
2 Following the defection to the United
States of her husband, dancer Aleksandr
Godunov, during a tour of the Bolshoi Ballet,
his wife, Lyudmila Vlasova, sought to return to
the Soviet Union. Her flight was detained for
3 days at Kennedy International Airport, where
she was eventually interviewed by U.S. officials,
including Ambassador Donald F. McHenry,
Deputy U.S. Representative in the Security
Council of the United Nations, to determine if
she was returning voluntarily. She then was al-
lowed to depart the United States.
1590
