Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 22
exists in Florida, I will direct that this ex-
tension be rescinded, and that all suspen-
sion orders issued by the Governor be
terminated on the day of that rescission.
Please continue to work with State officials
to monitor carefully the residual oil supply
in Florida and to inform me if the emer-
gency should cease to exist. You will con-
tinue to retain full authority to disapprove
temporary suspension of regulations in
Florida and to exercise your emergency
powers authority under Section 303 of the
Clean Air Act, when and if necessary. It is
important to keep suspensions to an abso-
lute minimum since Section 110(f) of the
Clean Air Act limits each suspension to a
maximum duration of 120 days.
While my determination permits the
temporary suspension of certain emission
limiting requirements, it in no way per-
mits the suspension of any national am-
bient primary or secondary air quality
standard. Protection of these national
health and welfare protective standards is
consistent with Governor Graham's peti-
tion, and I commend him for his past re-
straint in using the authority to suspend
some air pollution requirements.
This determination shall be published
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:08 p.m., October 22, 1979]
NOTE: The memorandum was announced on
October 22.
Rock Island Railroad Labor
Dispute
White House Statement on an Agreement.
October 22, 1979
We are pleased that all parties to the
Rock Island labor dispute have reached
agreement. This is another positive step
in the process initiated on September 20
to meet the threat of curtailed grain
shipments in the Midwest.
We wish to thank both management
and labor for their cooperative attitude.
Special thanks should also be given to
Chairman James Reynolds and Ida Klaus
and Nicholas Zumas of the Emergency
Board.
NOTE: The press release also included the fol-
lowing information.
On September 20 the President created an
Emergency Board to examine the labor dispute
between the Rock Island Railroad and its
unions, the Brotherhood of Railway, Airline
and Steamship Clerks and the United Trans-
portation Union. Today, the Emergency Board
reported that agreement among the parties has
been reached.
The agreement will have no immediate ef-
fect on the Rock Island system, since that
system is now being operated by another car-
rier-the Kansas City Terminal Company-
under the directed service order issued on
September 26 by the Interstate Commerce
Commission. The Commission issued its order
after finding that the Rock Island lacked the
financial resources required for satisfactory rail
performance. The accord announced today will
be important, however, should the Rock Island
be able to resume operations following the
period of directed service.
National Farm-City Week, 1979
Proclamation 4696. October 22, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
All too often we take for granted the
close working relationship between our
farms and cities. On this 25th anniver-
sary of National Farm-City Week, we can
again reflect with pride on this unique
interdependence.
1999
