Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 26
with our country, and we are going to
keep it that way.
I'm sorry I wasn't here early enough to
eat supper with you. Rosalynn and I will
stop on the way home and get some ice
cream. [Laughter] And I would like for
there to be no political analysis made of
the fact that I still eat ice cream.
[Laughter]
Jim Hunt complained about the
$1,000-a-plate supper. I understand that
it costs a thousand dollars just to eat
lunch with John Connally, the famous
friend of the few-[laughter]—which
reminds me of one of those few, Bob
Strauss, who's already been introduced.
[Laughter]
Bob finished his job helping me con-
trol inflation, and then he's now working
in the Middle East. [Laughter] He's taken
the same kind of dedication and modesty
to the Middle East that he used to fight
inflation. [Laughter] If there's one thing
you can say about Bob Strauss, he's al-
ways loyal to the Democratic Party, and
I thank him very much.
Sometimes he goes too far. I had a call
this morning from Prime Minister Me-
nahem Begin, who said he said, "Mr.
President, I am willing to take on new
friends, to meet with President Sadat,
who was an enemy of mine for the last
20 years." He said, “I am willing to give
up the Sinai, because you and President
Sadat asked me to." He said, "I am will-
ing to put my political future on a piece
of paper, the treaty between us and
Egypt. But I am not willing to buy a table
to the DNC fundraising banquet this
evening." [Laughter] He said, "As you
well know, the people of Israel have never
had any interest in United States poli-
tics." [Laughter]
I'm also glad that Senator Bob Byrd is
going to play his fiddle for us tonight.
He's a wonderful man, a close friend, and
a great supporter of mine in the Senate.
I meet with him regularly. Rosalynn can
always tell when I'm in trouble in the
United States Senate. Every time I come
back from a leadership breakfast on
Wednesday morning with another $25
worth of fiddle records-[laughter]-she
knows I'm still trying to buy influence.
[Laughter] But it works.
And I would like to express my thanks,
particularly tonight-if I don't do it all
the way through my speech-to the tre-
mendous Democratic Congress, which
means so much to our country.
The Members of the Congress have
just recently returned from their home
work period with their constituents,
where they listened to hear expressions
of concern, even fear, but a modicum of
hope. And I, too, have been visiting with
the same people, who are also my con-
stituents, from one end of this country to
the other. During that August recess
period, I made about 60 speeches about
the
greatness of our country and the need
for a new energy program. I've listened,
I've debated, I've answered questions,
I've talked, and I've learned. And the
Congress and I came back to Washington
filled with, in some ways, with a feeling
of being refreshed, even inspired. But in
other ways, we came back concerned and
reflective.
The people tell me and they're telling
the Congress that this is a crucial time in
the history of our country. And that
means, for you and me, that it's a crucial
time for the Democratic Party, because
there's no way to separate the two. Our
very way of life is literally being trans-
formed. Historians will prove that this is
true. Rapid, uncontrollable, unpredict-
able changes confront us on every hand.
Many Americans are genuinely filled
with troubled souls and doubt about the
future. But this is not the first time this
1767
