Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 30
often the same data from an American
citizen are required by more than one
Federal agency, and their sharing of in-
formation when it comes in can greatly
eliminate or reduce the amount of
paper-
work involved. If forms and reports are
necessary and many of them are-we're
trying to reduce the number of forms re-
quired, to cut down on the length of those
particular forms, and also to reduce the
frequency with which reports and other
data have to be submitted to the Federal
Government.
In addition, we're implementing sun-
set provisions so that after a certain pe-
riod of time, the paperwork required is
automatically eliminated, unless it's re-
assessed by the Federal agencies and de-
termined still to be of urgent need for the
carrying out of the Government's business.
Quite often, once a form or report or re-
quest is initiated into a requirement, it
perpetuates itself long past the time when
it's no longer needed.
Under the sponsorship of these men
behind me, there has already been intro-
duced the paperwork and redtape re-
duction act of 1979. I strongly support
that legislation and will be working with
these leaders to get it implemented. It
will put real legal teeth into additional
steps that I cannot legally do now because
I don't have the authority. But under
their sponsorship, I'll have a new law with
which I can work closely with the con-
gressional leaders to reduce paperwork
throughout the Federal Government.
And the last thing that I'd like to men-
tion is that we are sending to the Congress
today an administration proposal to re-
duce congressional reports that are re-
quired by the executive branch. This will
either completely eliminate or substan-
tially reduce 224 different reports that
have been required by the executive
branch of Government, by Congress, in
days gone by, years gone by, decades gone
by. And these have now been assessed,
and we believe that this number can be
eliminated or drastically reduced or con-
solidated and eliminate a great deal of
burden on the executive branch of Gov-
ernment and also the Congress.
As everybody knows, many of these
reports are never looked at. Nobody ever
sees them after they are evolved with tre-
mendous input by the private sector of
American economy, by local and State
governments, and particularly by small
business, where they are a very serious and
onerous burden.
And we are doing everything we can to
cut down redtape and paperwork, and
I'm deeply grateful for the leadership
that's been shown by the congressional
representatives here this morning.
I'd like to ask Senator Chiles if he has
a comment to make, and then following
that, Chairman Brooks and, also, Chair-
man Frank Horton. Lawton, would you
speak to
SENATOR CHILES. Well, Mr. President,
I think you're indicating your support of
and your attack on paperwork as you did
when you first came to this office, as you
said, in your first Cabinet meeting. I think
the ball is now in our court with the bill
that we now have. And I think with your
sponsorship and with the bipartisan group
that we've put together in both the House
and the Senate, we're going to be able to
move that bill quickly.
I find the great problem is that I know
we've made some progress, but as I go
around my State, I can't find anybody
that's felt that progress yet. They all are
waiting to see when we're going to reduce
it. And so, I think that it's something that
we have to take additional steps. But I
think that we've got the ball moving
there, and with your help, we'll continue
to move.
2177
