Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
China. Can you expand on some of the
specific programs you plan to establish
which will increase cultural and business
relations between America and China?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. And I'll try to be
brief, although your question is very deep
and a penetrating one and hard to answer
in a few words.
There's no doubt in my mind that the
SALT II treaty will enhance our relative
military strength with the Soviet Union.
For instance, the Soviets will be required
to dismantle or destroy about 10 percent
of all the nuclear missile launchers that
they have. We will not be required to dis-
mantle any of them. And this will mean
that over a period of time, we'll maintain
equivalency with the Soviet Union in
strategic or nuclear armaments and, at
the same time, have a chance to take our
great reservoir of financial and natural re-
sources and our human resources and
orient them either toward conventional
defense capability or toward a better life
for our people.
If we can maintain military strength
adequate to defend our country-and
that's what I'm committed to do then
we put the competition with the Soviet
Union on a peaceful basis where, in my
opinion, we have all the advantages.
For instance, the Soviet Union is a
totalitarian government; ours is a free
government, a democratic government.
The Soviets believe that the citizen ought
to be subject to the mandates of the state;
we believe that citizens as individuals
ought to be honored and that the citizens
ourselves should control the government.
We believe in individual initiative and
in the worth of the human beings; the
Soviets believe that the state should domi-
nate in every respect. Ours is a country
that's founded on a free enterprise system,
where innovation and new ideas, through
a competitive society, have a chance to
succeed, and it inspires the rapid develop-
ment of research and development.
I think if you'd look at the Nobel prizes
given out in health or chemistry or phys-
ics and so forth in the past number of
years, America takes a tremendous num-
ber of those because this is an advantage
that we have.
One of the most important advantages,
however, is that we have moral and eth-
ical standards, human rights standards
that make us competitively superior over
the Soviet Union in the peaceful compe-
tition for the friendship, the hearts and
the minds, the trade relationships of un-
committed or nonaligned people around
the world.
We value also the independence of
other governments, even in small or weak
or new nations. The Soviets often try to
subvert those governments and take over
control of the affairs of people.
So, in a peaceful competition with the
Soviet Union, I think we have all the ad-
vantages to prevail. That is an important
element of the SALT treaties.
On the China question-if you look at
the last number of years, we have made
tremendous strides, in my opinion, in this
peaceful competition for the friendship of
those around the world. It wasn't too long
ago that the closest ally that the Soviets
had was the People's Republic of China,
a fourth of the population of the entire
Earth. That's changed dramatically now.
It wasn't too long ago that, under Mrs.
Indira Gandhi, India was closely allied
with the Soviet Union and quite antag-
onistic toward us. That has been com-
pletely changed.
It wasn't too long ago that Egypt, the
largest and most influential and impor-
tant Arab country, was closely aligned
with the Soviet Union and diametrically
opposite and opposed to us.
us. That's
changed.
1916
