Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
QUESTIONS
GRAIN PRICES AND FUEL SUPPLIES
Q. I'm Lawrence Rowe from Grand-
view, Iowa, and I'm a Pioneer seedcorn.
salesman, and I carry a lot of interest with
the farmers. Now, is there going to be
plenty of fuel for the farmers for this fall
and next spring? And also, will the price
come down to help the farmers out, along
with their price of grain?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer to your
first question is that there will be enough
fuel if American people, including farm-
ers, are careful about how much you use,
don't waste fuel, and if we have a success
in the Congress in getting our energy pro-
gram through. My guess is that both these
questions will be answered yes. So, my
answer to you is there will be an adequate
supply of fuel for the farmers in the har-
vest season this fall and the planting sea-
son next spring.
The answer to your other question-will
energy supplies be cheaper the answer,
unfortunately, is no. It's not good for a
President to mislead the people. And I
cannot tell you that now or in the future
that the price of oil or other energy will
be going down. Inevitably, the price of
fuel in the future is going to go up, because
the demand is growing and the supplies
are becoming more scarce.
You'll have the fuel if you conserve it.
You'll probably have to pay more for it.
But I hope that we-John Culver, Bob
Bergland and I and others can make
sure that the income for the American
farm family continues to rise because your
productivity goes up. And we'll try to hold
prices as strong as we can, and particularly
with the Grain Reserve program that has
been implemented since I've been in the
White House, with Bob Bergland's help.
The farmers need to have a greater
share of the prices charged for products
when they get to the consumers. In the
past, the middleman and the distributor
has gotten too much. We want to see more
of that money go into the pockets of the
American farm families.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
Q. My name is Scott Kelsay. I'm from
Burlington, and I'm a student at the Uni-
versity of Iowa. Mr. President, wouldn't it
be appropriate for you to announce your
candidacy for reelection here today, since
Iowa was a stronghold for you in 1976
and your first endorsement came from our
local Hawk Eye editor, John Mc-
Cormally?
THE PRESIDENT. That sounds like a
wonderful idea—[laughter]—which I will
consider very carefully. Thank you very
much.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't forgotten,
by the way, what Iowa did in '76. So, I'll
be thinking about that question very care-
fully. [Laughter]
OIL AND TOXIC WASTE POLLUTION
Q. My name is Jean Funck, and I'm
from Burlington. I'm a housewife. Recog-
nizing the fact that the United States is a
great power and as a result must use a
great deal of diplomacy, what is being
done to hold Mexico responsible for
harming wildlife and ecology and a re-
gional economy in south Texas? Were the
situation reversed, I am sure the entire
world would be chastising the United
States.
THE PRESIDENT. We do not yet have
an international agreement on how to
handle pollution in the high seas. And as
you all know, only in the last few years-
really the last few months-has the world
1496
