Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
to keep that—the building in our Nation—
at a reasonable, sustained level. But I'm
also concerned about the high inflation
and the attendant high interest rates, and
I'm sure that Mr. Volcker is, too.
Q. Mr. President, don't the interest
rates, though, contribute to and inflame
inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that's absolutely
right, because the interest rates, through
some strange quirk in the regulations,
which is certainly an exaggeration, are ap-
plied to the Consumer Price Index as
though every month every homeowner in
the country had to renegotiate their home
loan on the basis of the higher rates, which
means that this greatly exaggerates in the
Consumer Price Index the effect of high
interest rates on home loans.
Obviously, many people are now pay-
ing off home loans at an interest rate of
5 or 6 percent, but within the CPI, it's as
though all the homeowners in our coun-
try had just borrowed their money this
past month. So, that is an exaggerated
figure. But when the CPI goes up because
of high interest rates at our current level,
it feeds back into everything else, includ-
ing the cost-of-living adjustments and
other things.
RELIEF EFFORTS FOR KAMPUCHEANS
Q. Mr. President, you recently com-
pared the situation in Cambodia to the
Holocaust. And if it is so-and I agree
it is—might it be worse because it's in a
smaller population of 8 million, while
there it was the European community?
How do you explain the reaction, or is it
adequate, of the Vatican, the Christian
world, and the Western democracies, and
why are we so timid in pointing out to the
world who is causing the holocaust?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we've
been timid. Have you all met with Secre-
tary Vance yet?
Q. Yes, this morning.
need not go into it now-just a calendar
of what we have done, the voices that
we've raised, our efforts in the United
Nations, our condemnation, publicly and
through diplomatic channels, of the au-
thorities in Kampuchea over a period of
months, beginning way back in 1978.
In the first place, it's hard to identify
who is the government in Kampuchea-
it's a very confused subject, the country
is at war; secondly, the location of the
people who are starving; and third, it's
been very difficult to arouse the interest
of the international community enough
to force the combatant groups in Kam-
puchea to let food be delivered. There's
no reason for us to deliver large supplies
of food to a totalitarian government,
who's responsible for the starvation, and
have the food never get to the people who
are starving. That was and has been an
obstacle.
Only 5 days after we were successful
in getting the United Nations, including
the International Red Cross and
UNICEF, to make a move, we made our
pledge, and we've had our pledge on the
line ever since I have known any way
to get food to the starving people. We
just arbitrarily said, "We'll provide a
third of anything that goes to the Kam-
puchean starving people."
We still don't have a sure way to get
the food to the people who are starving.
It's been estimated that at least a third,
maybe approaching a half, of the total
population of Cambodia has already
died, and they are still suffering very
seriously.
My next meeting after this meeting
with you is with the three United States
Senators that have gone over there to try
to convince the government in Phnom
Penh to let 30,000 tons of food per month
cross the Thai border and go into the
area where the starving people exist,
where they're trying to survive. We have
THE PRESIDENT. I can get for you-I food ready, on the way. We've already
2052
