Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Peace and National Security
Address to the Nation on Soviet Combat
Troops in Cuba and the Strategic Arms
Limitation Treaty. October 1, 1979
Good evening.
I want to talk with you about the sub-
ject that is my highest concern, as it has
been for every President. That subject is
peace and the security of the United
States.
We are at peace tonight, as we have
been at peace throughout the time of my
service in this office. The peace we enjoy
is the peace of the strong. Our national
defenses are unsurpassed in the world.
Those defenses are stronger tonight than
they were 2 years ago, and they will be
stronger 2 years from now than they are
tonight, because of carefully planned im-
provements that are going forward with
your support and with the support of the
Congress.
Our program for modernizing and
strengthening the military forces of the
NATO Alliance is on track, with the full
cooperation and participation of our Eu-
ropean Allies. Our strategic nuclear forces
are powerful enough to destroy any poten-
tial adversary many times over, and the
invulnerability of those forces will soon be
further assured by a new system of power-
ful mobile missiles. These systems are de-
signed for stability and defense.
Beyond these military defenses, we are
on the threshold of a great advance in the
control of nuclear weapons-the adoption
of the second strategic arms limitation
treaty, SALT II.
This evening, I also want to report to
you about the highly publicized Soviet
brigade in Cuba and about its bearing on
the important relationship between our
Nation and the Soviet Union.
This is not a simple or easy subject. The
United States and the Soviet Union are
the two most powerful nations on Earth,
and the relationship between us is com-
plex, because it involves strong elements of
both competition and cooperation.
Our fundamental philosophies conflict;
quite often, our national interests conflict
as well. As two great nations, we do have
common interests, and we share an over-
whelming mutual concern in preventing
a nuclear war. We must recognize there-
fore that nuclear arms control agreements
are vital to both our countries and that we
must also exercise self-restraint in our
relations and be sensitive to each other's
concerns.
Recently, we obtained evidence that a
Soviet combat brigade has been in Cuba
for several years. The presence of Soviet
combat troops in Cuba is of serious con-
cern to us.
I want to reassure you at the outset that
we do not face any immediate, concrete
threat that could escalate into war or a
major confrontation—but we do face a
challenge. It is a challenge to our wis-
dom, a challenge to our ability to act in
a firm, decisive way without destroying
the basis for cooperation that helps to
maintain world peace and control nuclear
weapons. It's a challenge to our deter-
mination to give a measured and effective
response to Soviet competition and to
Cuban military activities around the
world.
Now let me explain the specific prob-
lem of the Soviet brigade and describe the
more general problem of Soviet-Cuban
military activism in the Third World.
1802
