Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 22
Michigan environment-and I will still
be reticent about violating the desires
of the Michigan people.
very
Having departed almost completely
from the Seafarer proposal, which was my
pledge, if we can find a successful alterna-
tive to that—and I consider it to be nec-
essary for the security of our country-
then I would have to make that decision
to defend our country. But we are still as-
sessing it, still working with the people in
Michigan and other States to try to find
a reaonable alternative to any objection-
able use of this very low frequency com-
munications system.
STORAGE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Rob Rule from
KJQ Radio in Ogden, Utah. The Army is
planning to move some 900 Wet Eye nerve
gas bombs into Utah to be stored. These
are bombs that were manufactured in the
early fifties and obviously have never been
used against an enemy. I have a two-part
question. Number one, do you see any
reason why these weapons and other
weapons like them shouldn't be neutral-
ized tomorrow? And number two, why
does Utah have to be the storage ground
for these terrible weapons and for so many
nuclear waste piles, too?
THE PRESIDENT. We have successfully,
I think, concluded a negotiation with the
Soviets on the prohibition against radio-
logical weapons that is, using radio-
activity. We've not yet been successful in
working out an agreement with the Soviet
Union to abolish chemical warfare weap-
ons, but we are actively pursuing that.
I don't believe it would be good for
our country unilaterally to take this ac-
tion. If we did, there would be no pos-
sible means in the future to induce the
Soviets to join in with us and remove the
threat of chemical warfare from the
world. The major unresolved difficulty is
how to verify compliance with such an
agreement.
I cannot tell you the reasons why the
Defense Department has concluded that
Utah is a better place to store it. I think,
as you know, we've got destructive weap-
ons and caustic materials and potentially
dangerous operations possibly existing in
every State in the Union. And sometimes
a particularly offensive weapon might be
stored in Utah; sometimes it would be
stored in Georgia. We manufacture at the
Savannah River plant, just on the border
between Georgia and South Carolina,
substantial quantities of radioactive ma-
terial. We have, as you know, in Tennes-
see, ever since 35 or 40 years ago, manu-
factured plutonium. We're doing the
same thing in Ohio. And I think you can
go down the gamut of States, and you'd
find in almost every State there are some
objectionable things taking place, to cer-
tain groups. One was just mentioned here
in Michigan.
Q. Wouldn't we look very good to the
world community, though, if we said, re-
do, that the United States makes a com-
gardless of what the Soviets are going to
mitment never to use one of these weap-
ons, regardless?
THE PRESIDENT. We would look very
good to some people in the world if we
unilaterally disarmed and prostrated our-
selves and said to the Soviets, "Come in
and walk over us." But I don't feel that
that's an appropriate position for me as
President to assume.
KU KLUX KLAN
Q. Mr. President, I'm Milton Reid,
the Journal and Guide Newspaper in
Norfolk, Virginia. Mr. President, there's
a two-part question here. There has been
a general rise of the Klan in the South and
1711
