Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Agriculture authority to adjust the future
rate of increase in support levels should
supplies become excessive.
I recognize that the dairy outlook is un-
usually uncertain this year. Secretary
Bergland has been in constant touch with
key Members of Congress and with lead-
ers of the dairy industry throughout the
development of this legislation. They have
assured the Secretary that they will work
with the Department of Agriculture to
monitor dairy developments and to seek
legislative action if it appears govern-
ment stocks will reach excessive levels.
I am pleased with this administration's
record of support for sound dairy pro-
grams. Our dairy programs work and
work well, because they serve both pro-
ducers and consumers. With this law, we
will be continuing this important effort
for another 2 years.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4167 is Public Law
96-127, approved November 28.
United States-United Kingdom
Agreement on Atomic Energy
for Mutual Defense Purposes
Message to the Congress Transmitting an
Amendment to the Agreement.
November 28, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Con-
gress, pursuant to Section 123d of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended
(42 U.S.C. 2153), the text of an amend-
ment to the Agreement Between the Gov-
ernment of the United States of America
determination concerning the agreement.
The joint classified and unclassified mem-
oranda submitted to me by the Secre-
taries of Energy and Defense which pro-
vide a summary analysis of the amend-
ment are also enclosed.
The amendment extends for five years
(until December 31, 1984) those provi-
sions which permit the transfer of non-
nuclear parts, source, by-product special
nuclear material and other material for
nuclear weapons and special nuclear ma-
terial for fueling military propulsion
reactors.
In my judgement, the proposed amend-
ment meets all statutory requirements.
The United Kingdom intends to continue
to maintain viable nuclear forces. In light
of our previous close cooperation and the
fact that the United Kingdom has com-
mitted its nuclear forces to NATO, I have
concluded that it is in our security in-
terest to continue to assist them in main-
taining a credible nuclear force.
I have approved the amendment and
authorized its execution and urge the
Congress give it favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 28, 1979.
United States-United Kingdom
Agreement on Atomic Energy
for Mutual Defense Purposes
Memorandum From the President.
November 28, 1979
and the Government of the United King-fense, the Secretary of Energy
Memorandum for the Secretary of De-
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ire-
land for Cooperation on the Uses of
Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Pur-
poses of July 3, 1958, as amended, and
my written approval, authorization and
Subject: Proposed Amendment to the
US-UK Agreement for Cooperation on
the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual
Defense Purposes
2164
