Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 5
JUAN J. PATLAN, of San Antonio, Tex., execu-
tive director of the Mexican American
Unity Council, active in civic groups con-
cerned with housing, downtown redevelop-
ment, and immigration and naturalization;
DEREK N. SHEARER, of Santa Monica, Calif.,
a lecturer at the UCLA Graduate School of
Architecture and Urban Planning, an econ-
omist and consultant, and an expert in co-
operative and community economic devel-
opment.
Government members
ROGER C. ALTMAN, Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Domestic Finance;
GENO C. BARONI, Assistant Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development for Neighbor-
hoods, Voluntary Associations, and Consum-
er Protection;
SAM W. BROWN, JR., Director of ACTION;
LAWRENCE CONNELL, JR., Administrator of the
National Credit Union Administration;
CAROL TUCKER FOREMAN, Assistant Secretary
of Agriculture for Food and Consumer
Services.
The President will announce nomina-
tions for the two remaining Government
members of the Board of Directors in the
future.
Department of Housing and
Urban Development
Nomination of Jane McGrew To Be General
Counsel. July 3, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Jane McGrew, of Chevy
Chase, Md., to be General Counsel of the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment. She would replace Ruth Pro-
kop, who has been appointed Chairman
of the Merit Systems Protection Board.
McGrew is a partner in the Washington
law firm of Steptoe & Johnson. She was
born March 16, 1947, in New York City.
She received a B.A. from Swarthmore
College in 1967 and a J.D. from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania Law School in
1970.
McGrew has been with Steptoe & John-
son since 1970, and has been a partner
since 1977. She is primarily involved in
Federal administrative practice, legisla-
tion, and litigation in the Federal courts
in such areas as employment discrimina-
tion, antitrust litigation, contract compli-
ance, and consulting on drug control pro-
grams.
She is a member of the hearing com-
mittee of the Disciplinary Board of the
District of Columbia Bar and of the
Women's Legal Defense Fund. She has
been a consultant to the Drug Abuse
Council and has served as vice president
of the Washington Council of Lawyers,
Inc.
Camp David Meetings on
Domestic Issues
Statements by the White House Press Secretary
on the President's Activities.
July 5, 1979
The President has authorized me to
state that, pursuant to the agreements
reached at the Tokyo summit, he intends
to propose at an early date a series of
strong measures to restrain United States
demand for imported oil.
The President is in the process of as-
sessing major
sessing major domestic issues which he
believes are important to the country and
which include, but go beyond, the ques-
tion of energy.
He will be consulting with a number of
individuals whose judgment he respects,
both in and outside of government.
1221
