Sept. 26
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
form consumers of pending proceedings
and of the opportunities available for par-
ticipation therein.
(c) Informational Materials. Agencies
shall produce and distribute materials to
inform consumers about the agencies'
responsibilities and services, about their
procedures for consumer participation,
and about aspects of the marketplace for
which they have responsibility. In addi-
tion, each agency shall make available to
consumers who attend agency meetings
open to the public materials designed to
make those meetings comprehensible to
them.
(d) Education and Training. Agencies
shall educate their staff members about
the Federal consumer policy embodied in
this Order and about the agencies' pro-
grams for carrying out that policy. Spe-
cialized training shall be provided to
agency consumer affairs personnel and, to
the extent considered appropriate by each
agency and in a manner not inconsistent
with applicable statutes, technical assist-
ance shall be made available to consumers
and their organizations.
(e) Complaint Handling. Agencies
shall establish procedures for systemati-
cally logging in, investigating, and re-
sponding to consumer complaints, and for
integrating analyses of complaints into the
development of policy.
1-402. The head of each agency shall
designate a senior-level official within that
agency to exercise, as the official's sole
responsibility, policy direction for, and co-
ordination and oversight of, the agency's
consumer activities. The designated offi-
cial shall report directly to the head of the
agency and shall apprise the agency head
of the potential impact on consumers of
particular policy initiatives under devel-
opment or review within the agency.
1-5. Implementation of Consumer Pro-
gram Reforms.
1-501. Within 60 days after the issu-
ance of this Order, each agency shall pre-
pare a draft report setting forth with spec-
ificity its program for complying with
the requirements of Section 1-4 above.
Each agency shall publish its draft con-
sumer program in the FEDERAL REGISTER
and shall give the public 60 days to com-
ment on the program. A copy of the pro-
gram shall be sent to the Council.
1-502. Each agency shall, within 30
days after the close of the public comment
period on its draft consumer program,
submit a revised program to the Chair-
person. The Chairperson shall be respon-
sible, on behalf of the President, for
approving agency programs for compli-
ance with this Order before their final
publication in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
Each agency's final program shall be pub-
lished no later than 90 days after the close
of the public comment period, and shall
include a summary of public comments on
the draft program and a discussion of how
those comments are reflected in the final
program.
1-503. Each agency's consumer pro-
gram shall take effect no later than 30
days after its final publication in the
FEDERAL REGISTER.
1-504. The Chairperson, with the as-
sistance and advice of the Council, shall
monitor the implementation by agencies
of their consumer programs.
1-505. The Chairperson shall, prompt-
ly after the close of the fiscal year, sub-
mit to the President a full report on
government-wide progress under this
Order during the previous fiscal year. In
addition, the Chairperson shall evaluate,
from time to time, the consumer programs
of particular agencies and shall report to
the President as appropriate. Such evalu-
ations shall be informed by appropriate
consultations with interested parties.
1764
