Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 31
duction. There is no reason for the Saudis,
to repeat myself, to produce. 92 million
barrels of oil every day for 5 or 6 million
people. You know, they know that the
best investment they could have is to keep
that oil in the ground.
Q. Isn't it being used as a political
weapon to spur the Mideast peace talks?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I can't say that
they don't want the Mideast situation-I
have never met an Arab leader that in
private professed a desire for an inde-
pendent Palestinian state. Publicly, they
all espouse an independent Palestinian
state, almost all of them, because that is
what they committed themselves to do at
Rabat. But the private diplomatic tone of
conversations is much more proper than
is often alleged by the press and by others.
Really, it would be a very great surprise
to me for Crown Prince Fahd to send
through our Ambassador, John West, to
me a message: "If you don't expedite the
resolution of the Palestinian question, we
will cut off your
oil."
There's a great stabilizing interrelation-
ship between ourselves and the Saudi Ara-
bians. They see us as their ultimate, not
quite protective, but stabilizing factor,
and they don't want to sever their rela-
tionships with us. They have an abhor-
rence of the Soviet Union because it's
atheistic and because it's Communist and
because they encourage, sometimes, radi-
calism and turmoil and violence. And they
know that we are a religious nation, and
they know we are a democratic nation;
we know our attitude toward them is be-
nevolent, and they know our basic policy
is one of espousing stability. And all those
factors, and others that I could name, are
attractive to the Saudi Arabians.
So, they want our friendship and our
good will just as much as we want theirs.
I cannot imagine their ever coming for-
ward, "If you don't do this with the PLO
we will cut off your oil."
Q. Mr. President-
THE PRESIDENT. I promised her.
OIL PRICES
Q. Mr. President, there has been a
strong feeling that in addition to the
shortage of oil, because of the import
situation, that there are inhouse oil com-
panies who were taking advantage of the
situation just to raise prices. And all the
time the oil at the gasoline stations was
being raised in price, "Just wait until it
reaches a dollar a gallon, there will be all
the oil available you want." Would you
care to comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I know. I hear all
those allegations. The flow of oil from the
producers to the ultimate consumers is a
mighty tide that has an inexorability
about it. It's a very large quantity, 52 mil-
lion barrels a day. You can hold up that
tide for a little while, perhaps like a few
days. But it's got to move. What goes in
one end of the pipeline has to go out the
other.
I've had reports made to me that off the
coast of the United States, there were
hundreds of ships waiting until the price
went up to unload. We had the Coast
Guard make a survey of the coast. We sent
helicopters out and airplanes; there were
no ships out there. But it was a viable
story that was reported in many news
media, and many people believed it. I
don't think that the oil companies, with
the exception of small fluctuations, can
hold back the normal flow of oil in order
to wait until the price goes up.
My philosophy has been to get the
Government's nose out of everything we
possibly could when I feel that the free
enterprise system and adequate competi-
tion can prevail. And I have induced the
1585
