Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
our political alliances, because we and our
friends are in competition to buy the same
scarce and expensive barrel of oil.
The production of oil by the OPEC
nations is highly unlikely to increase. The
trend is probably going to be downward
because of several reasons. Some OPEC
nations are now producing more oil than
they would like to produce for their own
benefit and for the benefit of their people.
Other OPEC nations have recently begun
to reduce oil exports because their sup-
plies are running out. And others, as you
well know, tend to use oil as a political
weapon, attempting, unsuccessfully so far,
to blackmail or to attempt blackmail by
the threat of withholding their oil from
the world market.
So, dependence on foreign oil threatens
our economy, and it also threatens our
security. It threatens our very future.
Therefore, we must stop and then reverse
this growth in imported oil. And public
transit can help us do that.
Thirty-five years ago, at the close of the
Second World War, this country could
claim some of the finest public transit sys-
tems on Earth. Those transit systems were
more than just a way to get people from
one place to another. They helped to
structure a compact and efficient pattern
of land development where people lived,
where people worked, and this contrib-
uted to a sense of community, of unity,
of sharing, of interrelationships, a feeling
that brought neighbors together in a com-
mon sense of place. Our transit systems
were a vital connecting link that helped
to form our own way of life.
But in the years after World War II, we
let that connecting link begin to erode.
Because we did not recognize its worth,
we valued it too little; because we did not
measure its contribution to our lives, we
ignored it too much; and because we
could not imagine its absence, we hardly
noticed its decline in quality.
As we turned our attention to the con-
struction of a vast network of superhigh-
ways, we began to operate on a set of un-
spoken, unacknowledged, untenable as-
sumptions. We assumed, for instance, that
the United States was afloat on a sea of
20-cent-a-gallon gasoline. We assumed
that bigger always meant better and that
nothing could be better than a long,
chrome-plated convertible with a gas-
guzzling V-8 engine under the hood. We
assumed that urban sprawl was a law of
nature, not a logical outcome of trans-
portation and development policies. We
assumed that the only respectable way to
get a 160-pound human from point A to
point B was to wrap him in 2 tons of metal
with an engine powerful enough to drive
an army tank.
So, we began to lose our public trans-
portation systems. One by one, city by
city, the systems fell prey to decay and to
neglect.
Now we know that was a mistake. Now
we recognize the value of mass transit,
and now, as the battle for American en-
ergy security is joined, we stand committed
to the rediscovery and the revitalization of
America's public transportation systems.
You and I together have embarked on
that rediscovery. We have begun that re-
vitalization. Federal support for public
transportation now stands at the highest
point in history.
I proposed, and the Congress passed,
the most far-reaching surface transporta-
tion bill in our history, giving it a higher
priority than it has ever had before.
Under our comprehensive urban policy,
which many of you helped to evolve—the
Nation's first, by the way—cities and
towns are now working along with private
enterprise and with the Federal Govern-
ment to make transit an integral part of
1741
