Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 31
vited all the nations with which the
United States has diplomatic relations to
take part; and in August of this year I
transmitted to Congress the proposal for
United States participation which I now
have the satisfaction of signing into law.
Knoxville, known as the Energy Cap-
ital of the World, is an appropriate site for
Energy-Expo '82. It is surrounded by en-
ergy production-the Appalachian coal-
fields, Oak Ridge, the Tennessee Valley
Authority and it is the home of the Uni-
versity of Tennessee, with its diverse en-
ergy research facilities.
I look forward expectantly to Energy-
Expo '82 and to the benefits it can bring to
the people of this Nation and the world.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 5079 is Public Law
96-169, approved December 29.
Beef and Veal Imports Bill
Statement on Signing H.R. 2727 Into Law.
December 31, 1979
I am pleased to sign into law today
H.R. 2727, the Meat Import Act of 1979,
a measure that will change the procedure
we use to regulate imports of beef and
veal into the United States.
Under the Meat Import Act of 1964,
the Secretary of Agriculture had the au-
thority to limit beef and veal imports.
However, because the level of U.S. im-
ports was tied to the level of U.S. produc-
tion, the limitations were most restrictive
when U.S. consumers most needed beef,
and least restrictive when our cattle pro-
ducers were suffering the most from low
prices.
The new law makes much more sense.
It provides that at least 1.25 billion
pounds of imported beef will be available
each year. That level increases when
domestic production is low and more im-
ports are needed. It better protects con-
sumers against short supplies, and it bet-
ter protects cattlemen against low prices.
I believe it is a balanced measure which
will provide needed stability and certainty
for both the domestic cattle industry and
the American consumer.
This bill has been a long time in de-
velopment, and it is the result of coopera-
tion and hard work by cattlemen, the
Congress, and the administration.
It retains sufficient Presidential dis-
cretion in instances where the counter-
cyclical formula does not fully protect the
public interest. The bill is considerably
less restrictive than last year's unaccept-
able measure. I especially want to thank
Senators Talmadge and Bentsen and
Congressmen Ullman, Foley, and Bedell
for their diligence in developing this
measure with the administration. It is a
good and fair bill, and I am pleased to
sign it into law.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 2727 is Public Law
96-177, approved December 31.
Foreign Military Sales Credits for
Israel
White House Statement. December 31, 1979
The President met with Israeli Minis-
ter of Defense Ezer Weizman on Decem-
ber 28, 1979. Subsequently, the President
has decided to request the Congress to in-
crease by $200 million the foreign military
sales (FMS) credits previously authorized
for Israel in the special legislation in sup-
port of the peace treaty.
The decision was based on considera-
tion of such factors as inflation and Is-
rael's balance of payments deficit and
takes into account the fact that the Israeli
2299
