Nov. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
countries are afflicted at times with mob
violence and terrorism. The tragedy of
the occurrences in Iran is that in a de-
parture from accepted custom and tradi-
tion down through the centuries, in this
instance the Government itself has both
condoned and encouraged the seizure of
an American Embassy and our personnel
through mob violence and through
terrorism.
The inviolability of embassies is abso-
lutely indispensable in easing tensions and
resolving problems that exist among na-
tions and in searching for a common
ground of peace and communication
among people. This is vital to every coun-
try. It's particularly vital to those coun-
tries who are small and who are weak and
who do not have military power or eco-
nomic power to exert in defending one's
own institutions and one's own rights.
tages as early as we possibly can and, of
course, commensurate with that, to de-
fend and to protect the unchanging prin-
ciples on which our Nation and other
nations are founded.
My hope is that all countries repre-
sented here and those others who have
representatives in our Capital City will
join with us in bringing a quick and
peaceful resolution to the problem which
afflicts not only the United States but all
countries.
Again, all of the diplomats here are
welcome. I'm very grateful that you've
brought your families with you, and we
are also honored to have your presence
here in Washington. Good luck to all of
you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:58 a.m. in
the Oval Office, where he received diplomatic
credentials from Ambassadors Rafael Solis
Cerda of Nicaragua, Redha Malek of Algeria,
Nicholas F. Parkinson of Australia, Ricardo
Midence Soto of Honduras, Budimir Loncar
of Yugoslavia, and Peter Hermes of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany.
In this principle, the attitude of our
own country, our efforts to have our
hostages released and to restore the in-
tegrity of our diplomatic institutions, is
an effort not only for the rights and bene-
fits of the United States but for the
rights and benefits of all nations.
Some of the countries represented here, The Cyprus Conflict
almost all of them, have strongly sup-
ported the condemnation of the Iranian
Government's actions in seizing our Em-
bassy and holding our hostages captive.
We need the help of all countries. The
rule of law is only as strong as the efforts
of those who are committed to defend it.
We are very grateful for the help of those
nations who have joined us in this effort.
The harming of innocent people is con-
demned by every law of mankind and by
every law of God, no matter what reli-
gious principles or economic or political
principles prevail in a country. We are
determined to work as peacefully as
possible to achieve the release of our hos-
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. November 28, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chair-
man:)
In accordance with the provisions of
Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the
following report on progress made during
the past 60 days toward the conclusion of
a negotiated solution of the Cyprus
problem.
In my last Cyprus report to the Con-
gress, dated September 25, I noted that
the recess in the intercommunal talks
continues despite persistent and intensive
2162
