Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of war, my question regards the continued
utilization of nuclear fission power.
The 1957 Brookhaven report indicated
that in the event of a massive reactor
catastrophe, agricultural restrictions could
prevail over 150,000 square miles, an area
equal to the combined areas of Iowa, Illi-
nois, and Indiana. Now, with this, the
possible consequence of a catastrophic re-
actor accident, why are we allowing any
reactors to be built in America's farm-
belt, when it seems that just one major
accident at any one of these reactors
could lead to us importing food as well as
oil?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Michael.
I don't believe you have any nuclear
reactors operating in Iowa, do you, John?
SENATOR CULVER. Yes. Palo.
THE PRESIDENT. One operating.
SENATOR CULVER. Palo. But there are
several along the Mississippi and Illinois,
serving Chicago.
THE PRESIDENT. Right. Well, as you
know, for the last 35 or 40 years our coun-
try has had a policy of producing part of
our energy from nuclear reactors. We now
produce about, I think, 13 percent of all
the electricity in our Nation from atomic
reactors. Communities like Chicago get
50 percent of all their electricity from
nuclear reactors.
It would be a very serious blow to our
country to close down all the nuclear re-
actors that we have. We do have a prob-
lem that's now being assessed, brought
about by the accident at Three Mile
Island, and I have asked Dr. Kemeny,
who heads up this Commission, to give
me a report on how the existing atomic
reactors can be made more safe to operate.
I thank God that in the last 35 or 40
years we have never had a fatality or a
serious injury in a commercial reactor in
the United States. But I want to make
sure that we don't have any in the future.
We also have not had enough attention
given to the disposal of waste from the
atomic reactors. Now, when this Kemeny
report comes in to me-within the next
few days, as a matter of fact I will
assess it and, working with the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission and with the
Congress, will take whatever action is
necessary for better design, better train-
ing of personnel, and better operation of
the existing nuclear plants to make sure
that we do have as safe a nuclear program
as possible.
I don't want to mislead you. Some
people like Michael don't think that we
ought to have any use of atomic power. I
believe that it's inevitable that there will
be a place for atomic power in the future
in our country. But to the extent that all
of us save energy, to the extent that we
increase the production of oil and gas in
our country, to the extent that we shift
toward the plentiful supplies of coal and
make coal clean-burning, to the extent
that we have more efficient automobiles,
that we take whatever action we can to
make homes more savers of energy-to
the extent that we do all these things to
conserve and to increase production of
other energy, we can cut down on the de-
mand for atomic power.
During my campaign for President 22,
3
years ago, I said that we ought to make
atomic power a source of energy as a last
resort. And what I mean by that is that
as we conserve and produce other forms
of energy, our Nation will need less atomic
power.
As you know, we have not had atomic
powerplants approved for new construc-
tion in quite a while. We're at a pause
now, and with the Kemeny report-
which I hope all of you will study—we'll
see how to make atomic power, if it is
used in the future, more safe for Ameri-
1504
