Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
it's difficult decisions, difficult conditions
rather than easy conditions that produce
great achievements. And Toynbee fur-
ther holds that great nations most often
fail and fall not because of material weak-
nesses, but because of complacency and a
failure to meet new challenges creatively.
I do not fear for the future of the
United States. If there is one thing we are
not, it's complacent. If sometimes we are
confused, if sometimes we think we may
have lost our way temporarily, it's because
we are struggling to apply our transcend-
ent values to new challenges of awesome
complexity which no other peoples on
Earth have been able to meet success-
fully. We are most likely in the forefront.
The basic strength and creativity of our
values remain undiminished, and as long
as our national roots are imbedded in that
rich soil, we prosper and we will triumph.
Throughout our history-I would like
to say in closing crisis has been the occa-
sion for rethinking, for redirection, and
resurgence. In the early and middle years
of the 1700's, much of Western civilization
languished in a crisis of the spirit. War
and social upheaval had robbed many
people of both will and purpose.
In the midst of that widespread moral
depression came an international spiritual
revival lead by men like John and Charles
Wesley and George Whitefield. The sub-
sequent moral upsurge began in the
churches; they spilled over into the streets
and found lodging in political movements
in Europe and here among the American
colonies.
Out of that movement of the spirit,
based on spiritual things in the colonies,
came our independence. The effect was so
profound that years later John Adams
would write, and I quote from him,
"What do we mean by the American Rev-
olution? Do we mean the American war?
The Revolution was effected before the
war commenced. The Revolution was in
the minds and the hearts of the people—
a change in their religious sentiments of
their duties and obligations . . . . This
radical change,” he said, "in the prin-
ciples, opinions, sentiments and affections
of the people that was the real American
Revolution.”
That crisis brought awakening; awak-
ening brought creative and fresh direc-
tions. I pray that from our present mate-
rial and spiritual crises, which are well
recognized, that there may come a new
sense of awakening and a new pursuit of
more fulfilling ways to live and to work
together as Americans.
Let us confess our failures; let us mar-
shal our inner resources and move on,
upward. If we are guided by the best of
our common mandates, renewal of Amer-
ican spirit will come.
We in America will find a way to solve
our material problems, and as we do, we
can rejuvenate the spirit and the confi-
dence of our country. And then may his-
tory record that our generation of Ameri-
cans heeded the words that you have just
heard in Isaiah 61-that we brought good
tidings to the afflicted, proclaimed liberty
to captives and comfort to all who mourn,
that we repaired the ruined cities and the
desolations of many generations, and that
through us the Lord God will cause right-
eousness and praise to spring forth before
all the nations.
That's my prayer. I know it's yours.
Thank you very much.
groundbreaking ceremonies on the Quadrangle.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2: 14 p.m. at the
In his remarks, he referred to James T. Laney,
president of Emory University, D. W. Brooks,
chairman of the Emory Committee of One
Hundred, and Henry Bowden, chairman of the
board of trustees of Emory University.
Prior to the ceremony, the President at-
tended a luncheon in Cox Hall on the univer-
sity's campus.
1565
