Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 14
We appreciate very much your being
here and caring about what's going on
down in Alabama. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. We will take a flight
in the helicopter at low altitude to ob-
serve and to assess the damage. We'll have
with us people who have already been
through the area, and we'll probably be
landing briefly in Mississippi. We'll be
then going to Florida. And as a result of
this trip, I hope that I can better coordi-
nate the efforts of the Federal Govern-
ment. And I also, of course, came down
here to make sure that the people in this
area know that the whole Nation cares
and that the whole Nation is deeply
grateful for the timely action and the un-
selfish work that has been done.
GOVERNOR FINCH. Mr. President, we're
proud of you, proud of the speedy method
that you've handled everything, not only
here but the Easter floods that Governor
James and Governor Graham and all of
us, citizens and all, have faced in the last
few months. I haven't seen anybody re-
spond as expeditiously and certainly show
your concern and love for your fellow
Americans as you have. We all want to
tell you we appreciate this. We're just
grateful that you took these few hours to
come to Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida
to show us your real concern.
GOVERNOR GRAHAM. Mr. President,
your observation, too, is when we rebuild
them, we rebuild them to stay, is so very
valid. Just in the design of the under-
structure of these beach dwellings makes a
lot of difference.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Perhaps the press has a couple of ques-
tions. I'd be glad to answer. I'll probably
refer them to
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we did. But we
came in fairly high. And we will use the
helicopter primarily to examine from a
lower height.
Q. Is there any possibility of airlifting
food to the area-[inaudible]?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We'll bring in
whatever food is necessary that needs to
be brought in. And we are also beginning
to assess the placement of mobile homes.
throughout the southeastern area, and
they'll be moved in to provide places for
people to live when they move out of the
emergency shelters. I understand twenty
or thirty thousand people are still in the
emergency shelters in these three States.
Q. President Carter-[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. You mean gasoline?
Do you have a shortage?
GOVERNOR GRAHAM. Yes.
GOVERNOR FINCH. We have agreed to
bring it in, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Both Governors say
that that's being taken care of satisfactor-
ily. We will obviously help if they ask us
to.
GOVERNOR FINCH. They have
have re-
sponded, and they have brought it in to
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Along with me, in addition to the head
of our entire operation, is the manager,
Vernon Weaver, of the Small Business
Administration. In addition to loans for
farmers, we also, of course, have loans
available under new legislation for home-
owners, 3-percent loans, up to $55,000,
and for businesses, loans at the interest
rate of 5 percent. For people who have
second homes, like vacation homes, then
the interest rates would be about 75% per-
cent. But those loans will be available, and
we'll have people moving in here to take
care of those needs immediately.
I might point out coincidentally that
although Hurricane Camille took place
10
years ago, the Small Business Adminis-
tration still has 22 people in this area tak-
1673
