Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 13
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:58 p.m., November 13, 1979]
Hospital Cost Containment
Legislation
Letter to the Members of the House of
Representatives. November 13, 1979
You will have an opportunity this week
to help our fight against inflation by pass-
ing Hospital Cost Containment legislation
that can save Americans more than $40
billion over the next five years. I urge you
to join in this effort.
For more than two years, the Congress
has been considering cost containment
legislation. Many legitimate concerns have
been raised by Members as well as by the
hospital industry. Recently, the Ways and
Means and Commerce Committees have
approved legislation which responds to
those concerns in a fair, reasonable and
balanced way. The legislation which you
will be voting on is not the same legisla-
tion that was proposed in the last Con-
gress. And, thus, it is not the same
legislation against which so many of the
objections to cost containment have been
directed.
The modifications which have now
been made to the original cost contain-
ment bill minimize the Federal govern-
ment's involvement and place the highest
priority on voluntary actions by the hos-
pitals:
• The bill recognizes the request for a
priority voluntary effort initiated by the
nation's hospitals two years ago. Only if
the hospitals fail to meet their own volun-
tary national goal would the stand-by Fed-
eral program go into effect.
• The bill exempts states with success-
ful cost containment programs. States
which do not yet have such programs are
provided specific incentives to establish
and implement them.
• All small hospitals-those with less
than 4,000 admissions a year-would be
exempt from the bill's coverage.
• The bill will not result in new regu-
latory burdens on hospitals. Hospitals will
have to provide only one additional line
of information (wages for non-supervisory
personnel) on the Medicare cost forms
which they currently submit to the Fed-
eral government.
• The bill permits a complete pass-
through of the increases in the price of
goods and services that hospitals purchase.
Thus, hospitals are not penalized because
of inflation in the general economy.
• The stand-by Federal program can-
not be put into effect over the objection
of either House of Congress.
• The bill contains a sunset provision to
limit the program to a maximum of five
years.
This modified cost containment legis-
lation will have a significant impact in
reducing the hospital industry's inflation
rate, which over the past decade has in-
creased twice as fast as the inflation rate
in the overall economy. Hospital inflation
has been at such high levels because of a
lack of competition within the industry.
Without the type of consumer market-
place which exists in other sectors of the
economy, hospitals generally have no in-
centive to reduce waste or inefficiency and
to curb costs. The Federal government it-
self now contributes 40% to all hospital
costs and has an obligation to the Ameri-
can people to assure that Federal tax dol-
lars are not wasted.
While ensuring continued high-quality
care, the legislation before you can bring
efficiency and businesslike practices to the
hospital industry. And it can do so with a
minimum of Federal involvement and red
tape.
2111
