Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 31
to develop and implement an expedited
process for projects having a strong inno-
vative impact or exceptional social bene-
fit, and to do so without jeopardizing the
quality of the review process.
8. Facilitating Labor and Management
Adjustments to Technical Change.
Although innovation can increase the
number of workers employed within an
industry over the long term, or even
create an entire new industry, individual
innovations may occasionally cause work-
ers to be displaced.
In order to assure adequate time for
workers and management to adjust to
changes caused by innovations, I am
directing the Secretaries of Labor and
Commerce to work jointly with labor and
management to develop a Labor/Tech-
nology Forecasting System. The System
would develop advance warning of indus-
trial changes and permit timely adjust-
ments.
9. Maintaining a Supportive Federal
Climate. The initiatives announced in this
Message are only the first steps in our
efforts to ensure American technological
strength. We must also develop and
maintain a climate conducive to indus-
trial innovation. The Federal government
must take the lead in creating that cli-
mate. And the Federal government's
efforts must be continuing ones. I am
committed to these goals.
I am charging the National Productiv-
ity Council with the continuing tasks of
monitoring innovation, developing poli-
cies to encourage innovation and assisting
the Departments and agencies in imple-
menting the policies announced today. I
am also establishing a Presidential award
for technological innovation to make
clear to this Nation's inventors and entre-
preneurs that we place the highest na-
tional value on their contributions.
Each of the initiatives I have just pro-
posed supports an important component
in the innovation process. In combina-
tion, these initiatives should make a major
difference in our Nation's ability to de-
velop and pursue industrial innovation.
However, these incentives will not by
themselves solve our current difficulties
in encouraging needed innovation. In our
economic system, industrial innovation is
primarily the responsibility of the private
sector. The manager of the firm must de-
cide whether to develop and market in-
novative new products or whether to find
and employ new ways of making exist-
ing products. Although the Federal gov-
ernment can establish a climate that
encourages innovative activity, it is the
private sector that finally determines
whether innovation will take place.
In addition, the steps outlined in this
Message must be viewed in the context
of our current severe inflation problem.
With costs rising at an abnormally high
rate, managers naturally have a disincen-
tive to spend the sums needed for ade-
quate industrial innovation. I understand
and fully appreciate that changing cer-
tain of our tax laws could provide addi-
tional incentives for investment in inno-
vation. Indeed, my approval of adjust-
ments in the capital gains tax in the Rev-
enue Act of 1978 has alleviated some
shortages of venture capital. Many of the
suggested alterations of our tax system
are intertwined with other economic chal-
lenges such as fighting inflation. While
it might be possible to make changes in
the tax code that would promote innova-
tion, these changes should not be viewed
in isolation from other aspects of our
economy. I will therefore evaluate tax
laws affecting industrial innovation at the
time that I consider my fiscal policies for
Fiscal Year 1981.
CONCLUSION
Innovation is a subtle and intricate
process, covering that range of events
from the inspiration of the inventor to the
2073
