Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sep. 14
ROBERT GRAHAM, Governor of Florida;
DOROTHY GREGG, corporate vice president of
communications of Celanese Corp.;
JOHN A. KOSKINEN, president of Victor
Palmieri and Company, Inc., a Washington,
D.C., asset management firm;
JOHN A. MCCART, executive director of the
AFL-CIO's Public Employee Department
in Washington, D.C.;
tack, stroke, kidney failure, blood vessel
disease and blindness related to diabetes.
Diabetes now costs the country more than
$6 billion annually in health care expenses,
disability payments and lost wages.
A major national effort is underway
among Federal agencies, State and local
governments, academic institutions and
JAMES T. MCINTYRE, JR., Director of the voluntary health organizations to combat
Office of Management and Budget;
RUSSELL E. PALMER, managing director and
chief executive officer of Touche Ross and
Co., the New York City accounting firm;
MARION O. SANDLER, vice chairman of the
board of Golden West Financial Corp. and
World Savings and Loan Association in Oak-
land, Calif.;
GEORGE R. SCHRADER, city manager of Dallas,
Tex.;
ELMER B. STAATS, Comptroller General of the
United States;
DOROTHY L. STARBUCK, chief benefits director
of the Veterans Administration;
WAYNE E. THOMPSON, senior vice president
of Dayton Hudson Corp. and chairman and
chief executive officer of Dayton Hudson
Foundation in Minneapolis; and
WILLIAM H. WYNN, international president of
the United Foods and Commercial Workers
International Union.
Day-to-day operations of the Council
will be managed by a small staff headed
by Charles Bingman, Executive Director.
National Diabetes Week, 1979
Proclamation 4686. September 14, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Diabetes mellitus affects the lives of 10
million Americans. Each year, 35,000
Americans die from this disease, and many
times that number fall victim to heart at-
diabetes and its complications, which so
often compromise the quality of life of its
victims. There is optimism in the scientif-
ic community that research is leading to
greater understanding and improved
methods of treatment for diabetes and its
complications. We must continue to focus
attention on the needs of the many vic-
tims of diabetes in the United States if we
are ever to reduce the impact of this dis-
ease as a source of human suffering in our
Nation.
The Congress, by Joint Resolution
enacted August 13, 1979 (Public Law 96-
51), has authorized and requested the
President to designate the week of Octo-
ber 8 through October 14, 1979, as Na-
tional Diabetes Week.
NOW THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim the week of Octo-
ber 8 through October 14, 1979, as Na-
tional Diabetes Week.
I call upon public and private agencies
and organizations to recognize and observe
it appropriately. I invite the Governors of
the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico and officials of other areas subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States to
issue similar proclamations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fourteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
1671
