July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
try as well as the public. In today's meeting,
the President invited the participants to sub-
mit to the Council their specific concerns
about particular coal regulations.
In inviting those submissions, however, the
President indicated his focus, as well as that
of the Council, would be on improving the
regulatory process, not on changing the sub-
stance of environmental laws. The President
stated that those laws could not realistically
be changed, and the industry's efforts would
be best directed to working within existing
laws and to helping pass a strong windfall
profits tax, an energy security corporation, and
a meaningful energy mobilization board. The
President indicated that the tax, the corpo-
ration, and the board would provide the funds
and the means to meet our energy goals with-
out adversely affecting our health and safety.
Bardstown, Kentucky
Remark sand a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Town Meeting. July 31, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I finally made it to
Bardstown. I'm glad to be here. My wife
said that she never has had a better wel-
come nor made more friends in such a
short time than when she came to Bards-
town. And she wanted me to tell you
thank you and she loves every one of you.
Two and a half weeks ago, I was plan-
ning to come to Bardstown myself, but I
couldn't get away from Camp David.
Every time I started to leave, I had an-
other mess of company come-
[laughter] and I had to stay there and
entertain them. But Rosalynn came to
represent me.
And I thought a lot about our Nation
and what I should do as President. And
Sunday night before last, I made a speech
about two problems of our country-en-
ergy and malaise. Senator Wendell Ford,
on the helicopter, said that Bardstown
could take care of both of them. He said
Kentucky could provide coal for the en-
ergy, and Bardstown could provide bour-
bon for the malaise. As a Baptist, I did not
comment. [Laughter]
I am glad to be here.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
About 2 weeks ago, I did speak to you
about the problems facing our country-a
crisis of confidence, the fact that American
people in recent years have begun to lose
confidence in ourselves, in our neighbors,
in our communities, in our churches, in
our homes, in our schools, in our govern-
ment, in our institutions; and also to talk
to you about our energy problems. We
have become overly dependent on foreign
countries for our oil. We get more than 50
percent of all our oil from overseas, and we
have to take American dollars, billions of
them, every year and export those dollars
and jobs overseas and import inflation.
And I think it's better for us as Americans
to face the facts, and as long as I'm Presi-
dent, I intend to tell you the facts, to tell
you the truth, and to ask for your help.
Now, the energy problem is more than
just statistics or figures or charts or graphs
or speeches. This
This energy
energy problem
threatens the very security of our Nation.
It threatens our economic independence.
You know what happened in 1973, 1974,
when a few OPEC oil-producing coun-
tries embargoed the shipment of oil to our
Nation. And we've become, since then,
even more dependent on foreign oil.
What we must do is to approach this
threat to American security just as we
have approached threats in the past to our
Nation's security, like the Great Depres-
sion, the First World War, the Second
World War. We are actually in a battle to
win our energy independence. It's a battle
that all Americans must fight together.
1340
