Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
permit, and I want to know, would you
help me stop this attempt by the oil com-
panies to get this $100 billion for them-
selves? Will you help me with that?
[Applause] Right on.
I know you've helped me before, and
I appreciate it, but now's the time to help
again, without delay. Importing just 1
barrel of oil per day-1 barrel of oil per
day-costs our country $8,000 a year.
This is more than many workers in our
country make in an entire year. Next year,
we will import not 1 barrel of oil, but
82 million barrels of oil every day. We
will send out of the United States next
year $70 billion. Just imagine how
many
American jobs could be created with $70
billion. That's why we need the windfall
profits tax, because we're going to build a
new energy future for our country. And
the building and construction workers are
going to build it.
But we're not going to stop there. As
Bob Georgine says, the unemployment
rate is still too high. Our goal is full em-
ployment, and to me this means full em-
ployment for construction workers as well.
In fighting inflation, we do not sacrifice
construction jobs. While interest rates
have been rising, because of decisions.
made by the Federal Reserve Board, to
high levels in order to cool inflation, we've
taken special financial measures to sus-
tain credit for construction.
In the past, as you well know, when
interest rates went up, building dropped
to practically zero. It was the first industry
to suffer. This has not been the case. In-
terest rates are too high, inflation is too
high, but we've tried to build into the
system protection for construction workers
and especially housing construction.
I reject the advice of those who think
the only way to cure inflation is to throw
millions of people out of work. This has
been done in the past by administrations
before mine, but I guarantee you that I
will not fight inflation with your jobs.
I've worked with President George
Meany and Bob Georgine and others on
this platform up here to make sure that
American workers never again have to
suffer such a loss because of a cruel and
unnecessary policy.
Let me add that your strength today is
a tribute to the dedication of President
George Meany to a free, democratic,
patriotic, and responsible labor move-
ment, not just in the United States but all
over the world. Every American owes
President George Meany a
Meany a debt of
gratitude.
I told him last January that in fighting
inflation, that we would make labor, prob-
ably for the first time, full partners. I as-
sured him that labor would be at the table
when my administration made any major
decisions about economic matters. And
I've delivered on that promise.
As you may know, we've just con-
cluded, with your leadership, with the
help of Lane Kirkland and others, the
new economic pact between my adminis-
tration and organized labor-the national
accord is what it's called-the national
accord-which amounts to an economic
charter for the 1980's, a decade that can
be a time of stable prices, steady expan-
sion, and growing employment. Labor,
business, and the public will all be repre-
sented on the pay committee which is
envisioned in the national accord. The
chairman will be a man who is a special
friend of yours and in whom we all have
confidence, John Dunlop.
For the first time-and this is very sig-
nificant, in my opinion-the national ac-
cord makes full partners of those people
whose well-being and standards of living
are at stake in the fight against inflation—
the working men and women of America.
1869
