Sept. 3
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
One of the most difficult peacetime
struggles that ever took place in perhaps
any country was the great civil rights
movement in our own generation. And in
the forefront of that movement, helping
the minority groups, was the enlightened
civil rights and labor movement, working
together. And, of course, nowadays the
labor leaders and the members of orga-
nized unions again are in the forefront of
the changes that are dynamic and are dif-
ficult in our country.
Times are not easy. Neither our Found-
ing Fathers nor our immediate mothers
and fathers ever promised us that freedom
would be easy. But they have told us that
in a country like ours the struggle for free-
dom is worthwhile. Freedom itself, indi-
vidual liberty, the strength of our country,
the cohesion of our country, the progress
of our country, the kind of life that we
have, our individualism, the right to be
free, the right to be different is worth
whatever struggle it might require from
us.
1
A few weeks ago I was at Camp David
trying to decide in my own mind, as Pres-
ident of our country, what was the essence
of the test put on us by the energy ques-
tion. And Lane Kirkland ยน was sitting in
a conference room at Camp David on my
left, and he summed it up, I think, better
than anyone that came to Camp David,
about 150 people. He said, "Mr. Presi-
dent, the issue is freedom."
Our country now has its own basic
security threatened because we have be-
come excessively dependent on foreign oil.
It's something that kind of happened. We
didn't plan it that way. And we've now
finally begun to face up to it. We get about
half our oil from overseas. And you saw
what happened to us back in 1973, 1974,
when some of the oil-producing countries
declared an embargo against us. And now
ยน Secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO.
we're even more dependent on foreign oil
than we were in 1973.
But the Congress has begun to act
slowly, but I think with courage, and this
year my hope is that the President and you
and the Congress can prevail and that we
can have for the first time in our Nation's
history a comprehensive energy policy, one
of which we can be proud, one that spells
out a road down which we can march
together, with our basic freedoms intact
and our Nation's security restored.
We can do it in two ways, very simple.
One is to save energy, to conserve, to quit
wasting energy. And that's something that
the Government can't do. We can help.
But that requires every American figuring
out in one's own mind, "What can I do
in my life, in my transportation, in my
home, in my job, to save energy?" And
the other thing is to produce more energy
in our own country-oil, gas, coal, solar
energy, geothermal supplies, synthetic
fuels.
The production of that energy in our
country would let us cut down on the
importing of oil from overseas. And in this
effort the labor movement is increasingly
involved and increasingly supportive, be-
cause we not only will become energy-
secure but will have funds with the wind-
fall profits tax to take care of those poor
families or middle-income families that
find the burden of increased energy costs
too severe, and in the process we can have
a better transportation system and a better
life.
I don't look on conservation or saving
energy as a burden or an unpleasant sacri-
fice. It can be an inspirational thing. It
can be an enjoyable thing. It can bring
families together. It can bring communi-
ties together. It can make us proud of
ourselves. It can restore patriotism, be-
cause when we do this, we help our-
selves, we save a lot of money, it requires
cooperation, and it helps our Nation.
1594
