Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Congress. The average 10.41-percent in-
crease that would be required under the
comparability act is far beyond the stand-
ard of the Council on Wage and Price
Stability for this year, and exceeds any
standard under consideration for the
coming years.
The President's proposal recognizes
that low-paid employees have felt more
than others the impact of inflation and
provides that employees earning less than
$8,900 per year will receive larger in-
creases. Further, to ease the burden of
the limitation on the military, the Presi-
dent has decided that there will be no re-
allocation of the increase from basic pay
into the allowances for quarters and sub-
sistence.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
August 28
The President transmitted to the Con-
gress and the Comptroller General the re-
ports of the United Nations Joint Inspec-
tion Unit during 1978.
August 29
The President returned to the White
House in the afternoon, following his stay
at Camp David, Md.
August 30
The President left the White House for
visits to Atlanta, Ga., and Tampa, Fla. In
the evening, he went to Plains, Ga., for the
Labor Day weekend.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nom-
inations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted August 27, 1979
JAY JANIS, of Florida, to be a member of the
Federal Home Loan Bank Board for the re-
mainder of the term expiring June 30, 1981,
vice Robert H. McKinney, resigned.
Submitted August 28, 1979
THOMAS M. TRACY, of Florida, a Foreign Serv-
ice officer of Class one, to be an Assistant
Secretary of State, vice John M. Thomas,
resigned.
JOHN P. CONDON, of Oklahoma, a Foreign
Service officer of Class one, now Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Dominion
of Fiji, to serve concurrently and without
additional compensation as Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Kingdom of
Tonga and as Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to Tuvalu.
THOMAS A. CLARK, of Florida, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit,
vice a new position created by P.L. 95-486,
approved October 20, 1978.
NATHANIEL R. JONES, of Ohio, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit,
vice John W. Peck, retired.
ARTHUR L. ALARCON, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, vice a new position created by P.L.
95-486, approved October 20, 1978.
HARRY PREGERSON, of California, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
vice a new position created by P.L. 95-486,
approved October 20, 1978.
STEPHANIE K. SEYMOUR, of Oklahoma, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth
Circuit, vice a new position created by P.L.
95-486, approved October 20, 1978.
ALCEE L. HASTINGS, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Florida, vice a new position created
by P.L. 95-486, approved October 20, 1978.
SCOTT E. REED, of Kentucky, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Kentucky, vice a new position created by
P.L. 95-486, approved October 20, 1978.
1531
