Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
Ms. STAMBERG. Mr. Rosenburg, excuse
me, I'm going to have to interrupt. I
think you're either filibustering or making
a speech; I'm not sure which. Could you
get to the question for President Carter,
please?
MR. ROSENBURG. Yes, I will. What I
was simply saying is that rather than a
question, I would like to just advocate
more alcohol fuel, and I have a plan laid
out, blueprints and books. So, as I say, I
don't want to filibuster, but I would like
to meet with you or your people in the
White House and show you what it is I'm
talking about.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Rosenburg, send
me a letter up here and mark on the
front of the envelope that you are one of
those who called me on the telephone.
I get about 50,000 letters a week, and I
want to make sure yours gets to me per-
sonally. And I'll refer you to someone up
here who can discuss it with you, okay?
MR. ROSENBURG. Yes, sir. And by the
way, prior to your becoming President, I
was one of your rooters for you, and I had
gotten a letter from one of your top peo-
ple in Washington, which I also have, as
well as having been invited to your
Inauguration.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you, and
thank you for your friendship.
Mr. Rosenburg. Thank you, sir.
Ms. STAMBURG. Thank you very
much, Mr. Rosenburg.
President Carter, next on the line, Judy
Caufeld, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Go
ahead, Ms. Caufeld.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
Ms. CAUFELD. President Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Judy.
Ms. CAUFELD. I've always been a
supporter of the equal rights amendment.
THE PRESIDENT. So am I.
Ms. CAUFELD. What type of positive
action are you going to take to ensure its
ratification by June of 1982?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll work as a partner
with you, Judy, and others around the
country who believe that women do need
equal rights and deserve them. My wife
is also very active in the equal rights
amendment movement, and of course, my
daughter-in-law, Judy, my oldest son's
daughter [wife], travels nationwide to
work with equal rights proponents to try
to get those reluctant States to ratify the
amendment.
So, I'm a partner with you. I believe in
it, and I believe that your question and
my answer might help to convince some
of those State legislators who still are not
convinced that the equal rights amend-
ment is best for our country as well as, of
course, best for all women.
Ms. CAUFELD. Okay. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you, Judy.
Mr. President, I wonder what you
think of the kind of economic boycotting
that's going on against cities and States
which are not getting behind the ERA.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, I
can't be a proponent of boycotts. But I
believe that the political season is going
to come this year, and if women who suf-
fer most from hiring discrimination, wage
discrimination, would let their voices be
heard by State legislators who will make
the judgment or decision, that's the best
approach.
as
Quite often working women are not
as highly organized or as highly motivated
some of the nationwide women's
groups, and I think that when women
who do have a job and who see the dis-
crimination against them become
aroused, they prevail, and this is the best
approach to it.
1897
