Oct. 6
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
thority, which can only be seen as an op-
portunity for serving your fellow citizens
and in the overall development of their
true humanity and in the full and unim-
peded enjoyment of all their fundamental
rights.
I salute the people of this land also in
the members of the judiciary, who are
servants of humanity in the application of
justice and who thus hold in their hands
the awesome power of profoundly affect-
ing, by their decisions, the lives of every
individual.
For all of you I pray to Almighty God
that He may grant you the gift of wisdom
in your decisions, prudence in your words
and actions, and compassion in the ex-
ercise of the authority that is yours, so that
in your noble office you will always render
true service to the people.
God bless America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:57 p.m. on the
North Lawn of the White House.
Following the ceremony, the President
hosted a private reception for the Pope in the
Blue Room at the White House. They then met
in the Oval Office.
Visit of Pope John Paul II
Remarks at a White House Reception.
October 6, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. My friends, fellow
Americans of every faith, I greet you here
with a mixture of both pride and pleasure.
We've been privileged to meet today at
the White House with a truly extraordi-
nary man-John Paul-one who will
mean even more to us in the future as we
in this world move in this century to meet
the complex challenges which inevitably
will confront us and all others who live on
Earth.
Our Nation was not founded to deny
human beings a life of the spirit, but to
welcome the spiritual into our lives, and I
join all Americans in welcoming Pope
John Paul II with open hearts into the
lives of our Nation. You are welcome with
us, Your Holiness.
As you know, he comes to us as a pastor,
as a scholar, as a poet, as a philosopher,
but I think primarily as a pastor. [To the
Pope] Do you agree? As a pastor?
THE POPE. You are right.
THE PRESIDENT. He has decided not to
dispute the word of the President.
[Laughter]
Regardless of our faith, we look on him
as a pastor, and he's come to know us and
to talk to us about gentleness, about
humility,
humility, about forgiveness, and about
love. You've taught us, our beloved guest,
that we in the United States are not per-
fect, that we in the United States are re-
sponsible for our own behavior. You show
in your life and in your teachings a par-
ticular concern for human dignity. You
know that many people are fearful, but
that a person with faith need not be
afraid. Our religious faith is, indeed, rele-
vant to a modern world.
We've been greatly blessed in this coun-
try. We know from the holy word that to
whom much has been given, much will
be required. You've reminded us, indeed,
of our own responsibilities.
Our America was founded to give a
home to all those who sought religious
freedom. For us today, religious freedom
is not just a valued relic of a bygone age or
a source of national pride. It's a practical
necessity for our Nation's forward course
into the future, for as we face difficult,
painful, often disheartening changes and
transformations in our own lives, now as
never before, our Nation needs all the
spiritual strength that has been gained
and nurtured through the long history of
a nation of freedom.
Long before he became Pope, Karol
Wojtyla, as a priest in his native Poland,
wrote these words of poetry: "We stand
1830
