Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 20
Rather, it safeguards their opportunity to
develop their full potential in the direc-
tions they choose. As women are freed
from arbitrary barriers and stereotypes,
men are liberated as well.
When passed, the ERA will provide
single, clear, comprehensive standard
against which discrimination can be meas-
ured. Legal equality for women must be
made a part of the Constitution.
The ERA is not a recent idea. It was
first introduced in Congress in 1923. After
lengthy and careful debate, Congress
submitted it to the States for ratification
on March 22, 1972. Now all but three
of the necessary thirty-eight states have
ratified it. The deadline is June 30, 1982.
The ratification of the ERA may be the
single most important step in assuring
American women their full equality.
Gaining ratification in the remaining
states will not be easy-but it will mean
our country can tap the full resources and
abilities of all its citizens.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim August 26, 1979,
as Women's Equality Day and do hereby
urge all Americans to work to guarantee
full equality for women before the 1982
deadline.
I hope that, as a part of future cele-
brations for Women's Equality Day, we
can celebrate the passage of the 19th
Amendment and the passage of the Equal
Rights Amendment.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twentieth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
4:45 p.m., August 20, 1979]
Fifteenth Anniversary of the
Signing of the Economic
Opportunity Act
Proclamation 4675. August 20, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
On August 20, 1964, our Nation em-
barked upon its most altruistic enterprise
since the Marshall Plan. President Lyn-
don B. Johnson signed into law an Act "to
mobilize the human and financial re-
sources of the Nation to combat poverty
in the United States."
The ideal envisioned in the Economic
Opportunity Act of 1964 was a Nation in
which "every individual has the opportu-
nity to contribute to the full extent of his
capabilities and to participate in the
workings of our society."
The proud litany of bold innovations
which this legislation introduced into the
Nation's vocabulary included Commu-
nity Action, Head Start, Job Corps, Le-
gal Services, VISTA, New Careers, Foster
Grandparents, Upward Bound, Follow
Through, Emergency Food and Medical
Services, and Senior Opportunities and
Services.
The experimental concepts tested in
these many programs have long since left
the laboratory. Along the way, we have
made some important discoveries—about
poverty, about ourselves and about our
country. We have learned from these pro-
grams that poverty is not an isolated prob-
lem that can be overcome without
changes in the larger economy. We have
learned that the poor of America are by
no means alone in their deep-seated de-
sire for institutional change; in their de-
1477
