Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 28
So, just the certainty of the future prices
of oil and natural gas, that in itself is a
major incentive for increased domestic
production.
As I just outlined, the coal commission
has now advocated that the shifting of
presently oil-burning power company in-
stallations, electric power company instal-
lations, to coal will save a tremendous
amount of oil and make this oil available
for other uses.
We anticipate that over a period of time
that many of the New England homes
that are presently almost exclusively de-
pendent on coal [oil] ³ will be shifting to-
ward natural gas as a heat source, and
we hope to get some hydropower and other
sources of energy from Canada across the
border. We're pursuing that as well.
I am going to expedite the completion
now of the gas pipeline coming down from
Alaska to our country. We are already
buying about 80 or 90 percent of all the
oil that Mexico exports. We'll continue to
do that, and we're trying to trade now on
the basis of buying a limited amount of
natural gas which Mexico will have avail-
able to sell to us in the future.
So, the shift toward coal; the enhance-
ment of solar power; the development
over a longer period of time of alterna-
tive sources of energy, like oil from shale;
the bringing in of our own natural gas
from Alaska-all these things put together
will have immediate impact.
Overriding all this, though, is the bene-
fits to be derived from conservation. We're
now getting along fairly well in our Nation
with 80 to 85 percent of the gasoline
being delivered to motorists as before. In
the Los Angeles area, there's been an
enormous increase in the use of public
transportation facilities. The number of
cars on the highway has dropped. The
³ Printed in the transcript.
number of passengers per car has in-
creased. The American people are much
more careful in not wasting fuel than
they have been in the past.
We expect substantial benefits to be
derived from the mandatory setting of
thermostats in buildings like this one, and
we have little recording monitors set
around at appropriate places throughout
the Government buildings to make sure
that we do stay at 78 degrees, and this
will result in a large savings in fuel.
So, all these things put together, I be-
lieve, will have an immediate impact. The
long-range impact will be quite expensive,
but it's something that we need to ac-
complish.
STRATEGIC ARMS LIMITATION
Q. Mr. President, why should minori-
ties, specifically black and Spanish-speak-
ing people on the south and northwest side
of Chicago, where I'm from-my name is
Steen King-why should they be concern-
ed about SALT II or the fact that General
Alexander Haig wants the measure held
for ransom until there's more money for
defense spending?
The President. I would guess minori-
ties would be concerned about life or death
or war or peace; increased trade with
other countries, instead of a separation of
one people from another. These kinds of
factors are involved, either directly or in-
directly, in the SALT II decision.
There is also a competition for limited
Federal funds. Without a SALT agree-
ment to limit immediately the level of
strategic nuclear weapons, we would have
to have a very large increase in expendi-
tures for military defense, above and be-
yond what we would have to have with
SALT II. And if we have to spend-I
think Les Aspin, one of the Members of
the Congress, estimated that $21 billion
1327
