Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 15
about one another, steel strength when
our country was in danger, and compas-
sion and love among American people.
And his ability as a President to tap
these tremendous resources come daily
for me in the White House as a reassuring
fact, because I know that the same char-
acteristics that existed when he became
President, when he served, still exist
among people in our country today.
A few days ago in Grant Park, you had
assembled for a great visitor probably the
largest crowd of human beings ever as-
sembled in the United States, perhaps
even the world, in history-about a mil-
lion and a half people, who came not out
of curiosity, but to demonstrate that there
was a hunger among us to preserve the
finest characteristics that permeate our
lives, fill our hearts and our souls. You
recognized that there are things eternal
and that there are things in a modern
technological world that do not change.
We Democrats must remember that,
although all parties have deep religious
faiths. But we should remember that our
country also is strong, ethical, morally,
spiritually, that we don't change inside,
that we have an obligation to one another.
And the strength of our party and of our
country lies in our belief in one another,
our confidence in the future, and our de-
termination, which we will never yield,
that we will make together the greatest
nation on Earth, the United States of
America, even greater in the future. If
you'll help us, we'll help you realize this
dream.
Thank you very much. I'll see you on
television in a few minutes.
[The President spoke at 8:09 p.m. in the Ban-
quet Annex Hall at the McCormick Place Con-
vention Center. He then went to the Don Max-
well Hall, where he delivered the following
remarks at the main dinner at 9:05 p.m.]
My good friend Mayor Jane Byrne,
Chairman Dunne,¹ Michael Howlett,2
State officials, Members of Congress, dis-
tinguished leaders of Chicago and Cook
County, both Democratic and those
who've not yet been converted to our
party [laughter] and especially more
than 12,000 of Jane Byrne's closest
friends:
I know where to come the next time I
want a quiet, restful evening to spend
alone. [Laughter]
Just a few minutes ago, I went down
and spoke to five or six thousand people,
and I was on the way back to my hotel
when Jane said, "Wait, you haven't seen
anything yet." And this is an absolutely
unbelievable sight. I'm proud to be here.
In the last few years, this is my third
visit to this great city on an occasion when
the
mayor of Chicago is honored. A Pres-
ident has many interesting and exciting
experiences, but I don't believe any more
interesting or exciting than to be here
tonight.
I've been doing a lot of different things
lately. When I was at Sunday school yes-
terday morning, one of my friends said,
"Mr. President, I know what you've been
doing the last week or so. What are you
going to do next?" And I said, "Well, I'm
going to Kansas City tomorrow morning
to speak to the National Conference of
Catholic Charities, and then tomorrow
night I'm going to Chicago to a large
testimonial dinner to Mayor Jane Byrne."
And they looked at me for a while and
said, “You've been spending an awful lot
of time with Catholics lately." And an-
other Baptist friend standing nearby said,
"Well, it hadn't hurt you at all. Keep it
up."
1 Cook County Democratic chairman.
2 Master of ceremonies for the dinner.
1933
