Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
which make us able, in the future, to
achieve success where we haven't yet
done it.
And I would like to remind you in clos-
ing that not only is this a nation that be-
lieves in free speech, but we are also the
greatest nation on Earth. And if you help
me, we'll keep it that way.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. in
the Charles S. Colden Auditorium at Queens
College. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Donald R. Manes, president of the Borough of
Queens, and Saul Cohen, president of the
college.
Energy and Water Development
Appropriation Act, 1980
Statement on Signing H.R. 4388 Into Law.
September 25, 1979
It is with mixed reactions that I sign
H.R. 4388, the energy and water devel-
opment appropriations bill.
With one major exception, this is a
sound and responsible bill. It recognizes
the need to hold down spending. It does
not commit to unacceptable future ex-
penditures. It provides for sound water
projects and for energy development. It
represents a commendable step by the
Congress in the direction I have been
urging through my water resources devel-
opment and energy policies. It does not
fund water projects which, at my request,
were terminated in past appropriation
bills, and it generally reflects restraints in
water project funding.
On the other hand, this bill mandates
the completion of the Tellico project on
the Little Tennessee River. This project
has been halted because of conflicts with
the Endangered Species Act. A decision
was made through a deliberative process
to deal with these conflicts. A special
Cabinet-level committee, authorized by
the Congress, unanimously concluded
that the project should not be completed,
on economic grounds.
This action by the Congress overturns
that decision and directs the flooding of
the Little Tennessee River Valley. I am
satisfied, however, that the Congress
clearly confronted this issue and settled on
its action with clear majority votes in both
Houses. I accept, with regret, this action
as expressing the will of the Congress in
the Tellico matter. I am also convinced
that even if I voted this bill, Tellico ex-
emptions would be proposed repeatedly in
the future.
Nevertheless, I believe firmly in the
principles of the Endangered Species Act
and will enforce it vigorously. I do not
consider that the action by Congress on
the Tellico matter implies congressional
intent to overturn the general decision
process for resolving conflicts under that
act. I am convinced that this resolution
of the Tellico matter will help assure the
passage of the Endangered Species Act re-
authorization without weakening amend-
ments or further exemptions.
I also expect the Congress to move
vigorously to solidify progress in water re-
sources policy. Prompt action is needed to
authorize and appropriate funds for the
Water Resources Council water project
review function, so that proper technical
analysis can ensure executive branch rec-
ommendations for sound water projects.
I believe firmly that my decision on the
bill I am now signing will further progress
on obtaining a strong Water Resources
Council.
As President I must balance many com-
peting interests. With many important
national issues before the Congress-in-
cluding energy, SALT, the department of
education, the Panama Canal implement-
ing legislation, the Endangered Species
1760
