July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Now I'm going to mention one of the
biggest figures you ever heard. Overall
we're going to take the unparalleled
peacetime commitment, an investment of
$140 billion, for American energy secu-
rity, so that never again will our Nation's
independence be hostage to foreign oil.
Where is the money coming from? All
of this investment of Federal funds must
come from the windfall profits tax on the
oil industry, which I have proposed to the
Congress. It's now more critical than it
ever was that Congress swiftly pass a
strong, permanent windfall profits tax.
And I want each of you as county lead-
ers and all Americans who hear my voice
to bring your full power to bear to make
sure that Congress acts to give the Amer-
ican people the financial weapons to win
the energy war.
Let me brief you now on some of the
new points of attack.
Each year I will set targets for the
amount of foreign oil we import. I'm to-
day announcing a quota for this year,
1979, which will hold U.S. imports to 8.2
million barrels per day-300,000 below
the ceilings we set at the Tokyo summit
and 400,000 barrels per day below what
we used in 1977. And we will meet this
goal.
The energy security corporation that I
proposed last night to produce American
energy from new sources will not be-
will not be just another Federal agency.
It will be outside the Federal Govern-
ment, outside the Federal bureaucracy,
free to use its independent business judg-
ment in order to produce enough alter-
nate energy sources to meet its 10-year
target of reducing our imports by 22
million barrels of oil per day.
I'm announcing new incentives for the
production of heavy oil, oil shale, and
hard-to-get-at natural gas-all of which
this country has in great abundance.
To make certain that energy projects
such as critical pipelines, port facilities,
production plants are built, a new energy
mobilization board will slash through
redtape and bureaucratic obstacles and
will set absolute deadlines for action at the
Federal, State, and local level. We are
leaving with State and local authorities
the first line of responsibility to remove
roadblocks to these critical projects, but
our energy crisis is so severe that if any
level of government fails to act within a
reasonable time, this board will see to it
that action is taken, just as similar boards
made sure that action was taken to pro-
tect our Nation's existence in World War
II. It's time for us to take this bold action,
and we will.
I want to make energy goals as compel-
ling to every homeowner and every renter
as for business and industry. Utilities must
shift from oil to coal. But I'm also propos-
ing to Congress a unique new program to
require gas and electric utility companies
to provide low-cost loans to their custom-
ers, the homeowners of America, to
finance conservation improvements, re-
payable only at the time of sale of the
home.
I'm proposing another program that
will offer incentives to convert homes that
are now oil-heated to natural gas and to
help oil-heated homes which cannot con-
vert with conservation.
I've earmarked $16.5 billion in new
funds for the next 10 years to improve
buses, subways, and other mass transit,
and to build more fuel-efficient automo-
biles.
Recognizing that low-income families
have been hardest hit by the OPEC price
increases and rising energy costs in gen-
eral, I'm proposing to triple the size of the
assistance program which I recommended
to Congress on April 5. This will also be
1244
