Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 19
All the OPEC nations in the Mideast put
together only have 5 percent. So, God's
blessed us with a strong nation and with a
nation that has enough natural resources.
It's up to us.
And I've come here this afternoon to
remind you that sometimes we do get too
discouraged. We ought to inventory what
we've got. We ought to count our bless-
ings and figure out how you as citizens of
our country, how I as the highest elected
official in the greatest nation on Earth,
State officials, local officials, the Congress
can all work together, not separated one
from another, not criticizing one another,
not looking for scapegoats, but how we can
make the greatest nation on Earth even
greater in the future. That's what I've
pledged to do. If you'll help me, we'll do
it together.
Queen, has been an inspiration for our
family. And we've become convinced
anew, the same as I'm sure all of you have,
that we live in the greatest nation on
Earth. Do you agree with that? [Applause]
Our country has always been blessed by
God with every possible advantage that we
could desire-military strength, economic
strength, political strength; natural re-
sources; basic freedoms; the cherishing of
an individual human being; our right to
be different; our right to speak our own
voice; the right for farmers and business
leaders, working people, employers, blacks
and whites, those who speak different
languages, Protestants, Jews, Catholics,
those who have no organized religious be-
lief, in our great country, have a right to
be different. But there are times when
Americans feel the necessity to put aside
Thank you very much. God bless all of differences and to bind ourselves together
you.
in the common purpose.
MRS. CARTER. And I want to thank you
for the wonderful welcome too. I've en-
joyed shaking hands with you, some of you
two and even three times. And thank you.
for the birthday wishes too.
We've had a wonderful trip down the
river. The countryside is so beautiful, and
the people all along the way, you
have
made it very special for us. We care for
every one of you, and we're pleased and
proud to be here.
Thank
you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. at
the picnic grounds near the plant.
McGregor, Iowa
Remarks on Arrival at the Town.
August 19, 1979
In front of me is a distinguished veteran
of the First World War, with two Silver
Stars and a Purple Heart, symbols of hero-
ism and a willingness to offer his life, if
necessary, for the preservation of our
Union. When we have identifiable threats
to our country, we always bind ourselves
together. Families, communities, local,
State, Federal officials, we respect one an-
other and we try to overlook differences.
We don't try to find someone to blame for
a mistake or for a problem.
These days our country is threatened.
But it's a different kind of threat from
what we experienced in the First and
Second World War, even the Great De-
pression. Our Nation's security is threat-
ened because we've become too dependent
on oil from foreign countries. We must
restore our Nation's energy security.
We can do it in two ways. They're not
We're all delighted that we finally got incompatible; they support one another.
to Iowa.
This last day and a half, coming down
our great Mississippi River on the Delta
The first is to save energy, to conserve
energy, to stop wasting energy. And every
single American can do this and must do
1473
