Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
trade, import-export, especially with
Japan and China. What's your stand on
that? Do you plan to go more to that?
THE PRESIDENT. We've already done
that, and we are pushing that as hard as
we possibly can.
One of the prime campaign issues when
I ran for President in '75 and '76 was the
repeated grain embargoes that had been
implemented under former Secretary of
Agriculture Butz and under both Nixon
and Ford, and I pledged that this would
not be done unless our own Nation's se-
curity was directly threatened. We have
sustained this commitment and have mas-
sively increased agricultural exports.
Our exports this year in volume, not
counting even price, will probably be 60-
percent greater than any year's exports in
history, before I became President. We
have set new United States and even
world records every year on the total vol-
ume of agricultural exports. And I would
presume that 1980 would show an even
faster rise in exports of American grain to
foreign customers.
There's a fairly good crop of grain in
China and some other areas of the world.
There's a fairly short crop of grain in the
Soviet Union. And of course, we will have
a bumper crop of grain this year. So, we
have really emphasized this ability.
I want to make two other quick points.
The second thing that we've done is to set
up, within the Agriculture Department,
export promotion centers, I believe in six
foreign cities, where grain is purchased at
that point, to encourage additional cus-
tomers of our grain that wouldn't ordi-
narily, maybe, turn to us for grain. It's a
highly competitive area.
And the second thing we've done is to
greatly increase the quantity of grain that
can be stored on the farm. In the past,
farm storage was minimal, and quite often
the farmers had to sell their grain at the
most depressed price level—that is, during
harvest season—and any fluctuations
later in the grain market, the profits ordi-
narily went to the middlemen. We have
now increased substantially the amount
of farm-stored grain, which gives us a
chance to let the farmers participate in
any improvement in the price, but also to
stabilize grain prices, so that you don't
have the wild fluctuations that did exist in
the previous two administrations before
mine.
I think all of these efforts have been
very fruitful. And we've got a good reserve
supply of grain on hand, rapidly increas-
ing exports, additional emphasis overseas
to broaden the customer range that we
presently enjoy, increased participation by
the farmers in seasonable profits.
PROJECT SEAFARER
Q. Mr. President, Dave Rood, the
Delta Reporter, Gladstone, Michigan.
When you were campaigning for the
Presidency 3 years ago, you made the com-
mitment at that time that you
would not
put in Project Sanguine, Seafarer, ELF,
the Extremely Low Frequency-
THE PRESIDENT. Seafarer.
Q. Seafarer against the will of the
people of the Upper Peninsula. Yet there
still persists-ELF is still alive. What is
your position on that now? Would you
still reiterate what you said before?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my commitment
was not to proceed with Seafarer against
the will of the people. We have greatly
modified the Seafarer proposal in every
possible way. We have brought Michigan
officials in to the Defense Department,
and we've had people go out to explain
to them what modifications were taking
place. We're looking for every alternative
to what was considered a threat to the
Michigan, and I think primarily the
1710
