Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
progress we have made in the past two
years in promulgating fair standards and
regulations, and we will continue to en-
courage new approaches to control of
pollution, such as alternative and innova-
tive waste water treatment projects. The
Environmental Protection Agency has
taken a number of steps in the right direc-
tion. For example, the "bubble concept,"
"offset" policy, and permit consolidation
are intended to simplify pollution controls.
I will seek the reauthorization of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, which expires
next year. This law protects our citizens
from newly-discovered toxic pollutants
within drinking water, as well as imposing
standards for conventional contaminants.
For toxic substances which may enter the
environment in a multitude of ways, my
Administration is committed to the reau-
thorization and vigorous enforcement of
the comprehensive Toxic Substances Con-
trol Act.
OIL POLLUTION OF THE OCEANS
The recent collision in the Caribbean
of two supertanker behemoths, each carry-
ing more than 1.4 million barrels of oil,
underscores the importance of effective
national and international programs to
reduce oil spills. At the outset of my
Presidency, I proposed a comprehensive
program to reduce the threat of oil pollu-
tion from tankers in United States waters,
and to win international agreement to
higher standards of tanker safety and pol-
lution prevention.
Responding to the U.S. initiative, mari-
time nations of the world agreed in 1978
to tighten inspection requirements and
significantly raise world standards for
tanker construction and equipment. The
Department of Transportation is com-
pleting new rules, based on the interna-
tional agreement, to require improved
features on both U.S. ships and foreign
tankers entering our ports, including:
segregated ballast, protective location of
ballast space, crude oil washing, inert gas
systems, and improved emergency steer-
ing systems. Dual radars and other aids
to navigation are already required.
In addition, for the past two and one-
half years, the Coast Guard has boarded
and examined at least once a year every
foreign-flag tanker entering our ports,
recorded any deficiencies, and required
repairs if necessary.
The Secretary of Transportation will
promptly add to this program require-
ments for:
improved construction of tank
barges;
• safe conduct of lightering (ship to
ship transfer of oil);
improved U.S. standards for tanker
crews and pilots; and
pollution prevention features for
older, smaller tankers not covered
by the international standards.
Requirements for collision avoidance
aids will also be added; international
agreement is near on standards for these
important tanker safety devices.
The United States will continue to urge
other nations to put into effect promptly
the requirements of the 1978 international
agreements on tanker safety and pollu-
tion prevention. I also urge the prompt
adoption by all nations of the new in-
ternational standards for training and
certification of seafarers, agreed upon in
1978.
The proposed Oil, Hazardous Sub-
stances and Hazardous Waste Response,
Liability and Compensation Act, sub-
mitted to the Congress by the Adminis-
tration, provides for swift cleanup of oil
spills, strict liability of spillers, and com-
pensation for victims of oil spill damage.
1360
