June 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
society where social justice, humanity, and
morality prevail.
We have found a democratic system
which best suits our actual circumstances
and which is the most effective in solving
our own problems. This system upholds
freedom based on law and order and as-
sures the full creativity of the individual.
Mr. President, the relations between the
Republic of Korea and the United States
date back to 100 years ago. During the last
three decades in particular, our two coun-
tries have developed a very close relation-
ship. The alliance relationship between
the Republic of Korea and the United
States will remain the bedrock of our for-
eign policy.
Our friendship, which was further
strengthened through the Korean war and
and the Vietnam war, has today grown
through the promoting of trade, as well as
through the expansion of exchanges and
cooperation in social, scientific, cultural,
and other fields.
We are well aware that the growth of
our national strength which we have
achieved owes to the friendly support of
the Government and people of the United
States.
I have a firm conviction that the growth
of our national strengths will not only
serve the interests of the Republic of
Korea but also make constructive con-
tributions to the peace and prosperity of
Northeast Asia and the Pacific.
Our two countries, reaffirming the ne-
cessity for productive cooperation in
various fields, are now entering a new era
of mature partnership based on mutual
respect and deepened mutual understand-
ing.
I sincerely hope the ties of friendship
and cooperation between our two coun-
tries would be steadily consolidated as a
result of President Carter's state visit to
the Republic of Korea and further hope
that this auspicious occasion will serve as
a powerful propelling force in opening for
us a glorious Pacific era in the 1980's.
Ladies and gentlemen, may I now ask
you to rise and join me in a toast to the
everlasting friendship and prosperity of
our two countries and to the continued
good health and success of our state
guests, President of the United States of
America and Mrs. Jimmy Carter.
Thank you.
PRESIDENT CARTER. Mr. President, dis-
tinguished officials of the Governments of
our two great nations, and distinguished
guests:
The Korean people have been famous
throughout history for the kindness and
graciousness with which you receive
visitors and guests. This has been proven
again by the warmth and the affection of
your welcome for Rosalynn, for Amy, for
me, and for all the American party.
I have come to Asia to demonstrate the
deep interest of the United States in this
vital and dynamic part of the world. The
United States has been, is, and will re-
main a Pacific nation and a Pacific power.
I've come to Korea to seek a new and
even more constructive stage in one of our
Nation's oldest and most valuable stra-
tegic, political, and economic relation-
ships.
What has impressed me most about my
visit to your country is the existence side
by side of a deep sense of the continuity of
history with dramatic signs of rapid
growth and rapid change.
The respect and reverence of the people
of Korea for your history is visible in the
lovely shrines, temples, and monuments
throughout Seoul. Ancient Korea had a
profound cultural impact on the rest of
the world, as was clearly shown by the
magnificient exhibition which you re-
cently sent to the United States.
As a former naval officer, I was par-
1204
