Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 22
down the Mississippi River, having a good
time, almost every time I've stopped I've
talked about the need for American
people to do two things: save energy in
your own life, and help me induce the
Congress to pass the windfall profits tax
so we can have a comprehensive energy
program to make our energy security
guaranteed.
That's an excellent question. And I
hope everybody will listen to my voice and
let your Congress Member know we need
to have that energy policy passed through
the Congress.
CHRYSLER CORPORATION
Q. Mr. President, my name is Jim Paul.
I'm a teacher and a coach from the West
Burlington School System. First of all, I'd
like you to equate your concept of the
free enterprise system with the applica-
tion of the Chrysler Corporation to the
Government for a billion dollars worth
of aid. And would you support the pro-
gram, the aid, if Chrysler could be forced
to manufacture public transportation
equipment?
THE PRESIDENT. We are approaching
the Chrysler question, Jim, very cau-
tiously. And the approach that I have
approved personally has a heavy depend-
ence on the free enterprise system.
It requires Chrysler, first of all, to re-
constitute their management so they can
be more effective and more efficient in
the future than they have been in the
past. It also requires that Chrysler go,
first off, to private sources of financing to
get the loans that they need. The only
thing I think the Federal Government
ought to do is to provide some guarantee
for those loans that are obtained in the
private sector, but let the Federal Govern-
ment in effect hold the first mortgage.
I think we ought to protect the public
interest as we help Chrysler tide them-
selves over a difficult time. Chrysler must
change, as the other automobile manu-
facturers must change in our country, to
make automobiles that are more fuel-
efficient and also that meet our pollution
standards. They are changing now as fast
as they can. In the last few years, even
since since 1973, when we had the oil
embargo, the American consumers have
often demanded the very large, inefficient
cars. Now they must make the change.
So, I would say a shared responsibility
between the employees and employers of
Chrysler, a heavy dependence on the
private enterprise system, a minimum
involvement of the Federal Government,
and a maximum security for any loans
that the Federal Government guaran-
tees-that's a package that I think would
be acceptable. It would keep Chrysler
operating, maintain more competition in
the automobile industry to hold prices
down, and it would keep about two or
three hundred thousand UAW workers
employed who now work for Chrysler.
That'll be a good investment, I believe,
if we do it that way.
TRANSPORTATION FUNDS
Q. Good morning, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
Q. My name is Jerry Rigdon. I live
here in Burlington, Iowa, and I am a pro-
fessional window cleaner. Do you have
any dirty windows in the White House?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. There's a lot of-we
need a lot more light in Washington. I'll
say that for you. [Laughter]
Q. The motto of my company is: "We
brighten your outlook.'
Mr. President, in lieu of the fact that
our counties and cities depend on road-
use tax to build new streets and new
1499
