Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
the State gets an approved plan, the Fed-
eral Government has to be involved in it
almost a hundred percent. We don't like
this. I'll be eager to see Ohio have an
approved plan very shortly, I hope, just
like the other 49 States have already done.
We have interpreted in the EPA-it's
an independent agency, I can't control
it--but we've interpreted that law as best
we can within the legal framework to per-
mit the continued and increased use of
Ohio coal.
I was in a plant in Kentucky recently
that uses very high sulfur coal. It's a mod-
ern plant, meets all the standards, has no
problem with EPA, because they've made
the change to a more efficient use of the
coal in the scrubbing in the smokestacks.
Now, we have had some problems re-
cently, as you know, with Cleveland Elec-
tric, and they are now authorized to burn
high-sulfur Ohio coal. Most of the plants
in Ohio have shifted so that they are
qualified to burn Ohio coal. Others will
be qualified by October 19. We'll do all
we can, within the bounds of the environ-
mental standards, to let Ohio coal be
used. I hate to see Ohio importing coal for
your own electric power production, and
I'm as eager as you are to obey the laws,
which I'm sworn to uphold, to turn over
the responsibility to the State and local
officials to enforce the environmental laws
and to see a maximum use of Ohio coal.
I think my goal and yours in that respect
are identical.
Thank you very much for that question.
ENERGY PROGRAMS
Q. Mr. President, my name is David
Hawkins, and I'm from Mingo Junction,
Ohio. And my question is, what steps or
procedures do you hope to see imple-
mented within the upcoming year to re-
duce unemployment due to the energy
problems we are experiencing?
THE PRESIDENT. We've proposed to
the Congress three things on energy. One
is the passage of the windfall profits tax.
This is a tax that will be levied on the un-
earned profits of the oil companies. Oil
prices are going up. The oil companies
are getting a higher price for their oil.
The question is, who's going to get that
money? We believe that enough should
be left for the oil companies to increase
their production of American oil and
American natural gas. But we think that
about half of that money ought to come
to be used for synthetic fuels, for con-
servation, for solar energy, for the im-
provement of our rapid transit systems, or
mass transit systems, and also to help
families to overcome the difficulties of in-
creased costs of energy. And it's impera-
tive for the energy program for the wind-
fall profits tax to pass.
Secondly, we are setting up a corpora-
tion, a security corporation that will have
the authority to implement 80 new proj-
ects all over this country to produce syn-
thetic fuels, to work on solar power, to
do things concerning conservation, which
will generate tremendous numbers of new
jobs. And in the process of having energy
produced in our
in our own country and
stopping the sending of $70 billion, like
this year, overseas, we'll generate more
jobs for Americans, not only in synthetic
fuels, solar power, the weatherization of
homes, but also in the increased produc-
tion of coal. And I think that this new
energy program is a very effective way
to deal with potential unemployment and
to keep our country strong.
The other thing that has hurt us in the
past has been the unnecessary delay in
making decisions. We expect to institute
in the Congress and we got good news
from one of the major committees this
1644
