Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, October 12, 1979
Visit of Pope John Paul II
Remarks at the Welcoming Ceremony.
October 6, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Members of Congress,
members of the Supreme Court, members
of the Cabinet, ladies and gentlemen:
Niech będzie Bóg pochwalony!-which,
for those of you who do not speak Polish,
means "May God be praised!"
This is a day for praising God. On be-
half of every American of every faith, I'm
pleased and honored to welcome you,
Pope John Paul, to the Capital City of
the United States of America. Welcome.
In our souls, there is a special feeling
which we may call solemn joy. This his-
toric day brings forth such a feeling as we
mark another milestone in the long, inter-
twined history of our country and its
faith in God.
But the moment is also historic because
the currents that flow below this brief
ceremony reach into the very depths of
individual lives and even to the breadth
of the relationship among sovereign na-
tions. Your journey among us has helped
us to see those currents as part of one
great river of effort to alleviate human
needs and to realize the hunger for spirit-
ual aspirations.
You've moved among us as a champion
of dignity and decency for every human
being and as a pilgrim for peace among
nations. You've offered us your love, and
we as individuals are heartened by it. You
can be sure, Pope John Paul, that the
people of America return your love.
As you've traveled our city streets and
our country roads, you've met and touched
the vast and rich diversity of America. We
cherish our independence of religious
thought and our tradition of the separa-
tion of church and state, but we are all
grateful that we can stand together upon
the common ground of shared beliefs.
Sustained by a broad base of mutual
understanding, we must seize four unique
opportunities which have been drama-
tized by your visit.
As the first opportunity, we can renew
our spiritual lives in our individual
lives, in our families, in our Nation, in our
world. During the past few days, you've
made us reexamine ourselves. For all the
attraction and the sometimes necessity of
material things, you've reminded us of the
value of human life, and that spiritual
strength is the most vital resource of
people and of nations. Caring for others
makes us strong and gives us courage,
while blind pursuit of selfish purposes of
1827
