Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
District as merely an extension of the
Federal Government. I'm committed to
complete home rule for the District of
Columbia.
This is an easy thing to say; it's a diffi-
cult thing to do. But you have a partner
here who will work with you in every
single opportunity to bring about what I
have just described, because until these
goals can be reached, we must press for
decisions in the meantime that are speedy,
simple, and fair to your people.
Secondly, I'm determined to establish
a sound financial relationship between the
District and the Federal Government.
I support increasing the authorized
Federal payment and appropriating the
full amount authorized, with a formula to
make this process both orderly and pre-
dictable. I want to remove the Federal
Government from the budgetmaking proc-
ess for the District, because I think budg-
ets ought to be made by the people who
pay them.
There is a fact unknown by the rest of
this Nation, that the bulk of your budget
comes from local taxes. Other cities get
Federal help and they still have a right
to make their own budget decisions, and
I believe so should the District of Colum-
bia.
We have ended the last vestige of colo-
nialism in Latin America on October 1,
when the Panama Canal Treaty was
implemented. And I want to end the
last vestige of colonialism in America by
passing the voting rights amendment in
the 38 States of this country to make it
law.
With your mayor, with other political
leaders, with Walter Fauntroy, I am eager
to cooperate mutually, to consult with one
another, to lay a political strategy and to
help to carry it out, because there is an
awful lot of misinformation around this
country about the composition of the Dis-
trict-its people, your qualifications, and
the cheating that has taken place under
present constitutional provisions, and the
tinge of racism which has colored the re-
luctance to make this decision which is so
long overdue. Fundamental justice re-
quires that all citizens have not only a
voice but also a vote in Congress.
The right to win congressional ap-
proval of this amendment was not easy,
but for the first time in history—and this
can make a difference-a President is
supporting full voting representation for
the District.
We received the necessary bipartisan
support in Congress, because we all
worked as a team. We made it attractive
for both Democrats and Republicans to
support this controversial issue. Had we
not, it could not have passed the House or
the Senate of the Congress. Many people
deserve credit for that victory, but we all
owe a special debt of gratitude to the
man who never stopped letting us dream
the impossible dream-Walter Fauntroy.
That success has been one of the most
gratifying victories that's taken place dur-
ing my administration. But we cannot rest
until we have full congressional represen-
tation in the House and Senate for the
citizens who live in the District.
Early in his administration, Mayor
Barry visited me in the Oval Office, and
we discussed ways that we could work to-
gether to form an even better partnership
between him and me, his administration
and mine, to solve other problems that in-
volve the District and the Federal Govern-
ment. Since then, our offices have been
working closely together-constantly-to
cement and to utilize this partnership.
It hasn't been long yet, but we've
already seen significant results.
Working together, we're going to com-
plete the Metro system. The Federal
Government has now placed its total
1922
