Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
so that to the extent possible duplicative
research is eliminated and research is
jointly planned and conducted.
Through the Secretary of State the
federal acid rain research program shall
be coordinated to the extent possible with
similar efforts in Canada and Mexico as
well as with other Nations and interna-
tional bodies.
• Consistent with established proced-
ures of the agencies chairing the Commit-
tee, the Committee shall actively solicit
public involvement in its planning and
reviews of the research results of the Com-
mittee's program; workshops, public hear-
ings, and other techniques should be
utilized.
• The Committee shall prepare and
submit to the President by September 15
of each year an annual report which shall
present the results of the acid rain assess-
ment program and make recommenda-
tions as appropriate. This report shall
serve as a planning document for focusing
agency programs to meet the objectives of
the acid rain research program.
JIMMY CARTER
United States-Turkey Treaty on
Extradition and Mutual
Assistance in Criminal Matters
Message to the Senate Transmitting the
Treaty. August 2, 1979
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Treaty on Extradi-
tion and Mutual Assistance in Criminal
Matters between the United States of
America and the Republic of Turkey,
signed at Ankara on June 7, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to the treaty.
The treaty is one of a series of modern
extradition and mutual assistance treaties
being negotiated by the United States. At
the request of the Turkish side, the sub-
jects are combined into one treaty. The
treaty is self-executing and utilizes existing
statutory authority.
The extradition portion of the treaty
replaces the current treaty between the
United States and Turkey which was
signed in 1923. It greatly expands the list
of extraditable offenses to include nar-
cotics offenses, aircraft hijacking, bribery,
and obstruction of justice, as well as many
other offenses not now covered by our
existing treaty. Upon entry into force, it
will terminate and supersede the existing
Treaty of Extradition. The new treaty will
have only limited retroactive effect. Amer-
ican citizens are not extraditable to Tur-
key under the present treaty, although
they are under the new treaty. Under the
new treaty, however, they will not be ex-
tradited for extraditable offenses under
the present treaty committed prior to
entry into force of the new treaty. Also, the
new treaty provides that extradition shall
not be granted for an offense committed
before this treaty enters into force which
is not an extraditable offense under the
present treaty.
The mutual assistance portion of the
new treaty provides for a broad range of
cooperation in criminal matters. Mutual
assistance available under the treaty in-
cludes (1) executing requests relating to
criminal matters; (2) taking of testimony
or statements of persons; (3) effecting the
production, preservation and authentica-
tion of documents, records, or articles of
evidence; (4) returning to the Requesting
Party any objects, articles or other prop-
erty or assets belonging to it or obtained by
1390
