Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 25
and at the same time serve the benefits of
both our countries. At the same time, this
close tie between our two countries enable
our two countries to discharge their re-
sponsibilities and roles respectively for the
benefit of peace and stability of the inter-
national community. It is in this sense
that I feel that our two countries are
today called upon to make further efforts
to deepen and strengthen the relationship
of mutual trust and understanding be-
tween our two countries.
Mr. President, I am convinced that
your visit to Japan this time will serve to
strengthen this valuable tie of trust and
understanding between our two countries,
and will thus contribute greatly to peace
and stability of the Asian region.
On the 28th and 29th of this month,
Mr. President, you will be representing
the United States at the economic sum-
mit which will take place here in Tokyo.
In this economic summit, all the partici-
pating countries share the common goal
of working together to stand up to the
new challenges to the world economy.
I am hopeful that thanks to the wisdom
and leadership of President Carter, this
economic summit will prove to be a very
successful meeting.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us join in a
toast to the great contribution President
Carter has made in world affairs since his
assumption of office, to further develop-
ment and prosperity of the United States
of America under his wise and able lead-
ership, and to the continued health and
happiness of President and Mrs. Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Prime Minister,
distinguished
friends:
Japanese guests and
I'm delighted to be in your country
and to enjoy the special hospitality and
friendship for which the Japanese people
are known throughout the world.
During our discussions in Washington
in May, Prime Minister Ohira and I be-
came not only partners, but also we be-
came friends and mutual students. In
addition to reading
to reading the voluminous
briefing books prepared for us by our
staffs we also were required to read each
other's autobiography. His was much bet-
ter than mine. [Laughter]
I learned that we were both farmers
and that we both came from the southern
part of our country. I have developed a
special theory that being from the south-
ern part of one's country is not incom-
patible with great statesmanship. [Laugh-
ter]
I come here for our bilateral discus-
sions in a spirit of good will and friend-
ship, bringing to the people of Japan the
best wishes of the people of my country.
I agree with Prime Minister Ohira
that in the history of the relationship
among nations, I doubt that there has
ever been two countries so different in
history, in culture, in traditions, in geog-
raphy and language, but still bound so
closely together in a spirit of productiv-
ity with a far-reaching commitment to
common goals, common ideals, and per-
sonal friendships.
Yours is one of the most ancient of na-
tions, ours is relatively new. Yours is one
of the most homogeneous people, so
closely bound together that you can al-
most communicate with one another
without even speaking. Ours is a nation
of immigrants, of refugees extremely
different one from another, coming from
all nations on Earth with different lan-
guages, different heritage, different back-
grounds, different interests, but still
bound together in one nation, deriving
strength because we have a common goal
and a common purpose.
Yet, our two countries, so different,
are bound together with a common be-
1163
