Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 26
Act, and water resources policy-I believe
that avoiding a divisive veto battle will
helps focus congressional efforts on prior-
ity concerns.
thoughts. And quite often I'm struck with
how distant they are from government
and how many of the decisions of gov-
ernment that are made that impact that
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4388 is Public Law person's life are never known or under-
96-69, approved September 25.
Federal Consumer Programs
Remarks on Signing Executive Order 12160.
September 26, 1979
Thank you. First I'll do my duty, and
then I'll explain why.
[At this point, the President signed the Execu-
tive order.]
Congressman Rosenthal and Esther
Peterson, distinguished representatives of
consumer groups from all over the
Nation:
I've just signed an Executive order en-
titled "Providing for Enhancement and
Coordination of Federal Consumer Pro-
grams." This is a result of a lot of work
by me and by 50 leaders in our Govern-
ment, who represent the major agencies,
by many consumer groups throughout the
country, by Members of Congress, who
have been in the forefront of the fight for
consumer rights, and, I think, above every-
one else, by Esther Peterson, who de-
serves and who has the gratitude of every-
one here.
The longer I've been in the White
House as President, the more I have
recognized the importance of each indi-
vidual person in our country. Traveling
around the Nation during the long cam-
paign years and since then, it's been a
striking thing for me to have brief en-
counters with and conversations with
Americans. Quite often, as they touch a
President's hand or pass me in a corridor
or on the street, they impart to me, in that
brief, rare moment, their deepest
stood by them. They have no direct repre-
sentative within an agency or within a de-
cisionmaking body that's relatively obscure
but vital.
I think it's particularly important that
their voices be heard in government on a
continuing, sustained basis, and that's the
reason for this Executive order.
As you know, the first year I was in
office I proposed to the Congress, and we
fought to the last vote, to get an inde-
pendent agency established-an inde-
pendent office established to protect con-
sumers' rights. We have not yet been able
to get that legislation passed. It is still ab-
solutely important. And this Executive
order does not supplant the need for a
coordinated, single consumer protection
agency. It's important for all of us to re-
member that. But at the same time, I've
had to turn to alternative means by which
I, as President, could help to protect con-
sumers' interests in the most effective
way.
I asked Esther Peterson to join my staff.
She is at my right hand. She works with
other members of the White House staff
and with every agency in this Govern-
ment in the most highly effective way.
She's been assisted by large numbers of
volunteers, who have confidence in her
and who share her determination to pro-
tect the consumers in our Government.
We have now come to a point of realiza-
tion that her presence in the White House,
no matter how effective, is not enough.
There are so many agencies in the Gov-
ernment. And I asked her a few months
ago to consult with the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, with the agencies them-
selves, to see how we could expand her
1761
