Aug. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
There will be an adequate amount of
money allotted to each State. I think Il-
linois will get about $430,000-Illinois
will get about $930,000, Iowa about
$430,000. It's based on population. And
out of this money will come advice for
you and for other families on how you can
save more energy and meet this increased
financial burden if it's not handled wisely.
So, in many ways we're trying to make
the burden on the poor families easier
in spite of inflation. And I hope that at
the end of this year, we'll see the infla-
tion rate turning around and start down
again. I believe we'll see that happen,
Leon.
Thank you very much.
MR. KING. Thank you, Mr. President.
(Continued)
panded to all 57 States and territories and will
provide a Federal/State partnership to give
personalized information and assistance on
energy conservation to small-scale users of
energy.
The 2-year EES demonstration began under
the National Energy Extension Service Act of
1977. The 10 demonstration States-Alabama,
Connecticut, Michigan, New Mexico, Pennsyl-
vania, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Wiscon-
sin, and Wyoming each received $1.5 million.
The other 47 States and territories received
$45,000 each to follow and learn from the
demonstration.
As a result of the demonstration program
many recipients have made and are planning to
make more energy conservation improvements
than people who were not contacted. The EES
program is cost effective, because the value of
the energy saved exceeds the participants' in-
vestment and the Federal costs of the program.
Under the EES grant program each State.
decides which small-scale energy users need the
most information and assistance on energy con-
servation, what types of services they need, and
what institutions in the State can best deliver
those services.
Each State plan will be designed and im-
plemented by the State. Those interested in
participating in their State Energy Extension
Service program should contact the State
energy office for details.
MR. JACKSON. The next caller is Nita
Eagle Frink.
MS. FRINK. Yes, this is she.
THE PRESIDENT. Do you have a ques-
tion, Nita?
MS. FRINK. Hi. Good morning. How
are you?
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning to
you. Where you from?
MS. FRINK. And I'm from Rock Is-
land. I just saw you down at the dock,
and it was wonderful.
THE PRESIDENT. That was a very large
crowd and a very excited crowd.
EQUAL RIGHTS AMENDMENT
MS. FRINK. Oh, we were, really, believe
me. I do want to tell you that all of us
who want the equal rights for all appreci-
ate the fact that you have always sup-
ported the equal rights amendment. And
my question is, what do you intend to do
to ensure ratification of the ERA before
1982?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been work-
ing on that; not only myself but my wife
and my oldest son's wife works almost full
time at it. We've called the members of
the legislatures in the States where equal
rights has not yet passed, and we very
eagerly hope that it will become part of
our Constitution. We've also tried to cor-
rect some of the very misleading state-
ments that have been made against equal
rights for women by those who oppose it.
This is obviously a subject of intense
debate.
We are now on the border between a
State that has ratified equal rights-that
is, Iowa and a State that has not yet
ratified the equal rights amendment, that
is Illinois. We hope it will be passed, and
I think questions like yours and maybe
answers like mine show people that we
have established equal rights for almost
1486
