Sept. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
dent Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire, who is
in Washington on a private visit con-
nected with meetings of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF).
The two Presidents discussed the situa-
tion in Zaire. President Mobutu informed
President Carter of the progress that
Zaire is making in dealing with its eco-
nomic and security problems. President
Carter restated our strong support for
Zaire and the importance that we attach
to the ongoing process of reforms in
Zaire. He welcomed President Mobutu's
description of progress that is being made
in these regards.
Also attending the meeting were Secre-
tary of State Cyrus Vance; Under Secre-
tary of State for Political Affairs David
D. Newsom; Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, the
President's National Security Adviser;
Thomas Thornton of the NSC staff;
Zairean State Commissioner for Foreign
Affairs and International Cooperation
Nguza Karl-I-Bond; and Ambassador of
Zaire to the United States Kasongo
Mutuale.
new partnership based on mutual respect
between Panama and the United States.
For that reason, he has asked the Vice
President to represent him at these cere-
monies.
National Advisory Committee
on Oceans and Atmosphere
Designation of Evelyn F. Murphy as
Chairman. September 11, 1979
The President today announced that he
has designated Evelyn F. Murphy to be
Chairman of the National Advisory Com-
mittee on Oceans and Atmosphere
(NACOA).
Murphy has been a member and Vice
Chairman of NACOA since 1978. She re-
places the late Donald L. McKernan as
Chairman. Murphy is a fellow at the In-
stitute of Politics of Harvard's Kennedy
School of Government. She is a former
secretary of environmental affairs of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Panama Canal Treaties
Announcement of Vice President Mondale's
Trip to Panama for Ceremonies Marking the
Entry Into Force of the Treaties.
September 11, 1979
President Carter today announced that,
in response to an invitation from Presi-
dent Royo of Panama, Vice President
Walter F. Mondale will represent the
United States at the ceremonies in Pan-
ama on October 1, marking the entry into
force of the Panama Treaties of 1977. He
will be accompanied by Secretary of State
Vance and other distinguished Ameri-
cans.
President Carter attaches great impor-
tance to this event, which will signify a
Defense Budgets
Message to the Congress on the Fiscal Year
1980 and 1981 Budgets. September 11, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am sure you agree with me that we
cannot effectively safeguard U.S. legiti-
mate interests abroad nor pursue safely
peace, justice and order at home unless
our national security is protected by ade-
quate defenses. The fundamental respon-
sibility of the President—a responsibility
shared with Congress-is to maintain de-
fenses adequate to provide for the na-
tional security of the United States. In
meeting that responsibility, this Adminis-
tration moved promptly and vigorously
1628
