Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
from getting folks out of cars and onto
buses and trains but also from the patterns
of development that the public transit
system can encourage.
Public transit means good living for
people in downtown areas and more effi-
cient housing development patterns, which
in turn means less waste of energy for
fuel and also for heating and cooling. And
better mass transit will give us an insur-
ance policy against the lack of mobility in
the future. If gasoline crunches come―
and I think they will surely come better
mass transit will help us attack a whole
range of critical, interrelated problems,
not just energy but also inflation, unem-
ployment, the health of our environment,
and the vitality of our cities.
Public transit means cleaner air. Pub-
lic transit means less noise. Public transit
means stronger, more livable cities. It
means more mobility and more opportu-
nity for everybody, and especially those
who need it most-the poor, the aged, the
young, the handicapped, minorities.
And public transit means jobs, a lot of
jobs. The energy mass transit initiative
that I've proposed to the Congress will put
Americans to work. I'm not talking about
a few hundred jobs for bureaucrats in
Washington, along with administrators,
but I'm talking about an average of at
least 40,000 jobs a year, at all levels of
skills, throughout the 1980's.
Clearly, public transportation is a criti-
cal part of the overall assault that I've
directed against this Nation's energy
dilemma. And just as clearly, our transit
investments cannot do the job alone.
Those investments must be a part of a
comprehensive program. And that's
exactly what I've proposed-a program
that develops alternative forms of energy,
especially those plentiful ones that are ours
to control, such as coal, and the most
plentiful source of all, the Sun; a program
that lets vital energy projects be built
without endless redtape and confusion
and delay and also without compromising
our commitment to a clean environment
and a good quality of life; a program that
offers some help for the poor among us,
on whom the most cruel blows of sky-
rocketing costs inevitably fall. And public
transit can encourage people to do the
most important thing of all-stop wasting
energy.
Conservation must become a part of
our lives, and this need not be an onerous
part or an unpleasant part of our lives.
It can be an exciting and enjoyable thing
to stop wasting what God has given us. It
can bind families together. It can make
us look around and see how we and our
neighbors can have a more productive and
more enjoyable life. And at the same time,
we can contribute greatly to the health
and well-being of our country. It's a
patriotic gesture.
This program, along with our transit
initiative, can take us to our energy goal
of energy security. But for all this pro-
gram to succeed, the Congress absolutely
must approve the one major element,
which Chairman Fisher has already
named-the windfall profits tax.
A train needs an engine. A bus needs an
engine. A pickup truck needs an engine.
And the windfall profits tax will be the
engine of American energy security.
Through it, we will use the unavoidable
rises in oil prices as a lever, as kind of a
crowbar, to pry ourselves loose from the
dilemma that our overreliance of oil got
us into in the first place.
Right now lobbyists are swarming all
over Capitol Hill, working to devastate
the windfall profits tax. In fact, their pro-
posed amendments would put a total of
well over $100 billion in the pockets of
the oil companies. And what would they
do with this money? Would they develop
1743
