Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 2
under it. I look forward to the months
ahead.
I thank you again, Mr. President. I
value our continued personal relationship,
because I think you know that I feel that
you've done an outstanding job, Mr. Pres-
ident. And I am proud to become part of
your Cabinet and to join you as you con-
tinue to make this Nation secure and an
even better place for us to live and our
children's children.
Thank you.
The President has a pressing commit-
ment that he has to immediately return
to his office. But I would like the privi-
lege, since so many of you have come from
so far away, for Donna Lou and I to stand
down the halls, so I might personally have
a chance to say hello to each one of you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
National Wild and Scenic Rivers
and National Trails Systems
Message to the Congress Transmitting Reports
and Proposed Legislation. October 2, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I proposed legislation to add
a number of rivers and trails to the Na-
-Encampment River, Colorado
-Priest River, Idaho
I am reaffirming my support for desig-
nation of a segment of the Illinois River
in Oregon for which legislation was sub-
mitted to the Congress last year. I am
also reaffirming my support for the follow-
ing four river segments proposed in my
last Environmental Message for inclusion
in the System:
-Bruneau River, Idaho
-Dolores River, Colorado
-Upper Mississippi River, Minnesota
Salmon River, Idaho
In addition, I am transmitting to you
new study reports on eight rivers which
have been found to qualify for inclusion
in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers
System as State-administered components.
Each of the States in which the rivers
are located has expressed an interest in
administering these rivers as components
of the national system. The rivers are:
-Pine Creek, Pennsylvania
-Buffalo River, Tennessee
-Youghiogheny River, Pennsylvania-
Maryland
-Shepaug River, Connecticut
-Kettle River, Minnesota
-Lower Wisconsin River, Wisconsin
-Housatonic River, Connecticut
-Illinois River, Oklahoma
In
my 1977 Environmental Message, I
proposed 20 additional river segments for
tional Wild and Scenic Rivers and Na- study as potential additions to the Na-
tional Trails Systems.
Enclosed are reports and draft legis-
lation that would add the following three
river segments to the National Wild and
Scenic Rivers System as federally admin-
istered components:
-Gunnison River, Colorado
tional Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
Several of those rivers have already been
designated. Except for rivers where sub-
sequent development has affected the
river's qualification for designation, I con-
tinue to support legislation authorizing
the study of these rivers. Moreover, I am
1813
