Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
portion of the heat that we use in homes,
for instance, comes through the windows
and through the walls and through the
roof of homes, even if you don't have a
solar collector, as such, on the roof. And,
of course, the Sun provides ultimately all
the heat that we use on this Earth, either
by stored, Sun-produced products in the
past that make oil and coal or through
the generation of hydroelectric power by
water that's been taken to the mountains
by Sun's evaporation, and so forth.
So, I believe very deeply in solar energy
and believe that in the future, Michael,
that we can use a lot more of it.
POTENTIAL WARS OVER OIL
MR. DEL CORO. Yes, I am-[inaud-
ible to ask you about that. Now, the
second question is this, that is there any
possibility of any war for oil?
Ms. STAMBERG. Any war for oil.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe so. Ob-
viously, there's always a possibility that
other nations would try to interrupt sup-
plies of oil for us. We're trying to improve
our Nation's security by cutting down on
the amount of oil that we have to import
and become more self-reliant, that is,
produce more oil of our own.
I think that in 1973, it was, some of
the Arab countries and OPEC countries
had an embargo against our country and
did not send us oil for a while. I don't
believe that's likely in the future. We have
a much better relationship now with
those countries than we did in the past.
And I believe that the prospect for war
over oil would be very, very remote.
MR. DEL CORO. Okay. Now, this is-
Ms. STAMBERG. Mr. Del Coro, I'm so
sorry, I'm going to have to interrupt you.
I think two questions is about the limit
for each caller. Thank you very much,
Mr. Del Coro.
THE PRESIDENT. Good luck to you.
MS. STAMBERG. We're going to go on
to the next call. It's from Samuel Scott
Rosenburg, in Key Biscayne, Florida. Go
ahead, Mr. Rosenburg.
ALCOHOL FUEL
MR. ROSENBURG. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. ROSENBURG. Greetings from Key
Biscayne. How are you today?
THE PRESIDENT. Just great.
MR. ROSENBURG. Good. I'm real ex-
cited to be able to speak to you today,
because I have good news, rather than a
question regarding our energy, which is
really in response to what's going on. It
would take about 30 seconds to tell
May I?
you.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it suits me fine.
MR. ROSENBURG. Sure. One of the
ways, you know-on the farm alcohol
stills in America more and more are
showing us that 100-percent alcohol is
used as a motor fuel in today's engines,
as well as the recent announcement by
Brazil to agree to produce 650,000 alco-
hol-powered cars by 1982. In fact, their
President said it's their key weapon in
the fight against rising oil prices.
Now, I myself, personally, have a sim-
ple, coordinated strategy not only to
bring down the cost of fuel to under $1 at
the pump, but obviously it would cool
inflation as well. And, frankly, I'd like to
share it with
you.
As we all know, Thanksgiving time
is here, and we really have to take stock
and be thankful we are Americans. We're
the envy of the world. There's nothing
that we can't do. We gave the world elec-
tricity, lights-
Ms. STAMBERG. Mr. Rosenburg.
MR. ROSENBURG. -telephones, air-
planes, and if that doesn't seem unreal,
we even put a man on the Moon. And
then-
1896
