Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:08 p.m., August 30, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on August 30.
Leif Erikson Day, 1979
Proclamation 4677. August 29, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
From time immemorial, explorers have
sought new frontiers to explore and new
worlds to conquer. Their insatiable cur-
iosity, their willingness to face new chal-
lenges remain inspirations to the modern
world.
Few people can surpass the courage and
accomplishments of Leif Erikson, a re-
markable representative of a remarkable
people. His voyage west to uncharted
nated October 9 in each year as Leif Erik-
son Day.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Tuesday, October 9,
1979, as Leif Erikson Day, and I direct the
appropriate government officials to dis-
play the flag of the United States on all
government buildings that day.
I also invite the people of the United
States to honor the memory of Leif Erik-
son on that day by holding appropriate
ceremonies in suitable places throughout
the land.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this twenty-ninth day
of August, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:09 p.m., August 30, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on August 30.
waters epitomized the virtues of bravery, White Cane Safety Day, 1979
skill and imagination.
In honoring this great Norseman, we
Proclamation 4678. August 29, 1979
honor the representative of a people By the President of the United States
whose respect for law and whose early
devotion to representative government
mirrors our own commitments. We honor,
too, Americans of Scandinavian descent,
who have made such notable contribu-
tions to the development of the United
States.
To express our respect for the accom-
plishments of Leif Erikson and his fol-
lowers, the Congress of the United States,
by joint resolution approved September 2,
1964 (78 Stat. 849, 36 U.S.C. 169) desig-
of America
A Proclamation
Most of us take it for granted that we
can walk unaided through a crowded
store or street. We give little thought to
our freedom to come and go as we please,
yet there are over six million Americans
whose vision is so impaired that every
corner is a place of danger.
For many of these people, help comes in
the form of a white cane. This eight-
1527
