Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
[laughter]—and so far, as is proven by this
group tonight, the hints have been very
well received.
I want to speak to you seriously for a
few minutes, and I'll try not to repeat
what's already been said. I want to say a
little about myself.
Where I come from, going on two cen-
turies now, Democrats have believed in
seniority. We've developed in Georgia
developed in Georgia
and in many States of the South, as you
well know, a tradition that once you're
elected, you get reelected. [Laughter] I in-
herited this habit. There's no way I can
break it [laughter]—and I'm certainly
not going to start next year.
But I don't want to talk about just one
person's victory or even the team's victory.
I'm here to talk about a Democratic vic-
tory, a victory that we Democrats
throughout the Nation deserve and we are
going to win in 1980. And I want to talk
to you about our party as seriously as I
know how what it has been, what it
means to me, what it means to you, what
it means to our country.
First of all, Fritz Mondale and I are
Democrats. We are loyal Democrats. We
are lifetime Democrats. Neither of us have
ever in our lives voted for anything ex-
cept Democrats. In 1980 [1976]¹ when
there was a Republican incumbent in the
White House, we ran for President and
won. This has been a very enlightening
and a very inspiring and a very gratifying
22 to 3 years. And since we've been in
the White House, in every action that we
have taken and every word that we have
spoken, we've tried to live up to the high-
est possible principles and ideals of a
Democratic Party, as described by Fritz a
few minutes ago.
Democrats are not afraid of govern-
ment, because we know government can
¹ Printed in the transcript.
work. Government can be responsive to
the people's needs without interfering in
an unnecessary way in people's lives.
Government can help all people, all
Americans, with particular attention to
those who need government's help most.
Government can inspire people to be bet-
ter. Government can probe for weaknesses
in a system that's already good and make
that system better. Government can raise
a banner of ideals, commitments, princi-
ples. Government can help to paint a pic-
ture of a beautiful dream and then inspire
the people to work together to realize
those dreams. Government can create jobs
and expand economic opportunities.
Government can lead the country toward
peace and prosperity.
So, in times of great challenge and great
crisis and great danger to our country, our
people have wisely and historically turned
to the Democratic Party for leadership of
their government. Democrats believe in
sharing that authority, that responsibility,
and that power with the people. Demo-
crats who are worthy of our party's name
don't forget who put us in office.
Democrats are not afraid to face a diffi-
cult challenge, and that's where Fritz and
I have been, along with many of you, the
last 3 years in the thick of our Nation's
most serious challenges, almost all of
which we inherited. We have never
ducked; we have never hidden. We've
fought the hard battles; we've stayed in
the arena where, at times, political blood
has been shed.
I do not want to read you a list of our
accomplishments. The real achievement
of the last 33 months, in my opinion, has
been something quite fundamental. It's
the renewal of a tradition, a tradition of
service that has been reestablished now in
our Nation in government after 8 years
of Republican rule. I don't think I need
remind anyone here about the history of
2016
