Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. In general, I'll defer
questions, but what's the estimated cost
in barrels of oil equivalent? I know it
varies widely, but what kind of range-
say, the plant in Alabama?
DR. STELSON. It would be, right now
in that plant-the cost was less than half
of the cost of oil. Now, of course to the
owner of the plant, he was interested in
the rate of return on his capital invest-
ment, because he had to add capital to
get that, so on and so forth. But in terms
of fuel-gasification of wood, for ex-
ample, in the southeastern part of the
United States is probably competitive
with natural gas right now.
THE PRESIDENT. What's the holdup?
DR. STELSON. Well, it's sort of a
chicken-and-an-egg situation, in that if
you're an industry that doesn't have a lot
of wood, you're rather hesitant to invest
capital to put in a wood-utilization facil-
ity, because you don't know if the supply
system is going to be there. And if you're
in the supply business, you're not going
to invest in a lot of delivery mechanisms
if you don't have any customers.
And so, I think it's got to be worked
up at a fine scale, where you start plants
like this and you build a supply-and-
demand system that then escalates into
a big energy industry.
THE PRESIDENT. Don't hesitate to let
Charlie Duncan know what we can do to
help. [Laughter]
DR. STELSON. Thank you.
FRONTIER OIL REGIONS
DR. PRESS. Our next speaker, Mr.
President, is Dr. Bill Menard, who is Di-
rector of the United States Geological
Survey and one of the world's leading
marine geologists. He will describe some
new frontier oil regions.
DR. MENARD. Thank you.
Good morning, Mr. President, ladies
and gentlemen. I'd like to speak to you
about the contribution that can be made
to our oil problems by the discovery of
what might be called unconventional oil
fields. They're just unconventional be-
cause they're in places we haven't drilled.
And one of the reasons we haven't drilled
is that many of them are much deeper, in
fact, than we can drill at present.
Of course, any energy scenario assumes
that we will find more oil. It's assumed
that we will find thousands or tens of
thousands of tiny oil fields within the con-
tiguous 48 States, where we've explored
so much. It's assumed that we will find
larger fields in the overthrust belt in the
Rockies that's now opening up. It's as-
sumed that we'll find giant fields in the
Continental Shelves and in Alaska.
You'll notice that the less we know
about the area the greater the fields you
expect to find. And the reason for that, in
fact, is that when you begin to explore an
area, you find the big fields early. And as
time goes on and you explore more, you
find smaller ones.
Well, those assumptions are made. I
want to talk to you about a region that
isn't included in the energy scenarios, a
region that nonetheless offers great
promise. The region is the oil potential of
the deep sea beyond the Continental Shelf.
Hollis Hedburg, a distinguished oil geo-
logist, and colleagues have recently sum-
marized their estimates, and I think
there's a growing consensus to this effect
of the potential of this region.
They find in a general way that there
is about the same amount, the same area,
the same amount of potential oil-bearing
sediments in the deep sea in the adjacent
Continental Slope as we have in the oil-
bearing basins of the United States.
Estimating how much oil is in a region
you haven't drilled yet is a very chancy
1544
