Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 16
do hereby designate Thursday, October
11, 1979, as General Pulaski's Memorial
Day, and I direct the appropriate govern-
ment officials to display the flag of the
United States on all government buildings
on that day.
I also invite the people of the United
States to honor the memory of General
Pulaski by holding appropriate exercises
and ceremonies in suitable places through-
out our land.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this sixteenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:33 a.m., August 17, 1979]
Budget Deferrals
Message to the Congress. August 16, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment
Control Act of 1974, I herewith report
four new deferrals of budget authority
totalling $204.5 million. These items in-
volve economic support fund assistance
for Egypt, the White House Conference
on Aging, the National Alcohol Fuels
Commission, and the National Commis-
sion on the International Year of the
Child.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
August 16, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of Au-
gust 21, 1979.
Federal Mine Safety and
Health Act of 1977
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. August 16, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith the 1978 Annual
Report of Health Activities under the
Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety
Act of 1969.¹
The Report, prepared by HEW's Na-
tional Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health, Center for Disease Control,
Public Health Service, describes the coal
mine health research conducted by the
Institute, as well as the Institute's medical
examination program for coal miners re-
quired by the Act.
I recommend that, in order to save
HEW staff resources and time, the statu-
tory reporting requirement for this Re-
port be changed from once every year to
once every three years. All of the infor-
mation contained in this Report is avail-
able to Congress during annual appro-
priations and oversight hearings, and
HEW will inform Congress immediately
of any scientific breakthroughs in the
field.
The White House,
August 16, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The 11-page report is entitled "The
Federal Mine Health Program in 1978: An-
nual Report of Health Activities Under the
Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977—
U.S. Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, Public Health Service, Center for
Disease Control, National Institute for Occu-
pational Safety and Health, March 1979."
EDITOR'S NOTE: As amended by the Fed-
eral Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.
1445
