Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
of their energy requirements in New Eng-
land. And, as you know, they are very
heavily dependent on imported oil at a
rapidly increasing cost.
There is no way that I can see that
many of these possibilities can be ex-
plored—ranging all the way from biomass,
the insulation of low-income families'
homes, the scientific and research devel-
opments that must be a prerequisite for
advances in new techniques, the promo-
tion of these procedures in the public's
mind—without the passage of proposals to
the Congress for financing. The windfall
profits tax, which would leave an ade-
quate reservoir of funds for the oil com-
panies to explore for conventional gas and
oil, has to be the basis for these scientific
and other opportunities. And I hope that
all those who are interested, including the
oil companies themselves, other producers
of energy, the consumers, the Members
of Congress, interested public officials,
will join in without further divisive de-
bate or delaying tactics, and get the
energy package passed. We've been long
overdue on it.
And my own belief is, my conviction is
that our Nation has the scientific and
technological ability. Our free enterprise
system, with its innate competitiveness and
innovation, is ready, and I think we can
forge a very enlightened relationship be-
tween Government, with the initiative of
guaranteed prices, guaranteed markets,
for new synthetic fuels that would be very
productive.
The proposals that we've made to the
Congress would involve a minor Govern-
ment involvement, for instance, in the
production of new kinds of fuel, synthetic
fuels. I think out of 80 possible projects
that would be included in the new energy
production corporation, a maximum of
3 out of the 80 would be operated poten-
tially by the Federal Government, and if
any of those 3, or all of the 3, were viable
projects for the private sector, then the
Government would defer to the private
sector for the production of those synthetic
fuels. The reason for including just that
small number was that some are likely to
be so experimental in nature and so distant
from cost-effectiveness, if they are even
successful, that there must be some limited
Government role.
But the desire that I have as President
to see government and private industry,
scientists, technicians, engineers, our free
enterprise system, both in production and
experimentation, working with an en-
lightened American public is very
important.
I hope that the press, who are repre-
sented here today, will make a maximum
effort to report to the American public
what has been delivered to us.
Many of these reports are fairly basic.
I was acquainted with some of the data
before I came, but it's very important for
the American people in general to be well
educated on what the possibilities are.
There's no reason for discouragement.
I'm convinced that our Nation has the
capability of overcoming the energy chal-
lenge, and to the extent that we can suc-
ceed with conservation, with solar energy
of all kinds, with the extraction of exist-
ing American supplies of natural gas and
oil, increased use of coal in an environ-
mentally acceptable fashion, we can min-
imize our dependence on those technolo-
gies that might have potential adverse
economic effects-synthetic fuels, nuclear
power, and so forth.
So, I think the ordering of priorities
and an enlightened public, a comprehen-
sive energy policy approved by the
Congress, and the cooperation of all
Americans, particularly between the pri-
vate sector and government, in my opin-
1560
