Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
On the subject of leadership, I think
the records have to be examined. Let me
just not refer to him, because he can speak
for himself. But I've never been afraid,
since I've been in office, to tackle a diffi-
cult issue, even if I knew it was going to
cost me votes. I'll give you just two or
three quick examples.
I think this is one example of leader-
ship: In the Panama Canal treaties, this
had been negotiated for 14 years, and
when we ran a public opinion poll-I
didn't run it, Gallup Poll did it independ-
ently of me-only 8 percent of the Amer-
ican people were in favor of it. But I felt
that it was in the interest of our country
to go
ahead and consummate the treaty
and to have it ratified, which has now
been done. I could have ignored it.
When I made my speech to the Nation
in April of 1977 on the evening television,
I said that when I go to the country with
an energy policy the consumers are going
to be dissatisfied, the producers are going
to be dissatisfied, there is no way to win
politically—I'll probably lose 15 percent
in the public opinion polls. I grossly un-
derestimated my loss in the public opinion
polls, but I think this needed to be done.
And I won't go down the list of things.
We have had a country at peace. We've
not had a single person wounded or killed
in combat since I've been in office. That's
a sign. In addition, we've had some crises
where it required a steady hand and a
careful and deliberative decision to be
made. I don't think I panic in a crisis.
I'm willing to fight for what I believe
in. I was willing to challenge the Republi-
can incumbents in 1975 and 1976 and pre-
vailed. I'm an incumbent President. I
think that my record has got to be ex-
amined very closely, what we've achieved
and what we haven't achieved.
We've made good progress in finally
getting a SALT treaty. It must be ratified.
It's in the best interest of our country to
control nuclear weapons. There has been a
7-year effort to get the treaty completed,
unsuccessfully; I was fortunate enough to
get it done. I've already mentioned some
of the things that we've done on unem-
ployment.
The Mideast is an area where the hearts
and the minds and the souls of Americans
went out to an area tortured by constant
war, not just the last 30 or so years when
four wars have been fought and thou-
sands of people have been killed, but liter-
ally for hundreds of years. And I think it
required some degree of leadership, against
the advice of all my diplomats, against the
advice of all my political advisers-"Do
not go to Camp David," "Do not go to
the Far East-to the Mideast, because you
are doomed to failure." But I had confi-
dence in Prime Minister Begin and Presi-
dent Sadat, and we made some progress.
That's the kind of thing that I've tried
to do. But we've had some disappoint-
ments. And I will have to face the music
for those disappointments and try to point
out to the American people what might be
accomplished in the next 4 years if my
announcement later on this fall is as a
candidate.
Q. I wish you luck. Thank you, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
ISRAELI SECURITY AND DEFENSE
Q. Good evening, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening.
Q. My name is Zahava Teitelbaum,
and I'm a housewife and I work for a pro-
gram for new immigrants. I just came
back last week from a trip to Jerusalem,
the beautiful and divided capital of the
Israeli Government.
My question is, I know the United
States would never tolerate terrorist at-
1751
