Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 9
for his knowledge, most of which comes
from Millie, which I appreciate—
I appreciate
[laughter] for his instincts in politics, in
times of trial and tribulation, of hopes
and dreams and frustrations and desires;
and for his support, which has been un-
wavering.
When I took office and this country
faced more than 8-percent unemploy-
ment, Tip made sure that the Congress of
the United States passed the most ambi-
tious jobs programs since the New Deal,
the Great Depression. He's often said that
work and wages are what the Democratic
Party is all about.
I remember those depression years,
Tip, when you were in college and I was a
farmboy. The day's wages for a grown,
able man was a dollar; for a woman work-
ing alongside of him, 50 cents; for a child
less than 16 years old, 25 cents a day. And
the Democratic Party was struggling with
a minimum wage law, opposed by some
who called it the verge of socialism, to
guarantee factory workers 25 cents an
hour.
Today, after 3 years, there are 8 million
more Americans on the job with work and
wages, earning their own way, living in
dignity because of that belief. This past
month we added hundreds of thousands
of new jobs and brought the unemploy-
ment rate down again. Now, that's Tip
O'Neill, Democratic Party government,
and I am proud to be part of it.
He's long believed in giving our young
people the best education that this country
can offer. This affair tonight is a vivid
demonstration of that commitment. In
the last 3 years since Tip O'Neill has been
Speaker, Federal aid to education has in-
creased by 60 percent, and now we have
a new Department of Education to focus
ever more attention on this integral part
of America's present and its future. And
Tip O'Neill deserves much of the credit.
That's Tip O'Neill, Democratic Party
government, and I'm proud to be part of
it.
When it became imperative to act with
our national security at stake, he led the
House to enact without delay the most far-
reaching energy program our country has
ever seen. Victory is now in sight for both
Houses of the Congress if we work to-
gether. That's Tip O'Neill, Democratic
Party government, and I'm proud to be a
part of it.
Tip has never been afraid to stand up
and to speak up for what he believes and
to work for what he knows is right. At a
time when people have hungered for lead-
ers who tell the truth, the unvarnished
truth, he has spoken the truth, unafraid
of the consequences.
Most of all, however, I admire Tip
O'Neill's undiluted patriotism. It's a
patriotism that seeks to build on the great-
ness of America. It's a patriotism that
never changes. It's a patriotism deep with-
in his heart. It's a patriotism he's not em-
barrassed to express. It's a patriotism that
preserves the enduring values that
founded our country: a commitment to
peace, the freedom, and the opportunity
of our land, the compassion and the gen-
erosity of our people that seeks to harness
change, never afraid of it, and to build
an even greater future for our children
and our grandchildren. That's the patriot-
ism of Tip O'Neill, and that is the root
of the strength of America.
The events in Iran remind us that our
basic values mean as much today as at
any time in our Nation's history. Now
those qualities are being severely tested,
not just by a mob in Iran, who hold host-
age innocent Americans, but by the
changing nature of the entire world. I
have no doubt that we in America will
prevail, because we are right, because we
are strong, because we are united.
2211
