Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Christmas Pageant of Peace
Remarks on Lighting the National
Community Christmas Tree.
December 13, 1979
Christmas means a lot of things. It
means love. It means warmth. It means
friendship. It means family. It means joy.
It means light. But everyone this Christ-
mas will not be experiencing those deep
feelings. At this moment there are 50
Americans who don't have freedom, who
don't have joy, and who don't have
warmth, who don't have their families
with them. And there are 50 American
families in this Nation who also will not
experience all the joys and the light and
the happiness of Christmas.
I think it would be appropriate for all
those in this audience and for all those
listening to my voice or watching on tele-
vision to pause just for a few seconds in a
silent prayer that American hostages will
come home safe and come home soon-
if you'd please join me just for a moment.
[Pause for silent prayer.]
Thank you very much.
Nineteen seventy-nine has not been a
bad year. Many good things have
happened to us individually and have also
happened to our Nation. Not far from
here, on the north side of the White
House, we saw a remarkable ceremony,
headed by a Jew, the leader of Israel, a
Moslem, the President of Egypt, and
self, a Christian, the President of our
country, signing a treaty of peace. This
peace treaty was a historic development,
and it was compatible with the commit-
ment that we feel so deeply in the religious
season now upon us.
my-
Our Nation also opened up its arms of
understanding, diplomatic relationships,
and friendship-our Nation, the strong-
est on Earth, and China, the most popu-
lous nation on Earth. The establishment
of new friendships is part of the Christmas
season.
I went to Vienna and met with Presi-
dent Brezhnev. And he and I signed the
SALT II treaty, which will help to limit
and to reduce the spread of nuclear wea-
pons, to bring about a better understand-
ing between our two great countries, and
to search for the kind of reduction of
armaments that will lead, I think, to the
realization of the true spirit of Christmas.
This fall we had a visit from a great
spiritual leader, Pope John Paul II, who
traveled throughout our country and who
spoke in a quiet voice of understanding,
of compassion, of love, of commitment, of
morality, of ethics, of the unchanging
things that are part of the spirit of Christ-
mas. And I remember one thing in par-
ticular that he said on the White House
lawn. He said, "Do not be afraid. Do not
be afraid." And as you know, that's the
same message that the angels brought to
the shepherds near Bethlehem the night
that our Savior was born: "Fear not. Be
not afraid." Many of the problems in our
world derive from fear, from a lack of
confidence in ourselves and, particularly,
a lack of confidence in what we can do,
with God.
We hope we'll soon see peace in Zim-
babwe-Rhodesia, a nation that has suffer-
ed much in the last few years. But we've
also seen some needs for additional effort.
This is the Year of the Child, but it's
possibly true that in Cambodia, or Kam-
puchea, the children will have suffered
more in 1979 than in any other year in our
lifetime children so weak, so starved,
that they don't even have the strength
to cry. We've seen Vietnam refugees put
to sea with very little hope of ever reach-
ing land again. And our country has
2244
