July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
their massive use of oil by 50 percent with-
in the next decade and switch to other
fuels, especially coal, our most abundant
energy source.
Point five: To make absolutely certain
that nothing stands in the way of achiev-
ing these goals, I will urge Congress to
create an energy mobilization board
which, like the War Production Board in
World War II, will have the responsibility
and authority to cut through the redtape,
the delays, and the endless roadblocks to
completing key energy projects.
We will protect our environment. But
when this Nation critically needs a re-
finery or a pipeline, we will build it.
Point six: I'm proposing a bold con-
servation program to involve every State,
every State,
county, and city and every average Amer-
ican in our energy battle. This effort will
permit you to build conservation into
homes and your lives at a cost you can
afford.
your
I ask Congress to give me authority for
mandatory conservation and for standby
gasoline rationing. To further conserve
energy, I'm proposing tonight an extra
$10 billion over the next decade to
strengthen our public transportation
systems. And I'm asking you for your good
and for your Nation's security to take no
unnecessary trips, to use carpools or pub-
lic transportation whenever you can, to
park your car one extra day per week, to
obey the speed limit, and to set your
thermostats to save fuel. Every act of en-
ergy conservation like this is more than
just common sense-I tell you it is an
act of patriotism.
Our Nation must be fair to the poorest
among us, so we will increase aid to needy
Americans to cope with rising energy
prices. We often think of conservation
only in terms of sacrifice. In fact, it is the
most painless and immediate way of re-
building our Nation's strength. Every gal-
lon of oil each one of us saves is a new
form of production. It gives us more free-
dom, more confidence, that much more
control over our own lives.
So, the solution of our energy crisis can
also help us to conquer the crisis of the
spirit in our country. It can rekindle our
sense of unity, our confidence in the fu-
ture, and give our Nation and all of us
individually a new sense of purpose.
You know we can do it. We have the
natural resources. We have more oil in
our shale alone than several Saudi
Arabias. We have more coal than any
nation on Earth. We have the world's
highest level of technology. We have the
most skilled work force, with innovative
genius, and I firmly believe that we have
the national will to win this war.
I do not promise you that this struggle
for freedom will be easy. I do not prom-
ise a quick way out of our Nation's prob-
lems, when the truth is that the only way
out is an all-out effort. What I do prom-
ise you is that I will lead our fight, and
I will enforce fairness in our struggle, and
I will ensure honesty. And above all, I
will act.
We can manage the short-term short-
ages more effectively and we will, but
there are no short-term solutions to our
long-range problems. There is simply no
way to avoid sacrifice.
Twelve hours from now I will speak
again in Kansas City, to expand and to
explain further our energy program. Just
as the search for solutions to our energy
shortages has now led us to a new aware-
ness of our Nation's deeper problems, so
our willingness to work for those solu-
tions in energy can strengthen us to at-
tack those deeper problems.
I will continue to travel this country,
to hear the people of America. You can
help me to develop a national agenda for
the 1980's. I will listen and I will act. We
1240
