Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
that where the breakthrough on price is
likely to come?
DR. GOLDSMITH. It's one of the most
important when we try to do an analy-
sis of where the cost elements are in grow-
ing or making a solar array, we would
find that about one-third of the price will
be wrapped up in this-when we get to
the point where it's a competitive alter-
nate system—that one-third of the price
will be wrapped up in that purified silicon
material.
DR. PRESS. Mr. President, the report
had indicated that silicon accounted for
20 percent of the material cost of solar
cells now, and with this, the new develop-
ment that you were referring to, it would
be reduced from 20 percent to 2 percent.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
My first reaction is one of apprecia-
tion to Dr. Press for setting this seminar
up, for Joe Pettit and those at Georgia
Tech, for making it possible for us to as-
semble here, for Charles Duncan, who
has enormous new responsibilities, for
promising me that he'll carry out all the
opportunities that have been presented,
and especially for the panelists, who've
given what I consider to be an exciting
and extremely interesting presentation of
some of the possibilities in resolving our
energy problems.
I don't think there's any argument with
the fact that the cheapest and best way
to meet our goals of reduced dependence
on imported oil is through conservation,
and this is an area that has not been
adequately explored.
The technology is present, the primary
obstacle has been convincing people that
it's a worthy effort. I've spent a good bit
of time the last 2 or 3 days talking to
Members of Congress, who are home in
their districts or in their States all over
the Nation, and almost invariably, when
I've called the Members of Congress in
the House and Senate, they say
they say that
there's sometimes a startling new reali-
zation and interest on the part of the
American people that we do have an en-
ergy problem and that it can be solved
if we all work together.
It's not been possible in the last 2
years to convince American people that
it's a worthy subject for them to explore
and for which they can make a contribu-
tion. So, I think conservation is some-
thing that we need to emphasize, first of
all. There's obviously an exciting possi-
bility that within existing natural re-
sources that our Nation possesses, that we
can increase productivity both in the per-
centage of the materials that we extract
in coal mining, oil production, natural
gas, geothermal, and also in new methods
of producing materials which, in the past,
have not been economically feasible, but
with the new higher prices of energy on
an international basis, that they are, in-
deed, competitive and which can use
technologies long extant.
We also, of course, are interested in,
and I think the public is completely sold
on, the possibility for solar energy use
and that of replenishable supplies. One of
the most intriguing to me was that Geor-
gia now produces 6 quads of energy in
biomass. And I've got several acres of-
[laughter] of scrub oak trees that I would
like to contribute to the process at a mini-
mum cost. This is the kind of thing that I
believe is worthy of greatly escalated ex-
ploration.
New England, obviously, has done a
great job in publicity surrounding the use
of wood-burning stoves, which is one use
of biomass, but the conversion of waste
products is an exciting possibility.
I was given some data the last time I
went up to New England that just the
waste from their forests that's left on the
ground could meet a substantial portion
1559
