Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 13
kara. In 1974-75 he was diplomat in resi-
dence at Florida State University.
American Hostages in Iran
Statement by the White House Press
Secretary. December 13, 1979
We have read reports from Iran today
that international observers will be al-
lowed to see our people who are being
held hostage.
I want to emphasize that for any such
visit to the hostages to accomplish a hu-
manitarian objective and to be responsive
to international opinion and to acceptable
standards of behavior, it is important that
those who see the hostages be allowed to
see all of them, to talk with them, and to
report to the families of the hostages and
to the world on the condition of each
hostage. Any observers allowed on the
Embassy compound should be qualified,
internationally recognized, impartial,
neutral observers and should include a
qualified medical doctor. Visits by these
observers should occur regularly and fre-
quently until the hostages are released.
If this occurs, we would consider it a
step forward.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell read the
statement at approximately 11:45 a.m. during
his regular briefing for reporters in the Briefing
Room at the White House.
Gannett Newspaper and
Broadcast Executives
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer
Session at a White House Briefing.
December 13, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
Well, it's a pleasure to be back with
you. The last time I was joined with this
group was in the same building in a dif-
ferent room, and now you see what Room
450 looks like. This is where your reporters
put me through a grilling on the occasions
when I come over for a press conference.
Some people ask me how I react to
those press conferences, and it's hard for
me to answer that question honestly and
on the record. But I was thinking about
one of the things that Hedley Donovan ยน
said-one of your past associates. When
he was at Fortune, he was working late at
night, I understand, typing, bent over,
sweating, worrying, and somebody came
up and said, "Do you really enjoy writ-
ing?" And he said, "Well, let me put it
this way: I enjoy having written."
[Laughter] That's kind of the way with
me. I enjoy having had press conferences,
but I don't particularly enjoy it at the
time.
I'm delighted to be with you. This is an
important occasion, I know, in the history
of Gannett. You have achieved a great
level of performance and, also, business
success. A very reliable source I have
within Gannett has told me confidentially
that you're now the largest news chain in
the Nation, has more readers. The same
reliable source told me when he was work-
ing for me that it was very important to
have a better working relationship with
the press. [Laughter] I understand that
Vice President Walt Wurfel 2 has put that
philosophy to work since he's been with
you.
I thank you for coming. I would like to
say a couple of things and then answer
two or three questions if you don't mind.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
Our Nation is now embroiled in a cir-
cumstance in Iran that's not only difficult
1 Senior Adviser to the President.
2 Walter W. Wurfel, former Deputy Press
Secretary to the President.
2239
