Nov. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
dependence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:40 a.m., November 2, 1979]
Aid for Kampucheans
Proclamation 4700. November 2, 1979
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby call upon all Americans to give
generously to the voluntary relief agency
of their choice to alleviate this terrible
suffering, asking specifically that the dona-
tion be earmarked for Kampuchean re-
lief. Further, I hereby designate each Sat-
urday and Sunday in November until
Thanksgiving as days for Americans in
their synagogues, churches, and other
By the President of the United States places of worship to donate to this cause,
of America
A Proclamation
Thirty-seven years ago, a holocaust
began that was to take the lives of more
than six million human beings. The world
stood by silently, in a moral lapse whose
enormity still numbs the human mind.
We now face, once again, the threat of
avoidable death and suffering for literally
millions of people, and this time we must
act swiftly to save the men, women, and
children who are our brothers and sisters
in God's family.
The International Committee of the
Red Cross and the United Nations' Chil-
dren's Fund recently appealed jointly for
$111 million in aid to help the millions of
Kampucheans, formerly known as Cam-
bodians, who are facing death from star-
vation during the next six months. We
must respond to this appeal, and we must
also respond to the related needs for food,
medicine, and shelter for Kampuchean
refugees who are fleeing to Thailand.
A major program has been launched
by the American government to support
this relief effort, but it is too important
to be left to the government alone. I am
certain that the American people, as indi-
viduals and families, through churches,
schools, voluntary organizations, and busi-
nesses, will want to be a part of this emer-
gency humanitarian response to a desper-
ate and terrible need.
and I call upon leaders of the religious
community to take whatever measures
are needed to publicize and facilitate these
donations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
to set my hand this second day of Novem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
1:29 p.m., November 2, 1979]
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's public schedule and other
items of general interest announced by the
White House Press Office and not in-
cluded elsewhere in this issue.
October 28
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David, Md.
October 29
The President met at the White House
with:
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
-Members of the House of Repre-
sentatives to discuss hospital cost
containment legislation.
The President participated in a briefing
2080
