Oct. 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tell you tonight that if the Senate fails
to approve the SALT treaty, these lead-
ers and their countries would be confused
and deeply alarmed. If our allies should
lose confidence in our ability to negoti-
ate successfully for the control of nuclear
weapons, then our effort to build a
stronger and more united NATO could
fail.
I know that for Members of Congress
this is a troubling and a difficult issue, in
a troubling and difficult time. But the
Senate has a tradition of being the great-
est deliberative body in the world, and
the whole world is watching the Senate
today. I'm confident that all Senators will
perform their high responsibilities as the
national interest requires.
Politics and nuclear arsenals do not
mix. We must not play politics with the
security of the United States. We must
not play politics with the survival of the
human race. We must not play politics
with SALT II. It is much too important
for that too vital to our country, to our
allies, and to the cause of peace.
The purpose of the SALT II treaty
and the purpose of my actions in dealing
with Soviet and Cuban military relation-
ship are exactly the same-to keep our
Nation secure and to maintain a world at
peace.
As a powerful nation, as a super power,
we have special responsibilities to main-
tain stability even when there are serious
disagreements among nations. We've had
fundamental differences with the Soviet
Union since 1917. I have no illusions
about these differences. The best way to
deal with them successfully is to maintain
American unity, American will, and
American strength. That is what I am
determined to do.
The struggle for peace-the long, hard
struggle to make weapons of mass destruc-
tion under control of human reason and
human law-is a central drama of our
age.
At another time of challenge in our Na-
tion's history, President Abraham Lincoln
told the American people: "We shall
nobly save, or meanly lose, the last best
hope of earth."
We acted wisely then and preserved the
Nation. Let us act wisely now and pre-
serve the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. from the
Oval Office at the White House. His remarks
were broadcast live on radio and television.
Meeting With President William
R. Tolbert, Jr., of Liberia
White House Statement. October 2, 1979
President Carter met this morning for
an hour in the Cabinet Room with Presi-
dent William R. Tolbert, Jr., of Liberia.
They had a warm and comprehensive ex-
change of views on bilateral and regional
issues.
President Carter expressed the impor-
tance of the United States special rela-
tionship with Liberia and our desire to
enhance and promote it. The two Presi-
dents agreed to consider the visit of a
group of distinguished Americans to
Liberia in the near future. The group
will work towards strengthening U.S. ties
with Liberia and focus on economic and
development cooperation in the public
and private sectors.
The two Presidents had an extensive
discussion of President Tolbert's role as
Chairman of the Organization of African
1806
