Sept. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
At their second meeting the Presidents
had agreed to a restructuring of the Con-
sultative Mechanism and had requested
their Secretaries of State and Foreign
Relations to report on the matter. The
first order of business at this meeting, ac-
cordingly, was to review that report. The
Presidents expressed satisfaction with the
intensive effort made by the working
groups of the Consultative Mechanism
and the substantive progress achieved in
those groups. They concluded that the
Mechanism has proven to be an effective
vehicle for coordinating and further de-
fining bilateral relations. They therefore
instructed their Administrations to con-
tinue working through the Mechanism in
the areas of mutual interest already iden-
tified.
President Carter and President López
Portillo reviewed the status of bilateral
consultations in the energy field and ex-
pressed their pleasure at the successful
conclusion of governmental negotiations
for the sale of Mexican surplus associated
natural gas to the United States. They
considered this agreement advantageous
to both countries. Regarding another
energy source, the Presidents expressed
their hope that ongoing negotiations for
electric energy interchanges along their
common border may also be satisfactorily
concluded in the near future.
Both Presidents noted that the com-
mon border offers unique opportunities
for close collaboration in many areas.
They expressed their interest in enhanc-
ing the environment along the border and
preserving the quality of life in the region.
Presidents Carter and López Portillo
agreed on the need for both countries to
prevent events or actions on one side of
the land or maritime boundary from de-
grading the environment on the other
side. They also instructed their Adminis-
trations to give a high priority to such
questions. They also agreed to work with-
in the Consultative Mechanism to deter-
mine if it is possible or appropriate to
conclude agreements for measures by both
countries to lessen or eliminate environ-
mental damage in the future.
The Presidents recalled that last Feb-
ruary they had instructed the Interna-
tional Boundary and Water Commission
to recommend measures that might be
adopted within the context of existing
agreements to achieve further progress
towards a permanent solution to border
sanitation problems. The Presidents re-
viewed the recommendations submitted
by the Commission, and found them
satisfactory as a basic agreement for solu-
tion of border sanitation problems. The
Presidents asked the Commission to pro-
ceed as soon as possible to conclude the
supplementary recommendations for com-
pletion of the works required to provide
the good quality water which they had
recognized in February to be so important
for the health and well being of the citi-
zens of both countries living and traveling
in the border area.
The Presidents paid special attention to
the phenomenon of the migratory flow
between Mexico and the United States,
including specific issues that arise there-
from on both sides of the border. They
recognized that, as they had agreed last
February, it is essential to know with
greater precision and detail all aspects of
the matter.
The President of Mexico accordingly
outlined the purposes and first partial re-
sults of the national survey of emigration
to the northern border and the United
States, undertaken by the Department of
Labor and Social Welfare. This large-scale
1790
