Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 17
from 1946 until 1962, when he joined his
current firm.
Cutler is a member of the executive
committee of the Lawyers' Committee for
Civil Rights under Law, and is a director
of the Mexican-American Legal Defense
Fund. He was Special Counsel to the
President's Committee on Urban Housing
from 1967 to 1968. In 1968 and 1969, he
was executive director of the National
Commission on the Causes and Preven-
tion of Violence, and he was chairman of
the District of Columbia Committee on
the Administration of Justice under
Emergency Conditions.
Price Controls on Heavy
Crude Oil
country by 1990 by about 500,000 barrels
per day. Much of this increase will occur
much earlier, between now and 1985, and,
therefore, will make an immediate con-
tribution to our Nation's security.
Our Nation is blessed with approxi-
mately 10 billion barrels of crude oil re-
serves which are heavy oil. Much of it's
in California; other substantial reserves
are in Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, and
Wyoming. However, this very thick,
heavy oil is expensive to produce, be-
cause it's so difficult to extract from the
ground and to transport to the refineries.
The combination of high cost of the pro-
duction and transportation, plus the pre-
viously existing price controls, have, in-
deed, impeded development of this im-
portant source of American energy.
Today's action will end this problem.
Remarks on Signing Executive Order 12153. Finally we'll be able to take advantage of
August 17, 1979
To implement a program to reduce our
excessive dependence on foreign oil is ab-
solutely necessary to secure and to pre-
serve our own Nation's security. We must
at this time minimize both divisive de-
bates and any further delay.
Our goals are, first of all, to encourage
conservation to eliminate the waste of en-
ergy and, secondly, to increase production
of energy in all forms in our own country.
The Congress and, indeed, every single
American must act both boldly and as
soon as possible to carry out these two
goals.
Today, as President, I'm taking action
that will significantly increase production
of American crude oil reserves, lifting
price controls on heavy crude oil. This Ex-
ecutive order, which I will sign in a min-
ute, coupled with other related actions,
will increase crude oil production in our
a domestic energy source which can be
the equivalent of all the oil that we know
of in Alaska's Prudhoe Bay reserves.
Heavy crude oil is one fuel which we can
provide with important production in-
centives without having an adverse im-
pact on inflation. The more domestic oil
we produce, the less our Nation must de-
pend on uncertain and extremely expen-
sive foreign sources of oil.
With this action, I have taken all of the
major steps on which I can act alone to
accelerate domestic production. It's now
up to Congress to act on the other pro-
posals which I made to cut our import
dependence.
Pending before Congress are a number
of vitally important measures that can cut
our dependence on foreign oil more than
half by the year 1990. The most impor-
tant of these, and the basis for all the oth-
ers, is the windfall profits tax. The issue
1449
