Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 30
Victor Palmieri as Ambassador at Large,
with special responsibilities for coordinat-
ing refugee affairs. Mr. Palmieri is one of
the best managers in this country. He has
made his reputation by solving large-scale,
complicated problems in major organiza-
tional situations.
The President has selected him for this
very important post, because the job of
saving literally hundreds of thousands,
perhaps millions of people, requires the
best managerial skills that this Nation has
to offer. Mr. Palmieri will have the Presi-
dent's full support in mobilizing every
available resource of the Government and
the private sector. Mr. Palmieri will be
working closely with the First Lady, the
Secretary of State, and the Secretary of
Defense in carrying out the duties and re-
sponsibilities of this office.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell made the
announcement at 11:32 a.m. to reporters as-
sembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
Following the announcement, the First Lady
and Mr. Palmieri made brief remarks. Matthew
Schwartz has been executive director
of the Washington Council on Crime and
Delinquency since 1977.
He was born November 1, 1944, in
Minneapolis, Minn. He received a B.S.
from the University of Minnesota in 1966
and an M.S.W. from the University of
Washington in 1968.
From 1968 to 1969, Schwartz was
senior planner in social services for the
Minneapolis Department of Planning &
Development. From 1969 to 1972, he was
director of community services for the
Hennepin County (Minnesota) Depart-
ment of Court Services, and from 1969
to 1973, he was an instructor in the law
enforcement program at North Hennepin
State Junior College.
From 1972 to 1973, Schwartz was direc-
tor of purchase services for the Hennepin
County Welfare Department. From 1973
to 1977, he was executive director of the
John Howard Association.
Nimetz, Acting Coordinator for Refugee Af- Department of Energy
fairs, Department of State, Ambassador Henry
D. Owen, Special Representative of the Presi-
dent for International Economic Summits, and
Lincoln Bloomfield, of the National Security
Council staff, then answered reporters' ques-
tions. The press release also includes a tran-
script of those remarks and the question-and-
answer session.
Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration
Nomination of Ira M. Schwartz To Be
Associate Administrator. November 30, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Ira M. Schwartz, of
Bellevue, Wash., to be Associate Adminis-
trator of Law Enforcement Assistance. He
would replace John M. Rector, resigned.
Nomination of Leslie J. Goldman To Be an
Assistant Secretary. November 30, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Leslie J. Goldman, of
Des Plaines, Ill., to be an Assistant Secre-
tary of Energy. He would replace Harry
Bergold, resigned, and his area of respon-
sibility would be international affairs.
Goldman has been principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Energy for Inter-
national Affairs since earlier this year.
He was born April 22, 1945, in Chi-
cago, Ill. He received a B.A. from the
University of Michigan in 1967 and an
LL.B. from the University of Michigan
Law School in 1970.
From 1970 to 1977, Goldman was spe-
cial counsel to Senator Adlai E. Steven-
son. In 1977 he served as counsel to Spe-
2183
