Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
states, localities, Indian tribes, and private
landholders to designate trails on their
lands.
Finally, I will submit legislation to the
Congress which will designate the 513-
mile Natchez Trace National Trail
through Tennessee, Alabama and Missis-
sippi. I will resubmit legislation to estab-
lish the Potomac Heritage Trail through
Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Virginia,
Virginia and Washington, D.C. And I am
reaffirming my support for the 3,200-mile
North Country Trail, extending from the
State of New York to North Dakota,
which has already passed the House of
Representatives.
I am also reaffirming the Administra-
tion's commitment to assuring the protec-
tion of the Appalachian Trail, one of
America's best known and most popular
recreation trails. The 2,000-mile Appala-
lachian Trail winds through 14 states and
is readily accessible to nearly half of the
population of the U.S. It has been created
by a volunteer movement without parallel
in the history of outdoor recreation in
America. In 1978 this Administration sup-
ported and I signed into law a bill to pro-
tect threatened portions of the right-of-
way which are located on private lands. I
expect this goal to be substantially
achieved by September 30, 1981. This is
a prompt but realistic timetable for the
acquisition program.
II. AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION
From our beginnings as a nation we
have sustained ourselves and others on
abundant yields from our farmlands. In
this century, scientific and technological
advances have increased our agricultural
production to unsurpassed levels.
But in emphasizing ever-increasing pro-
duction we have sometimes neglected to
maintain the soil, water, and biological re-
sources upon which the long-term stability
and productivity of our agriculture de-
pends. These resources are being degraded
in many areas of the country. Our farm
and land management practices have led
to excessive soil erosion, we have over-
used chemical fertilizers and pesticides,
and some of our most productive farm-
lands are being converted to nonagricul-
tural uses. The agricultural conservation
initiatives that I am announcing today
address these issues.
Soil Conservation Incentives
Over the past half century we have
invested more than $20 billion of federal
funds in efforts to conserve soil. These
funds have been used for cost sharing,
technical assistance, resource manage-
ment, loans, research, and education. Yet
in that same half century wind and water
erosion have removed half the fertile top-
soil from nearly one-third of the Nation's
potentially usable croplands. The cost of
replacing just the plant nutrients lost to
erosion has been estimated at $18 billion a
year. Moreover, agricultural runoff ad-
versely affects two-thirds of the Nation's
streams.
Our soil protection programs have un-
doubtedly prevented even worse soil loss,
but we must do better to maintain the
long-term productivity of the soil.
The Department of Agriculture is now
making an important appraisal of soil and
water conservation policies under the Soil
and Water Resources Conservation Act of
1977. The first Appraisal, Program and
Policy reports required by the Resources
Conservation Act (RCA) are due in
January 1980. These documents will
analyze conservation problems nation-
wide, set conservation targets and pro-
pose ways to solve the problems. They
will provide an essential first step in the
1367
