Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
are not the essence of what makes us
Americans.
The real meaning of America is not
encompassed in the material wealth and
the military power of our country, for we
know that wealth and power can be a po-
tential for evil as well as for good. We
measure the real meaning of America, as
in a human life, in our intangible values,
values which do not change-our care for
one another, our commitment to human
freedom, our search for justice, our devo-
tion to human rights and to world peace
and the patriotism and the basic goodness
of the people of our Nation.
These qualities cannot be measured.
They're invisible. Yet, these are the true
strengths of America which channel our
wealth and our strength, not for evil, but
for good.
These are the things that have drawn
so many oppressed and friendless people
to our shores and that have made Amer-
ica a beacon of freedom for millions of
people around the world who have never
met an American face to face. And these
are the qualities that give hope and moral
sustenance to many here at home in our
own country for whom the ideals of
America are still imperfectly realized—
the poor among us, the minorities, those
who may not speak English, those who
lack proper education or adequate health
care or who have talents which are yet
unawakened.
We are the greatest and, I believe, the
most free nation on Earth. Yet all of us
know that we still have a long journey
ahead before the powerful, transcendent
ideals of America are fully translated into
reality in the daily lives of all people in
our country.
But if the history of America shows
anything, it shows that America is capable
of change. America is capable of change
because we have the courage and because
the conscience of America is strong.
All of the great movements of Ameri-
can history, from the Revolution to the
abolition of slavery, from the struggle for
women's suffrage to the peaceful crusade
for civil rights in our own generation, all
these movements and others like them
have called upon the conscience of Amer-
ica. And we have found that because of
that conscience, America changes, Amer-
ica makes progress, America comes ever
closer to the realization of the majestic
ideals on which this country was founded.
The conscience of America is rooted
in its institutions and it's rooted in the
ethics of the Judeo-Christian tradition.
That tradition has many expressions, but
within our religions, it's not enough. It's
also rooted in our secular life as well, and
that gap can constantly be bridged by
human beings who search for the correla-
tion of the two. It's varied expressions are
as diverse as we American people our-
selves, but underlying that diversity is a
basic unity of belief and purpose.
I've spoken recently of a crisis of con-
fidence in this country and a need for
unity. Of course, we are proud of our di-
versity. Our pluralistic society is an im-
portant source of vitality and creativity
of American life. And I would guess that
the American society is the most diverse
in the entire world. But we must not per-
mit diversity to degenerate into division.
In a time of trial, we must not permit
the legitimate contest of competing views
to become a war of group against group,
special interest against special interest,
and finally, each of us against all the
others.
The motto of our country, as you know,
is "E Pluribus Unum"-"Out of Many,
One." We must, of course, continue to
cherish the many-but the multifaceted
1563
