Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
perhaps even more. But it's going to re-
quire that same degree of cooperation.
I'll do the best I can, but I really need
for all of you to help me with this chal-
lenge to the oil companies. They do not
want to see the windfall profits tax
passed. They want to keep all the money
themselves. They have not earned the
money. We need that money for other
purposes, including coal.
Help me. We'll prevail. And I think
that you will see inevitably the present
unemployment rate in the coal mining
area go down sharply.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
Q. Hi. I like your smile. I'm Peggy
Wilt from Bratenahl, Ohio, and I have
an energy-related question. But first I'd
like to ask you another question. I believe
in your commitment to the people of the
United States and to the people of Ohio
to hear them out. And on September 8
and 7, hundreds of telegrams were sent
to you from the tiny village of Bratenahl,
and I'm wondering if you're intending to
respond to the people there.
My energy-related questions are, since
it appears that uranium ore located in
the United States will probably be de-
pleted between 1985 and 1990, and since
the Federal Government is still encourag-
ing the building of nuclear powerplants,
will not the United States become doubly
dependent on foreign sources of energy?
And also, would you support the creation
of a nuclear ombudsman program?
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I will reply to the tele-
grams.
We will not see our uranium supplies
depleted anytime this century. We've
got enough uranium to last us probably
through the next century.
Until the Kemeny report is in to me-
and that'll be later on this month-con-
cerning the causes of the incident that we
had at the Three Mile Island plant in
Pennsylvania, it will not be possible for us
to make a policy decision on the use of
nuclear power in the future.
We want to be sure that as nuclear
power is an integral part of our energy
production society now, that it will be in
the future, but the design of plants, the
training of personnel, the operation
standards, the modification of existing
plants will be adequate to reassure the
people that they are safe.
I was in Connecticut earlier this morn-
ing. About 60 percent of all their elec-
tricity comes from nuclear powerplants;
in Chicago, more than 50 percent. We
can't close down those nuclear plants, but
we need to make them safe.
I think that other nations will move
much more aggressively and quickly to-
ward the dependence on nuclear power
than we will in order to escape from de-
pendence on OPEC oil. Because we are so
fortunate we have geothermal supplies;
we have natural gas supplies; we have
enormous coal supplies; we have very
good crude oil supplies in our country;
we've got the highest developed scientific
and technology base to move into new
areas, like photoelectric cells and so
forth, of any country on Earth; and we've
got a free enterprise system and free
people who can be innovative and show
a lot of initiative on our own to deal with
changing circumstances.
So, I would say that we are very likely
to escape any sort of major disappoint-
ment or increasing dependence on the
OPEC countries in the future. I think if
we work together, the plan that I've laid
out to the Congress will work and we
will be successful. I don't have any doubt
about that.
1647
