Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 1
STANDBY GASOLINE RATIONING
AUTHORITY
hundred percent of all its external earn-
ings now on oil.
Another major ally of ours in South
Q. Will you go forward with a new gas America, in 1973, was only spending 10
rationing-
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that will be part
of the result of the joint study by my
people, the House and Senate small ad
hoc committee.
Q. On a standby basis?
THE PRESIDENT. On a standby basis.
Q. In other words, you anticipate, de-
spite what you said earlier, going back to
Congress now and trying to get standby
rationing authority again?
THE PRESIDENT. The Wednesday be-
fore I left home, I think it was—the
morning we had the leadership break-
fast, I think it was Wednesday-Bob
Byrd and Tip O'Neill and I had a private
meeting before the breakfast. And we
agreed to go ahead and move on these two
special groups, one purpose of which
would be to devise an acceptable ration-
ing plan on a standby basis.
OPEC DECISION ON OIL PRICES
in-
Q. It's very early; of course the sum-
mit has just ended. But have you any
dication as to what might be OPEC's
reaction to the collective criticism that
was in the communique?
THE PRESIDENT. No. It's obvious that
there has been an excessive amount of
timidity on the part of the consuming na-
tions. Both the industrialized nations, up
until this week, and especially the de-
veloping nations of the world-for
instance, the Republic of Korea imports
almost all of its energy; it has only a tiny
amount of coal and oil.
And Helmut Schmidt made a very in-
teresting report. I won't call the name of
the countries, but one major European
country, one of our NATO Allies, accord-
ing to Chancellor Schmidt, spends a
percent of their external earnings on oil;
now they spend 40 percent.
Q. That's Brazil.
THE PRESIDENT. That's Brazil.
Q. The external earnings, what they
earn from-
THE PRESIDENT. Their net earnings
from what they export.
So, the devastating blow to the world is
really most acutely felt in the developing
nations, the very poor nations, who have
very little cash reserves and are deeply in
debt and who've seen their energy prices
go up so extraordinarily high. It's obvious-
ly serious to us; it's much more than an in-
convenience. But it can be devastating to
a country that's so vulnerable as they.
Q. One of the things that we heard,
Mr. President, about the collective criti-
cism that the summit issued, was that in
addition to the price increase the previous
Thursday, the leaders of the summit were
also affronted and indignant about what
OPEC had had to say about the LDC's
[less developed countries], or lack of what
they say was our lack of aid to the LDC's.
Was that correct? Was that a factor in the
decision to criticize the increase?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think so, be-
cause the OPEC communique was highly
inaccurate and was designed, obviously,
to mislead the developing countries.
Q. Was it you who brought the state-
ment to the summit and read it to them?
Someone on our side actually brought
this to their attention? Or was it one of
the Europeans who brought it up?
THE PRESIDENT. All of us were familiar
with the communique. As a matter of
fact, we discussed the communique of the
OPEC nations that morning at the
private breakfast with the so-called Ber-
1213
