Oct. 17
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
are being awarded the Nobel Prize in profits tax The committee has adopted
Physics for 1979.
the basic framework I proposed, dedicat-
ing the proceeds of the tax to important
energy-related purposes, such as low-
income assistance and public transporta-
tion, as I urged.
Your independent work in particle phy-
sics has brought one step closer to realiza-
tion the long-standing dream of a
unified field theory. Americans every-
where are proud that your accomplish-
ments have been recognized with this
renowned international prize.
On their behalf, and on my own per-
sonal behalf, I want to express our appre-
ciation and our best wishes as we share
with you this proud moment.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[Professor Steven Weinberg, Department of
Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts 02138]
While I am pleased that the committee
has rejected a number of major exemp-
tions from the tax, I am also disappointed
with some of the exemptions that were
adopted. I do not believe they are cost-
effective. They would ensure little addi-
tional crude oil production, while losing
billions of dollars of revenue for the pub-
lic. I will work for the elimination of
these exemptions.
The committee has produced a con-
structive bill that we can continue to
strengthen on the Senate floor and in con-
ference.
Death of S. J. Perelman
Statement by the President. October 18, 1979
S. J. Perelman was one of the best
writers of comic prose our country has
ever produced. His playground was the
American language, and whether he was
writing the screenplay for a Marx brothers
movie or a short essay for the New Yorker,
his verbal gymnastics were sometimes sur-
prising, often breathtaking, and always
funny. Like Mark Twain, George Ade,
Ring Lardner, and James Thurber, S. J.
Perelman made a permanent contribution
not only to American humor but to Amer-
ican literature as well.
Windfall Profits Tax Legislation
Statement on Senate Finance Committee
Approval of the Legislation.
October 19, 1979
I am pleased that the Senate Finance
Committee has approved the windfall
National Transportation Safety
Board
Nomination of G. H. Patrick Bursley To Be a
Member. October 19, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate G. H. Patrick Bursley
for reappointment as a member of the
National Transportation Safety Board,
for a term expiring December 31, 1984.
Bursley has been a member of the Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board since
earlier this year. He retired from the Coast
Guard in 1978 as Chief Counsel, with the
rank of rear admiral, after 32 years of
service.
He was born April 5, 1925, in Istanbul,
Turkey. He received a B.S. from the U.S.
Coast Guard Academy in 1946 and a J.D.
from George Washington University Law
School in 1953.
Bursley had various sea and shore as-
signments with the Coast Guard between
1964
