Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
seem to actually be happening, and I'm
just wondering, why hasn't a greater em-
phasis been put on these things?
You know, maybe I'm being impatient
or something, but it seems like more of an
emphasis can be put on some of these
other things, rather than synthetic fuel,
which seems to be oriented just towards
trying to keep it just in America. And, you
know, I think it's okay to use some of the
foreign fuels, but why not put more em-
phasis on conservation and renewable
fuels right here, that we have?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our number one
reliance on correcting the energy problem,
Mr. O'Connor, is conservation. That's
the cheapest and best way to cut down on
imports. And as I said earlier on this pro-
gram, I hope that every American will do
everything possible within one's own life
to be more efficient in the use of energy.
The Government's doing its share as well.
And the things we've already done will
save about 2½ million barrels of oil per
day by 1990.
In addition to that, we are trying to
shift toward more renewable supplies of
energy. Solar power is one that you men-
tioned, and I'll comment on that specifi-
cally. We've set as a goal for ourselves by
the end of this century to have 20 percent
of the total energy used in this country
coming directly from the Sun. This is a
tremendously ambitious goal, but I be-
lieve that we can meet it.
In order to do that, for instance, we are
setting up a solar bank that will give loans
to people who will take actions to increase
their own use of solar power. We've put
into effect tax credits for families through-
out the country if they will insulate their
homes, for instance, or put in solar heat.
They can get tax credits and reduced in-
come tax payments because of that.
We have, in addition, a major move
toward using the kinds of growing plants
that can produce energy and be replen-
ishable every year, deriving their sub-
stance indirectly at least from the Sun.
For instance, I was in Georgia recently at
a seminar at Georgia Tech, where we dis-
cussed innovative ways to resolve our en-
ergy problems. It was pointed out that
Georgia's growing plants produced twice
as much energy every year, just 1 year's
growth, as the entire State uses. And we
now waste throughout our forests in this
country about 30 percent or 35 percent of
the total tree that grows. And this kind of
waste can be used in the future. Burning
wood is obviously the most well known
way, in stoves.
MR. O'CONNOR. I burn wood myself.
THE PRESIDENT. So, these are the kind
of things we are pursuing.
As a last resort, we'll have to have some
additional supplies of energy. And coal is
not, in some forms, a clean-burning prod-
uct, and so the synthetic fuels program is
fuels, like gas and oil, out of coal and
designed primarily to get clean-burning
shale, which is of tremendous importance
integral part of our energy supplies, too.
in our country. And nuclear power is an
But I think we ought to minimize nuclear
power and, as I said during the campaign,
have it as a last resort, just to make up
the difference between what we can pro-
duce and save from other sources com-
pared to what we totally need.
MS. STAMBERG. Thank you, Mr.
O'Connor, for posing your question to
President Carter.
A quick reminder that you're listening
to "Ask the President" on National Public
Radio, and our callers are being selected
at random from postcards sent in over the
past few weeks. Please do not call Na-
tional Public Radio, don't call the White
House, and don't call your local public
radio station. If your card has been
chosen, we'll do the calling, and we'll call
you.
1894
