Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 28
you need the confidence of the American Carter, if the 1980 election should throw
people?
us together."
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree with your
premise. I think your information is in-
correct. Recently, as you know, there were
two polls conducted among the Members
of the House, one by the Washington
Post; one by the New York Times. I
didn't participate in them, but I saw the
results. I think in the South, which did
include Texas, 88 percent of the Demo-
crats said they prefer to have me on the
ballot with them next year. I think 3 per-
cent said Kennedy, and the rest were
divided among a numerous number of
people.
I have already seen the effectiveness
with which the House has dealt with the
windfall profits tax. I think they did a
good job. Their bill is roughly equivalent
to my own. The only problem with it is it
only lasts until 1990. I prefer a permanent
windfall profits tax.
But I think the polls that were con-
ducted by those two news media, respect-
able news media, are a better indication
than the results that you apparently got
from your interviews.
MAYOR NEIL GOLDSCHMIDT
Q. Mr. Carter, I'm from Portland,
Oregon, and I understand the mayor's in
town. I'd like to know, sir, if you intend
to appoint him or have you—as head of
the Department of Transportation or
some other Federal job?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't met with
him and don't know what I will do yet.
I will discuss this matter with him and
some others as well. I have a great respect
for Neil Goldschmidt and so do all the
members of my staff. I will make a deci-
sion on this matter soon. He's not the
only one being considered, and I don't
want to predict what the outcome might
be.
Q. Will it be today, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't say. Do you-
does anyone know when Neil's coming?
We'll find out. I don't know when he's
This is a very difficult political season,
and for someone from Texas and from the
other oil-producing States, I realize that
there is a duality of responsibility to the
consumers, on the one hand-and there
are many consumers in Texas-and to all
those who depend upon the oil industry
and the natural gas industry for their going to see me.
livelihood or who have a natural affinity
for it because Texas is an oil-producing
State.
My belief is that the Congress will act
courageously and will implement the
windfall profits tax, the security fund de-
rived from it, the proper expenditure of
those funds through the corporation to
produce new kinds of energy, and the pro-
duction board to expedite those decisions.
My guess is that the House will, next
Tuesday, vote for the standby rationing
authority in an acceptable fashion. So, I
don't really recruit people now to say,
"I want to run with or without President
HOME HEATING OIL SUPPLIES
Q. Mr. President, I'm from Hillsboro,
New Hampshire. As I'm sure you're
aware, we have a primary election there
in February. February's a cold month up
there; between now and then there's a lot
of cold nights. According to Senator
John Durkin we are 20 million barrels
behind last year in stockpiling oil. What
I would like to know is, do you, as a
candidate, seriously believe that you'll
have a chance without taking further
direct action to ensure a more adequate
supply of heating oil? And if you do in-
1323
