Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 14
Iran which are or become subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States or which
are in or come within the possession or
control of persons subject to the jurisdic-
tion of the United States.
The Secretary of the Treasury is au-
thorized to employ all powers granted to
me by the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act to carry out the provi-
sions of this order.
This order is effective immediately and
shall be transmitted to the Congress and
published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
November 14, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
9:16 a.m., November 14, 1979]
Blocking Iranian Government
Property
Announcement on the President's Action.
November 14, 1979
The President has today acted to block
all official Iranian assets in the United
States, including deposits in United States
banks and their foreign branches and
subsidiaries. This order is in response to
reports that the Government of Iran is
about to withdraw its funds. The purpose
of this order is to ensure that claims on
Iran by the United States and its citizens
are provided for in an orderly manner.
The order does not affect accounts of
persons other than the Government of
Iran, the Central Bank of Iran, and other
controlled entities. The precise amounts
involved cannot be ascertained at this
time, but there is no reason for disturb-
ance in the foreign exchange or other
markets.
The President is taking this action pur-
suant to the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act, which grants the
President authority "to deal with any un-
usual and extraordinary threat to the na-
tional security, foreign policy, or economy
of the United States."
Blocking Iranian Government
Property
Message to the Congress Reporting on the
U.S. Action. November 14, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Section 204 (b) of the In-
ternational Emergency Economic Powers
Act, 50 U.S.C.A. ยง 1703, I hereby report
to the Congress that I have today ex-
ercised the authority granted by this Act
to block certain property or interests in
property of the Government of Iran, its
instrumentalities and controlled entities
and the Central Bank of Iran.
1. The circumstances necessitating the
exercise of this authority are the recent
events in Iran and the recent actions of
the Government of Iran.
2. These events and actions put at
grave risk the personal safety of United
States citizens and the lawful claims of
United States citizens and entities against
the Government of Iran and constitute an
extraordinary threat to the national se-
curity and foreign policy of the United
States.
3. Consequently, I I have ordered
blocked all property and interests in prop-
erty of the Government of Iran, its instru-
mentalities and controlled entities and the
Central Bank of Iran which are or become
subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States or which are or come within the
possession of persons subject to the juris-
diction of the United States. I have au-
thorized the Secretary of the Treasury to
employ all powers granted to me by the
International Emergency Economic Pow-
ers Act to carry out the blocking.
2119
