Sept. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
FRANCES H. GOODWIN, an associate judge of
the Municipal Court of Dallas, Tex. (reap-
pointment);
JOHN C. LANDEN, vice president of 3M Co. for
traffic control products;
WILLIAM L. MALLORY, majority floor leader in
the Ohio House of Representatives and an
adjunct professor at the University of Cin-
cinnati;
education. Billions of dollars were being
spent, but education programs continued
to be denied the full-time attention from
a Cabinet Secretary that would make
these programs perform effectively. That
is why I proposed a separate department
of education and why I have made it one
DANIEL F. PORTIS, of Lepanto, Ark., director of of my highest legislative priorities over the
the Portis Mercantile Co., and a past mem-
ber of the Arkansas Highway Commission;
DEBORAH D. RICHARDS, founder, board chair-
man, and manager of Action for Child
Transportation Safety, Inc.;
PETER W. RODINO III, assistant county coun-
sel for Essex County, N.J., and an attorney
in East Orange, N.J.
CARL E. SERNA, director of the Project Devel-
opment Division of the New Mexico State
Highway Department;
ADELE D. SPIELBERGER, chief of the Bureau
of Highway Safety, Florida Department of
Administration, and Governor's highway
safety representative for Florida;
LAWRENCE H. STERN, president of Sterns
Transport, Inc., an ICC common carrier,
and past president of the New Jersey Motor
Truck Association;
PATRICIA F. WALLER, associate director for
driver programs at the University of North
Carolina Safety Research Center.
Department of Education
Legislation
Statement on House of Representatives
Approval of the Legislation.
September 27, 1979
The House's vote today approving the
creation of a department of education is
a significant milestone in my effort to
make the Federal Government more effi-
cient. We will now have a single Cabinet
department which can provide the coher-
ence and sense of direction needed for
Federal education programs.
When I came to Washington, I was
convinced that the Federal Government
had failed to deliver adequately on its
limited, but important role in American
past 2 years.
With a separate department of educa-
tion, we will finally have a single agency
and a single Cabinet official responsible
full-time for the effective management of
Federal aid-to-education programs. As a
result, the American people will now have
a much clearer picture of what the Fed-
eral Government is doing in education
and who is in charge of those activities.
I would like to especially thank Chair-
man Brooks and Speaker O'Neill for
bringing this important measure to final
passage. I would also like to thank Sen-
ator Ribicoff for his successful leadership
on this matter in the Senate. I look for-
ward with great pleasure to signing the
bill that these congressional leaders have
helped pass.
Panama Canal Act of 1979
Statement on Signing H.R. 111 Into Law.
September 27, 1979
I am pleased to sign into law the Pan-
ama Canal Act of 1979, which imple-
ments the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977.
The Panama Canal Treaty and the
Neutrality Treaty were the result of 13
years of careful negotiations. They have
been hailed throughout this hemisphere
as a model for equitable negotiations be-
tween ourselves and our smaller neigh-
bors. As I said when I signed the treaties,
they express the commitment of the
United States to the belief that fairness,
and not force, should lie at the heart of
our dealings with nations of the world.
1776
