Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, September 28, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and Broadcasters.
September 21, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very glad to have
you here. I believe that since I've been in
the White House this is the 48th group of
editors from outside Washington who've
come to meet with me and Dr. Brzezinski,
Jody Powell, and others, depending upon
the current event emphasis of that par-
ticular week. There obviously are a broad
range of responsibilities that I have to
face each day with a great deal of enthu-
siasm and enjoyment, sometimes with
some degree of concern.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
This has not been a good week for us
in the Congress. But I had a meeting last
night with about 100 Members of the
Congress of the House-concerning key
issues—the Panama Canal implementa-
tion legislation, which must be passed by
the 1st of October; the debt limit, which
must be changed and raised by the 1st of
October; and also the second budget reso-
lution, which also must be passed if the
budget process is going to be successful.
And now, of course, that must be done as
well.
We've had good progress recently in the
evolution of our overall energy policy,
concerning rationing standby authority,
concerning the windfall profits tax, con-
cerning the security corporation to de-
velop synthetic fuels, and concerning the
production board, which is designed, as
you know, to the mobilization board, as
it's called-which is designed, as you
know, to expedite decisions to be made
concerning energy projects. This is an ex-
tremely complicated subject, multi-
faceted, with broad-ranging responsibili-
ties in the House and Senate. But I think
we've had good success this year and, par-
ticularly, this last week.
There's a momentum building up in the
House and Senate, and it's very gratifying
to me. And I think this is derived directly
from an increasing interest among the
American people that I and the Congress
must act on energy this year. The prime
responsibility that I have as President is
to guarantee the security of our country,
and I see our Nation directly threatened
in its security by an excessive dependence
on imported oil.
The House and the Senate have many
other items to consider the Senate, ob-
viously, involving itself with consideration
of SALT. The Cuban-Russian troop item
has been a matter of extra concern for us
1707
