Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
One of the things that I've done since
I've been in office, that's been one of the
most difficult things and most controver-
sial things, is to try to eliminate the con-
struction of unnecessary dam or water
projects and to preserve the analysis
rights of the Federal Government to screen
out, in the future, projects that are not
needed.
In many cases—I'm not sure about the
project to which you refer—but in many
cases, these decisions to construct such a
project were made many years ago and
ostensibly with the support of not only the
Federal Government but your own Mem-
bers of Congress and local officials who
had to participate, including, I presume,
your own Governor and your own State
legislature. It's extremely hard, although
we've been successful in some cases, to
cancel a project—even though it's ill-ad-
vised-if it has a lot of commitment al-
ready made to be completed.
project. The problem is that the Federal
Government itself, not just Congress, has
a role every agency from EPA to the
Fish and Wildlife people. They're not do-
ing their share in their honest evaluation.
It's too easy to always pass the blame onto
your Congressman, and we're working on
the local level to ensure a change here.
But we still need the help of the Federal
agencies whose job it is to watchdog over
these kinds of projects.
THE PRESIDENT. I agree with you. I
was not trying to put the blame on
Congress.
MS. ORMSBY. No, I know that, al-
though they shoulder their share.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, there's plenty of
blame to go around.
MS. STAMBERG. Thank you, Ms.
Ormsby.
Dr. George Bergstrom joins us now.
He's on the line from Fallbrook, Cali-
fornia. Go ahead, Dr. Bergstrom.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
DR. BERGSTROM. Good morning, Mr.
President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
The environmental element is one fac-
tor involved. We are trying now to get in-
stalled for the first time a permanent
screening group that would look at each
of these dam construction projects on its
own merits and in a much more objective
and fair way and to eliminate politics or
local chamber of commerce support from Doctor.
it. I think that in any particular con-
struction project that the best way to
stop it, if it's once begun and once a com-
mitment is made, is through a delegation
of your Members of Congress or your
Governor or your State legislature or from
the local level.
We're doing our share here, but it's very
hard to reverse standards and procedures
that have been in existence in our Govern-
ment for generations. We've made a lot
of progress, though. I think anyone would
admit that.
MS. ORMSBY. Yeah, I agree that you've
made a lot of progress, and we certainly
applaud your efforts. This is a very old
DR. BERGSTROM. As an American who's
spent much of the last 19 years traveling
and living in Asia and Europe, I'm greatly
concerned with the rather serious growth
of Russian military and political influence
in not only Asia and Europe but in various
other parts of the world as well. Your
proposed SALT treaty appears to be, I
think, a positive step forward towards
meeting this challenge. Can you comment
on how SALT will strengthen America's
position vis-a-vis Russia?
And secondly, I think one of the most
strategic, long-range actions of your ad-
ministration has been the establishment of
working relations between America and
1915
