July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The last thing I want to say is this: I'll
repeat myself—we've got a lot of prob-
lems—so has everyone else on Earth
but we still live in the greatest nation in
the world. And I want to make sure that
all of you kind of take an inventory, count
your blessings as an American: food, job
opportunities, beauty, natural resources.
We've got 24 percent of all the energy
on Earth in the United States-the OPEC
countries all put together have got less
than 5 percent-freedom, the right of an
individual American citizen to stand on
one's own feet, to make one's own deci-
sion, to say one's own speech, to criticize
when you think it is advisable; a free
enterprise system that encourages innova-
tion and initiative and competition in
serving people better; a government based
on democratic principles, where you can
let your own voice be felt and heard and
your own vote be influential, if you cast it.
But the responsibility for the future cannot
be resting on the shoulders of a Governor
or a mayor or a U.S. Senator or a Presi-
dent. The responsibility for the future
rests on your shoulders collectively, yours
and mine alone, together.
And I believe that if we do count our
blessings, analyze our problems, join our-
selves together, have confidence in our
Nation, fight the good fight together as
Americans, there is no doubt in my mind
that with God's blessing, we will prevail
and we'll make our great Nation even
greater in the future.
That's what I'd like to leave with you.
God bless you all. He has certainly blessed
us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. in
the Bardstown High School gymnasium.
Following the town meeting, the President
left Bardstown and went to English, Ind., to in-
spect the flood damage caused by severe storms
on July 25. He then returned to Washington,
D.C.
Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe
Statement on the Fourth Anniversary of the
Signing of the Final Act in Helsinki.
August 1, 1979
On this day in 1975, the leaders of 35
states met in Helsinki to sign the Final
Act of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). They
pledged to build a future of peace and
stability in Europe on the strong founda-
tion of mutual understanding and respect
for fundamental human rights.
In the years since Helsinki, we have
witnessed conscientious efforts on the part
of many signatory states to fulfill, fully
and completely, their obligations under
the Final Act. We have made progress in
ensuring the freer flow of people and
ideas. Flagrant abuses of human rights
no longer go unnoticed and unchallenged.
The Final Act provision which calls for
notification of large military maneuvers
has worked well. The spirit of Helsinki is
alive. But there have also been important
setbacks. For example, in the German
Democratic Republic, harsh new laws de-
signed to restrict contact with foreigners
will take effect today, on the anniversary
of Helsinki. In Czechoslovakia, members
of the Charter 77 movement remain in
prison, facing trial for their dedication to
basic human freedoms. In the Soviet
Union, organizations established to moni-
tor compliance with the Helsinki agree-
ment have been harassed and their
members jailed. Acts like these are totally
inconsistent with pledges made at Hel-
sinki.
On the anniversary of the Helsinki ac-
cords, I rededicate this administration
and this Nation to strive tirelessly for full
implementation of the Final Act. We will
continue to review our own record in prep-
1352
