Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
pointed out to me that tourists now are
able to travel so much more cheaply that
the number of tourists traveling to and
from Mexico on airplanes have gone up
60 percent. So, deregulation and getting
the Government's nose out of our busi-
ness has paid off, and eventually, those
things will help us with inflation.
I just want to mention two other things
briefly. As I said to the construction
workers, it is absolutely necessary that the
Senate ratify SALT II. I need every one
of you to help me with this. Alan Crans-
ton is really one of the leaders in fighting
for SALT II. We need both Senate votes.
And I hope you'll use your own influ-
ence. Whether you're Democrats or Re-
publicans is of no concern of mine on
this particular issue. It's a bipartisan issue.
This treaty has been negotiated by
three Presidents over a period of 7 years.
If SALT II should be rejected, the con-
sequences would be a severe blow to our
country. We would have no way to moni-
tor what the Soviets are doing. They
could do everything they wanted to se-
cretly, and every time we got a rumor of
a new weapon for the Soviet Union or a
new breakthrough for the Soviet Union
or additional weapons for the Soviet Un-
ion, we would have to suspect the worst.
It would create an enormous nuclear
arms race, exactly the opposite of what
we want, and the balance between our-
selves and the Soviet Union would not
be changed. It would just greatly escalate
both of us in the percentage of our re-
sources spent on nuclear weapons. We
don't need that.
And also our allies in Europe look
upon us as being responsible for contain-
ing and reducing the nuclear threat to
them. And if the Soviets have accepted
the treaty, which they have, and then the
United States rejects it, it would be a
clear signal to our own allies that we can-
not be trusted anymore to represent the
Western World in controlling these terri-
bly devastating weapons.
We couldn't control proliferation of
nuclear explosives in other countries, be-
cause it would be very embarrassing for
me to go to the Prime Minister of, say,
India, or Pakistan-the President of
Pakistan-and say, "Don't build a single
nuclear explosion," and they would look
at me and say, "You've got thousands,
and you cannot even agree to limit addi-
tional thousands." It would mean that
many countries would probably shift to-
ward more and more dependence on a
nuclear world.
So, I ask you to help me with this, and
of course, we'll keep a strong defense. It's
important to San Diego and to Cali-
fornia and the Nation that we have a
strong defense, not only a strong defense
in general but especially a strong navy.
That's one of my prime interests.
Let me say in closing that Congress-
man Van Deerlin and the board of super-
visors here have been very gracious to let
me come. I do have a challenging job to
represent 220 million people well and to
lead the greatest country on Earth. But
it's a job that's not only challenging and
sobering but also exciting and gratifying,
because the strength that comes not from
the office itself but from the interrelation-
ship with literally tens of thousands, hun-
dreds of thousands, millions of Americans
who share with me a dream of an even
greater America, a more peaceful world,
a place where the quality of life can be
maintained, where people can live in
closer harmony, one with another, and
where we together, under a democratic
system, believing in freedom, committed
to human rights for everyone, can make
the greatest nation on Earth, our Nation,
even greater in the future.
1875
