Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The President participated in a briefing
on the administration's programs and
policies given for civic and community
leaders from Minnesota in the East Room
at the White House.
November 15
The President met at the White House
with:
---Dr. Brzezinski;
-Mr. Moore.
The President attended an interfaith
service at the National Cathedral in
Washington, D.C., for the hostages in the
American Embassy in Iran.
November 16
The President met at the White House
with:
---Dr. Brzezinski;
-Vice President Mondale, Secretary
Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold
Brown, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant
to the President, Hedley W. Dono-
Senior Adviser to the President,
Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the
President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
van,
-Mr. Moore;
-Mr. Donovan;
---Mr. McIntyre.
The White House announced that the
President has canceled both his trip to
Florida and vacation on Sapelo Island,
Ga., in order to continue to closely mon-
itor the situation in Iran. The President
regrets that the continuing situation in
Iran requires the cancellation of his trip to
Florida.
NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED
TO THE SENATE
The following list does not include promo-
tions of members of the Uniformed Services,
nominations to the Service Academies, or nomi-
nations of Foreign Service officers.
NOMINATIONS-Continued
Submitted November 13, 1979
THEODORE COMPTON LUTZ, of Virginia, to be
Urban Mass Transportation Administrator,
vice Richard Stephen Page, resigned.
IRALINE GREEN BARNES, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be an Associate Judge of the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia
for a term of 15 years, vice W. Byron Sorrell,
retired.
Submitted November 14, 1979
SHIRLEY MOUNT HUFSTEDLER, of California,
to be Secretary of Education (new position).
Submitted November 16, 1979
WILLIAM B. JOHNSTON, of Virginia, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice
Chester Davenport, resigned.
WILLIAM H. WILCOX, of Pennsylvania, to be
an Associate Director of the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency (new position).
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following listing contains releases of
the White House Press Office which are not
included in this issue.
Released November 13, 1979
Transcript: remarks and a question-and-answer
session at a briefing on hospital cost contain-
ment legislation-by Vice President Walter
F. Mondale and Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to
the President on Inflation
News conference: on relief efforts for Kam-
pucheans-by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
Chairman of the Select Commission on Im-
migration and Refugee Policy and chairman
of the board of the Overseas Development
Council, James P. Grant, president, Over-
seas Development Council, and Matthew
Nimetz, Acting Coordinator for Refugee
Affairs, Department of State
Released November 14, 1979
News conference: on blocking Iranian Govern-
ment property-by Secretary of the Treasury
G. William Miller
News conference: on the approval of H.R.
4955, authorizing supplemental appropria-
tions for migration and refugee assistance for
fiscal year 1980 and 1981-by Ambassador
2139
