Sept. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The last point is this: Where I come
from, which is southwest Georgia, if you
ask these days, "How do you think the
county school superintendent is doing?",
if somebody says, "I think he's doing a fair
job," that is a high approbation. But in
most of the public opinion polls, for in-
stance there are, I think, I don't know,
I won't name the public opinion polls-
they've got excellent, good, fair, and poor.
And excellent and good are considered
positive; fair and poor are considered
negative.
There are a lot of complications about
public opinion polls. I look at them; I'm
concerned about them. I would like to be
highly popular in our country. I'd like to
have a 75-percent favorable rating; that
would be very nice. But I remember that
a week after I was an announced candi-
date for President, Gallup ran a poll and
listed 36 people-Ralph Nader, Julian
Bond, and 34 others. My name was not
on the list. But I became the President.
So, public opinion polls are interesting.
I think they are a guide on how the public
feels, but, I think, have relatively little
significance about the outcome of an elec-
tion that might be held next year.
SOVIET TROOPS IN CUBA
Q. Mr. President, I'm Dale McIlwain
from the Washington Star. I wanted to
know what steps you might have in mind
to get the Russian brigade out of Cuba.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's better for
me not to talk at this moment about
specifics on that.
Secretary Vance made a statement,
which I later followed and basically re-
peated, that, I think, goes as far as I
want to go as far as a President. I said
this was a matter of great concern to us,
that the status quo was not acceptable,
and that we would be working with the
Soviet Union to change the situation in
a manner that would be acceptable to us.
If this effort should be unsuccessful, then
I would have to take appropriate action.
And I think to go into further detail
than that would be inappropriate.
We are meeting with the Soviet Union,
assessing our intelligence data, under-
standing clearly what is the status quo,
and I'll have to make a judgment on
what to do about it within the near
future.
MS. BARIO. Thank you, Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, one more ques-
tion.
COAL
Q. The lack of specific incentives to
develop anthracite coal is of particular
concern in my area. I'm from Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, the Scranton area.
We're sitting on a mountain of coal, and
the production is now at 6 million tons,
when it was at nearly a hundred million
tons a year in the 1930's. The people in
our area would like to know, are you pre-
pared to support tax credits to encourage
the use of anthracite coal? Are you pre-
pared to support government stockpiling
to create a market for anthracite coal?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe the answer
to both those questions would be no. I
don't have any plans to do either of the
two. We are taking other action, how-
ever, to increase the use of coal, and I
think anthracite, in some instances, would
be affected. My guess is that by 1985,
we'll have a substantial increase in the
use of coal, perhaps even doubling the
present use and maybe before the end of
this century to triple what we are pres-
ently using in the way of coal.
1714
