Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 27
absolutely right, it's not equitable to
honor Perry and Harris and to forget
about Mr. Yoshida and other Japanese
leaders who made the great progress be-
tween our two nations possible.
because of my own experiences. I might
point out very quickly that a father or
mother does not have to be President of
the United States to provide young chil-
dren with an opportunity to learn more
Thank you for this reminder. It's very about the world.
well that you have done so.
EDUCATION
Q. Welcome, Mr. President. My uncle
of my husband visited the U.S. when he
was 17, and he still lives in Chicago. He's
now 84. Three years ago, that particular
uncle visited Japan, and at that time he
mentioned that the new President is Mr.
Carter, and I am very, very happy that
I personally am able to see you like we
do now.
At this moment, we have two children,
one kindergarten pupil, the other going
to primary school. In your household,
President Carter, what kind of practices
and hope do you express for educating
and training your children, including
Amy?
THE PRESIDENT. My children and Amy
have always attended the public schools,
both when I was in Plains, Georgia, the
little town where we grew up; when I
was Governor of Georgia, living in At-
lanta, the capital city of that State; and
now in Washington, D.C., while I'm
being President.
In addition to the regular classroom
opportunities, Amy goes to a class at the
local university for specialized training,
and she also studies violin under the great
leadership of a Japanese master. We
have enjoyed yesterday, for instance, a
violin class that Amy attended with sev-
eral other Japanese children.
I think in addition to that, we provide
Amy with an opportunity to travel. She's
here with us this morning, and she learns
about other countries and other people
She also learns, of course, from tele-
vision, and from the reading which she
does every day. Most of the time when
you see Amy, except when she's very
active, she'll have a book in her hand and
reading on her own initiative. And I think
this combination of schoolwork, family
travel, in the home reading, and broaden-
ing one's life through violin or piano les-
sons is all a very good combination for
education.
Thank you very much for letting me
tell about my favorite daughter.
RACE RELATIONS
Q. One year from last, we received a
student from the State of New York and
had him stay in my house. So, I feel very
intimate with the Americans.
A few days ago, a well-known actor,
John Wayne, passed away. According to
what I've heard, he is one of the repre-
sentatives of great Americans. What he
didn't like, according to the newspaper,
was the colored people. You have well-
developed democracy in your society.
Still, currently, many people, including
the educated people, may have some mis-
understanding about the color of the
people. In some regions of your country,
even the overt form of segregation is prac-
ticed, as I was told. What do you think
about such practices?
If, Mr. President, if you are not mar-
ried-suppose you are not married and
suppose you fall in love with a colored
girl, what would you do? Would you
marry her without any resistance?
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
1175
