Sept. 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ice of financial support if a settlement is
to be reached and carried out.
As an additional step, I directed the
Secretaries of Transportation, Labor, and
Agriculture to work closely with the State
officials and also with the Chairman of
the Interstate Commerce Commission in
solving the inevitable day-to-day prob-
lems involving safety and operation of
the railroad, in getting this Rock Island
line rolling again across the grain belt.
We must now move quickly beyond this
immediate problem and work to restore
all our Nation's rail services to a high
degree of efficiency and financial stability.
The current situation on the Rock
Island is symptomatic of the problems
that confront the entire United States rail
industry. To prevent further problems
such as those I've confronted with the
Rock Island, I call upon the Congress to
pass without delay the rail deregulation
proposal to break the strangulation of out-
moded, unnecessary economic regulations,
which will help the industry to generate
the revenues it needs and to maintain and
to improve its services. Only by such fun-
damental action can we avoid further
bankruptcies and further dislocations in
our rail industry throughout the country.
Such a deregulation reform bill will be
a victory for the hard-pressed rail indus-
try, for the shipping and the consuming
public, and for the taxpayers, who are in-
creasingly having to subsidize the rail
industry.
Now I'd like to ask Neil Goldschmidt
and the other officials with me on the
stage to answer questions from you. And
I'm sure that the people in the Midwest
will be well served by this action.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. to
reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at
the White House.
Following the President's remarks, Secretary
of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt and
other administration officials held a news con-
ference on the labor dispute.
Emergency Board To Investigate
a Railway Labor Dispute
Executive Order 12159. September 20, 1979
CREATING AN EMERGENCY BOARD TO IN-
VESTIGATE DISPUTES BETWEEN THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND, PACIfic Rail-
ROAD & PEORIA TERMINAL COMPANY
AND BROTHERHOOD OF RAILWAY, AIR-
LINE & STEAMSHIP CLERKS, FREIGHT
HANDLERS, EXPRESS AND STATION EM-
PLOYEES; AND THE UNITED TRANSPOR-
TATION UNION
Disputes exist between the Chicago,
Rock Island, Pacific Railroad & Peoria
Terminal Company and certain of its em-
ployees represented by both the Brother-
Clerks, Freight Handlers, Express and
hood of Railway, Airline & Steamship
Station Employees; and the United
Transportation Union.
These disputes have not heretofore
been adjusted under the provisions of the
Railway Labor Act, as amended; and
These disputes in the judgment of the
National Mediation Board threaten sub-
stantially to interrupt interstate commerce
to a degree such as to deprive a section of
the country of essential transportation
service:
Now, THEREFORE, by the authority
vested in me by Section 10 of the Railway
Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 160),
it is hereby ordered as follows:
1-101. Establishment of Board. There
is established a board of three members
to be appointed by the President to inves-
tigate these disputes. No member of the
board shall be pecuniarily or otherwise
interested in any organization of railroad
employees or any carrier.
1-102. Report. The board shall report
its finding to the President with respect
to these disputes within 30 days from the
date of this Order.
1696
