Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
zoic. So, this is what I'm talking about,
this period in here when all these rocks
were deposited. This being a reef, this yel-
low area, this means since the reef animals
grow only at sea level, this used to be at
sea level. It's down 20,000 feet now. The
top of it, as you can see, is about 10,000
feet. The sea floor here is about 6,000.
Over here it's 4,900, and that's about the
depth that is now being commercially
drilled. This is where the same drilling
apparatus is capable of drilling right now.
This is how deep it can drill-in fact, a
little farther out with small modifications
which are in the mill at present.
Next, please.
This shows the reef that I told you
about. It extends from-this is the Cam-
peche region, where the offshore discov-
eries are going on one after another with
what the Mexicans must look upon as
quite satisfactory monotony-another oil
field is discovered every time drill.
you
This is the Reforma area, and the reef
in fact splays out in here. The reefs aren't
all at the same time, mind you, some are—
we've got from 100 to 140 million years—
is a 40-million-year span. But the reef we
just looked at in that profile was around
for a large part of that time. And then
here are the Golden Lane fields, of some
of the first fields discovered in Mexico.
The most productive wells ever known
were in this area-240,000 barrels in 1
day. Of course, they didn't last forever.
Then there's a gap in here, and then we
can trace the reef-fair continuity, it goes
out here and it's lost. And here it is off the
east coast of the United States and is last
seen going off Canada.
That's the end of the slides. Thank
you. Lights, please.
How do we evaluate this track? Well,
let me say, to begin with, that the art of
evaluating—or again, that the art of eval-
uating is fairly poor. In the best known
area of the United States, the chances of
finding an oil field, a commercial oil field,
with an exploratory wildcat drill is now 1
in 7. That's the area we really know a lot
about. The chance of finding a field that
has 100 million barrels in it is 1 in 2,000.
It might sound as though oil finders aren't
very confident, but the reverse is true. It's
because they've been exploring the region
for 100 years and they've found every-
thing that they now have such difficulties.
If they didn't have difficulties now, they
would have been incompetent for 100
years.
So, the odds of finding something out
in deep water, even though unexplored,
may be considerably better than that, and
especially the odds of finding a giant field,
because the odds of finding a giant field in
the dry United States, 48 States, are very
close to zero. These may be high odds, but
they must be acceptable. We don't hear
very much about oil companies going
broke. [Laughter]
The only way we can guess what's in
that reef, evaluate it, is to compare it with
regions that have been drilled, such as the
ones in Mexico and Texas and the other
giant reefs around the world. We have
done that recently, and it's our estimate
that in the yellow area, the Mesozoic reef
that you saw off the Baltimore Canyon
region, there is something like 1 to 6
billion barrels of oil, produceable oil; that
is, we heard earlier you leave half to two-
thirds of the oil in the ground, and so we
assume there's twice to three times that
much. But produceable oil, 1 to 6 billion
barrels.
DR. PRESS. Dr. Menard, one more min-
ute, please.
DR. MENARD. Yes, I know. For the
whole region along the Atlantic Coast we
estimate 2 to 15 billion barrels. If it's
elevated, the amounts would be larger.
1548
