July 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
tion-you're just managing the Govern-
ment."
"You don't see the people enough any
more."
"Some of your Cabinet members don't
seem loyal. There is not enough discipline
among your disciples."
"Don't talk to us about politics or the
mechanics of government, but about an
understanding of our common good."
"Mr. President, we're in trouble. Talk
to us about blood and sweat and tears."
"If you lead, Mr. President, we will
follow."
Many people talked about themselves
and about the condition of our Nation.
This from a young woman in Pennsyl-
vania: "I feel so far from government. I
feel like ordinary people are excluded
from political power."
And this from a young Chicano:
"Some of us have suffered from recession
all our lives."
"Some people have wasted energy, but
others haven't had anything to waste."
And this from a religious leader: "No
material shortage can touch the impor-
tant things like God's love for us or our
love for one another.”
And I like this one particularly from
a black woman who happens to be the
mayor of a small Mississippi town: "The
big-shots are not the only ones who are
important. Remember, you can't sell any-
thing on Wall Street unless someone digs
it up somewhere else first."
This kind of summarized a lot of other
statements: "Mr. President, we are con-
fronted with a moral and a spiritual
crisis."
Several of our discussions were on en-
ergy, and I have a notebook full of com-
ments and advice. I'll read just a few.
"We can't go on consuming 40 per-
cent more energy than we produce. When
we import oil we are also importing in-
flation plus unemployment."
"We've got to use what we have. The
Middle East has only 5 percent of the
world's energy, but the United States has
24 percent."
And this is one of the most vivid state-
ments: "Our neck is stretched over the
fence and OPEC has a knife."
"There will be other cartels and other
shortages. American wisdom and cour-
age right now can set a path to follow in
the future."
This was a good one: "Be bold, Mr.
President. We may make mistakes, but we
are ready to experiment."
And this one from a labor leader got to
the heart of it: "The real issue is freedom.
We must deal with the energy problem on
a war footing."
And the last that I'll read: "When we
enter the moral equivalent of war, Mr.
President, don't issue us BB guns."
These 10 days confirmed my belief in
the decency and the strength and the wis-
dom of the American people, but it also
bore out some of my longstanding con-
cerns about our Nation's underlying
problems.
I know, of course, being President, that
government actions and legislation can be
hard to put my campaign promises into
very important. That's why I've worked
law-and I have to admit, with just mixed
success. But after listening to the Ameri-
can people I have been reminded again
that all the legislation in the world can't
fix what's wrong with America. So, I want
to speak to you first tonight about a sub-
ject even more serious than energy or in-
flation. I want to talk to you right now
about a fundamental threat to American
democracy.
I do not mean our political and civil lib-
erties. They will endure. And I do not
refer to the outward strength of America,
1236
