July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
can expedite the construction of projects
that will give us energy more quickly. I
have no doubt now that the public has
been so aroused about the direct threat
that we will act without delay.
I'll be meeting immediately with my
staff when I return to Washington and
then with groups of House and Senate
leaders in the field of energy and also in
the field of inflation control as soon as I
return to Washington.
Our country has been blessed, as you
know, by God with tremendous human re-
sources and tremendous natural resources.
There's no way for me to look at a wel-
coming crowd at the airfield or to look on
your faces without realizing that Hawaii
not only has a great natural beauty but
also a great human and political beauty.
Ours is a country of immigrants. It's a
country of refugees. My parents and all of
yours, except the native Hawaiians, came
here from other countries seeking a better
life. It's the kind of spirit that has bound
our Nation together in the past, and it's
the kind of spirit that's given us strength.
This is the first time in history when our
Nation has been substantially inconven-
ienced without a direct threat to our se-
curity, like during a time of war or mas-
sive depression. I think Americans can
stand it. I think we can weather difficulty.
I think we can meet challenges. I think we
can answer questions if we live and work
together as we have in the past.
It is not easy being President these days.
But I feel renewed in my own commit-
ment and strength when I know from his-
tory how great a nation we have and, look-
ing on your faces, see what a great na-
tion we have in the future.
Working together, we can meet any dif-
ficulty and any challenge. And with your
help and with God's help, we will do it
again.
Thank you for coming out to meet me
this morning. I love you all. God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:33 a.m. at the
Officer's Club.
Following his remarks, the President left
for Washington, D.C.
National Consumer Cooperative
Bank
Nomination of 11 Members of the Board of
Directors. July 2, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate six public members and
five Government members of the Board
of Directors of the National Consumer
Cooperative Bank. They are:
Public members
RONALD GRZYWINSKI, of Chicago, president of
the Illinois Neighborhood Development
Corp., the bank holding company that owns
the South Shore Bank, which operates a
strong neighborhood reinvestment program
that has been responsible for lending over
$17 million to minority-owned businesses,
voluntary community organizations, social
service agencies, and single and multifam-
ily residences;
JOSEPH L. HANSKNECHT, JR., of Detroit,
Mich., director of public affairs of the
League Insurance Companies and of the
Michigan Credit Union League, active in
community development organizations;
FRANCES LEVENSON, of New York City, direc-
tor of urban housing and vice president of
the New York Bank for Savings; for the
past 7 years, in charge of the bank's program
of sponsoring, financing, and promoting low-
and moderate-income housing;
REV. ALBERT JOSEPH MCKNIGHT, of Lafay-
ette, La., president of the Southern Cooper-
ative Development Fund, a developmental
financial institution with assets over $11 mil-
lion, making loans to emerging cooperatives
and community-controlled organizations in
the South;
1220
