Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, June 29, 1979
Interview With the President
Question-and-Answer Session With Members
of the Japanese Press. June 20, 1979
TOKYO SUMMIT MEETING
Q. Mr. President, it has been widely
assumed that energy will be one of the
key issues in the Tokyo summit. I wonder
if you would delineate for us what is it
you would like to accomplish in the com-
ing Tokyo summit? What is it you think
is significant in this particular summit as
compared to the past four previous sum-
mits?
THE PRESIDENT. This will be the first
opportunity that the major Western
nations' leaders will have to address the
energy question as a top item on the
agenda. In the past, we have dealt pri-
marily with macroeconomic matters. Ob-
viously, some of them still prevail. In-
flation, unemployment, enhanced trade
are of importance to our country and will
be discussed. But energy will be the major
topic.
We have done a great deal of prepara-
tory work among the nations who will be
represented in Tokyo. I will spend a day
or two with Prime Minister Ohira before
the other leaders arrive in Japan. We will
be sharing our ideas in preparation for
the summit.
Obviously, some of the considerations
will be a continuation of our past discus-
sions. We have committed ourselves, a
major consuming nation, to reduce our
imports of oil by 2 million barrels per
day by the end of 1979, compared to pro-
jected use. We will discuss means to im-
plement this commitment and also to ex-
tend the conservation effort through 1980
and subsequent years.
Additionally, we will explore new ways
to increase the production and use of
nonfossil fuel supplies of energy. Coal,
nuclear power, solar power will all be
discussed quite thoroughly. We are, ob-
viously, interested in safety and the pres-
ervation of the quality of our environ-
ment.
A special consideration which I would
like to explore with Prime Minister Ohira
and others is the international sharing of
responsibility for technological develop-
ments, liquefaction, gasification of coal,
the use of renewable energy sources, and
direct use of sunlight, and how to assure
that nuclear power is both safe and
efficient.
These are the kind of issues we will be
exploring in energy among ourselves. The
1145
