Sept. 28
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
energy into another lifestyle which re-
quires another energy source. And I insist,
once again, if the United States expresses
its political will in this direction, this will
be made possible.
The objective is a very simple one. The
proposition is a very simple one. Let us
prepare to go from one era into another
era by putting order into a resource, into
the exploration, exploitation, distribution,
and consumption of the resource we have
now, and let us prepare to use another
one later on, because if we do not, life
will no longer be possible.
Mexico is willing to do whatever it can
do. Before all the nations of the world, it
has expressed its political will to take on a
commitment. We consider that it is indis-
pensable to commit ourselves. We must
think about our children and our chil-
dren's children and the world we're going
to leave behind for them to live in. Will
it be an orderly, peaceful world, or will it
be the world of the apocalypse? Will it
be a disorderly world? I believe that it is
not a difficult selection. I forgive for in-
sisting upon this idea once and again, I
beg your forgiveness.
It is with this idea in mind that we
have come to the United States in order
to have the satisfaction to review, within
the framework of that very intelligent
instrument that was established by Presi-
dent Carter and myself, the state of our
relationship, to seek your solidarity, to
solve a problem that is everyone's prob-
lem, and to recommend what I would
consider to be a very simple remedy.
During my political campaign, I in-
sistently said that the solution is to be
found in all of us. I believe, in the case of
energy sources and ever so many other
matters that are very serious for mankind,
we must constantly think that the solution
is to be found in all of us.
of our democracies, the friendship of our
peoples, with the hope that our communi-
cation lines will be always open between
us, and to the happiness of the United
States and, particularly, the Carter family,
I ask you to join me in a toast.
NOTE: President Carter spoke at 8:15 p.m.
in the State Dining Room at the White House.
President López Portillo spoke in Spanish, and
his remarks were translated by an interpreter.
Earlier in the day, President Carter and
President López Portillo held a meeting in the
Cabinet Room at the White House to discuss
bilateral issues.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the Pres-
ident's public schedule and other items of
general interest announced by the White
House Press Office and not included else-
where in this issue.
September 23
The President and Mrs. Carter hosted
a dinner for Members of Congress at the
White House.
September 24
The President met at the White House
with:
-Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the
President for National Security Af-
fairs;
-Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the
President for Congressional Liaison;
-the Bee Gees, a musical group.
The President met in the Oval Office
with Lou Brock, an outfielder for the St.
Louis Cardinals professional baseball
team, to congratulate him on achieving
his 3,000th career hit. Other participants
included Mr. Brock's family, Vice Presi-
dent Walter F. Mondale, and Members of
To these values that are common to all Congress.
1784
