Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 12
the State of Ohio; I don't want anybody
to get that impression. But, you know,
with a given Federal law which the Con-
gress is highly unlikely to change, it's much
more advantageous for you and for your
husband and for your coal mine to have
a cooperation between the Federal and
State Government, as we have in all the
other 49 States, rather than to have a
continued confrontation. And I believe
that the best thing to do to alleviate prob-
lems and to make sure we've got a real
local input when a decision is made is
to have the Ohio environmental program
approved and implemented. If there are
some differences between the Federal re-
quirements under the law and Ohio will
just have to
Q. Just work them out.
THE PRESIDENT.
-they'll just have
to work them out, or Ohio will have to
amend it's proposal.
But it doesn't help anything for 22
years to go by and for Ohio still to main-
tain, "We don't like the Federal law,
therefore we're not going to comply."
What it means is that there's no State
input, and you're faced with well-mean-
ing people from Washington who are try-
ing to administer that law. In all the
other States, we've got State people who
understand your problems much better-
who might know you personally—work-
ing alongside of the Federal administra-
tors to ensure compliance.
So, I believe that if you will come to
Washington and meet with Stu Eizenstat
and others and also use your influence to
encourage the State of Ohio and I'll en-
courage EPA to work together, we'll
make a great stride forward.
That's one of the reasons, by the way,
that I wanted to come to Steubenville. It's
not an accident that I came here. I'm
proud of what we've done in steel. I'm
concerned about what we have not yet
accomplished on coal, and you are a
highly motivated, very knowledgeable
group about both these areas of American
life. And I think your kind of question is
very helpful to me as President. It'll be
helpful to you and your coal mine in a
personal way; I think it'll be helpful to
the whole country, and I thank you for it.
COAL PRODUCTION
Houston, and I'm a UMWA coal miner
Q. Mr. President, my name is Bob
from Local Union 1810. Effective August
31, as Larry Bussey's told you, our mine
was shut down. But in your energy mes-
sage you have declared the moral equiva-
lent of war in your energy policy, and
coal was included in that policy.
However, in the State of Ohio, mines
are being shut down because of the U.S.
EPA standards. I have attended these
EPA hearings; I've testified, as well as
many other coal miners. And we have al-
ways stated that we thought that the an-
swer, the solution to this problem was a
compromise. But we seem our words
have never been heard, because our mine
shut down and there are approximately
5,000 coal miners laid off in the State of
Ohio. And what we would like to know is,
when can we expect some concrete solu-
tions to these sulfur dioxide problems, and
to get 5,000 coal miners back to work
and the energy program on the road to
make us energy independent from for-
eign oil sources?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I need
to repeat what I've already said about the
proposal. But let me make one point more
clear.
My proposing an energy policy to the
Congress is just the first step. Until the
Congress adopts it, we don't get the bene-
fits from it. And the Congress has not yet
passed a single line of legislation concern-
ing oil because of the power in the past of
the oil companies. I think now it's about
1649
