Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 17
follow up our efforts and build on what
was achieved in Camp David.
In the months ahead we'll be working
tirelessly together until we reach that goal
for the good of world peace and security.
This is an unwavering commitment which
we share and are determined to honor.
Thus, we should refrain from any rash
act that would jeopardize the prospects
of peace at this crucial stage. Acts of de-
fiance and negativism should be avoided.
The policy of confrontation and fait ac-
compli is contrary to the spirit of Camp
David.
Mr. President, under your leadership
the American people are playing the role
which is worthy of a great nation-the
role of the peacemaker. This is a source of
confidence and reassurance. Never before
has there been so much promise and hope
for the future. Never before has there been
such awareness of the necessity for tack-
ling the Palestinian question. Never before
has there been such confidence in the
United States as an honest and full part-
ner in peace in the Middle East.
Much of the credit for all these posi-
tive developments goes to you, Mr. Pres-
ident. Through your determination and
courage, we were able to overcome
the most difficult problems, able to over-
come the most difficult problems. With
your vision and a deep sense of commit-
ment, we were able to heal the wounds of
the unhappy past and focus on the future.
With your compassion and understand-
ing, we were able to put the problem in the
proper perspective.
We are also indebted to each and every
American in the United States. No other
nation showed so much interest in peace
in the Middle East. No other nation has
devoted so much effort and the energy to
help friends build a great structure for
peace. We count on your continued help
and commitment.
I bring you greetings from President
Sadat and the 41 million Egyptians. Let
us now remain together until we reach
our common goal. God willing, we shall
reach it.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. And now I'd like to
introduce Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan,
who played such a crucial role in the nego-
tiations at Camp David and since that
time, as we wage peace, not war, in the
Middle East.
THE FOREIGN MINISTER. Mr. Presi-
dent, I want to thank you very much on
behalf of the Israeli Government and the
Israeli people on this splendid meeting
here today and on the event for this meet-
ing, on reaching peace with our neigh-
bors in Egypt. Had it not been for you, we
couldn't have done it, and we wouldn't be
here today celebrating the anniversary of
this day.
You said, Mr. President, that, of course,
when you turn provisions written on
paper into reality, you come against diffi-
culties, which is true. And one of the
problems that we have to face, we shall be
trying to solve tomorrow and the day
after. But allow me to say that, on the
other hand, we did come surprisingly
against pleasant, unexpected events dur-
ing the implementation of the peace
treaty. And I mention just one of them.
When we were sitting down here and
in Camp David and working out the peace
treaty, we were very worried about what
we called the process of normalization,
and we all looked forward with great
anxiety about the day when an Egyptian
Ambassador would have to come to Israel
and an Israeli Ambassador would have to
go to Egypt. But what happened in the
meantime with the visits of President
Sadat to Israel and the feeling that he was
met with when he came to Israel, and the
visits of Prime Minister Begin to Egypt,
1685
