Sept. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
agement Agency (FEMA). Her area of
responsibility would be insurance and
hazard mitigation.
Jimenez has been Acting Associate Di-
rector of FEMA since last April.
She was born July 1, 1932, in New York
City. She received an LL.B. from Brook-
lyn Law School in 1954. From 1955 to
1966, she practiced law in New York,
and in 1965 and 1966, she also served as
district aide to Congressman Richard
Ottinger. From 1968 to 1970, she was di-
rector of housing and urban programs for
the North Carolina Department of Local
Affairs.
From 1971 to 1974, Jimenez was a hous-
ing consultant and assistant director of
the Low Income Housing Development
Corporation in Durham, N.C. She was
deputy commissioner and general counsel
of the North Carolina Department of In-
surance from 1975 to 1978.
In 1978 Jimenez was appointed Fed-
eral Insurance Administrator. She was
appointed Acting Associate Director of
FEMA after the Federal Insurance Ad-
ministration's insurance and hazard miti-
gation functions were transferred to
FEMA under Reorganization Plan No. 3
of 1978.
United Nations Children's
Fund
Appointment of Marjorie Craig Benton To Be
U.S. Representative on the Executive Board.
September 7, 1979
The President today announced that he
has appointed Marjorie Craig Benton to
be the Representative of the United States
on the Executive Board of the United Na-
tions Children's Fund.
Benton, 46, of Evanston, Ill., is cur-
rently a member of the United States Na-
tional Commission for the International
Year of the Child.
Soviet Combat Troops in Cuba
Remarks to Reporters. September 7, 1979
to
I want to take a few minutes to speak
about the presence of the Soviet
you
combat brigade in Cuba. The facts re-
lating to this issue have been carefully
laid out by Secretary Vance, both in his
public statement and in his testimony be-
fore the Congress. The facts, in brief, are
as follows:
We have concluded, as the consequen-
ces of intensified intelligence efforts, that
a Soviet combat unit is currently stationed
in Cuba. We have some evidence to in-
dicate that such a unit has been in Cuba
for some time, perhaps for quite a few
years.
The brigade consists of 2,000 to 3,000
troops. It's equipped with conventional
weapons, such as about 40 tanks and some
field artillery pieces, and has conducted
training as an organized unit.
It is not an assault force. It does not
have airlift or sea-going capabilities and
does not have weapons capable of attack-
ing the United States.
The purpose of this combat unit is not
yet clear. However, the Secretary of State
spoke for me and for our Nation on
Wednesday when he said that we consider
the presence of a Soviet combat brigade
in Cuba to be a very serious matter and
that this status quo is not acceptable.
We are confident about our ability to
defend our country or any of our friends
from external aggression. The issue posed
is of a different nature. It involves the
stationing of Soviet combat troops here in
the Western Hemisphere, in a country
which acts as a Soviet proxy in military
adventures in other areas of the world,
like Africa.
We do have the right to insist that the
Soviet Union respect our interests and
our concerns if the Soviet Union expects
us to respect their sensibilities and their
1602
