Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
try. And if it results in either temporary
or permanent criticisms or lower opinion
among American people, if I think I'm
right and doing what is best for this coun-
try, I'm going to do it.
I believe that this next year, 1980, a
presidential election year, will serve as a
time for presentation to the American
people of what I have done as President,
the problems that still remain, and what I
can propose to the American people in
the future to correct those problems. And
if I can build up at that time adequate
confidence in me, when the issues are
clearly addressed and that accurate in-
ventory is made, then perhaps the people
will change their opinion.
Ms. STAMBERG. President Carter, we're
almost at the end of our time, but we do
have time for perhaps a few more callers'
calls.
This is Mrs. Sue Eik, and she's in
Philipsburg, Montana. Go ahead, Mrs.
Eik.
HOSPITAL COST CONTAINMENT
MRS. EIK. Thank you.
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Go ahead.
MRS. EIK. I'm very pleased to be able
to speak with you. Speaking of something
closer to all of our hearts and on the home-
front, I recently, due to personal experi-
ences within the family-I'm concerned
with rising medical costs and care of the
elderly. I guess until you get involved in it
yourself you just pretty much take it for
granted. You're aware of these high costs,
but when you really get down to it and
you're trying to figure out adequate means
for your family to get good health care,
do the best you can for them, then
come down to figuring out how you're
going to pay for it. It really is a concern
to each and every one of us.
you
I have in-laws that are in very poor
condition, and I'm doing everything I can
for them. But in this last month, I have
come to see very good cases of good health
care, and in the same instances I feel that
as great of a nation as we are, we're really
handling things very poorly.
THE PRESIDENT. Mrs. Eik, let me
see if-
MRS. EIK. There are great strides in
medicine, and yet it doesn't seem like we
have very much interest or care in our
aging people. We're doing great things
with heart surgery and transplants.
Ms. STAMBERG. Mrs. Eik, let me inter-
rupt you for a moment, because our time is
running short. Why doesn't President
ahead and answer you?
Carter
go
THE PRESIDENT. One of the best things
that we can do about all the problems that
you've described, Mrs. Eik, is to have the
Congress pass the hospital cost contain-
ment legislation that's before them. Last
year the Senate passed it, and now it's be-
fore the House and the Senate again. The
lobbyists are trying to oppose this legisla-
tion, and it must be passed. It would cut
down on the amount that Americans will
spend for hospital care in the next 5 years
by $53 billion. It'll not only cut your fu-
ture hospital bills by roughly $500, but it'll
also leave the hospitals adequately profit-
able and will not reduce the level or qual-
ity of health care.
Hospital cost containment is extremely
important. We hope to get it finally
passed.
KIM YONG SAM
I would like to correct one thing I said
earlier, if you don't mind.
Ms. STAMBERG. Okay.
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in Korea
I met with Kim Yong Sam, who is the
opposition leader in the legislature that
was expelled. I think I inadvertently said
Mr. Lee. But it's Kim Yong Sam whom
I met there. I didn't want to leave an
error.
1919
