Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 15
it. And there's another side to Chicago
that I also admire, which I mentioned
earlier its human dimension. This is a
city of families. This is a city of neighbor-
hoods, where churches and community
life and traditions are important.
When His Holiness Pope John [Paul] 3
II came here, he did not visit just the
great cathedrals. He went to the neighbor-
hoods, and he went to their churches. He
went to the South Side, to Marquette
Park, to Pilsen, to the Five Holy Martyrs
Church, and the Visitation Church. He
Iwas in the different communities of this
city, where unique heritages and customs
stay strong and vital.
Sustaining that neighborhood life has
been a chief goal of Mayor Jane Byrne.
She's fighting for the well-being of neigh-
borhoods in Chicago, and I can assure
you that she's fighting for Chicago in
Washington as well. And she is winning
her fight in both places-here and in
Washington.
With a good partnership between your
mayor and your President, Chicago is
leading the country in Urban Develop-
ment Action Grants, above any other city
in the Nation. We expect this money to
stimulate $300 million in private invest-
ment, creating 5,000 new and permanent
jobs in Chicago. In addition, we've ap-
proved block grants for Chicago of $127
million for this 1 year. We've just reached
an agreement with Mayor Byrne, who is a
tough negotiator, that will preserve over
1,300 federally funded city government
jobs.
My urban policy means making gov-
ernment work better together-Federal,
State, and local. In Chicago, we have
had an opportunity to ensure that a
major national and international travel
3
Printed in the transcript.
system is not stifled in its necessary de-
velopment and expansion.
I'm very pleased to report to you to-
night that after 10 years of waiting and
after several months of work with Mayor
Byrne, we have finally reached an agree-
ment in principle to relocate some de-
fense facilities at O'Hare Airport, which
will permit the much-needed expansion
and modernization of your international
air terminal.
This is good news for Chicago, and it's
good news for the millions of people who
fly in and out of O'Hare Air Terminal,
and it's good news to me, because it rep-
resents precisely that kind of creative Fed-
eral-local cooperation that's so important
to our mutual success and lets our Nation
realize its great strength.
I don't want to recite a long list to-
night. I just want to emphasize to you at
this special evening banquet that Jane
Byrne is working hard for this city in the
same tradition as her great predecessors.
And I can also say that if we had more
congressional delegations like Chicago's,
we would be moving even more vigorously
to rebuild all our cities and also to rebuild
our national economy even more rapidly.
I've worked closely with Senator Ad-
lai Stevenson, with Danny Rostenkowski,
with Frank Annunzio, and all the rest of
the Chicago delegation. When I say that
Chicagoans are builders, I mean that you
also send that same building spirit to
Washington.
When I took office as President and the
times called for rebuilding a stagnant
economy, I called on the Democratic
Congress and Chicagoans in that Congress
to get the job done. We've done that
job-together-and we can be proud of
it.
We've increased our commitments to
Democratic programs-social security,
housing, education, and health. Corporate
1935
