July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
join me in this fight for our energy secu-
rity, because on the battlefield of energy,
this democracy which we love is going to
make its stand. And on that battlefield
you and I, fighing side by side, will win
the energy war.
The underlying cause of the energy
crisis, the energy problem, the energy
challenge, the energy opportunity, is the
same as it has been for many years—a
massive, dangerous, growing dependence
on oil, and particularly our dependence,
excessive dependence on imported oil. A
generation ago, we sent more oil out of
the country than we brought in. Now we
import almost half the oil we use, and
after the latest price increase, the price
we pay OPEC for our oil has almost
doubled in the last 7 months.
With a government shakeup in distant
Iran last winter, we lost in imports about
100 million barrels of oil. The gasoline
lines are directly related to this particu-
lar vulnerability; so are the diesel fuel
shortages among our farmers and among
our truckers; and so are the present low
home heating oil stocks as we face next
winter. We simply must remove this threat
to our people. I must act, the Congress
must act, all of you must act now without
delay, with determination, unity, courage,
and confidence. With your recent expres-
sion of support for me, I have no doubt
that we in this great country will succeed.
The first thing we've got to do is to face
facts. There is simply not enough oil avail-
able in the world to meet all the demands
of all the people in all the nations on
Earth.
Americans are just now beginning to
realize with simple common sense that
there are only two ways to guarantee
supply-one is obviously to control our
demand, to cut back on the waste of
energy; and the other is to develop our
own sources of energy to replace foreign
imports so that we can have control over
our own destiny. And with your help, I
promise to do exactly that.
I believe Americans will join together
if there is good leadership at every level
of government, not only from the White
House but from the courthouse as well.
There must be clear, fair goals and pro-
grams, and we must implement coura-
geously, sometimes without regard to
political consequences, the programs that
we know are best for the people who've
chosen us to lead.
Let me start by making clear what our
priorities for using the present oil supplies
are right now. My first priority as Presi-
dent is to protect the lives and the well-
being of all Americans. Therefore, our
emergency services, such as police, fire,
and health, must be maintained. So must
the essentials of food and shelter.
We must have fuel to produce and to
distribute food. We must have heating
fuel to prevent suffering next winter in
almost every part of this country, and par-
ticularly, of course, in the northern States.
We've drawn down our winter fuel
stocks because of the earlier supply cut-
off from Iran, which I've already men-
tioned. We simply must build them back.
We are doing so now, and we will meet
the goal that I've established for our
Nation.
We will distribute limited supplies of
gasoline fairly and equitably among the
motorists of this country. There are things
we can do to manage the current short-
age of energy. We can do it better, and
we will get this done.
We are pressing the refineries, for in-
stance, to increase their production of
fuel and heating oil. As a byproduct this
will also produce more gasoline, as well.
We are requiring the oil industry to
cooperate. If they do not cooperate vol-
untarily, we will not hesitate to use the
1242
