Aug. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
different. It's not different. We must be
open-hearted, and we must still be con-
cerned for those who seek to escape per-
secution and to find freedom.
It's good for our Nation that you are
meeting here as Italian Americans, that
you are working together to preserve your
heritage and your culture, because you
have so much to offer. I do not mean only
the cultural and artistic and musical her-
itage, a heritage represented by names like
Michelangelo and da Vinci, Verdi and
Toscanini, nor do I mean even the great
individual contributions of particular Ital-
ian Americans, although, of course, we are
all intensely proud of people who have
held our Nation together in a time of trial
and testing and great threat-men like
John Sirica, Peter Rodino, and now Ben-
jamin Civiletti.
Even more important than any Ameri-
can, no matter how great that individual
might be, is the system of values that the
Italians and the Poles and the Irish and
the European Jews and other immigrants
brought to our shores. I mean the devo-
tion to family, a sense of discipline, a be-
lief in hard work, a readiness to sacrifice
so that each generation's children could
have a better life, and finally a sense of
concern and compassion for others. That
sense of compassion is very broad, and it's
evident in this room, in this organization.
On this trip, I'm discussing with Mario
Biaggi the plight of the people in Northern
Ireland. Peter Rodino, with his commit-
tee, is working to help the boat people.
There are many in this room who are con-
cerned about Israel, who are concerned
about the poor of all nationalities, and
about the elderly who live among us.
During this convention I have learned
the Sons of Italy will present a check for
$2 million to the March of Dimes Foun-
dation to fight birth defects. And that
money will go to help children of every
racial and ethnic background. You've
raised that money in your capacity as
Italian Americans, but you are donating
it in your capacity as Americans. That is
the spirit of the United States, the same
spirit that the immigrants brought to this
country, of unity, patriotism, confidence,
and concern.
It's the same spirit that we must now
bring to the fight to achieve and to pre-
serve American energy security.
I'm not going to describe any particular
program today. We all know that we can
meet our energy security threat only if
we enact legislation and then pull to-
gether as Americans.
Because our Nation is not only a mosaic
ethnically and culturally but also econom-
ically, we're different one from another.
Some of us financially are well off, some
have to struggle just to make ends meet;
some of us are energy consumers, some
energy producers. Some of us are from
the Northeast, where we need a lot of
heating oil to keep our homes warm; some
of us are from the Sun Belt, where enor-
mous differences of distance means that
we need a lot of gasoline just to go to our
jobs.
Too often in the past, as we tried to
deal with this complicated energy prob-
lem, we have let these differences paralyze
our Nation. We've been too prone to
struggle and fight among ourselves in serv-
ing our own particular interest. We have
let the general interest, the national inter-
est suffer.
I'm sorry to say that until now the gen-
eral interest has had a hard time of it in
the halls of Congress, despite the dedica-
tion and the work of the leadership and
many Members of the Congress. The Con-
gress has yielded to the narrow interest on
energy issues time and time again. I've
now called on the Congress to enact a
strong windfall profits tax on the oil com-
panies to help finance a strong national
effort to achieve energy security, and I
need your help.
The Congress is now in recess, and its
1410
