Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 7
place to live which will be of benefit to
you, to the city, to your neighbors, and
to our country.
This year, 3,000 homes, next year, 4,000
more homes, more jobs, and one of the
good things, one of the good things is that
these young workers who were formerly
unemployed are learning a good trade and
they are going from this program into pri-
vate employment with a lot higher salary
level and a stable life for the future. That's
what I call cooperation. That's what we
need all over the country.
I don't know if you know it or not, but
40 percent of all the energy in our coun-
try goes into the heating and the cooling
of homes and other buildings-40 percent.
And because we are so wasteful now, be-
tween 30 percent and 50 percent of all
that heat is wasted. It costs our country
in energy security. It makes us too de-
pendent on foreign oil. It takes jobs away
from our Nation and imports inflation. If
we can just cut down on the waste of
energy in our homes, this would be a
tremendous program now and in the
future.
In 1977 I proposed to the Congress
and the Congress passed a bill that gives
$300 in tax credits for any homeowner
who will weatherize a home to cut down
energy waste and $2,200 for any home
that will install solar heat for the house
itself or for hot water or sometimes even
for cooling. This is a program just getting
started, and we have now proposed to the
Congress an additional program that will
let the power companies, the gas com-
panies, the electric light companies, give
a loan to a family or to the owner of a
house that's rented to make sure that the
house is weatherized and made efficient
and that loan will not have to be paid
back until the house is sold. This will save
a half million barrels of oil every day and,
again, will provide tremendous savings
for the homeowners and the working peo-
ple of our Nation.
It's very important that this program
be understood not just by those of
you as-
sembled here on North Patterson and East
Biddle Street but also by the people all
over our country. We are making good
progress toward giving our people a better
life, and we are letting you have a part in
providing for our energy security and
making us free from dependence on for-
eign oil that might be interrupted and
damage our lives and damage the coun-
try we love. Will you cooperate on this
program with me? [Applause]
Let me add a word about the school
building on my right. This building was
built, I believe, in 1896. It has educated,
as you know, a lot of young people. Now
it's no longer used for a school building,
but it's being renovated at a very low cost
compared to a new building. And by De-
cember, it will be completed, and we'll
have a place to live, a beautiful place to
live for 19 families. This is being done in
other places in Baltimore at a great sav-
ings to the taxpayers and giving good
housing for all our people.
This is the kind of cooperation that
you are finding now among the
Federal agencies-Housing and Urban
Development, which provides the funds
and the know-how; Labor, which pro-
vides the CETA programs and training
the young people to have permanent jobs;
HEW, interested in a better life for our
people in education and welfare and
health; and other Federal agencies. But
the most important thing is that we are
working cooperatively with the State
government officials and the local govern-
ment officials and also private industry.
An additional thing in Baltimore is
this: The people who do most of the work
are the ones who live here and who want
a better place to live. That's the kind of
1407
