Oct. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
marketing strategy of the eventual pro-
ducer. Although there are many places in
the chain from invention to sale where
we have found modification of Federal
policy to be appropriate, there is no one
place where the Federal government can
take action and thereby ensure that in-
is an appropriate time to acknowledge
formally the importance of the Small Busi-
ness Administration's role in the Admin-
istration's regulatory reform effort by in-
cluding SBA as a Council member.
I am pleased to grant your request for
membership and I look forward to SBA's
participation in the work of the Regula-
tory Council.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
dustrial innovation will be increased. We
have therefore chosen a range of initia-
tives, each of which we believe to be help-
ful. In aggregate, we expect them to have
a significant impact. Nonetheless, they leased on November 1.
represent only an early skirmish in what
must be a continuing battle to maintain
the technological strength of the Ameri-
can economy. I pledge myself to this task
and ask the Congress to join me in meet-
ing our common challenge.
The White House,
October 31, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Small Business Administration
Memorandum From the President.
October 31, 1979
Memorandum for A. Vernon Weaver
Subject: The Small Business Administra-
tion's (SBA) Membership on the Regula-
tory Council
When I established the Regulatory
Council last year I directed that it be the
focal point of efforts to assess the cumu-
lative impact of regulation and to coordi-
nate Federal regulatory activity. I hope
that many of the improvements in govern-
ment regulations that the Council is insti-
tuting will be of direct benefit to our na-
tion's small businesses.
Government regulation sometimes poses
special problems for small business. The
Small Business Administration has done
a great deal to make us aware of these
problems and has worked closely with
regulatory agencies to resolve them. This
Panama Canal Commission
Appointment of Fernando Manfredo as Deputy
Administrator. November 1, 1979
The President today announced the ap-
pointment of Fernando Manfredo as
Deputy Administrator of the Panama
Canal Commission. Mr. Manfredo,
formerly the Panamanian Minister of
Presidencia, has been engaged in Panama
Canal treaty implementation activities for
Panama during the past year.
Mr. Manfredo has been active in local
Panamanian civic and business organiza-
tions and served as adviser to many private
and government organizations in the Re-
public of Panama.
Death of Mamie Eisenhower
Statement by the President.
November 1, 1979
Rosalynn and I share the sadness of a
loving nation at the death of Mamie
Eisenhower and send our deepest sympa-
thy to her family.
A warm and gracious First Lady, she
carried out her public and private duties,
despite a lifetime of fragile health, in a
way that won her a special place in the
2074
