Sept. 23
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
human rights; the spread of democracy in
societies which have known the heel of
totalitarian governments; the welcoming
of refugees who, like our own ancestors,
have found a better life in America; this
bridging of gaps between our own Nation
and other people, which have been long
existent and where, in the past, very few
attempts have been made to build those
bridges.
In our Ambassador to the United Na-
tions, we find that opportunity for me to
form a partnership. And more than 22
years ago, I formed a good partnership
with a great American, who has served
his country well and who will continue to
serve it well in whatever role he chooses
to play my friend and the friend of the
world, Andy Young. And I thank you,
Andy.
I might say in passing that any claims
or allegations that American Jewish lead-
ers or anyone else urged me to ask Andy
for his resignation are absolutely and
totally false, and neither did anyone urge
Andy to resign. He made his judgment on
what was best for our country and him.
And his role in the future, in my judg-
ment, to help his Nation will be undi-
minished.
When Andy and I had a private dis-
cussion about his future, one of the ques-
tions that came up was about a successor.
I wanted someone to carry on, in an un-
diminished way, the thrust of what has
been achieved in the last 22 years. There
was an instant realization that such a suc-
cessor was at hand-a man who is a for-
eign policy professional in the finest sense
of the word; a man who has been at the
United Nations, working in a very top
position in the most sensitive areas of in-
ternational life; a man whose moral char-
acter is unstained, who's proven his ability
in times of strain and with the focus of
public attention on him, as was the case
recently in a New York airport; a man
who will take this position, I believe, with
the highest degree of personal knowledge
of the inner workings and the hidden
mechanisms and the ultimate purposes
and the challenges and the solutions of
the United Nations than anyone who's
ever served there.
And with the choice of Don McHenry,
which has been almost unanimously, so
far as I know, unanimously approved,
four messages will go out in a very clear
tone. One is that we are continuing to
bridge the gap between the developed
nations of the world, like our own, and
the developing nations of the world, who
search for friendship, understanding, and
a better life for their people; secondly, to
let the world know that we staunchly are
committed as a nation and as a govern-
ment to ending racism and apartheid in
southern Africa and we will never yield
on this point; third, that our commit-
ment to human rights and basic human
freedoms is an accurate commitment that
expresses the will of 220 million Ameri-
cans and that this will never cease so long
as our country exists; and that we are a
nation committed to peace, a strong na-
tion committed to peace.
In the Middle East, we've made good
progress. The sensitivities there are per-
haps as complex as any which have ever
confronted negotiators or diplomats. The
progress that has been made in the last
13 or 14 months is far beyond anything
that we had dreamed. We still have a long
way to go. But we have a man in the
United Nations who understands those
sensitivities, and our Ambassador there
will be able to contribute greatly to what
I am able to accomplish-Secretary
Vance, Ambassador Bob Strauss, and
others-in bringing peace to that troubled
region. I am indeed grateful that Don
McHenry has accepted this position.
And now I would like to ask Andy
Young to say just a brief word and to in-
1716
