Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 19
too. And when Pete Williams was de-
scribing the effect on the lives of those
who live in that reconstituted area of our
Nation, it was gratifying to me to see Tom,
with genuine pride and gratification, know
that he had done a good job. And I thank
you and Bob Embry and others, Pat Har-
ris and now Moon Landrieu, who have
made this project a success.
The Urban Development Action
Grants I would say, of those four words,
the most important word is "action"-we
don't mess around with the applications
or the carrying out of those projects once
they get to us. And I think that "action"
word exemplifies the political life, the
congressional leadership of Lud Ashley.
Perhaps the most difficult legislation
which has ever faced the Congress, cer-
tainly in my lifetime, was the very compli-
cated, comprehensive energy policy that I
proposed to the Congress in April of 1977.
We hope that we'll complete it this year.
But when the Speaker of the House put
together an ad hoc committee, comprised
of the leaders of many committees in the
House of Representatives, he chose Lud
Ashley to head that program. And Lud is
more famous, perhaps on a nationwide
basis, for having dealt successfully with
the energy problem in a very expeditious
and effective fashion.
But I think the longest testimony to
Lud's effectiveness is in the area of hous-
ing and urban development. He cares
about people, and he's superb in his ability
to conceive legislative programs, to get
them passed by Congress, to have them fi-
nanced, and then to make sure that they
do apply to improving the life of a human
being. And I'm very grateful at this time
to introduce to you Lud Ashley.
REPRESENTATIVE ASHLEY. Well, Mr.
President, if I had known I would get such
an introduction from you, I promise you,
I would have written something down.
[Laughter]
I want to take just a moment to say
what I feel, which is that President Carter
is the first President in the history of the
United States that really has had the
courage to try to articulate a policy for
our cities. And you know that's true, and
I know it's true. We know why it's true.
We may as well put it where it is. You
know, the reason the Presidents have been
a little reluctant to do this is not because
they haven't recognized that cities have
problems, it's because to try to articulate
a policy for the cities exposes you and
makes you vulnerable, because 4 years
hence you can be held accountable to
those strategies that you tried to articulate.
Well, I kind of like to have a President
that will risk that, and we have that
President.
I do have to be absolutely honest with
you, Mr. President. It's been my convic-
tion, pretty much since coming to the
Congress, that any initiative that comes
from the White House is one that in al-
most every instance can be improved upon
by the Congress. You understand that.
[Laughter] The marvelous thing about the
UDAG program is that that wasn't so.
And don't think we didn't look, Mr. Pres-
ident, because we did. [Laughter]
But the reason that it couldn't be really
improved upon is because it does combine
what my associates, Pete in particular, has
touched
upon. You know, it starts off with
a partnership concept, predicate, and it
insists that there be the kind of 6-to-1
leverage that is the usual. It relies pri-
marily on local initiative, nothing from
the Federal Government. Nobody's out
there saying, do this, do that—not at all.
So, it's got the partnership concept, it's got
the local initiative, it's got that marvelous
feature-from the time of application, if
successful, to the time that the pick goes
1973
