Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
impact statement process fit the decision
schedule set by the Energy Mobilization
Board so that waivers of these statements
will be rare. Only in exceptional cases will
alternative procedures be necessary for the
orderly completion of a critical energy fa-
cility. With the exception of new require-
ments imposed when construction of a
critical facility is underway, the Board
could not waive substantive environ-
mental standards. The President will re-
tain the right to override decisions of the
Board on any waiver issue, and Board
waiver decisions would be subject to judi-
cial review.
Solving the nation's energy problem is
essential to our economy and our security.
We will not lose sight of our other goals
but we must not fail in ending the energy
crisis. This Administration's basic commit-
ment to clean air, clean water and the
overall protection of the environment re-
mains strong.
ALASKA LANDS
The highest environmental priority of
my Administration is the passage of ade-
quate legislation designating National
Parks, Wildlife Refuges, Wilderness Areas,
National Forests, and Wild and Scenic
Rivers in Alaska.
To protect these magnificent Alaskan
lands, I took several actions after the 95th
Congress failed to provide protection
against exploitation of certain areas in
Alaska. By executive action, I designated
17 areas as National Monuments, cover-
ing 56 million acres. Additional areas
were set aside by the Secretaries of In-
terior and Agriculture. These areas
should be promptly and permanently
protected by legislation.
The legislation I support not only pro-
tects Alaska's natural and cultural heri-
tage but also accommodates the need
for balanced development of Alaska's
natural resources. Under the Alaska
Statehood Act and Native Claims Settle-
ment Act, federal land comprising an
area nearly as large as Texas will soon
be in state, native and private owner-
ship. My proposals leave most of Alaska's
mineral and timber wealth available for
development, both on federal and non-
federal lands. In particular, all of the
off-shore and 95 percent of the on-shore
areas in Alaska with favorable potential
for oil and
for oil and gas would be open to explora-
tion and development.
The only area with significant poten-
tial for oil and gas reserves that would
be foreclosed from exploration and de-
velopment is the Arctic Wildlife Refuge,
the calving grounds of the largest re-
maining caribou herd in the world and
an important part of the herd's migratory
route. Because of our responsibility to
protect this extraordinary remnant of our
continent's original wildlife, and because
oil and gas are plentifully available else-
where in Alaska, I firmly believe that the
Arctic Wildlife Refuge deserves the full
protection the House bill would provide.
There are other Alaskan areas where
disagreements and conflicts exist over
proper management. The Administra-
tion's proposals strike a balance that
offers future generations of all Ameri-
cans-especially Alaskans-broad oppor-
tunities for prosperity and enjoyment
without the mistakes in land management
we have seen elsewhere in the country.
I applaud the recent passage by the
House of Representatives, by a margin
of 300 votes, of a strong and fair bill
which will protect Alaska's wildlife and
wild areas, while providing for America's
future economic needs. I urge the Senate
to act with equal foresight this session.
1356
