Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
MR. JACQUES. I was wondering with
the energy crisis, we can't explore on this
land, and there's no way that we can ex-
plore on this land. I was wondering why
you have taken the State control and put
it in the Federal Government's hands.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you've
got it a little bit backwards, John. This
is not State land that we've taken away
from the State of Alaska; this is Federal
land that we're retaining for the use of all
Americans. It's, in effect, being put in a
protected status very carefully chosen,
about 115 million acres, which is a tiny
portion of the total acreage in Alaska. And
we very carefully excluded whenever pos-
sible those areas of Alaska that did have
promise as far as major energy production
is concerned.
As you know, Alaska has become a
great oil-producing State, natural gas-
producing State, which we hope to bring
down to our country through a new gas-
line, and obviously has other minerals of
value as well. But as has been the case
throughout our country, the land is first
owned by the Federal Government and
then a portion of it, either almost all or
very little, is turned over to the State.
Some is preserved for the entire American
population if it's especially beautiful or
especially precious, and that's the kind of
land that I have preserved for posterity,
for Americans of all 50 States and Alaska.
I think it was a very wise decision. It has
not interfered with the Alaskan ability to
produce energy.
MR. JACQUES. But don't you feel that
we can't explore on this land, if there's oil
and natural resources on this land?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I might say
that there are certain circumstances un-
der which oil exploration can be done
even on some of this land. Some of it is
too valuable and too precious to have ex-
ploration. But there is plenty of land in
Alaska for any time in the years immedi-
ately ahead to completely use all the oil
exploration capability that we have in
this country.
MR. JACQUES. Okay. Thank you, Mr.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, John.
MS. STAMBERG. Thank you, Mr.
Jacques.
A reminder again that you are listen-
ing to "Ask the President" on National
Public Radio. This is a live, 2-hour tele-
phone program from the White House
Oval Office. President Carter is answer-
ing questions from citizens across the
country, and for technical reasons you
cannot phone us with your question.
NPR instead is phoning out to randomly
selected listeners.
And here comes one now. It's Mrs.
Moila Roundy, in St. Joseph, Missouri.
Go ahead, Mrs. Roundy; you're on the
line with the President.
ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
MRS. ROUNDY. Good morning, Mr.
President. I feel very fortunate to speak
with you. My question is, is there some
way that we can get the Clean Air Act
of 1977 amended or rescinded?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not be in
favor of rescinding it.
MRS. ROUNDY. But-[inaudible]—
amend it. The EPA has become such a
monster, and it's costing us and wasting
so much of our energy unnecessarily. They
placed a burning ban on us here in St.
up of
Joseph, and we are mostly made
senior citizens on fixed income. And we
are in annexed areas, so large with all of
this waste. We can't afford to buy bags,
pay the minimum wage to have it cut up,
and pay to have it hauled off to these
landfills, which pollute much worse our
soil and our water tables. It's costing an
awful hardship on us here in St. Joseph,
1899
