Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, December 14, 1979
Scouting Recognition Week, 1979
Proclamation 4706. December 7, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
Scouting teaches boys and girls self-
reliance, physical fitness and good citizen-
ship. It fosters character development and
nurtures a love and understanding of na-
ture and of other people.
Scouting has a long and proud tradi-
tion of service and leadership training.
Many of our Nation's most accomplished
men and women in every field of endeavor
are former Scouts, and cite Scouting as
one of their most important early experi-
ences.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
call upon all Americans to recognize the
contributions of Scouting and to support
Scouting programs in their communities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereun-
to set my hand this seventh day of Decem-
ber, in the year of our Lord nineteen hun-
dred seventy-nine, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States of America the
two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:33 a.m., December 10, 1979]
NOTE: The text of the proclamation was re-
leased on December 8.
Through the years Scouts have broad- American Hostages in Iran
ened their activities to meet the changing
needs of young Americans and help them
prepare for useful and rewarding lives.
In recent years Scouts have been par-
ticularly active in promoting energy
awareness and conservation, and are con-
tinuing this important effort. They are
also planning activities designed to aid in
taking an accurate census next
year.
By House Joint Resolution 448, the
Congress has designated the week of De-
cember 3 through December 9, 1979 as
"Scouting Recognition Week."
Announcement of Attorney General Civiletti's
Appearance Before the International Court of
Justice. December 9, 1979
The President has asked Attorney Gen-
eral Benjamin Civiletti to travel to the
Netherlands tonight to appear personally
before the International Court of Justice
in the United States case against Iran.
The Court is holding hearings at The
Hague Monday on the request of the
United States for an interim order that
2209
