Aug. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
in that respect, and later to broaden the
coverage one step at a time until all
Americans, regardless of their income,
have an adequate degree of health care.
The total ultimate cost will not exceed,
in my opinion, what the ultimate cost
will be without this program, because the
costs now are growing so rapidly.
The first step that I hope the Congress
will pass this year, to go into effect im-
mediately, is hospital cost containment. As
you all know, because this is not a compet-
itive industry, hospital costs have been
going up twice as fast as the average cost
of inflation. So, we need hospital cost
containment immediately and then to im-
plement the health program on a nation-
wide basis carefully, methodically, but
thoroughly and with a maximum degree
of cooperation between me and, as you
say, others.
ETHNIC AMERICANS
Q. Mr. President, I am John Spatuzza
from Chicago, Illinois. Mr. President,
your predecessor had established an Office
for Ethnic Affairs to demonstrate the con-
cerns and to make available to ethnic
Americans a vehicle by which they could
express their concerns in their particular
areas. Mr. President, does the fact that
you have not chosen to establish such an
office, does that in any way indicate a
diminished concern for ethnic Americans?
The President. I can answer that in
one word-the word is "no." It does not
show any absence of concern for ethnic
Americans. We are now working with the
leaders of this organization and others to
see how we can broaden the input from
different ethnic groups throughout the
country into the White House where deci-
sions are made.
I think it's very important to realize
that all of us, from the President, the Vice
President on down, attempt every day
accurately to mirror the interest of ethnic
Americans. But we do not have any lack
of compassion or understanding, commit-
ment,
ment, determination to serve ethnic
American groups greater, and we have a
broad range, for instance, of Italian
Americans who serve at top levels in our
administration. We'll continue with this.
And I think you know that Vice President
“Mondali”—[laughter]—is one of the
representatives of the Italian Americans
that I depend on very heavily, and now
we have some more in the administration
as well.
VISIT WITH ITALIAN FAMILY
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. I'm
Josephine Falco, and I'm from Massa-
chusetts. In your travels around our coun-
try, you have visited American families of
many different backgrounds. Do you, Mr.
President, plan to visit a family of our
Italian heritage?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Nothing would
please me more than to do that.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. How
about coming to 44 Beaverbrook Road,
Waltham, Massachusetts? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. That's a great temp-
tation. Some of my top scheduling aides
are here, and if they don't schedule me
into an Italian American home, I might
make some more changes in my staff.
[Laughter]
FOOD AND ENERGY PRICES
Q. Florabell LaVerdi from Browns-
ville, Pennsylvania. Mr. President, Amer-
icans throughout our country are deeply
concerned with the family budget and its
ability to provide the adequate heat in
their homes and the nutritious food on
our tables. Do you believe that the ever-
1412
