Oct. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I'm urgently asking the Congress to
enact a supplemental Food for Peace ap-
propriation that will make available $20
million in commodities for use in Kam-
puchea, subject only to assurances that it
will reach its destination, that is, the hu-
man beings who are suffering. This is in
addition to the $5 million in food that I
pledged for this purpose last week.
Today I'm also directing that $9 mil-
lion in U.S. refugee assistance funds go
to meet about one-third of the total cost
of Thailand's program to help starving
refugees who are entering Thailand from
Kampuchea. I commend the Thai
Government on its decision to admit more
refugees. They have already received tens
of thousands of them.
Third, I've told Chairman Zablocki in
the House and cosponsors that the admin-
istration supports their proposal to author-
ize $30 million for the next phase of relief
in Kampuchea. This would enable us, as
a total, to raise our contributions to the
continuing program for the alleviation of
suffering in Kampuchea as high as $70
million.
The dimensions of the Kampuchean
tragedy are immense, and more aid will
almost certainly be needed. And I'm also
asking my Commission on World Hunger,
headed by Sol Linowitz, to recommend
to me the next steps that we must take to
meet worldwide hunger needs.
I'm certain that the American people,
in addition to their Government, will want
to be part of this urgent humanitarian
effort. It's absolutely too important to be
left to Government alone.
Standing behind me on the platform are
representatives of religious and other
groups who have already pledged to help
in this effort, who've called on me to do
what I'm announcing now, and who, I
believe, sincerely said that they would
match the Government effort.
Several voluntary agencies have been
working all along to meet the needs of in-
creasing numbers of refugees, and I call
upon all Americans to support this work.
I ask specifically that every Saturday and
Sunday in the month of November, up
until Thanksgiving, be set aside as days for
Americans in their synagogues and
churches and otherwise to give gener-
ously to help alleviate this suffering. I'm
confident that Americans' responses will
be matched abroad.
Many governments and international
voluntary agencies are already coming
forward with their pledges. The human
family, those of us who have been blessed
so highly with food and a relative absence
of suffering, must not be found wanting in
our response to alleviate this almost un-
precedented mass human suffering. If a
tragedy of genocidal proportions is to be
avoided in Kampuchea, we must all help,
both nations and governments and indi-
viduals alike.
I would now like to call on Father
Theodore Hesburgh, who was the spokes-
man for the group, representing private
entities, churches, synagogues, and others,
to say a few words to you, and he and
others in this room from government and
from the private sector will be glad to
answer your questions about this humani-
tarian effort.
Father Hesburgh.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:40 p.m. to re-
porters assembled in the Briefing Room at the
White House.
Prior to the President's remarks, he met with
religious leaders and representatives of various
humanitarian organizations to discuss the situ-
ation in Kampuchea. Following his remarks,
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Chairman of the
Select Commission on Immigration and Refu-
gee Policy and chairman of the board, Over-
seas Development Council, and Ambassa-
dor Henry D. Owen, Special Representative of
the President for International Economic Sum-
mits, held a news conference on the President's
announcement.
2012
