Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
To achieve these objectives, I propose
to place policy coordination and negotia-
tion-those international trade functions
that most require comprehensiveness, in-
fluence, and Government-wide perspec-
tive in the Executive Office of the
President. I propose to place operational
and implementation responsibilities,
which are staff-intensive, in line depart-
ments that have the requisite resources
and knowledge of the major sectors of our
economy to handle them. I have con-
cluded that building our trade structure
on STR and Commerce, respectively, best
satisfies these considerations.
I propose to enhance STR, to be re-
named the Office of the United States
Trade Representative, by centralizing in
it international trade policy development,
coordination and negotiation functions.
The Commerce Department will become
the focus of non-agricultural operational
trade responsibilities by adding to its
existing duties those for commercial rep-
resentation abroad, antidumping and
countervailing duty cases, the non-agri-
cultural aspects of MTN implementation,
national security investigations, and em-
bargoes.
THE UNITED STATES TRADE
REPRESENTATIVE
The Trade Representative, with the
advice of the Trade Policy Committee,
will be responsible for developing and
coordinating our international trade and
direct investment policy, including the
following areas:
Import remedies. The Trade Repre-
sentative will exercise policy oversight of
the application of import remedies,
analyze long-term trends in import
remedy cases and recommend any neces-
sary legislative changes. For antidumping
and countervailing duty matters, such
coordination, to the extent legally per-
missible, will be directed toward the
establishment of new precedents, negotia-
tion of assurances, and coordination with
other trade matters, rather than case-by-
case fact finding and determinations.
East-West trade policy. The Trade
Representative will have lead responsi-
bility for East-West trade negotiations
and will coordinate East-West trade
policy. The Trade Policy Committee
will assume the responsibilities of the
East-West Foreign Trade Board.
International investment policy. The
Trade Representative will have the policy
lead, regarding issues of direct foreign in-
vestment in the United States, direct in-
vestment by Americans abroad, operations
of multinational enterprises, and multi-
lateral agreements on international in-
vestment, insofar as such issues relate to
international trade.
International commodity policy. The
Trade Representative will assume respon-
sibility for commodity negotiations and
also will coordinate commodity policy.
Energy trade. While the Departments
of Energy and State will continue to share
responsibility for international energy
issues, the Trade Representative will co-
ordinate energy trade matters. The De-
partment of Energy will become
member of the TPC.
Export-expansion policy. To ensure a
vigorous and coordinated Government-
wide export expansion effort, policy over-
sight of our export expansion activities
will be the responsibility of the Trade
Representative.
The Trade Representative will have
the lead role in bilateral and multilateral
trade, commodity, and direct investment
negotiations. The Trade Representative
will represent the United States in Gen-
eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) matters. Since the GATT will
1730
