Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Tampa, Florida
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
at a Town Meeting. August 30, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. During 1975 and 1976,
my wife, Rosalynn, spent 75 days in Flor-
ida; and I spent almost as many, and I
learned a lot about our country from you,
because not only is Florida a dynamic and
aggressive State with confidence and
God's beauty, which attracts people from
all over the world, but Americans from
every State assessing our Nation very care-
fully to find the garden spot are inclined
to move to Florida to spend their produc-
tive years after they become senior citizens.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
I had a chance during those months
to listen a lot and to talk some. And I
heard about the need for a social security
system that was sound, and I heard about
the fact that the unemployment rate was
over 8 percent. But I also heard about the
need to maintain peace and to make sure
that no young American might lose his or
her life in combat. And so far, God's
blessed us, and I hope that when I leave
the White House we'll still have that
record.
And a lot of people here from Jewish
families, and from others, said the most
important single issue that threatens
world peace is the Mideast conflict, where
four wars in 30 years and hundreds of
years of antagonism and hatred create a
cancer and needs to be addressed. And
we've made some progress there.
There have been many issues on which
we have succeeded so far. There have been
other issues that are too difficult to solve
in 22 years, and there have been other
issues where one cannot find a solution
until the American people get aroused and
committed to joining in an effort to find a
solution to it. Obviously, we're trying.
We've now got a SALT agreement with
the Soviets to put a very tight constraint
over any increase in nuclear weapons that
threaten the world; and the Soviet Union,
if the SALT treaty is passed, will have to
cut back their nuclear arsenal, their num-
bers of launchers by 10 percent. We won't
have to cut back any. But this will lead
to further progress in the future, and to
constrain nuclear weapons is a very burn-
ing issue now before the United States
Senate.
Inflation has been with us 10 or 12
years. It goes up and down, primarily be-
cause of the price charged for imported
oil. We had a very high inflation rate, 12
or 13 percent back in 1973, 1974. We've
got a very high inflation rate now, because
the OPEC countries have increased the
price of oil over 50 percent in the last 6 or
7 months.
Inflation is tenacious. It's got to be ad-
dressed. We're doing the best we can.
We're holding down Federal spending.
We've already cut the budget deficit more
than 50 percent. We're going to have tight
management of the Federal bureaucracy.
We've got civil service reform, but the key
issue on which inflation depends is that
excessive importing of foreign oil.
We now import 50 percent of all the oil
we use, and we not only import oil, we
import unemployment and we import in-
flation. So far, the Congress has acted on
about 60 or 65 percent of the energy pro-
posals that I sent to them in April of 1977,
almost 22 years ago, and we've already
cut down our dependence on imported oil
for the future about 4 million barrels a
day.
Now we've got to take action to cut
down 42 more million barrels a day by
passing a comprehensive energy policy
through the Congress, based on the wind-
1566
