Aug. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. My point is I am not
familiar enough with it now to answer
your question. When I get it on my desk,
then I will study it and understand it. But
I am not familiar with it yet.
Q. Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I have to go. I am
sorry. Let me thank you all. I tried to
answer all of your questions.
I am sorry but we didn't agree on the
basic premise.
Q. You did very well after you got
going. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. After we got around
the allegation of blackmail, we did pretty
well.
But I would like, if you don't mind, to
have a photograph made with each one of
you, and it will take just about 5 minutes.
Then I will be on my way to Georgia, to
Plains for the first time in quite awhile.
I thank you again.
Q. Mr. President, I understand this is
all on the record?
THE PRESIDENT. Everything I said is
on the record, yes.
NOTE: The question-and-answer session began
at 7:35 p.m. in the Pinellas Room at the Host
International Hotel. The transcript was released
on August 31.
Prior to the meeting, the President attended
a private reception at the hotel for Florida State
representatives and officials of the Florida State
Democratic Party.
As printed above, the item follows the press
release.
United States Representative to
the United Nations
Nomination of Donald F. McHenry.
August 31, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Donald F. McHenry to be
United States Permanent Representative
to the United Nations. Ambassador Mc-
Henry previously served as U.S. Deputy
Representative to the U.N. Security
Council.
Coming from a background of exten-
sive study of international law and orga-
nizations, he joined the Department of
State in 1963. For 8 years, he served in
various positions there that were related
to U.S. policy on questions arising in in-
ternational organizations. In 1966 he re-
ceived the Department of State's Superior
Honor Award.
In 1971 Ambassador McHenry went
on leave from the State Department to
serve as a guest scholar at the Brookings
Institution and an International Affairs
Fellow of the Council on Foreign Rela-
tions. During that period, he also was a
professorial lecturer in the School of For-
eign Service at Georgetown University.
Ambassador McHenry resigned from
the State Department in 1973 and joined
the Carnegie Endowment for Interna-
tional Peace in Washington, D.C., where
he directed humanitarian policy studies.
Also during that period, he was a profes-
sorial lecturer at American University in
Washington, D.C.
Before coming to the U.S. Mission to
the United Nations, Ambassador Mc-
Henry worked on the Carter administra-
tion's State Department transition staff.
His international organization experience
includes: serving as both an adviser and
alternate representative to the U.N. Trus-
teeship Council, alternate representative
to the U.N. Seminar on Apartheid and
Racial Discrimination, delegate to the
U.N. International Conference on Hu-
man Rights, and a consultant to the U.S.
congressional delegation to the Interpar-
liamentary Union in 1966.
Ambassador McHenry has also been
the chief U.S. negotiator on the question
1588
