Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 20
Like every President who hopes to leave
the world a better place because he served
in it, President Kennedy chafed under the
limits of his power to act. These limits on
a President still exist. As he put it during
his second year in office, "There are
greater limitations upon our ability to
bring about a favorable result than I had
ever imagined." Yet, President Kennedy
persisted. He became and he still remains
a symbol of human aspiration. Perhaps
that's why the outpouring of grief at his
death had such a special quality.
On that November day, almost 16 years
ago, a terrible moment was frozen in the
lives of many of us here. I remember that
I climbed down from the seat of a tractor,
unhooked a farm trailer, and walked into
my warehouse to weigh a load of grain. I
was told by a group of farmers that the
President had been shot. I went outside,
knelt on the steps, and began to pray. In a
few minutes, I learned that he had not
lived. It was a grievous personal loss-my
President. I wept openly for the first time
in more than 10 years-for the first time
since the day my own father died.
People wept in Boston and in Paris, in
Atlanta and in Warsaw, in San Francisco
and in New Delhi. More than anyone had
realized before that day, the spirit of this
young American President had taken hold
of the hearts and the imaginations of
countless millions of people all over the
world.
During the months that followed-in
civil rights, in medical care for the aged,
in greater dignity for the poor, in an in-
crease of caring for one another-his vi-
sion was carried into the reality of our
Nation's life with the help of a united
Congress and a united people, united in
grief, but also united in determination to
fulfill the dreams which he had painted
for us.
At the time, the tragedy in Dallas
seemed an isolated convulsion of madness.
But in retrospect, it appears near the be-
ginning of a time of darkness. From Viet-
nam to Cambodia, from Los Angeles to
Memphis, from Kent State to Watergate,
the American spirit suffered under one
shock after another, and the confidence
of our people was deeply shaken.
The American people are good and
strong. We've undertaken a solid commit-
ment to heal those wounds, and at long
last the darkness has begun to lift. I be-
lieve that America is now ready to meet
the challenges of the 1980's with renewed
confidence and with renewed spirit.
These challenges, of course, are not the
same ones that confronted us a generation
ago. The carved desk in the Oval Office
which I use is the same as when John F.
Kennedy sat behind it, but the problems
that land on that desk are quite different.
President Kennedy was right: Change
is the law of life. The world of 1980 is as
different from what it was in 1960 as the
world of 1960 was from that of 1940. Our
means of improving the world must also
be different.
After a decade of high inflation and
growing oil imports, our economic cup no
longer overflows. Because of inflation,
fiscal restraint has become a matter of
simple public duty. We can no longer rely
on a rising economic tide to lift the boats
of the poorest in our society. We must
focus our attention and our care and our
love and concern directly on them.
We have a keener appreciation of limits
now-the limits of government, limits on
the use of military power abroad, the
limits of manipulating, without harm to
ourselves, a delicate and a balanced nat-
ural environment.
We are struggling with a profound
transition from a time of abundance to a
time of growing scarcity in energy. We're
only beginning to learn the new habits
1981
