Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 30
I note, in this connection, that the firm
determination and the power of the
United States to preserve peace have been
playing a significant role in the develop-
ments of situation in Asia and the Pacific.
We have been following closely the
subtle changes and the developments in
this area. We will continue to endeavor to
overcome many challenges with wisdom
and steadfastness in shaping our destiny
courageously.
Mr. President, it is really regrettable
that the clouds of war still hang over the
Korean peninsula despite our sincere ef-
forts to deter a recurrence of war and to
establish peace on the peninsula.
The North Korean Communists are
implacably pursuing their military build-
up in defiance of the international trend
toward rapprochement and of the stark
reality of the Korean situation, as well as
of the long-cherished aspiration of the 50
million Koreans. The North Koreans have
already constructed a number of under-
ground invasion tunnels across
Demilitarized Zone.
the
In contrast, the Republic of Korea has
opened wide its doors on the basis of prin-
ciple of reciprocity to all nations of the
world, including those who have ideolo-
gies and institutions different from ours.
Furthermore, we have repeatedly pro-
posed to North Korea to conclude a non-
aggression agreement aimed at establish-
ing peace a most urgent task in the
Korean peninsula-and to start social and
economic exchanges between the South
and North of Korea.
At the beginning of this year also, I
called upon the North Korean side to
open dialog between the responsible au-
thorities of the South and the North at
any place, at any time, and at any level, in
order to prevent a recurrence of war and
to cooperate to speed up the peaceful
unification of our fatherland. However,
no sincere response has yet been made by
North Korea.
But we shall not despair. We shall keep
our doors open for dialog in our firm be-
lief that the day of our national reunion
will eventually come.
We want peace. We are making every
effort to bring about peace. We will con-
tinue our peace efforts.
Over the last generation, the Republic
of Korea and the United States have con-
tinued to develop a close and effective,
cooperative relationship to promote our
common interests with the firm conviction
that the peace and stability on the Korean
peninsula are essential to the maintenance
of peace in Northeast Asia and are also
closely related to world peace.
Mr. President, it is a common aspira-
tion of the developing countries today that
their living standards should be enhanced
in order to live in peace without fear of
war, to expel poverty, and to restore
human dignity.
Even in the face of the threats and prov-
ocations from the North, the Republic of
Korea has established a remarkable rec-
ord of continued economic development
and made long strides in building our na-
tional strength for self-defense and for the
safeguard of peace.
I firmly believe that the achievements
we have made in such a short period of
time without sufficient national resources,
particularly after the total destruction
from the Korea war, are the fruits of the
sweat and toil of all our people. This rec-
ord of achievements is not only an actual
proof that demonstrates the superiority of
a free, open society we have defended to-
gether but also constitutes a valuable
national asset.
Furthermore, as a nation with a 5,000-
year history of culture and tradition, we
are marching forward to build a welfare
1203
