Oct. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
lives, and that's what we've had to accom- right to choose your own leaders, to shape
plish in this last 3 years.
When I was campaigning around this
country, a constant question was: "What
are you going to do about social security?
It's on the verge of bankruptcy." It was.
It's now been put into a secure status.
The Democrats believe in a strong
nation, a strong defense. We believe that
our Nation ought to be at peace. I'm the
first President in 40 years who hasn't had
a single American killed in combat over-
seas. I want to keep that record intact.
The reason for it is that our country has
been strong, and our country must be
strong to stay at peace. If we ever get
weak in military strength or in the will or
resolve or unity that comprises a nation's
strength, that's when we'll be vulnerable
to an attack by a potential adversary, and
that's when our young people will be los-
ing their lives in war. We must stay strong,
and I believe in a strong defense, and the
Democratic Party does. And we're going
to keep it that way.
Another thing the Democratic Party
believes in is harmony. Think back in the
history of our country. This is a nation
and you are a State of immigrants—you
might even use the word "refugees." One
of the great potential strengths of our
country has always been that different
people from all over the world come here
with their own pride in their heritage,
their own pride in their habits and beliefs,
and still preserve those precious things in
our lives, but still blend together without
losing their individuality to become a
strong, united nation. And the Democratic
Party has always opened its arms to every-
one who comes here.
The first few days or the first few weeks
or the first few years a person is in this
country, which party has always said,
"Come and be a part of a political system
of a great nation. Come and realize
your
your own government, to preserve your
own freedom, and to determine your own
destiny?" The Democratic Party has.
And the last thing I'd like to mention
is this: The Democratic Party does not
believe in waste. We believe not only in
a compassionate government and a confi-
dent government, we also believe in a
competent government.
Now, you can have better services de-
livered to people not when you establish
massive spending programs that are not
well run and not sensitive to the needs of
the people they're serving, but wasteful.
And one of the things about Democrats is
that we have the kind of relationship
with those who need the services of gov-
ernment, so we understand how well those
services are being provided.
In the Republican Party there's a tre-
mendous chasm that exists between
Washington on the one hand and the
people who need help on the other: a
local government, a county, a city, a hous-
ing project, a family, an unemployed per-
son. There's a big chasm if a callous party
supported by big shots is in office. But
the Democrats have always felt a relation-
ship, and they've been able to consult and
communicate and assess what government
is doing to make sure that it is efficient
and effective. We do not waste money.
Next year our country will have the
benefits of $40 billion in reduced taxes.
At this moment, we have fewer Federal
employees than we had when I became
President. At the end of the next year,
we'll have 20,000 fewer Federal em-
ployees than when I became President.
We've had a tremendous improvement
in housing, in education, in transporta-
tion, in every element of American life.
We've tried to cut down the Federal
deficit. When I was running here in 1976,
the deficit was $66 billion. I just got the
2026
