Oct. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
from an uncertain source, and they
and they
change the price, and we can't control it.
Four percentage points of our inflation
rate are due directly to the increase in the
price of oil charged to us by OPEC be-
cause we buy so much of it.
Next year we will send $70 billion of
American money overseas-as I said in
my speech earlier today—and not only
does this make us dependent on foreign
countries, but if that supply should be
interrupted, it would cause severe prob-
lems for our economic structure.
You experienced that very slightly
earlier this year with gasoline lines and
temporary shortages of fuel for your auto-
mobiles, and it created semipanic in some
communities. People spent half their time
sitting in gasoline lines. Just with a slight
interruption, we lost about 100 million
barrels of oil because Iran had a revolu-
tion. They only produced about 3 million
barrels a day out of over a hundred mil-
lion in all in the world, but that little,
slight interruption caused us to have
severe problems.
What I'm trying to do now, with your
help, is to get an energy program estab-
lished for our Nation that will make us
secure and to let us produce American oil
and American gas and use American coal
and depend on solar power and things
that can be replenished and don't waste
away. It's not easy. I'm the first President
that ever tried it. After being bogged
down in it for the last 22 years, I can well
understand why my predecessors did not
do it. [Laughter]
As Congressman Van Deerlin would
certainly certify, this is the most difficult
and divisive issue perhaps that the Con-
gress has ever addressed in the last 200
years of our existence. On every vote on
natural gas or whatever, not only was the
House and Senate exactly divided, but
within the House and within the Senate
and within the conference committees,
almost a precise 50-50 division. But now
consumers' voices are being heard more
clearly, and the oil companies and others
are beginning to see that the Nation's well-
being must be put first. And in doing that,
everyone will be better off. It's not a time
for selfishness, it's not a time to gouge
others, it's not a time even to find scape-
goats or to try to blame those who might
be responsible. We ought not to forget
about that.
Inflation has been with us 10 or 11
years. We're trying to address it calmly
and persistently. I have a fairly conserva-
tive philosophy about economics. We have
cut the Federal deficit by $36 billion since
I've been in office, more than 50 per-
cent, almost 60 percent.
We have less Federal employees now
than we had when I took office. We'll
have less next year than we have now, in
spite of tremendously increased govern-
ment services available for our people be-
Icause we are more efficient now than we
used to be.
We're spending with the Federal
Government a lower percentage of our
gross national product than we did before.
It was 232 percent when I took office;
now it's down to 21½ percent. We're
trying to get government's nose out of
the private and internal affairs of indi-
vidual citizens and also out of the affairs
of the free enterprise system.
When I got off the plane at the San
Diego Airport, one of the first people that
met me there was the president of a major
airline that serves your State. He said,
"Airline deregulation is the best thing that
ever happened to the airline industry. We
have not only reduced air fare sharply be-
low what it formerly did, but we've got
more paying passengers and our profits
are higher." And when I met with the
President of Mexico 2 weeks ago, he
1874
