Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
ernment in dealing with the energy crisis
is going to provide a basis of communica-
tion and consultation and partnership
that will stand us in good stead in the
future.
It's the way our Nation ought to work.
And it's the way our Nation has always
worked if we had a crisis or a challenge
or a threat that we could see clearly. The
threat of the First World War, the threat
of the Second World War, even the threat
of the Great Depression touched every
American's life. And so, at that time we
were unified; our families came together;
our communities came together; people
had more respect for public officials. We
were like a team meeting the challenge.
And it's not been possible for us in the
past to marshal our great strength and to
unify ourselves to meet a challenge that
was not quite so easy to see-the threat to
our security from the importation next
year of $70 billion worth of foreign oil.
We're importing oil; we're importing un-
employment; we're importing inflation.
per-
The inflation rate now is boosted 4
centage points just by energy increases
foisted on us by OPEC. And if we can
cut down the level of our imports through
the prices of the energy program I've put
to Congress, we can cut down severely on
inflation. But that's hard to see, and we've
got to unify our efforts to deal with it-
that was the purpose of my visit out here.
And we can do the same thing with in-
flation, and we can hold constantly those
cherished personal values in America
through that same process.
You've got such a great State. I've de-
pended on New Mexicans to help me, on
a per capita basis, in Washington perhaps
more than any other State in the whole
Nation. Graciela Olivarez came out with
me on the plane. She handles the Com-
munity Services Administration, to deal
with people who are most deprived. And
she does a superb job with tens of millions
of dollars, carefully placed to alleviate
the most severe hardships in our country.
She's got a special sensitivity. She knows
what it means to be from a community
which is not only poor but also where the
people don't speak English well. And I
think that's a special insight that the Fed-
eral Government ought to have.
And Alex Mercure has been of great
help to me. I happen to be a farmer, and
to have him as Assistant Secretary of Ag-
riculture gives a special insight into the
problems of agriculture for your region.
Fabian Chavez, as you know, has helped
me in the Department of Commerce. He's
here among you again now. But these
kinds of contributions are very good. And
last and perhaps least-I won't mention
everyone-Tim Kraft-[laughter-and
Chris Brown ยน helped me in special ways
as well.
And you also have the greatest amount
of solar energy, per capita. So, you've got
a lot to be thankful for. But I think the
main thing that I would like to say this
morning in closing is that I appreciate
your friendship and the strength and the
pioneer spirit that still exemplifies the
people who live in
people who live in your beautiful part of
the country. And I hope that we can form
this closer relationship in the future to deal
with challenges that will inevitably arise.
And I have absolutely no doubt that we
can meet any challenge or answer any
question or resolve any problem if Amer-
icans have confidence in one another and
confidence in our system and, also, if we
can unify our efforts toward common
goals. That's one of the responsibilities of
1 Carter/Mondale Presidential Committee
campaign manager and campaign manager for
the New England area, respectively.
1865
