Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
Q. Who offered the amendment?
Q. Margaret Thatcher?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I would
ification of oil [coal], oil derived from oil
shale, tar sands in Canada, an increased
use of coal, a commitment to solar
rather not comment on who offered which energy-we'll do this in an accelerating
amendment.
Q. Do you have a few choice words for
Giscard?
THE PRESIDENT. No. We got along well.
Q. Got along well? [Laughter]
way because of the newly aroused con-
cern and commitment on the part of
American people and the Congress. And
this will be enhanced because it will be a
multinational effort as well.
Q. Mr. President, do you have any
Q. Did you discuss the remarks that he plans to go back and discuss this on tele-
made in the interview in Newsweek? 1
THE PRESIDENT. I pointed out the great
amount of attention that I have paid to
the energy conservation effort in the
United States since I've been in office,
yes.
Q. What do you think that this will do
to the American gas lines?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think we can
expect any immediate alleviation of the
energy problem in the United States on
a collective basis. We have not addressed
the energy problem adequately in the past.
The Congress has not been willing to pass
a single line of legislation about oil, in
spite of 2 years of importunities and re-
quests. And this lack of action over a num-
ber of years has caught up with us. We
have a limited amount of oil to distribute.
And we can try to have an equitable al-
location of oil between tractor fuel and
diesel fuel for trucks and home heating
oil and gasoline for motorists, but there is
no easy answer to it. It's just going to take
time.
But in my opinion, the deep commit-
ment to restrain imports, the deep com-
mitment to go to new forms of energy-
synthetic fuels, the liquefaction and gas-
¹ In the interview, printed in the Newsweek
issue of July 2, 1979, President Giscard
d'Estaing criticized U.S. energy conservation
vision in the United States or try to sum-
marize this in any way?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't discussed
with Jody and Jerry yet exactly what and
when. I think it would be better to let me
reserve the answer to that question for a
little bit later.
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us in any
more detail how you persuaded, in par-
ticular, the Germans, because we know
they came into the summit with a differ-
ent attitude?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Henry Owen
can give you that information at the
eral briefing this afternoon.
gen-
Q. But you've said that 8.5 will be the
limit through 1985 from this point on?
THE PRESIDENT. That's correct.
Q. And the OPEC statement, which
you think will be striking in its effect-
THE PRESIDENT. I think you'll see it is.
In the past, it's been a difficult thing for
an individual nation, highly vulnerable
to the interruption of oil supplies, to make
any sort of critical comment about OPEC
action. You've observed that yourself. But
the fact that Japan and Italy, for in-
stance, who have practically no energy
sources of their own, combined with
France and Germany, Great Britain,
efforts, as well as several aspects of U.S. foreign Canada, and us—to make this strong
statement, I think, is a very significant
policy.
1185
