Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and from private enterprise as well-for
experimental purposes or for commercial
purposes, and then have that vehicle re-
turned back to Earth to be used over and
over again. And, as you know, on the
Florida coast we'll launch for basic flights
east and west, and from the California
coast region we'll launch for basic flights
that will go over the poles.
And so, we're going into an era now
where all of the technological advances
that have been made with previous space
flights can be used for direct benefits.
And we've derived, in my opinion, tre-
mendous personal benefits from the ex-
periments and the innovations that went
into earlier space flights. We're now ready
to capitalize on that in the future-both
in the quality of our life, with weather,
with geothermal analyses, photography
and experiments in space, an absence of
an atmosphere, direct observations of
stellar things for astronomical observa-
tions there are so many that it's almost
mind-boggling. But I think that now we're
going into a more routine space use-
quite a transformation from previous ex-
perimental flights.
MR. HALLOCK. Well, does it bother
you
that now we're at the dawn of this bright
future, that we seem to be cutting back
with NASA's budget while the Russians
are proceeding methodically with their
manned
space programs?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that
that's an accurate comparison. I believe
that the space shuttle will be a major in-
novation. In effect, now, the Soviets are
just following along with what we've done
many years ago.
MR. HALLOCK. Thank you.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thanks very much, Mr.
Hallock. Thank you for joining us.
The next question will come from Ann
Williams, President Carter, and she is on
the line with us from Indianapolis, Indi-
ana. Go ahead, Ms. Williams.
INHERITANCE TAXES
MS. WILLIAMS. Mr. Carter.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, Ann.
MS. WILLIAMS. The very rich are able
to protect their wealth with trusts and
various other means and are able to pass
their wealth down from generation to
generation, whereas the average people,
who really cannot afford to set up such
expensive tax-saving devices, are taxed
so heavily on inheritance taxes. This is a
socialistic program which only benefits
those who do not accumulate wealth in
their lifetime.
Why don't you propose increasing the
estate deduction to a much higher dollar
amount than the present level, or elim-
inate inheritance taxes altogether?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Ann, I think
that your question provides two different
views of the same subject. The inheritance
taxes fall much more heavily on the ex-
tremely wealthy, and we have tried and
are still trying to close loopholes in how
those trusts can be used. I think there are
still some gross abuses-where people put
a large estate into a foundation, for in-
stance, that's ostensibly to be used for the
benefit of other people and then, through
various loopholes in the law, provide very
high salaries for members of that family
to continue to benefit from the trust
itself.
We have, I believe, a need from time
to time to increase the amount of a per-
son's inheritance left to children and to
other members of the family that is ex-
cluded from taxation. As land values go
up, for instance, it's very damaging to a
farm family to have to sell even a rela-
tively small farm in order to pay in-
heritance taxes, instead of letting the
1912
