Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 26
standby authority to implement them has
recently lapsed, and I wonder if you have
any regrets that that instrument is not
available if things get worse.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't have any
regrets. The authority for the President
to impose, without warning, wage and
price controls did lapse. Nixon used it
back, I think, in 1972, but I don't think
that having mandatory price controls is
feasible or advisable.
There is absolutely no way that the
Congress would pass wage and price con-
trol authority. Just one Senator could fili-
buster that and prevent its being passed
in the Senate, and there's an overwhelm-
ing feeling in the Congress that the man-
datory price and wage controls would not
work.
If the Congress started working on this,
trying to pass it, then just knowing that
the wage and price controls might come
in a few months, in the future, would
cause an extraordinary increase in the
prices charged to people. I think it would
make our inflation rate much greater.
I really believe that the best way to
control inflation is to get at the roots of
the problem: to control the Federal defi-
cit, to have an efficient government, to
cut down on our overdependence on for-
eign oil, to keep the supply of basic prod-
ucts stable, not to let our basic industries,
like steel, for instance, go under, which
it was threatened with for a while, and
to make Americans more self-sufficient,
and to generate more confidence in gov-
ernment. We've done all these things with
fairly good success.
The inflation pressures are not only on
our Nation, but they're all over the world.
For instance, in Israel the inflation rate,
I think, is over a hundred percent. And
in Europe, where the countries have been
deathly afraid of any inflation-and they
have always accepted much higher un-
employment, instead of inflation—now
they're facing the same degree of inflation
that we are.
So, I believe that we've got it under
fairly good shape, if the people will be
patient, not lose their confidence, work
together, and help us address these basic
questions.
Another thing that I didn't mention a
few minutes ago is to increase American
exports overseas. This helps to hold down
inflation in our own country. And of
course, we need to keep the dollar value
stable and the dollar values are stable.
As a matter of fact, even a month ago,
when the dollar seemed to be somewhat
lower than the average, it had actually
increased in value by 8 percent, com-
pared to a year ago, among the things
that the OPEC nations have to buy.
These are very complicated matters, and
it requires patience.
And I would say the crux of the whole
issue of controlling inflation and keeping
a strong economy is to have an adequate
national energy policy, which we have
never had. None of my predecessors in
the White House proposed, effectively, a
national energy policy. After I've gotten
into it, I've seen why they postponed it
until the next President each time. It's a
difficult issue.
But I think I can predict, again—this
is my third prediction-that before the
Congress goes home this year, we will
legislation, in law permanently, a na-
have the total package of establishing in
tional energy policy that will help ad-
dress our problems.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
MR. LEONE. I sometimes get the feel-
ing that a successful energy policy or
anti-inflationary policy requires a lot of
cooperation from the American people.
2031
