Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 16
ernment in developing low cost residen-
tial sprinkler systems that may revolu-
tionize fire safety in the home.
Finally, I call upon members of the
Joint Council of National Fire Service
Organizations, members of the Interna-
tional Association of Fire Fighters, mem-
bers of the International Association of
Fire Chiefs, the National Fire Protection
Association, all other organizations con-
cerned with fire safety, and the United
States Fire Administration to provide the
leadership, planning and innovation nec-
essary for an effective national fire pre-
vention and control effort.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this fifteenth day of Au-
gust, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of Amer-
ica the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:21 a.m., August 16, 1979]
Commission on the Review of
the Federal Impact Aid
Program
Appointment of 10 Members.
August 15, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of 10 persons as members of
the Commission on the Review of the
Federal Impact Aid Program.
created in
This Commission was created
November 1978 to review and evaluate
the operation of the Federal Impact Aid
program, a program created in 1950 to
provide financial aid to local education
facilities when the actions of the Federal
Government increase their costs.
The members appointed today are:
CHARLIE AKINS, of Elizabethtown, Ky.,
superintendent of the Hardin County
schools and State chairman of the Ken-
tucky Impact Aid Schools Organization;
POLLY BACA-BARRAGAN, a Colorado State
senator, who serves on the board of direc-
tors of the National Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund and
the National Housing Assistance Council;
EDWARD C. BOLSTAD, of Minneapolis, execu-
tive secretary of the Minnesota Federation
of Teachers;
ROBERT L. CHISHOLM, Superintendent of
schools for the Clover Park School District
in Tacoma, Wash., and a member of the
board of directors of the Northwest Re-
gional Education Laboratory;
ANSELM G. DAVIS, JR., assistant superintend-
ent of the Window Rock School District
No. 8 in Fort Defiance, Ariz., and a former
education specialist with the Bureau of
Indian Affairs;
FRANKLIN L. LEWIS, a member of the Ne-
braska State Legislature and former chair-
man of its education committee, who has
been a classroom teacher;
BARBARA ROBERTS MASON, an executive direc-
tor of the Michigan Education Association
and former speech therapist;
FRANK J. MACCHIAROLA, chancellor of the
New York City Public Schools and a
former professor of political science;
HAROLD E. ROGERS, JR., a San Francisco at-
torney specializing in the field of municipal
law and finance;
VIRGINIA ALLRED STACEY, of San Antonio,
Tex., a teacher in the Lackland Independ-
ent School District and 1978-79 State
president of the Texas State Teachers
Association.
Federal Government
Organization and
Employees
Executive Order 12152. August 14, 1979
DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF
MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution and statutes of
1439
