Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 22
And I've been reinspired, as the high-
est elected officer of our country, as I've
seen and met and talked to and listened
to the crowds that have come down to
the banks of the river to welcome us.
ENERGY
Our Nation has never been afraid to
face a challenge. We have never been un-
able to overcome an obstacle or to meet a
problem and solve it. And our country has
always been able, when we were united, to
answer any difficult question.
God's blessed us in many wonderful
ways, with rich land, a democratic, free
government, a pride in the individualism
of each person, the right to be different,
the right to speak our minds, the right to
control our own Government, the right
to unify ourselves in times of challenge-
and I have to say that this is one of those
times when our people must be unified.
We are seeing our country threatened,
our security threatened by an excessive
dependence on foreign oil. We now im-
port about one-half all the oil we use. We
must conserve energy. We must save en-
ergy. Each American can do this in our
own particular way, in our transportation,
our jobs, in our home. And I hope that
all of you, without being told how to do
it, will search out the dozens of different
ways that you can eliminate waste of en-
ergy in your own lives. And the second
thing we must do is to produce more en-
ergy in our own country.
The basis of this increased production
and also increased conservation is the
passage of a windfall profits tax on the oil
companies in our country to make sure
they don't keep all these enormous profits,
but those profits are divided among
the
American people to give us a better life.
And if you'll help me, we'll get that legis-
lation through Congress and preserve our
Nation's security.
This will help to guarantee that our
farmers have enough fuel for tractors and
homes have enough fuel for heat in the
winter. It also will guarantee us that we
increase production of oil and gas and
coal and geothermal supplies, solar power,
learn how to use it more effectively. And
of course, we've got to produce more gas-
ohol in Iowa. That's very important, too.
The last thing I'll say before I will take
questions is this: It's an inspiration to any-
one to see the beautiful and productive
land in your part of the country; to know
that we now and in the past and increas-
ingly in the future will have a wonderful
strategic weapon for peace-not only for
ourselves but for the entire world-by
having the breadbasket of the world here
in the heartland of our country. Your pro-
ductivity is increasing almost every year,
and our exports of farm products set world
record the first year I was in office in '77;
another world record last year; another
world record this year. And next year we
anticipate an even greater increase in the
export of corn and wheat and other farm
products from Iowa, which bring a bet-
ter life for you, a better, stronger economy
for our Nation, and a better life for all
people on Earth.
So, I particularly want to thank, as a
farmer, the farmers of Iowa and those of
Illinois and others around this country
for the wonderful job that you do. Thank
you, farmers, from the bottom of my heart.
And now I'm eager to answer questions
about any matter that might be important
to you or of interest to you. I've already
made arrangements with Bob Bergland
and John Culver to help me out if I have
a question that I can't answer, and they
volunteered to do it. So, I'm ready for the
first question, I think on this microphone.
1495
