Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Davis, California; and Greensboro, North
Carolina, have successfully created partic-
ipating public efforts that bring together
business, civic, religious and community
groups to formulate energy savings.
The potential contribution from a con-
centrated effort by communities across the
country to our nation's battle in energy
security is enormous. In fact, if extensive
conservation measures are implemented in
residential, public and commercial build-
ings alone we might reduce oil imports by
well over a million barrels a day. Several
hundred thousand more barrels of oil a
day could be saved if we expanded use of
ridesharing and took simple steps to im-
prove automobile efficiency. These meas-
ures will also reduce the cost of living for
all Americans who participate by lowering
utility bills and cutting the cost of trans-
portation.
If our national efforts to conserve are to
be successful, your community's imagina-
tion and creativity must be encouraged.
Along these lines, in my July 16 speech
before the National Association of Coun-
ties in Kansas City, I urged those Federal
officials who had not done so to work
with other leaders in their community—
from both inside and outside of govern-
ment-to set ambitious local conservation
goals and to develop action plans to meet
these goals.
I have enclosed some brief descriptions
from the growing number of existing local
efforts. To assist you in sharing this in-
formation and in learning more about the
programs of other communities I have es-
tablished a special clearinghouse to serve
leaders who are undertaking energy con-
servation initiatives. A toll-free hotline
will be opened in early September. Corre-
spondence can be addressed now to the
President's Clearinghouse for Community
Energy Efficiency, Suite 185, 400 North
Capitol Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
20001.
It is through the application of your
citizens' initiatives and inspiration that
America can win the energy war. Our na-
tion is counting on your help and your
leadership. Thank you for your efforts. I
look forward to hearing of your success.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters sent
to more than 6,000 mayors and elected city
officials throughout the Nation.
The White House Press Office also made
available the enclosure detailing the local
energy conservation efforts.
Digest of Other
White House Announcements
The following listing includes the
President's public schedule and other
items of general interest announced by
the White House Press Office and not in-
cluded elsewhere in this issue.
August 13
The President returned to the White
House from Camp David, Md.
The President met at the White House
with:
-Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
-Secretary of Agriculture Bob Berg-
land, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant
to the President for Domestic Affairs
and Policy, Anne Wexler, Assistant
to the President, Alfred E. Kahn,
Advisor to the President on Inflation,
Esther Peterson, Assistant to the Pres-
ident for Consumer Affairs, and rep-
resentatives of the food industry, to
discuss food prices.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the
President received diplomatic credentials
from Ambassadors Sadek Jawad Sulai-
man of the Sultanate of Oman, Bernard
1453
