Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
it was not made on the basis of politics;
when they got a contract later on, it was
not made on the basis of politics, but
what, in the opinion of our responsible
defense officials, approved by me, was in
the best interest of our country.
MR. FOELL. Do any of you want to fol-
low up on that before we go to Jim? Jim,
I guess you're on.
NATIONAL SPIRIT
MR. SCOTT. Mr. President, you said
that the number one priority is national
security, of course. But how do you ease
the minds of the Americans who see their
dollar buying less, the ones who can't af-
ford to buy the homes anymore, and the
ones who have the general feeling that the
rich keep getting richer and the poor keep
getting poorer. How do you ease their
minds?
THE PRESIDENT. Jim, you know it con-
cerns me that people's minds are not at
ease. Mine's not at ease; I have challenges
and questions and problems that I have to
resolve as best I can. I think we've done
a fairly good job so far, and I don't want
people to believe, first of all, that control-
ling inflation is hurting the poor or the
aged or the infirm or the unemployed.
The people who suffer most from high
inflation are the ones who are least able to
afford it, the ones who can't change their
income or can't move to a different com-
munity and who have to buy the neces-
sities of life with a major portion of their
total earnings.
Secondly, I don't want those people to
feel that an adequate defense commit-
ment is at their own expense. This is an
extremely important thing, because in the
past, at least, certainly in the Vietnam
war, the ones who suffered most were the
poor.
If we ever have any reason in the future
to go to a draft system, I'm going to make
sure that we do not give special privilege
to a young person who's in college because
the wealthy can put their kids in college,
which they did during the Vietnam war,
and the poor people are primarily the ones
that go and fight. My oldest son volun-
teered to go to Vietnam, but most of the
discrimination, in my opinion, in the draft
in the last combat was against poor people.
The third thing is this: We've had tre-
mendous improvements or increases since
I've been in office in helping the life of
those who are poor. I've already men-
tioned employment opportunities that
have increased, housing has been ex-
tremely high. We've also had commit-
ments made to education. For instance,
we have increased, just the first 2 years I
was in office, the Federal allocation of
funds for education by 60 percent. And I
would almost say flatly-there may be a
few exceptions that now if a young per-
son reaches college age, if that person is
motivated and is educationally qualified,
that young person can go to college be-
cause we've expanded those opportuni-
ties so greatly.
I think this has got to continue. We
have not cheated or deprived or ignored
the people who suffer most. We have
shifted, however, to an attempt to focus
particular programs much more specifi-
cally on those who are deprived by letting
programs be drafted in the Congress and
passed to meet a particular need so that
people who don't need these services
don't get nearly as much of it as they used
to.
So, our country is strong, not only mili-
tarily but economically, it's strong politi-
cally, and I hope and I believe that it's
strong morally and ethically-that what
we stand for is, indeed, an inspiration to
other people throughout the world as well
as reassuring to our own people.
1991
