July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
coal reserves.
First, I want Congress to give me the
authority to require utility companies to
cut in half their use of oil and to switch
to other fuels, especially coal. I want leg-
islation to permit the early retirement of
oil-burning power companies [plants]ยน
that cannot convert to coal. And I want
Congress to provide grants and loans to
utilities to make these changes at a rea-
sonable cost to consumers. You have al-
ready led the way here in this plant. I
want other power companies to follow
your leadership.
First of all, we need to conserve energy,
to stop wasting energy; and, secondly, to
have more direct use of coal. These are
the two fastest ways to move toward en-
ergy independence, and we must take
these steps immediately.
We will also protect our environment.
I will not permit America to be forced to
choose between breathing foul air and
having our waters filthy on the one hand
or mortgaging our future to the OPEC
oil cartel. We don't need to do either one.
This plant, burning high sulfur coal
cleanly and safely, proves that our coun-
try can chart a different course for the
future. With commitment, with imagina-
tion, with national unity, with courage,
with America's technological genius and
with our vast resources given to us by
God, we can meet our energy goals while
we preserve the quality of our precious
land, air, and water. And we will do it.
You have proven here that it can be done.
Secondly, we will launch a massive ef-
fort to produce more domestic energy
supplies and synthetic fuels-oil and gas
from coal.
What I want to do with Congress help
is to set up an energy security corporation,
a corporation where Americans can own
1 Printed in the transcript.
1
stock and let the private enterprise system
of our country, not hamstrung or tied
down by government redtape, but funded
from a windfall profits tax on the oil com-
panies on their unearned profits to con-
vert coal into oil, to extract new supplies
of natural gas, and to process oil from
shale. America has talked about starting
a synthetic fuels industry for years, even
generations. The time has now come to
stop talking and start producing oil from
coal through a good synthetic fuels pro-
gram.
One of the most important things with
energy security is that
energy security is that it will provide new
jobs for America, not jobs exported over-
seas. We can increase coal production by
hundreds of millions of tons in the next
10 years and create as many as 80,000
new jobs in the coal mines alone. As you
well know, being from Kentucky, the
Nation's number one coal-producing
State, a lot of those jobs are going to be
in Kentucky, and they'll make your lives
and my life both better.
This is going to cost a lot of money.
I don't think it ought to be paid for by
taxing the American people and going
through the Federal budget. Oil prices are
going to go up. And what we have pro-
posed to the Congress and what the House
of Representatives has already passed is
what we call a windfall profits tax. It
taxes the oil companies on profits that
they do not earn. It leaves with them
enough new money to increase produc-
tion of American oil and gas, but it takes
the rest of that money and spends it on
the synthetic fuels program, develop bet-
ter transportation systems, and to increase
conservation both in homes and also in
the production of power.
If the windfall profits tax is stopped or
defeated by the oil lobby, then we will
not be able to reach the goals that I've
just described to you. And there is a real
1338
