Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 31
has been the world's leader in developing
new products, new processes, new tech-
nologies, and also new ways of assuring
wide distribution of new products and
their beneficial use by humanity.
We are still the world's leader, but our
products are meeting with growing com-
petition from abroad. Many of the world's
leading industrial countries are now at-
tempting to develop competitive advan-
tages through their own innovative capa-
bility and an increasing concentration of
their efforts in this realm of economic
life. This is a challenge which we can no
longer afford to ignore. To respond to this
challenge, we must initiate our own
policies to foster the Nation's competitive
capability and entrepreneurial spirit in
the decades ahead.
The actions that I'm announcing today
meet this goal. First of all, they will loosen
some of the stifling restraints that have
been placed upon innovation by govern-
ment. Secondly, they represent a first
major step toward forging a public and
private partnership which will rally co-
operative efforts to spur industrial
growth. Third, they will enhance our
economic position, in enabling America's
industry to develop and to market new
processes and products, both here in our
own country and also abroad.
These actions will be detailed to you
shortly, and they include the develop-
ment, for the first time in our history, of
a uniform Government patent policy.
This will foster the widest possible use of
the results of Government-supported re-
search and, at the same time, will protect
the interests of the Government and,
therefore, the population of our country
at large.
We'll also include the widest possible
dissemination in this country of technical
information which is developed in Gov-
ernment laboratories, in universities and
private industry through Government-
sponsored research, in other industrialized
nations, and also buried in our own patent
files. The derivation and promulgation of
this available information throughout the
American economic system will be en-
hanced greatly by this new proposal.
Programs to encourage the cooperative
development of vitally needed resources
and technologies are now largely ignored.
We will establish two corporations for in-
dustrial development, specifically to assist
small businesses. A lot of the innovation
and initiative comes from small business.
This will be a major target of our innova-
tive processes and efforts, because small
businesses do, quite often, have startup
problems.
These actions, along with others that
will be outlined as part of this program,
will make a major difference in our Na-
tion's ability to develop and to pursue in-
dustrial innovation.
I'd like to point out, however, that this
will not solve the problem alone. This
problem has arisen over a long period of
years. It's recognized as being a serious
problem by labor, by industry, and by
government at all levels. There's no doubt
about it. And it will take years to over-
come the problem in its entirety. It will
also require a sound economic climate.
But the two are mutually supportive.
More innovation will help the economic
climate; a better economic climate will
also help to encourage innovation.
Today's announcement does represent
an important first step in dealing specific-
ally with this problem of industrial inno-
vation and more generally with similar
types of economic problems that will be
facing our country in the 1980's. With
the cooperation of the private sector and
the Congress, these problems of to-
day, which are different in many ways
and in major ways from those we've expe-
rienced before, can be solved. I'm com-
mitted to work toward their resolution.
2069
