Sept. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
should be. I asked him to come to Camp
David and meet with me, and he gra-
ciously consented.
We talked about a vision of a greater
America. We talked about the need for a
rebirth of the American spirit. We talked
about how we might, as Americans, re-
vitalize the basic human values on which
our country was founded and which are
part of the ethics and the morals on which
the church itself premises its service to
human beings. We talked about the need
for a new sense of unity, which he,
throughout his own life of public service,
has exemplified so well. And we talked
about the definition of new and even
higher goals for our country and for all
Americans, who live here together. That
could not possibly be a greater demand on
a person's understanding and sensitivity
and intellect and experience than to give
a President counsel on these kinds of im-
portant things.
I'm a great personal admirer of his.
And since I've been President, I have
given two awards-one to Jonas Salk, who
helped to eliminate the threat of polio
from the world, and the other one to Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. And I would like to
announce to this group that I will present
to Archbishop Iakovos the Presidential
Medal of Freedom later on this year. This
will give me a chance to invite some of
you back for an additional ceremony.
[Laughter] And it will also give the Na-
tion a chance to be reminded of the re-
markable achievements of this fine man,
my friend and your friend.
And now I would like to ask our dear
friend to say a few words here to his
friends.
Thank you very much.
THE ARCHBISHOP. Mr. President, Mrs.
Carter, fellow clergymen, ladies and
clergymen, ladies and
gentlemen:
my 20 years of service; I have examined
and reexamined my record of service
countless times. And yet I have never felt
so inadequate. Who am I? What have I
done to deserve recognition of such mag-
nitude and spiritual significance? Even if
I have achieved anything noteworthy, was
it not my dutiful responsibility? Is it not
Jesus, our Lord and Savior, who admon-
ishes us to say, when we are thanked for
something, "We are merely servants. We
have done no more than our duty."
In His name, Mr. President, I have en-
deavored to offer some small services to
my church, to the church of Christ in
general, to education, and to my fellow
man. And most especially, my heart and
soul have been touched and moved to cry
out for the oppressed and for those who
have suffered and continue to suffer be-
cause of social injustice in the world. In-
deed, I have walked hand in hand with a
small black girl in Selma, next to the great
Martin Luther King. But is it not true
that marching forward is a solemn duty
and obligation for me at all times and
under all circumstances?
I have always considered myself to be a
servant, and I pray to be a faithful one.
It is a singular honor to be in the service
of the Servant of Servants. He has taught
me to serve and lead the way for all who
wish to serve. I am conscious of my faults
and my failures, which cause me consider-
able pain. But I am also conscious of an
ongoing incentive within me to do better,
for I carry a triple legacy—an American,
a Hellenic, and the Christian legacy. I
pray God may ever show me the wisdom
to correct my faults and grant me the
strength to ever glorify Him in deed and
word.
I view this magnanimous and obliging
gesture of yours, Mr. President, as a man-
date, for through this event, you once
For a long time now I have pondered again remind me of the unfinished task
1690
