Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 26
you're afraid that you might go down in
the popularity polls or because some
special interest group may not like it. But
I don't believe that we have ever avoided
a difficult issue that we thought was best
for our country, just to keep our popular-
ity up or the polls high or to get votes.
And this series of very difficult issues—
which we have addressed, I think, very
well-when they're inventoried by the
American people, I think, will repair a lot
of the damage that has been caused to me
and other incumbents. I think a perfect
example is the one I used-Brendan
Byrne, when he ran for reelection.
PRESIDENT'S LEADERSHIP QUALITIES
MR. LEONE. You're in a place where
Byrne was way behind here, Carey in
New York, Grasso in Connecticut. You've
come here for encouragement, I guess.
It seems to me that the likelihood of
potential Democratic challengers differ-
ing widely with you on important issues
is not great. By and large they seem to be
saying, "We basically agree. Jimmy Carter
is well intentioned, we have not great
policy differences, but he's not a strong
leader.” And the issue on which the cam-
paigns seem likely to be joined, perhaps
the only important one, is the question
of leadership: "He hasn't been effective
in moving Congress or moving the Ameri-
can people."
And I think you're going to have to
answer the question in the course of this
campaign, and I'd like you to let your
imagination roam a little bit.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have to
Congress immediately after the death of
Jack Kennedy.
The difficulty of the legislation that I
have put to the Congress, I think, is un-
equaled any time in my lifetime, but the
percentage of the legislation that the Con-
gress and I have have passed together is
as high as it has ever been. And I believe
that's one of the issues that will be
assessed.
Another one is what we've achieved.
You know, I don't particularly want to
sit here and brag, but I'm the first Presi-
dent in 40 years who has served without
there being a single American killed in
combat. We've kept our country at peace.
We've also strengthened NATO and all
our alliances overseas. We're now very
rapidly restoring the quality of our own
forces, keeping a strong defense.
I've moved into areas that have been
avoided for a long time in the past. I'm
not criticizing my predecessors. But the
Egyptians and the Israelis have been at
war for 30 years. They've been filled with
hatred for centuries. And to see now Sadat
and Begin sitting down, working out a
peace agreement between them, because
of action that we took in this country, is
gratifying, indeed.
We've raised the banner of human
rights around the world to make our coun-
try proud once again. We've opened up
the continent of Africa to good relations,
sound relations, based on basic human
rights, majority rule, democracy, freedom,
equality. We've also opened up, for the
first time, a good relationship with one-
fourth of the total population on Earth, in
China, and at the same time we've not
imagine. Any objective analysis of my ad- damaged our relationships with the peo-
ministration and its success with the Con-
gress would stack up very well with any
previous administration in this century,
and that would include the best days of
Lyndon Johnson's relationship with the
ple who live on Taiwan.
We've passed the Panama Canal
treaties, which were condemned at first,
but in the long run, I think, the American
people will see this is one of the greatest
2033
