Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 26
Chairman may recommend to the Presi-
dent a member of the Council to serve as
Vice Chairman.
(b) The President of the Senate and
the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives are each invited to designate five
members of their respective Houses to
serve as members of the Council.
1-2. Functions of the Council.
1-201. The Council shall recommend
to the President and to the Secretary of
the Interior ways to implement the ap-
proved recommendations of the Presi-
dent's Commission on the Holocaust: (a)
the erection of a memorial museum, (b)
the establishment of an educational and
research foundation, and (c) the estab-
lishment of a Citizens Committee on Con-
science.
1-202. The Council shall recommend
specific site locations within the Washing-
ton, D.C. metropolitan area. Criteria for
choosing architectural design should be
included in the site recommendations.
1-203. The Council shall propose a
concept for the memorial museum, in-
cluding general descriptions of the types
and categories of exhibits to be displayed
in the museum. Similarly, suggested func-
tions and limitations for the educational
and research foundation should be rec-
ommended.
1-204. The Council shall recommend
the size, composition, and names of dis-
tinguished American citizens qualified to
serve on the Citizens Committee on Con-
science. It shall advise on the specific
duties and limitations of such a Commit-
tee.
1-205. The Council shall also advise on
the various ways to fund all of these rec-
ommendations. Funding proposals should
provide that construction costs would be
raised primarily from private contribu-
tions.
1-206. In addition, the Council shall
recommend appropriate ways for the Na-
tion to commemorate "Days of Remem-
brance of Victims of the Holocaust."
1-207. The Council shall submit a final
report to the President and to the Secre-
tary of the Interior no later than June 30,
1980.
1-3. Administrative Provisions.
1-301. The Secretary of the Interior
shall, to the extent permitted by law, pro-
vide the Council with administrative serv-
ices, facilities, support, and funds neces-
sary for the effective performance of the
Council's functions.
1-302. Members of the Council who are
not otherwise employed by the Federal
Government may receive compensation
for each day such member is engaged in
the work of the Council at a daily rate to
be determined by the Secretary of the In-
terior. Such rate shall not exceed the
amount payable pursuant to the Federal
Advisory Committee Act, as amended.
1-303. Members of the Council shall be
entitled to travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized
by law (5 U.S.C. 5702 and 5703) for per-
sons in the Government service employed
intermittently.
1-4. General Provisions.
1-401. Notwithstanding the provisions
of any other Executive Order, the func-
tions of the President under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act, as amended, ex-
cept that of reporting to the Congress,
which are applicable to the Council, shall
be performed by the Secretary of the In-
terior in accordance with guidelines and
procedures prescribed by the Administra-
tor of General Services.
2041
