Sept. 12
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
is in connection with implementation of
the Agreement Concerning the Settlement
of Claims entered into between the Gov-
ernment of the United States and the
Government of the People's Republic of
China on May 11, 1979.
China (PRC), Chinese assets have re-
mained blocked under the Regulations
but current commercial or financial trans-
actions are authorized except for the con-
trol of strategic items.
On December 15, 1978, I announced
This Determination shall be published that the United States and the PRC had
in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:16 p.m., September 12, 1979]
Embargo Regulations Under the
Trading With the Enemy Act
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
President of the Senate. September 12, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Today I issued a Determination that
the extension for one year of the authori-
ties currently exercised under Section
5(b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act,
50 U.S.C. App. 5(b), with respect to the
countries indicated below, is in the na-
tional interest. This Determination was
issued pursuant to Section 101 (b) of Pub-
lic Law 95-223, December 28, 1977, 91
Stat. 1625.
The Foreign Assets Control Regula-
tions, 31 CFR Part 500, prohibit persons
subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States from engaging in unlicensed com-
mercial or financial transactions with
North Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia or na-
tionals of these countries. The Regulations
prohibit importation or dealing in mer-
chandise of these countries or transactions
in blocked assets of these countries or their
nationals absent a license from the Office
of Foreign Assets Control, Department of
the Treasury.
agreed to recognize each other and to
establish diplomatic relations as of Janu-
ary 1, 1979. As part of our resumption of
normal relations, the United States and
the Government of the PRC entered into
an Agreement Concerning the Settlement
of Claims, signed on May 11, 1979.
Under the Agreement, the Government
of the PRC agreed to pay to the Govern-
ment of the United States $80.5 million in
settlement of claims of United States na-
tionals arising out of expropriation losses
in China. The Government of the PRC
will pay $30 million of the total on Octo-
ber 1, 1979, and the remainder in five
equal annual installments.
Under the Agreement, the United
States will unblock Chinese blocked assets
by October 1, 1979. Along with the gen-
eral unblocking of Chinese assets, the
United States will impose a twelve-month
moratorium on the transfer of blocked
Chinese assets to state custodians of aban-
doned property under state laws providing
that abandoned or unclaimed property is
to be transferred to their custody. The
moratorium is designed to facilitate Chi-
nese recovery of this class of assets.
The Transaction Control Regulations,
31 CFR Part 505, are Treasury regulations
ing in unlicensed sales of strategic goods
which prohibit U.S. persons from engag-
located abroad to almost all Communist
countries.
The Cuban Assets Control Regulations,
31 CFR Part 515, are parallel to the For-
eign Assets Control Regulations in con-
tent. However, foreign subsidiaries of U.S.
In the case of the People's Republic of firms may engage in certain non-strategic
1656
