Oct. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
So, here we sit, 7 years after the first oil
embargo, 22 years after a comprehen-
sive package has been presented to the
Congress, still needing vital action by
our legislative branch of the Government,
and our country's still vulnerable.
There have been some beneficial
changes made, however. The American
people are now becoming aroused, and
the Congress is beginning to take action,
even on oil. I'm not discouraged about
the future.
One very bright light throughout all
this process has been the awareness of
the Northeastern Governors and those
who work with them that this was indeed
a serious problem. I have had strong al-
lies among the men and women at this
table from the very beginning, and the
fact that you are here indicates that their
influence has been all-pervasive through-
out the northeastern part of our country.
You saw the dangers early, and you be-
gan to act.
One of the things that has been a
serious problem, politically and other-
wise, has been the artificial controls on
the prices of oil and natural gas, which
have caused Americans to continue to
depend upon oil to an unwarranted de-
gree, to the exclusion of conservation,
the shifting toward renewable supplies
of energy like solar power, and the real-
ization among our Nation that we did
have a serious problem on hand.
The most important single action that
every single person in this country can
take is to save energy, to conserve energy,
to stop wasting energy. This is something
that can be done at the national level,
State, local levels of government, in
private industry, in every community, in
every family, in the life of almost every
person.
And I hope that everyone listening to
my voice here in this room or on tele-
vision or otherwise will make an assess-
ment today with family members: "What
can I do as a patriotic American and to
help my Nation, yes, but also to help my
community, my family, and myself?
What can I do to save energy in my
home, going to and from work, to and
from shopping, on my job?"
There are myriad different ways that
Americans can save energy if we make
up our minds that it's important enough
to do it. And I might point out to you
that this is not an unpleasant thing; it's
not an unwarranted sacrifice; it will not
even be an inconvenience. It will certain-
ly not weaken our family structure, our
communities, our States, our Nation. It
can be an exciting and productive and
positive action. It can bring families
together in a closer unity. It can
strengthen communities. It can strengthen
our Nation. It's a patriotic gesture. It can
be pleasant, not an unpleasant sacrifice.
The crux of the issue in conserving,
meeting the needs of American families,
developing new supplies of energy, is the
windfall profits tax. The windfall profits
tax is now being considered by the House
and the Senate of the U.S. Congress.
The House has passed a reasonable
windfall profits tax, not as strong as I
advocated, not as strong as I would like.
The revenues are not as great as what I
proposed, and the House put a 10-year
limit on the application of the tax. It
should be permanent, and the lost reve-
nues, below what I advocated, should be
restored.
The Senate Finance Committee has re-
ported out a framework only of a tax
structure that can be built on the floor of
the Senate, in the conference committee,
and ultimately by the Congress.
The House would give back to the oil
companies, as a portion of the unearned
profits over a 10-year period, $151 billion.
The Senate Finance Committee would
give back to the oil companies, in un-
earned profits, $374 billion, at the present
price of oil, as projected, and at the
2056
