Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
We have a long way to go. There's only
one poll that counts, as my wife said on
the "Today" show this morning, and
that's the final vote. But we're prepared.
I think it's obvious that in 1975, 1976,
that we were constantly underestimated,
maybe even by some of your editorial
writers and reporters. But we've got a
good ability to organize, and we have a
longstanding, even a lifetime commit-
ment, at least a political lifetime commit-
ment, to stay close to the American peo-
ple. We do this through my own interre-
lationships and those of my staff and those
of my family. And I think that sensitivity
of American needs and desires and hopes
and aspirations and concerns pay rich
dividends.
But we know how to organize, and we
are successful and have been in the past
in conducting a campaign. So, I would
guess that we have a good chance next
year. I look forward to it with anticipa-
tion and confidence.
AMERICAN HOSTAGES IN IRAN
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned the
patience of the American people. There
was an instance in the late sixties when
some British diplomats were taken hos-
tage in Peking and were held for-I think
it was over a year. It got to the point
where people stopped talking about it
and the Government of Britain stopped
talking about it. They were released. Is it
possible or conceivable that this situation
could drag on in Tehran until we get sort
of the same situation?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm determined that
that will not happen, Don.*
We had, as you know, one of our Am-
bassadors who was captured in Man-
churia-maybe the incident to which you
refer, maybe a different one-and he
Don Campbell, White House correspond-
ent, Gannett News Service.
stayed imprisoned for more than a year.
It was during President Truman's admin-
istration. He was finally released, I think,
in the fall or winter of 1949. I'm not sure
about the exact date.
There, President Truman-I've re-
read the history on it and even the private
memoranda that were exchanged with-
in the White House-and President Tru-
man did ask the Joint Chiefs of Staff and
others to analyze how he might, through
physical action if necessary, cause the re-
lease of our Ambassador and his staff. It
was not done, and eventually the Ambas-
sador was released.
I'm determined that in this particular
incident we will not forget those hostages
one day and that we will continue to keep
the issue of their illegal incarceration in
the forefront of the consciousness not only
of America but of the entire world. There
are a series of steps that we can take.
There are also steps that the Iranians are
taking, not for the same purpose, to keep
this a vivid issue in the minds of the
people throughout the world.
We will not let it become a dormant
issue, or we will not let the status quo be-
come acceptable. In my judgment there
has been some change, substantial change,
in the attitude even among the Iranians.
And if you go back and look at the early
comments or statements that were made
and compare them to the more recent
ones, you see that there has been some
evolutionary change, not always in the
right direction, but, I think, in general it
has.
The promise that our hostages would
be tried individually as war criminals and
perhaps even executed was the earliest
threats made. That has, to some degree,
been changed. Their early expectation
that the Shah would be returned to them
through blackmail—I think those expec-
tations have now been lowered, if not
eliminated altogether, and so I think that,
in itself, is good.
2242
