Dec. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Pan American Acquisition of, Control
of, and Merger with National
Docket 33283
and
Texas International-National Acquisi-
tion Case
Docket 33112
I do not intend to disapprove the
Board's orders within the 60 days allowed
by statute.
In these orders, the Board approved the
acquisition of National Airlines by Pan
American World Airways. However, the
Board deleted from the authority granted
the merged airline the right now held by
National, to provide service between Mi-
ami and London. Instead, the Board has
initiated a separate proceeding to select
a successor to National to operate the
Miami-London route.
Under the Airline Deregulation Act of
1978, the President is given 60 days fol-
lowing a CAB decision such as this affect-
ing international routes to review the de-
cision. The President may disapprove a
Board decision "solely upon the basis of
foreign relations or national defense con-
siderations. . . but not upon the basis of
economic or carrier selection considera-
tions."
Questions have been raised about that
portion of the Board's decision deleting
the Miami-London route from the trans-
ferred authority. I do not find sufficiently
compelling foreign relations or national
defense considerations to disturb the
Board's decision on this issue or any other
issue. I note that Pan American is one of
several applicants for the Miami-London
route in a proceeding now under consid-
eration by the Board. I also note that the
Board's opinion here underscores the right
of the United States to assure any Ameri-
can carrier serving Miami-London com-
plete competitive equality with any Brit-
ish carrier providing similar service, a
right which must be assured in the final
disposition of this matter.
To assure the opportunity for judicial
review of the Board's action, I note that
no foreign relations or national defense
consideration underlies my action here.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Marvin S. Cohen, Chairman,
Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C.
20428]
United States Savings
Bonds Program
Memorandum From the President.
December 26, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
The U.S. Savings Bonds Program has
played an important role in sound debt
management and in our continuing ef-
forts to help control inflation. Over $80
billion in Savings Bonds are currently held
by Americans.
In 1980, the Savings Bonds Program
will assume an additional purpose. The
new Series EE Savings Bonds, which will
be introduced to payroll sales during the
first six months of 1980, will be designated
U.S. Energy Savings Bonds, Series EE.
While helping to finance the large Fed-
eral energy expenditure required in the
coming years, U.S. Energy Savings Bonds
will also help to focus the country's atten-
tion on the national goals of reducing en-
ergy consumption and increasing domestic
supplies.
Series EE Savings Bonds not only offer
increased benefits to the country as a
whole but to each individual saver as well.
The interest rate on these securities will
2284
