Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
concerning arms reductions? And is veri-
fication really the chief obstacle to its
ratification right now?
THE PRESIDENT. Jerry, if the SALT II
treaty is rejected, this would be a severe
blow to our country, to our Nation's secu-
rity, and to the prospects for world peace.
SALT II is a treaty that's been negotiated
over a 7-year period by three different
Presidents-two Republicans and myself
as a Democrat. It's a carefully negotiated
treaty that is in the best interest of our
own country and also, I might add, in the
best interest of the Soviet Union and all
those who want peace on Earth.
fully. The Soviets have, in effect, adopted
the treaty, because they don't have demo-
cratic processes, but we still have to get
the approval of the Senate.
If the Senate should vote no on SALT,
this would be a clear signal to the people
all over Earth that our country is not
indeed committed to the control of nu-
clear
weapons adequately, and the Soviets
would be given a tremendous and unde-
served propaganda weapon to use against
us. They would say, falsely, that they are
a nation committed to peace and the con-
trol of nuclear weapons, but that we, be-
cause the Senate rejected SALT II, are a
nation that's not inclined toward peace
and the control of nuclear weapons. That
would be a false claim, but it would be
a very powerful political weapon that the
Soviets could use.
We have adequate means to verify com-
pliance with the SALT II treaty. We do
not depend on trusting the Soviet Union.
We have our own national technical
means that we can use to make sure that
the Soviets do honor every provision in
the SALT II treaty. If we should detect
in the future—and we have that ability-pability, reduce sharply in the future
any evidence that the Soviets are violating
the treaty, then we have the right under
the terms of the treaty itself to terminate
the treaty at that moment.
Another thing that I'd like to point out
to you are the consequences of rejection.
It would end, really, a 30-year process to-
ward controlling nuclear weapons
throughout the world, particularly in our
country and the Soviet Union. If that was
ended, it would be very difficult to recom-
mence it, and if we did start another 2- or
3- or 7-year negotiation, the chances are
very high that the final product would
be almost identical to what we have nego-
tiated this time.
In addition, a lot of countries around
the world—our allies, like those in Europe,
Japan, the less developed countries, non-
aligned nations like India, for instance-
look upon us and the Soviet Union as
having a major responsibility to negotiate
successfully. We have negotiated success-
What I want to do is to maintain
equivalency and equality of nuclear ca-
atomic weaponry, and then compete with
the Soviet Union on a peaceful basis, be-
cause we've got all the advantages on our
side-democracy, freedom, respect for hu-
man rights, basic ethical standards, deep
religious commitments. On a peaceful
basis, we can compete and win. We don't
want to compete on a warlike basis, but
we're going to stay strong enough to deter
any potential aggressor from daring to
attack us. SALT II would accomplish all
these worthy goals.
Ms. STAMBERG. Mr. Johnson, does that
answer your question?
MR. JOHNSON. Yes, it does.
Mr. President, I'd like to know if you're
coming back to Flint next-well, I hope
you do come back to Flint next year. I
remember you were here in '76.
THE PRESIDENT. I hope, too, yes.
MR. JOHNSON. Yes. Thank you.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you, Mr. John-
son.
1889
