Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 15
only for this day, but for all our years--a
brotherhood not of words, but of acts and
deeds." With this kind of generous spirit,
we can strengthen our Nation and bring
new enrichment in every way to the lives
of the people we love.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:09 p.m. in
the Imperial Ballroom at the Radisson Muehle-
bach Hotel.
Kansas City, Missouri
Remarks at a Reception for Business and
Civic Leaders. October 15, 1979
First of all, I want to thank our host,
Mr. Baumgardner, for that good intro-
duction and also to tell you that for any
President it's both an exhilarating and a
sobering experience to come to the home
of President Harry Truman.
As you know, President Truman is a
man who has grown in stature with his-
torians and with American people and
with those throughout the world who
know history-the more we have a chance
to assess what his contributions were.
He was a tough political infighter. He
was highly partisan. He told me—rather,
he said once, and I've read his com-
ments-that "When somebody comes and
tells me they're bipartisan, I know I've
lost a vote. They're not going to vote with
me." And I've still got in the Oval Office
an exact replica—I tried to get the origi-
nal, but Mrs. Truman and Margaret
wouldn't let me have it-of his sign, "The
buck stops here." And I think about that
a lot as I carry on the affairs of our great
Nation.
Times change from one President
to another, from one generation to
another challenges, problems, questions,
change. But there's a surer realization as
history progresses that our Nation is so
strong, so powerful, that there is no chal-
lenge we cannot meet, there is no prob-
lem we can't resolve, there is no question
that we can't answer, if we have confi-
dence in one another and if we are united
in a common purpose.
I'm the fourth President, for instance,
who's dealt with 10 or 11 years of inflation,
which is too high. But if Americans are
willing to work together, to have confi-
dence in one another, we can get inflation
under control.
We've never had an energy policy for
our country, because for too long we had
extremely cheap oil-a dollar and a half
or so a barrel-and we didn't have to
worry about it, and we became addicted
to a highly dependent society on-for-
eign oil.
We import about half the oil we use
now. Next year we'll send overseas $70
billion in American money that could pro-
vide jobs for our people. And as we import
82 million barrels of oil per day, we also
import inflation, and we import un-
employment.
These are just a few of the questions or
problems that I have to face along with
problems of defense and the search for
peace. But it's a wonderful job to have
because it's the greatest elected office in
the greatest nation on Earth.
And President Truman said another
thing that I've noticed, particularly lately.
He said, "If a President ever becomes
timid because he's worried about public
opinion polls or what newspaper colum-
nists say might be the results of the next
election, then he's not worthy to lead this
great country." So, I remember that. I'm
not concerned. I look to the future with
great confidence in myself, in politics, and
also in this country. I base that confidence
on what I know our Nation is.
I just spoke to the national convention
of Catholic charities, a group that's been
1931
