Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
City from 1938 to 1941 and in Washing-
ton from 1941 to 1943. From 1943 to
1946, he was with the Justice Depart-
ment as special attorney and special as-
sistant to the Attorney General. He has
practiced law in New York City since
1946, first with Roosevelt, Freidin & Lit-
tauer, then since 1956 with Kaye, Scholer,
Fierman, Hays & Handler.
Diamond has served as chairman of
the American Bar Association's section of
patent, trademark and copyright law and
as vice president of the Copyright Society
of the U.S.A. He has written numerous
articles in legal and other journals on
trademark and copyright matters.
White House Conference on
Families
Memorandum From the President.
October 15, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
In July, the National Advisory Com-
mittee of the White House Conference on
Families held its first meeting. The Com-
mittee adopted a plan of action for the
Conference, which includes hearings, state
activities, and White House Conferences
at several sites throughout the country.
A major goal of the White House Con-
ference on Families, which I called for in
my campaign for the Presidency, is to
identify public policies which strengthen
and support families as well as those
which harm or neglect family life, and to
recommend appropriate changes. To ac-
complish this goal, the Conference must
have the support and assistance of every
Department and Agency within the
government.
I am, therefore, directing Department
and Agency heads to cooperate fully with
the staff of the White House Conference
on Families. Such cooperation should in-
clude, but not be limited to, the follow-
ing: Identifying and cataloging pro-
grams, policies and research studies which
impact on family life; analyzing the im-
pact of selected policies and programs;
publishing studies, reports and other in-
formational materials relating to families;
providing detailees, logistical assistance,
meeting facilities and other resources for
Conference activities; earmarking discre-
tionary funds for projects which support
the goals of the White House Conference
on Families, and informing employees and
constituent groups about Conference
activities.
To demonstrate this Administration's
commitment to the goals of the WHCF, I
am requesting Agency and Department
heads to be available to make presenta-
tions at the hearings which will be held
this fall and at the White House Confer-
ences scheduled for June and July of next
year. To coordinate government-wide par-
ticipation in the Conference, an Inter-
agency Task Force will be established.
Please designate one of your Special As-
sistants or an Assistant or Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary for Policy or Planning who
has knowledge of family-related programs
and a capacity to draw on the resources
within your Department to serve on this
Task Force. Notification of this appoint-
ment should be sent to John Carr, Execu-
tive Director of the White House Confer-
ence on Families (472-4393) by October
25, and your designee should plan to at-
tend the first meeting of the Interagency
Task Force scheduled for November 1.
Thank you for your assistance in help-
ing strengthen and support our nation's
families.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased on October 16.
1939
