Aug. 11
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I will not deal with the PLO unless they
do two things: accept the right of Israel
to exist, which they've not yet been willing
to acknowledge, and accept the fact that
U.N. Resolution 242 is a document bind-
ing on them. They've got to accept 242,
accept the right of Israel to exist. This is
a commitment we've made. We've never
deviated from it. We're not going to de-
viate from it.
NUCLEAR POWER
Q. Mr. President, most folks in South
Carolina have accepted nuclear power
development as a must. My question is,
our people are deeply concerned, and our
Governor Riley, who's your friend, are
deeply concerned if we're being ade-
quately protected. We don't want to be-
come the Nation's dumping ground. And
our highways are becoming-we are fear-
ful of the hazardous conditions of the
transit of so much material going to and
from-both Barnwell Allied Nuclear and
the Savannah River project are in my
backyard, 40 miles away, so you can un-
derstand how I feel.
THE PRESIDENT. And they're also, as
you know, on the Georgia line. [Laughter]
Q. Right. What's needed, to you?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've been in-
volved in the nuclear world since the early
1950's, when that was my profession,
working as a student and also working
as the senior officer of the precommission-
ing crew of the second atomic submarine
ever built. At that time I had extensive
training on how to handle nuclear ma-
terials, the limitations and capabilities of
nuclear power, and the problems with the
disposal of waste, and also the problems
with the proliferation of nuclear explo-
sives, how one might take nuclear waste
or byproducts and, through reprocessing
or conversion, change them into explosive
materials.
Since I've been in office, I think we've
addressed for the first time in 35 years
the question of the handling of waste,
and the Congress has passed a very fine
law which we are implementing fully on
controlling the proliferation of nuclear
explosives.
The incident at Three Mile Island has
been one that's brought to the conscious-
ness of the American people the need to
reassess for safety purposes design of nu-
clear powerplants, the technology of the
operation of nuclear powerplants, the
training of personnel who operate the
nuclear powerplants, and also the super-
vision by the Government of the private
operators of nuclear powerplants.
When the Kemeny report is made to
me by the end of this month, I will assess
it very thoroughly. I will obviously carry
out the recommendations of the Kemeny
report if they're at all practical, and I'm
sure it would be a practical recommen-
dation. At that time I think it would be
incumbent on me as President to explain
to the American people the situation that
does exist with nuclear power.
There is no way that our country can
close down nuclear powerplants. And I
think it would be ill-advised to terminate
the construction of nuclear powerplants
that have already been approved. We now
derive, I think, about 16 percent of all of
our electricity from nuclear power. And
in some areas, like Chicago, for instance,
they get more than 50 percent of all their
power from nuclear powerplants, electric
power. So, it is an important element in
our energy economy. We need to assess
very thoroughly the capabilities and prob-
lems. The American people need to be as
well educated as possible. And I, as Pres-
ident, working with the Congress and with
the private sector, need to make sure that
1428
