Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 19
which lies ahead: the reunion of all Chris-
tians into the one holy, catholic, and apos-
tolic church that may serve and save the
world; the restoration of the image of God
in man by our renewed and concerted
effort to reinstate respect for human dig-
nity and justice; the spiritual reawakening
of our society in the face of the ugly reali-
ties of today, which may lead us to the re-
capturing of the modern spiritual values
of Christianity; the stirring of the human
soul and thought, so that it may once again
attain and grasp God's truth and love,
through which peace in the world may be
advanced. All of these sacred causes and
many more place formidable demands
upon me and upon all of us.
We who are privileged to share this
great moment with you, Mr. President and
Mrs. Carter, will ever treasure the beauty
and meaningfulness of it. From the depths
of my heart, I thank you, Mr. President,
and your beloved wife, our First Lady,
Rosalynn.
And on behalf of all of us, please accept,
Mr. President, Mrs. Carter, our fervent
prayer. May God, our Father, grant you
your heart's desire and crown all your
plans for our country and the world with
triumphant success.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:36 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Energy Legislation
Statement by the White House Press Secretary
on Congressional Actions.
September 19, 1979
Last night and this morning, there have
been two very encouraging actions on the
Hill on energy.
The Senate Energy Committee has ap-
proved, by substantial bipartisan margins,
amendments that give them now an
energy mobilization bill that is very close
to the proposals the President sent up and
which we are very happy with. The Presi-
dent asked that I convey publicly his ap-
preciation to the leadership shown in that
committee by the chairman, Senator Jack-
son, also to the leadership and hard work
from Senator Johnston of Louisiana, and
his appreciation for the bipartisan support
for this legislation.
In addition, the Conference Committee
on Rationing-although at my last check
they had not quite finished their work;
there were still some issues to be re-
solved appears to be well on their way
to a good and acceptable rationing bill.
We expect that that progress will continue
and that the result will be a good ration-
ing bill.
NOTE: Press Secretary Jody Powell spoke at
2:45 p.m. at his regular daily briefing in the
Briefing Room at the White House.
Environmental Protection
Agency
Nomination of Inez Smith Reid To Be
Inspector General. September 19, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Inez Smith Reid, of New
York City, to be Inspector General of the
Environmental Protection Agency.
Reid is Deputy General Counsel for
Regulation Review at the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
She was born April 7, 1937, in New
Orleans. She received a B.A. from Tufts
University in 1959, an LL.B. from Yale
University in 1962, an M.A. in political
science from the University of California
at Los Angeles in 1963, and a Ph. D. from
Columbia University in 1968.
In 1963-64 Reid was a lecturer in
criminal law at the École Nationale de
Droit et d'Administration in Congo-Kin-
1691
