Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
The first thing he did was to tell my
wife that the bill on mental health which
she has worked 2 or 3 years to accomplish
was passed through his committee. That
was the business at hand. And then we
had about a 35-minute tour of the library
itself, looking at John Kennedy's early
campaign history, his naval
They've got a beautiful letter in there
from my mother that was written to him
on her 70th birthday while she was a
Peace Corps volunteer in India, which I
appreciated.
And I thought the whole family was
extremely gracious, and I believe this is
one of the most beautiful sites for the
commemoration of a President's memory
and to hold the records that I've ever
seen. It's a place that uses a large number
of visual aids. It's a human sort of en-
vironment that people will thoroughly
enjoy, and I believe it's a great addition
to this community and, of course, to our
country.
MR. FOELL. Tom Ellis.
wondering how this will affect your own
personal timetable.
Can you tell us today that you will be
a candidate for reelection?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll be making an an-
nouncement on December 4.
I was pleased with this week. The Flor-
ida results were very encouraging to us.
And it was a pretty hot contest with a lot
of secondhand involvement. I didn't go in
to campaign, neither did Senator Ken-
nedy, but our surrogates were there, a lot
of enthusiasm, a fairly high participation.
And I thought the 2-to-1 margin that we
achieved was gratifying.
I think the time that I'll spend in the
next year on politics will be adequate, but,
of course, as President, I won't have time
to campaign as I did in 1975 and 1976
when it was an absolutely full-time job
for me. But I look forward to it with a
great deal of interest and anticipation and
confidence.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
MR. ELLIS. Thank you, Mr. Foell.
Mr. President, first I'd like to welcome
you to New England again and thank
you for giving us this time to ask a few
questions.
There have been some political devel-
opments this week of significance, begin-
ning with your good showing in Florida;
the announcement by Senator Kennedy's
people that they're about to form an or-
ganization, which most feel is tantamount
to his formal announcement; the endorse-
ment of Senator Kennedy by the Gover-
nor of Maine, the first Governor in the
Nation to do that. And in view of all of
that, plus the earliness of the primaries in
New Hampshire and Massachusetts, I'm
HEATING OIL SUPPLIES
MR. ELLIS. One of the pressing issues
here in New England-we've already had
an early taste of winter-is the subject of
number 2 home heating oil. We've heard
you give assurances in other parts of the
country that we will have adequate sup-
plies of home heating oil this winter. The
fellow I buy home heating oil from has
been in business for 30 years, and he tells
me that because of tight credit, alloca-
tions, and the price, quite a few of his
customers won't have oil if we get a severe
cold spell this winter.
I'm wondering if you can assure us
here today in New England that we will
have adequate supplies and that the peo-
ple who can't afford to pay 90 cents a
gallon for it will still be reasonably warm
this winter.
1983
