Sept. 24
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Moon Landrieu has earned the admira-
tion of every mayor and public official
in our country with what he's done in
New Orleans a city of ancient history,
a city of a wide range of ethnic groups,
diverse points of view-with a desire to
preserve the precious, but the need to
resolve differences.
Moon has been in the forefront of some
evolutionary changes that almost became
revolutionary changes, and I have ob-
served with admiration and have learned
from him how he's dealt with the basic
question of civil rights, human rights.
When it wasn't easy in the South, Moon
Landrieu stood firm and said there's no
longer any place for discrimination or
racism. And he did this in such a way
that he marshaled the support of his en-
tire community and won an overwhelm-
ing victory and, I think, had he wanted
to, could have been mayor for a long
time.
And he was successful in revitalizing
an area that I hope will always retain its
character, because it's one of America's
fine possessions. And in the process, he let
the people of New Orleans feel that the
future was not dismal or discouraging,
but exciting and promising.
So, for these reasons and for many
others, I'm very grateful to have this op-
portunity to introduce to the Nation and
to have join my Cabinet these two men.
And I see former mayors of New York
here, who remember very well when New
York City was in a dangerous condition
and there needed to be some broad-based
national support for New York's effort to
save itself. And Moon Landrieu traveled
the country to marshal the support of
other people in Georgia and in Louisiana
and in Kansas and in California to sup-
port New York City. He convinced me,
along with Mayor Beame and others,
that this should be done. And I made
that commitment as a candidate, and
we've carried out that commitment.
And now I don't think anyone could
deny that what Moon Landrieu espoused
as a mayor of New Orleans, joining with
his partner and partners throughout the
country, including New York, that our
great city of New York has a new life. I
hope he'll do that with every city, rang-
ing from New York City down to Plains,
Georgia, and I have confidence that he
will.
Now I'd like to ask Margaret Gold-
schmidt and Judge Steinbock to come
forward to administer the oath to Neil
Goldschmidt as Secretary of Transporta-
tion.
[At this point, Louisiana Supreme Court Justice
Irving Steinbock administered the oath of
office.]
And now I'd like to ask Moon and
Verna and Judge Calogero to come for-
ward for the oath. And Moon, it would
be nice if your family joined you. I hope
the photographers have a wide-angle
lens. [Laughter] I might say that—well,
I think I'll say that I'm not sure that
Moon's family will grow this fast the next
years. [Laughter]
5
[At this point, Louisiana Supreme Court Justice
Pascal Calogero administered the oath of
office.]
I won't give them another introduc-
tion, but I'd like for Neil Goldschmidt
and then for Moon to say a word to the
group.
SECRETARY GOLDSCHMIDT. Mr. Presi-
dent, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Carter,
friends:
I cannot think of a nicer occasion than
to come to the service of my country with
a good friend like Moon Landrieu.
It is a wonderful feeling that among so
many fine public servants who have been
elected to high office, including many
1720
