Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 21
ber 1. We understand that the new con-
ference will meet again soon, possibly as
early as tomorrow.
The administration will make every ef-
fort to obtain the necessary legislation.
The United States must have legislative
authority by October 1 to exercise our
rights to operate the canal. It is inconceiv-
able that the Congress would allow the
Panama Canal to be closed even for a
short time.
The President is confident that the
Government of Panama will respond to
this development with the dignity and re-
straint which has characterized it during
the long deliberations on the canal treaties
and the implementing legislation in the
Congress.
Regulatory Reform of the
Telecommunications Industry
Message to the Congress. September 21, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today announcing my support for
efforts in Congress to reform the regula-
tion of telecommunications. Legislation is
needed to eliminate needless regulatory
controls, encourage competition and in-
novation, and keep telephone service af-
fordable throughout the country.
Regulatory reform is one of my highest
national priorities. Where the market-
place can work, we must get the govern-
ment out of making marketplace deci-
sions. Where regulation is needed, we
must ensure it is well managed.
Last year the Administration and
Congress worked together to deregulate
airlines, introducing competition that al-
ready has saved over $2.5 billion for pas-
sengers while increasing air travel and
airline revenues. This year we have sub-
mitted to Congress far-reaching regula-
tory reform proposals affecting trucking,
railroads, banking, drugs, and regulatory
procedures.
The 45-year-old regulatory charter for
telecommunications also needs revisions.
This industry can provide more and bet-
ter services while cutting many costs. It
can help fight inflation and promote
growth. We cannot afford to have this
progress frustrated by unwarranted regu-
lation. We must ensure that competitors
fight through their salesmen in the mar-
ketplace rather than through their lawyers
in government hearings.
Telecommunications is crucial to our
society. This industry-which includes the
telephone companies and the firms which
provide satellite communications, com-
puter links, and other specialized serv-
ices has more than one million employ-
ees and annual revenues of over $50
billion. The availability of nationwide,
high-quality communications is vital to
the economy, national security, and the
quality of our lives. Sophisticated new
communications systems are providing
better services, lower costs, and improved
productivity in an economy that depends
more and more on information transfers.
Telecommunications firms are regu-
lated by the Federal Communications
Commission under the Communications
Act of 1934. That Act was designed at a
time when technology made monopoly
the logical structure for telecommunica-
tions. That system, assisted by the rural
telephone loan program, has nearly
achieved the national goal of universal
service-96 percent of all households and
nearly all businesses have telephone
service.
Two critical changes have occurred
since 1934. First, there have been extraor-
dinary technological advances. In addi-
tion to the wired network, the telephone
companies and new, competing firms are
using satellites, lasers, microwaves, and
1699
