Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 25
It's now my pleasure-I want to take
two pleasures. One is to thank you for
coming and for letting me be a part of
this program, although I am passing
through your meeting very briefly. The
reception that I've received is exhilarating
and very gratifying to me. We've got a
great and wonderful country that's fac-
ing a difficult challenge. And I think that
anyone in the Congress or perhaps any of
you who try to deal with the problem of
evolving a comprehensive energy pro-
gram, knows that it's been a very slow,
tedious, and difficult thing. There have
been no accolades coming forth for those
who took the initiative. There have been
no votes gained. It's been a losing propo-
sition all around politically, but it's the
right thing to do.
It requires a great deal of initiative. It
requires a great deal of courage. It re-
quires a deal more unity than we've had
so far among the people of our Nation.
And it requires all of you who are in posi-
tions of leadership to make sure that this
issue is kept in the forefront, because I
tell you,
from the bottom of my heart as
President, that our Nation's very security
is at stake.
You saw what happened this past sum-
mer with very slight reductions in oil im-
ports the near panic that developed
around Los Angeles, where Tom Bradley
is the mayor, and in some places on the
east coast because there was a slight
shortage of gasoline. Think what would
happen and God forbid its happening-
if we had a total embargo, as heavily de-
pendent as we are on foreign oil. It
would be a devastating blow to our coun-
try. We have got to have more energy
produced in our own country. We've got
to have a great saving in the energy that
we consume and, therefore, to reduce
imports.
Every effort helps, and the effort that
we are launching on a nationwide basis
this afternoon, in this courthouse in Mid-
dlesex County, in New Brunswick, can
have a great beneficial effect in the fu-
ture-500,000 barrels in saving per day
for our Nation if this seed that we plant
among you takes root and sprouts and
grows. And what you do here and
throughout New Jersey can be an inspira-
tion to the rest of the country. I call on
you to join in enthusiastically. We'll pro-
vide the seed money to help Brendan
Byrne and local officials make this a
possibility.
I thank you for coming, but I partic-
ularly want to express my thanks to Tom
Bradley, the great mayor of Los Angeles,
whose leadership has really been an in-
spiration to every other public official in
this country, including the President.
Tom Bradley has volunteered to be the
national chairman of the ridesharing pro-
gram, because he sees the potential that
can be realized. He sees the difficulty of
a sustained effort, but he's the kind of
leader, I'm sure, that can bring this effort
to fruition and help our Nation in the
process and at the same time help every
American who participates.
Now I'd like to introduce my friend,
Tom Bradley. Tom.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:25 p.m. in
the Jury Assembly Room at the Middlesex
County Courthouse Center.
National Task Force on
Ridesharing
Appointment of the Membership.
October 25, 1979
The President today announced the
persons whom he will appoint as members
of the National Task Force on Rideshar-
ing. They are:
2023
