Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
Dr. Balcomb showed us some remark-
able examples of residences in which
conservation and the use of the Sun in a
passive way has led to clean, cost-effective
energy use. These technologies, he points
up, are available now. They make use of
all sorts of new materials and devices and
new design concepts in building homes.
The investments in conservation and
passive solar can lead to extremely attrac-
tive residences, and these investments will
save sufficient energy to pay the home-
owner back in 10 years.
The fifth speaker, and the last speaker
in the morning session, was Dr. Norman
Hackerman, who's president of Rice Uni-
versity and Chairman of the National
Science Board. He spoke about enhanced
oil recovery.
Some 450 billion barrels of oil have
been identified in place in the United
States, but only one-third can be recov-
ered by present technology. We leave two-
thirds of it behind in the ground by pres-
ent methods. That's 300 billion barrels of
oil that's left behind. That's more oil than
Saudi Arabia possesses, and that's all in
the ground in this country. If we can find
ways to produce this oil, to induce it to
move through the ground to the producer
wells, we would gain an enormous addi-
tional source of energy. Dr. Hackerman
believes that research and development
will enable us to recover perhaps 10 per-
cent of this immobile oil. And if we do this
well-and that's only 10 percent of what
we leave behind-this would be equiva-
lent to three to four Alaskan oil fields.
And he told us about the different tech-
niques we might use; for example, the in-
jection of water and gases, such as carbon
dioxide, increasing the temperature of the
rock formations to make the oil flow more
readily, and then injecting chemicals to
loosen this immobilized crude oil so that
we could pull it out.
This is a brief summary of the papers
that have already been presented, and if
you want to question or if any of the panel-
ists or recipients of this briefing want to
question some of these speakers, now
would be an appropriate time.
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
THE PRESIDENT. I'd like to ask Dr. Jef-
ferson how the other industries are doing
in our country? I know that you spoke for
the chemical industry, but is this a unique
achievement, or are the other generic types
of industries doing an equivalent job?
DR. JEFFERSON. Well, Mr. President,
most of the industries have met or sur-
passed the goals that were set in the pro-
gram developed by the Federal Energy
Administration and the Department of
Commerce 4 years ago. So, in essence,
most industries are doing well.
THE PRESIDENT. Do you think the 30-
percent goal by 1985 is the optimum that
you all can achieve? Is that goal high
enough?
DR. JEFFERSON. Well, that goal relates
only to energy conservation. As you know,
the chemical industry uses a great deal of
petroleum and natural gas as raw mate-
rial. The savings that can be achieved in
the raw material area are additive to this
as are, also, savings that would accrue
from moving away from the scarcer petro-
leum and natural gas over to more plenti-
ful fossil fuels. And all these three are
getting attention.
THE PRESIDENT. I presume, since
you've been so enthusiastic about it, that
one of the motivations is cost-effectiveness
and it has been a matter of saving for you
in production costs and-
Dr. Jefferson. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. It's been a profitable
thing?
DR. JEFFERSON. Yes.
1535
