Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 7
lence and the threats of terrorism and the
acts of terrorism in Italy. We have of-
fered our services to the Government of
Italy, to the people of Italy, in a coopera-
tive way with other nations, I might add,
to help stamp out the threat of terrorism.
We now see a new government taking
over in Italy. We've had an excellent rela-
tionship with Mr. Andreotti. We will also
have an excellent relationship with the
new government.
I have been very pleased at the result
of the recent election which showed that
the Communists, in a free and democratic
election, lost substantial support from the
people of Italy.
I might say three things very quickly.
It would be completely inappropriate and,
I think, counterproductive for our Nation
to try to interfere in the electoral
process
of Italy. Secondly, I hope that over a
period of time, and not too long to wait,
that the influence of the Communists in
Italy will take another drastic drop. And
the third thing is, I trust the political judg-
ment of the people of Italy.
We don't have any fear about the fu-
ture of Italy being a democratic nation,
allied with us, a strong NATO member, a
distinguished member of the leadership
with whom I meet every year at least, and
obviously tied to us with the most valuable
of ties, the ties of blood kinship so well
represented by this group.
ITALIAN AMERICAN JUDICIAL SELECTIONS
Q. Good morning, Mr. President. I'm
Charles Caputo from Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania, the Supreme Order of the Sons
of Italy, or its chief legal officer.
of
May I say preliminarily, in 30 years
participation in activities of the Order,
I've never heard anyone received with
such acclaim and warmth, with one ex-
ception, than I did you this morning. The
other exception is not too far away. It was
exceeded before you got here when we
received the Honorable Benjamin
Civiletti.
With his appointment, Mr. President,
you made all Americans of Italian de-
scent throughout the United States very,
very happy. I'd like to say, on a personal
note, your appointment of Leonard
Paletta in the city of Pittsburgh to the dis-
trict court of western Pennsylvania was
received very, very tremendously and
gratifyingly by Americans of every ethnic
descent. I'm so sorry he passed away be-
fore he could ascend the bench.
We wondered, and have discussed in
many, many meetings, why, with all of the
capable legal scholars and the proficient
and efficient members of the bench in the
various courts throughout the United
States, why not one Italian has ever been
appointed to the Supreme Court of the
United States and I know of only
two-
THE PRESIDENT. I have wondered the
same thing.
Q. -
I know of only two that pres-
ently serve in the district courts. How-
ever, Mr. President, my question is, and I
finally got around to it, will this adminis-
tration continue to seek out, recognize
qualified Americans of Italian ancestry in
its present search for Federal judicial ap-
pointments in the many vacancies that are
presently looking for filling and, secondly,
would the President and his committees
selection accept recommendations
backed by portfolios from this organiza-
tion or any other Italian ethnic organiza-
tions?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's very easy to
answer that question. The chief adviser to
the President in the selection of Federal
district judges and circuit court judges
and Supreme Court Justices, if there ever
is a vacancy, is a very distinguished per-
1415
