Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 12
keep their supplies on hand during the
coming months of the winter.
I'd like now to introduce the Secretary
of Energy, who will answer questions
from the media if you have details which
you would like to have explored.
Charlie.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House. Fol-
lowing his remarks, Secretary of Energy
Charles W. Duncan, Jr., held a news confer-
ence on the President's announcement.
In 1973 Camm became military direc-
tor for the civilian Army Materiel Acqui-
sition Review Committee. In 1974 he
joined the Army staff to supervise stra-
tegic plans and operations, organization,
materiel needs, command-control, and
help in domestic emergencies.
In 1975 he was promoted to lieutenant
general and became deputy commanding
general of the U.S. Army Training and
Doctrine Command. He retired from
active duty in 1977.
Federal Emergency
Management Agency
Nomination of Frank A. Camm To Be an
Associate Director. October 12, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Frank A. Camm, of Arling-
ton, Va., to be an Associate Director of
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. His area of responsibility would
be plans and preparedness.
Camm has been Deputy to the Director
of Central Intelligence since 1977.
He was born March 13, 1922, in Fort
Knox, Ky. He is a graduate of West Point
and holds masters degrees from Harvard
University in civil engineering and
George Washington University in inter-
national affairs.
Camm was commissioned in the Army
Corps of Engineers, and early in his career
served at the Pentagon and worked on
the Manhattan Project. In 1969 he was
promoted to brigadier general and took
charge of the Corps of Engineers con-
struction on Army and Air Force bases
west of the Rockies and on river and har-
bor and civil emergency work in a similar
area. In 1972 he became Assistant Gen-
eral Manager for Military Application in
the Atomic Energy Commission.
Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission
Nomination of Charles B. Curtis To Be a
Member, and Designation as Chairman.
October 12, 1979
The President today announced that he
will nominate Charles B. Curtis for reap-
pointment as a member of the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission for a
term expiring October 1, 1983. He also
announced that he would redesignate
Curtis as Chairman of the Commission on
confirmation. Curtis has been a member
and Chairman of the Commission since
1977.
He was born April 27, 1940, in Upper
Darby, Pa. He received a B.S. from the
University of Massachusetts in 1962 and
an LL.B. from Boston University Law
School in 1965.
From 1965 to 1967, Curtis was a staff
attorney, then supervising staff attorney
in the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. From 1967 to 1971, he served
on the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion as special counsel to the Division of
Trading and Markets, Chief of the
Branch of Regulation and Inspections,
and attorney-adviser (finance).
1879
