Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
since they sell us more than that every day,
I personally approved the sale of that
much kerosene to Iran.
But it's just a small amount compared
to what we use and also a very tiny
amount compared to what we get from
Iran, about one-fiftieth of what we get
from Iran every month. And it was just a
one-time proposition.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. We're not going to
shut down any tractors because of it.
ENERGY CONSERVATION TAX CREDITS
Q. Mr. President, my name is Dan
Carlson, from Middletown, Iowa. I'm a
student at Quincy College in Quincy. On
the housing situation, by energy conserva-
tion, the only type of tax relief that I
understand is basically solar heat that
you're more or less giving a tax break to.
We have several other types of energy con-
servation methods, such as underground
living, which stays at a constant temper-
ature, between 55 and 60 degrees a year,
with no heat at all. And you can take it
up to a comfortable 72 degrees by using
about two logs a day in a fireplace. There's
absolutely no oil use there at all.
Now, there's no tax relief for anything
like that. If you have a stream that goes
through your property, if you'd put a
water generator on that, there's no tax
relief for that or anything of that sort.
Could you give me any idea on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. As you know,
Dan, the establishment of a program on a
nationwide basis for 220 million Ameri-
cans, maybe 50 million homes, is a very
expensive proposition, whether it's with
a tax credit or a direct loan, where inter-
est is subsidized or sometimes a grant. It's
not going to be possible for us to have a
major expansion or encouraging people
to conserve energy without the windfall
profits tax. That will be the source of
enough money to take care of poor fami-
lies, who are especially hurt by increasing
prices of oil; secondly, to give us a better
transportation system; and third, to en-
courage conservation and also the
duction of American energy.
pro-
We already have a tax credit for the
weatherization of homes, where you'd
take various means to cut down on the
waste of heat. I'd have to look into the
law to see if it covers the placement of a
home down below the ground level.2 But
I was in Baltimore recently, where they
are weatherizing this year 3,000 homes in
the low-income area. Next year, they have
a target of weatherizing 5,000 homes in
the low-income area. It only costs them in
that urban area about $275 per home to
make it energy efficient. They save more
than that every 2 years in reduced costs of
heating oil and natural gas, whatever they
use.
We now are prepared to expand this
program to encourage that kind of saving.
But we have to have the windfall profits
tax to do it. It applies not only to solar
installations, which get a $2,200 tax credit
already, but also to the weatherization of
homes and to the production of electricity
from low-head dams.
One possibility that we are exploring
and which will be pursued, by the way, is
2 On the same day, the White House Press
Office released the following information at
Burlington.
The law, proposed by the President in April
1977 and passed by the Congress in 1978, pro-
vides a tax credit of 15 percent of up to the
first $2,000 of weatherization projects added
to homes after April 1977. Weatherization
projects are those such as insulation and caulk-
ing, and so forth. Homes, either below or above
ground, are eligible for a tax credit, providing
work was performed that meets the law's re-
quirements. There is, however, no tax credit
for building a home underground per se.
1506
