Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 20
what you wanted done, and other people
around the country, including, obviously,
Members of Congress, State and local offi-
cials, and rural leaders of all kinds of or-
ganizations. Just a few weeks ago I, my-
self, met with the leaders of 50 different
rural organizations in the Cabinet Room.
Many of you were there.
Third, our policy will provide us with
the ability to develop programs to solve
problems and to get things done without
unnecessary delay. In order to implement
this strategy, that is, to get things done
without delay, I will seek authority for an
under secretary of small community and
rural development at the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, to work for me and
to assist the Secretary of Agriculture,
working under him, in rural development
activities throughout the entire admin-
istration.
I will form a working group of high-
level Federal program managers in many
different agencies, I think about 17 of
them, to ensure implementation of the
program being introduced today, and this
working group will be cochaired by Jack
Watson, and by the under secretary for
rural development, working under the
Secretary of Agriculture.
I will appoint a citizens advisory coun-
cil to monitor the progress that we make
and to advise me and the Secretary of
Agriculture on needed Federal actions.
I'll invite the Nation's Governors to estab-
lish in each State a rural development
council to ensure effective coordination
among the different levels of government.
And I'll direct my Cabinet and all the
heads of my agencies to review all relevant
policies and programs in existence now,
or to be proposed to the Congress in the
future, in order to monitor implementa-
tion of the policy that will be described
today. And I would like to ask them, and
will, to designate a senior official in each
agency to serve as a rural advocate and
to act as a point of contact for small com-
munity and rural leaders like you, who
are seeking information and assistance.
I'm pleased with the achievements that
we've realized in the last 22 years or so
since I've been President in addressing the
problems of rural America and the small
communities. It's a good record, and it
provides experience and a firm foundation
for the policy initiatives that we've an-
nounced today. But the more we have
dealt with these problems, the more we've
seen the need for a comprehensive na-
tional policy with a large group of people
directly involved in it.
This policy is the first of its kind. It
redeems my own pledge that the rural
areas of our country will receive the atten-
tion that they've needed and which they
have deserved for so long. It also repre-
sents a return to the principle that gov-
ernment should encourage but never
dictate the decisions made by American
people and by local initiative. With your
cooperation some elements of this pro-
gram have already been tested in action.
The comprehensive policy we an-
nounced today is not the end of our work.
It's just the beginning. It'll give us the
tools to do the job, to finish the job, some-
thing that I know from my experience,
both as a farmer and as a President, that
rural America knows how to do, to start a
job, to do it well, and to finish it.
In closing let me say that I want to ex-
press my gratitude for the strong and con-
tinued support that we've had in prepar-
ing this policy, to all of you, the groups
and individuals who've contributed, too
numerous to mention specifically-but I
would like to thank Senator Patrick
Leahy, the chairman of the Senate Sub-
committee on Rural Development, who
2275
