Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We set two goals
for ourselves late in the spring, when
home heating oil supplies were very low,
quite a bit below last year. The first com-
mitment that I made in Portsmouth, New
Hampshire, at a townhall meeting, was
that in October we would have 240 mil-
lion barrels of home heating oil on hand
MR. FOELL. Jim Scott.
MR. SCOTT. Mr. President, a followup
to that question.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. SCOTT. If the Congress does act
favorably and that action is late, say, at
the end of winter this year, what will the
in storage, ready to go to homes through- people do? What happens in the interim?
out the New England area and through-
out the country by the end of October.
We've already reached that goal.
Last year during a fairly severe winter,
we had a total consumption, I think, of
233 million barrels. So, we've got enough
home heating oil on hand.
The second commitment I made was
to do something about helping families to
meet the rapidly increasing cost of home
heating oil. We took the initiative, went
to the Congress quite early. As you know,
OPEC has increased prices 60 percent
since last December, and it's been an ex-
traordinary burden on the entire Nation,
and it's coming on homeowners in this
winter.
We've not yet been able to get the bill
through Congress, but we've been push-
ing it day and night. And I think the
arousing of interest on the part of people
in New England, particularly, and the rest
of the country has caused Congress lately
to begin to move. I can make a flat state-
ment predicting-as sure as anything is in
politics and government-that there will
be a decision made by Congress to sup-
port the proposal that we made and that
people will have the help for low-income
families to meet the needs that are
brought about by the increased cost of
oil.
We are asking this year for $1.6 bil-
lion to help low-income families, and we
are also asking the Congress during the
next 10 years to allocate $2.4 billion per
year. And I can assure you that the Con-
gress will act favorably on this legislation.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are two
different proposals that add up to the 1.6
billion. One is $400 million, which is
being requested under a program that's
been in existence ever since I've been in
the White House. The first year I was in
office, we asked for $250 million and got
it. This money is allotted to families, pri-
marily through the State government
structure, Governors having a lot to do
with it. That will be expanded from 250
million bucks to 400 million. And in ad-
dition to that, we're adding $1.2 billion
more on to that to help the extraordinary
year.
price increase this
We've asked Congress to expedite the
money as much as possible. Our proposal
for the long run is to have the money
come from the windfall profits tax, the
tax on the unearned profits of oil com-
panies, then to be put into reserve fund
and used to pay for home heating oil. But
since that windfall profits tax might be
enacted later than we want to, we are
asking the Congress in effect to expend
that money out of the regular income tax
collections, so that we won't have to wait
for the windfall profits tax to go into ef-
fect. Later, we'll get the money through
the windfall profits tax from the oil com-
panies and repay the money that we bor-
row from general funds.
But to make sure that the families don't
have to wait pending uncertain legisla-
tive decisions on the windfall profits tax,
we'll go ahead and get that money out of
regular funds for use in a timely fashion.
1984
