July 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of
the Treasury. The Board would establish
all major Solar Bank policies, particularly
the depth of the subsidies to be provided.
The proposed Bank would pay subsi-
dies to private lenders for the purchase
and installation of solar energy systems.
These lenders would, in turn, provide
below-market financing to builders or
owners of residential and commercial
properties. The subsidized portion of a
loan allocable to the purchase and instal-
lation of solar energy systems would be
limited to $10,000 per unit for a one- to
four-family structure, $5,000 per unit (up
to a maximum of $500,000) for struc-
tures containing more than four units,
and $200,000 for commercial properties.
Funds for operation of the Solar Bank
would be derived from the proposed En-
ergy Security Trust Fund. For this pur-
pose, authorized expenditures would be
up to (a) $35 million for fiscal year 1980
and (b) $150 million annually for fiscal
years 1981 through 1985. Personnel with-
in the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, including personnel of the
Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion, would be used to administer Solar
Bank programs.
I view the Solar Bank as a key compo-
nent in my program to accelerate the de-
velopment and use of solar technologies.
Together with my Administration's other
solar energy initiatives, the Solar Bank
will ensure a sound national solar strat-
egy. These measures will provide critical
assistance in overcoming our Nation's en-
ergy problems. I urge its early enactment.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr., Speaker of
the House of Representatives, and Walter F.
Mondale, President of the Senate.
Oil Import Reduction Program
President of the Senate Transmitting Tax
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the
Initiative Proposals. July 27, 1979
Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Presi-
dent:)
I am pleased to transmit to you the en-
ergy tax initiatives of my Oil Import Re-
duction Program.
On May 7, 1979, I transmitted to the
Congress the second National Energy
Plan, as required by section 801 of the
Department of Energy Organization Act
(Public Law 95-91). The initial step in
that plan was to direct the phasing out of
price controls on domestic crude oil. This
was begun on June 1 of this year. By Oc-
tober 1, 1981, all domestic oil will be
decontrolled.
The next step was to recommend the
imposition of a windfall profits tax on
domestic crude oil production and the
creation of an Energy Security Trust
Fund to utilize the tax revenues generated
by the windfall profits tax and increased
income tax collection attributable to de-
control. This proposal is presently pend-
ing before the Congress.
I now propose several tax incentives to
help achieve the goals of the Oil Import
Reduction Program.
First, to help achieve the goal of gen-
erating 20 percent of the Nation's energy
requirements by the use of solar energy by
the
year 2000, I propose tax credits to en-
courage the use of solar energy devices in
residential and commercial construction.
In addition, I propose investment tax
credits for solar equipment used for proc-
ess heat in industrial and agricultural
applications.
Second, to further reduce our reliance
on imported oil, I propose production in-
centive tax credits for the production of
shale oil and natural gas from unconven-
1316
