Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 23
United States-People's Republic of
China Trade Relations
Executive Order 12167. October 23, 1979
WAIVER UNDER THE TRADE ACT OF 1974
WITH RESPECT TO THE PEOPLE'S RE-
PUBLIC OF CHINA
By virtue of the authority vested in me
as President of the United States of
America by section 402 (c) (2) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-618,
January 3, 1975; 88 Stat. 1978), which
continues to apply to the People's Repub-
lic of China pursuant to section 402(d),
and having made the report to the Con-
gress required by section 402 (c) (2), I
waive the application of subsections (a)
and (b) of section 402 of said Act with
respect to the People's Republic of China.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 23, 1979.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
12:40 p.m., October 23, 1979]
Low-Level Radiation Policy
Announcement of Administration Initiatives.
October 23, 1979
The President today announced a
series of administration initiatives to deal
with the problems of low-level ionizing
radiation. His decisions came after a year-
long, interagency analysis to consider the
need for better public information, guide-
lines for protection of workers and citi-
zens, research questions, potential com-
pensation issues, and coordination of the
Government's programs. The analysis
was chaired by HEW and coordinated
by the Domestic Policy Staff (DPS) and
the Office of Science and Technology
Policy (OSTP).
The President approved the establish-
ment of a Radiation Policy Council to
advise on broad radiation policy, coordi-
nate Federal activities that use or control
the use of radiation, resolve problems of
jurisdiction, recommend legislation, en-
sure effective liaison with States and the
Congress, and provide a forum for public
input. This Council will be chaired by the
Administrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency and will include high-level
officials from the other relevant agencies.
It will have a 4-year sunset provision.
The President reaffirmed the lead role
of the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) in the issuance of guidance for
protection from radiation. EPA will work
closely with the Food and Drug Admin-
istration (FDA), the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission (NRC), and other agencies.
The President directed the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) and
OSTP to assure, during the preparation
of his FY 1981 budget request, a sound
research program on the long-term health
effects of low-level radiation. The roles of
the HEW agencies (the National Insti-
tutes of Health (NIH), FDA, and the
Center for Disease Control), the Depart-
ment of Energy, and other agencies in the
research program will be decided through
the cross-agency budget review.
An Interagency Radiation Research
Committee, chaired by the Director of
NIH, will review the kinds of research
needed and the quality of research in this
area supported by the Federal Govern-
ment.
In addition, a task force, already estab-
lished to examine criteria for compensa-
tion for civilians exposed to unusual radi-
ation hazards, was given the additional
assignment of assessing criteria for work-
ers and veterans.
These administration initiatives are ex-
pected to improve substantially the Gov-
2007
