Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 2
ing philosopher-humorist, Will Rogers.
His commentary on people and events
in public life amused us all-and made us
a little wiser, too. He judged people with
penetrating insight, but with kindness and
affection.
He once said, “I never tell jokes. I just
watch the government and report the
facts." The wit and the wisdom exempli-
fied by that comment made this Nation
a better place in which to live.
In recognition of his contribution to the
enrichment of our lives, the Ninety-Sixth
Congress, by House Joint Resolution 3,
has requested the President to designate
November 4, 1979, as Will Rogers Day.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby proclaim Sunday, November 4,
1979, as Will Rogers Day.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this second day of
November, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
11:39 a.m., November 2, 1979]
Wright Brothers Day, 1979
Proclamation 4699. November 2, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
The age of aviation began on Decem-
ber 17, 1903, near Kitty Hawk, North
Carolina, when two bicycle makers, Wil-
bur and Orville Wright, made the first
successful flight in an airplane. This
achievement brought little acclaim to the
Wright Brothers at the time. Today, how-
ever, we know it as one of the most im-
portant events in our modern world.
The spirit of the Wright Brothers lives
on. The same American ingenuity and
persistence has recently been displayed
again in the first successful man-powered
flight across the English Channel. In June
of this year, Bryan Allen pedaled for
almost three hours to propel the Gossamer
Albatross, a 60-pound polyester-bodied
aircraft designed by Paul MacCready, a
distance of 22 miles.
The same spirit has led to the phe-
nomenal development of aviation since
the Wright Brothers' first successful flight
76 years ago. Aviation is one of the most
important industries in America today,
both for jobs and services provided.
United States aircraft manufacturers cur-
rently have orders for over 1,000 jet trans-
ports, and scheduled traffic for United
States domestic and international flights
this year will exceed 300 million passen-
gers for the first time.
To commemorate the historic achieve-
ments of the Wright Brothers, the Con-
gress, by a joint resolution of December
17, 1963 (77 Stat. 402, 36 U.S.C. 169),
designated the seventeenth day of Decem-
ber of each year as Wright Brothers Day
and requested the President to issue a
proclamation annually inviting people of
the United States to observe that day with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby call upon the people of this
Nation, and their local and national gov-
ernmental officials, to observe Wright
Brothers Day, December 17, 1979, with
appropriate ceremonies and activities,
both to recall the accomplishments of the
Wright Brothers and to provide a stimulus
to aviation in this country and throughout
the world.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this second day of
November, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the In-
2079
