Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 24
The principal White House liaison for
the Commission will be through Hedley
Donovan, who became a senior Presi-
dential adviser following his retirement
as editor-in-chief of Time Inc. publica-
tions. Mr. Donovan worked closely with
the President in structuring the Commis-
sion, which was formally brought into
being with today's Executive order.
The Office of Management and Budg-
et will assume the responsibility for over-
seeing the Secretariat and providing
support for the Commission's work.
John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts
Appointment of Three Members of the
Advisory Committee on the Arts.
October 24, 1979
The President today announced the
appointment of three persons as mem-
bers of the Advisory Committee on the
Arts (John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts). They are:
RALPH HORNBLOWER III, a Washington, D.C.,
attorney who has studied voice and has sung
with the Washington Opera;
G. JOSEPH MINETTI, a Washington, D.C.,
attorney and former member of the Civil
Aeronautics Board;
ANN K. REGAN, of Billings, Mont., a Montana
State
senator and junior high school
teacher.
Friends of Carter/Mondale
Remarks at a Fundraising Dinner.
October 24, 1979
The only thing I like better than 4 more
years is 5 more years. [Laughter]
First of all, I want to thank Fritz Mon-
dale for that introduction and for being
the finest Vice President, perhaps, that
ever served this country.
His office is right near mine. There is
no meeting which I attend or have ever
attended from which he was excluded.
He's involved in the most sensitive areas of
our Nation's life, in every aspect of our
Nation's life. He's a full partner of mine
in every sense of the word. And there is
nothing that has been described here to-
night, very generously by those who've
spoken before supper, that I could possibly
have done without Fritz Mondale. I don't
talk of him very seriously, but I want to
say that.
Because of his superb leadership and
help, I think I should make a direct state-
ment about my own plans concerning him
for the future. Fritz, let me put it this way:
I expect you to run for reelection. I expect
you to be renominated, and if so, I intend
to support you. [Laughter] The difference
between this commitment and those you
may have heard before is that I really
mean it. [Laughter]
And as you pointed out a little earlier,
it is really good to have Bob Strauss on
my side this time—and before the conven-
tion, even. [Laughter]
In the next few weeks, I will make a
statement of my own concerning 1980.
Tonight I won't say exactly what that
statement will be, but I can say this: For
all those of you who are my friends, you
will not be disappointed. [Laughter] Be-
cause of a deep sense of propriety, that's
all I can say.
Well, as a matter of fact, I can say a
couple more things. I asked my Mama.
[Laughter] For those of you who are wait-
ing with bated breath, she said okay.
[Laughter] Rosalynn said she would be
willing to live in the White House for 4
more years. [Laughter] And we have
already dropped these hints around a few
places in the country, recently in Florida—
2015
