Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 2
Integrated Pest Management
Memorandum From the President.
August 2, 1979
Memorandum for the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce,
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary
of Health, Education & Welfare, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, the Secretary of the Interior, the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of
Transportation, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, the
Administrator of the General Services Ad-
ministration, the Chairman of the Council
on Environmental Quality
In Environmental Message of Au-
my
gust 2, 1979, I recognized that integrated
pest management (IPM) has both eco-
nomic and environmental benefits and
should be encouraged in both research and
operational programs of federal agencies.
Therefore, I am directing that each of
your agencies:
Council on Environmental Quality. Your
agency should appoint one representative
to serve on this Committee who is an As-
sistant Secretary, Assistant Administrator,
or the equivalent. The Committee is to
report to me by June 30, 1980 on progress
made by federal agencies in the advance-
ment of IPM and on any institutional
barriers thereto.
The Committee may request any Exec-
utive agency to furnish such information,
advice, and service as may be useful for
the fulfillment of the Committee's func-
tions. Each of your agencies shall coop-
erate with and furnish support to the
Committee as needed to carry out its
functions.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Memorandum From the President.
August 2, 1979
Modify as soon as possible your exist- Transportation Policy
ing pest management, research, control,
education, and assistance programs to sup-
port and adopt IPM strategies wherever
practicable within the limits of existing
resources.
• Review your pest management re-
search, control, education, and assistance
programs to assess the potential for in-
creased emphasis on integrated pest man-
agement.
Report actions taken to implement
IPM strategies and the results of this re-
view and assessment to the IPM coordi-
nating committee in six months.
I am establishing an interagency IPM
Coordinating Committee to assure imple-
mentation of this directive and to oversee
further development and implementation
of integrated pest management practices.
The Committee shall be chaired by the
Memorandum for the Secretary of Trans-
portation
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, I recognized that our trans-
portation systems can greatly affect, for
better or worse, our nation's environment,
our utilization of energy, and our urban
areas. I also recognized that it is my
Administration's policy to enhance en-
vironmental protection, energy conserva-
tion, and urban revitalization and that
the nation's transportation system must
provide greater support for these national
goals.
I fully support the reorientation of
urban transportation programs and proj-
1383
