Oct. 9
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ator Kennedy, you said you had never
panicked in a crisis. Now, there was some
interpretation that this was a reference
to Senator Kennedy's behavior at Chap-
paquiddick. And you subsequently, or
Jody subsequently denied it.
Let me ask you specifically, do you
think Chappaquiddick indicates that
President Kennedy's character is some-
what flawed, and will this be a continued
issue in the primaries if he enters?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it was Sena-
tor Kennedy to whom you refer. [Laugh-
ter]
I did not refer to Senator Kennedy's
experience at Chappaquiddick in Queens,
and I have no desire to comment on it
now.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY POLICY
Q. Mr. President, further on the Fed
tight money policy, figures such as the
West German Finance Minister Emmin-
ger¹ and Democratic Party Presidential
candidate Lyndon LaRouche have
charged that this is leading us rapidly
towards the Crash of '79. Will you move
to stabilize the dollar in the economy by
collaborating with Europe on their moves
to demonetize gold as LaRouche and
others have suggested?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt that that's in
prospect, certainly not for this year. We
do cooperate with our allies and friends
and trade partners in order to stabilize
the worldwide monetary system, includ-
ing at times the interrelationship between
currencies from one country and another
and sometimes the basic metals. I don't
see any threat to the well-being of any
¹ Otmar Emminger is president of the Deut-
sche Bundesbank, the Federal Republic of Ger-
many's equivalent of the U.S. Federal Reserve
System.
American because of a rapidly increas-
ing price of gold, except those who have
sold early or bought late. But as far as
the average citizen's concerned, the price
of gold, whether it's $200 an ounce or
$400, has very little impact.
Recently, the Federal Reserve Board
has decided to raise interest rates and take
other steps concerning the reserve supply
of money to be kept on hand by banks.
This has resulted in a strengthening of
the dollar, which had already begun to
strengthen. And I believe that it's well
within the bounds of management; it's
stable. I noticed an analysis that showed
that in the last year the price of the dol-
lar, the value of the dollar, as compared
to currencies of all our trade partners,
has increased substantially. Among the
OPEC nations and their trade partners
the value of the dollar, even before we
made this recent move, had increased 8
percent over the last year.
So, I believe the dollar is stable, I be-
lieve the world economy is stable, and I
see no prospect of shifting to a rigid price
of gold and a gold standard.
1980 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
Q. Sir, two more political questions in
light of Senator Kennedy's prospective
challenge of you. One, as you did in 1976,
would you be willing to debate the Sena-
tor and other candidates in the primaries?
And two, if you lost, would you support
the Democratic nominee actively? And if
you won, would you expect your oppo-
nents to do the same for you?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a lot of con-
jecture. We don't have any candidates yet
who have declared. I look forward to the
campaign with a great deal of anticipa-
tion and confidence. And I think the
normal routine interrelationships among
1840
