Dec. 10
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
I wondered, after I had made the deci-
sion to leave the practice of law, which I'd
been in for 52 years, that I might not be
as happy as I thought I would be. And
along came this unexpected call from
Madame Secretary. And what did she
tell me? She had an appointment with the
President, and she was going to present to
my name to chair this very important
commission.
him
I am grateful to the President. I am
grateful to Madame Secretary. I am
grateful to the committee and to all of
you who I know. The commission will re-
ceive your support. I thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Pat Harris told me
I was getting a senior citizen to head up
our Conference. I didn't know I was get-
ting somebody so young. [Laughter] Dr.
Alexander is the same age as my mother.
They were both born in 1898. And I think
the vivacious attitude that she has, and
the full life that she lives, and the tre-
mendous contribution that she will un-
doubtedly make in the future, is in-
dicative of the need for all of us in this
country never to consider any person,
regardless of age, other than a tremen-
dous potential asset for our country.
I know that my mother is as young as
I am, or as she was 35 or 40 years ago or
50 years ago. And many people who are
not as well known as Lillian Carter or Dr.
Alexander have the same ability to con-
tribute on a continuing basis to a better life
for all Americans. There is no doubt in
my mind that under her leadership, the
White House Conference on the Aging
will be not only successful and beneficial
to others, but it will be exciting and en-
joyable and stimulating and inspirational
as well. And I'm deeply grateful to Dr.
Alexander for being willing to serve in
this capacity.
We have with us also, in addition to
those who will run the White House Con-
ference, the members who will serve with
Nelson Cruikshank, the Chairman, who's
also my Presidential Counselor on the
Aging. And these members are Dr. Jean
Perdue, of Florida, Miss Mary Mulvey, of
Rhode Island-right? I think I've got
the States right, I'm not sure. Mr. Cy
Carpenter, of Minnesota. Everytime I
swear in a group, I always have at least
one person from Minnesota-[laughter]—
a lot more than from Georgia. I never
have figured that out. [Laughter] And
Dr. Aaron Henry, who's almost from
Georgia; he's from Mississippi and an old
friend of mine. And John Martin, who
will be reappointed.
I might say that this group will now be
sworn in by Secretary Pat Harris. I would
like to say a word before I depart this
meeting, though, and that is that Nelson
Cruikshank not only serves as the Chair-
man of the Federal Council on the Aging,
but he serves as my personal Counselor
on the Aging. This is a group that not only
gives advice to the President but also to
the Nation at large, to all the agencies of
the Federal and other governments, and,
in addition, to the Congress. It's a con-
stant stimulation to us all, and it's the
only advisory council in the Government
that's predominantly made up of the
aging, who have a particular knowledge
and insight and ability to deal with this
exciting possibility for us to improve life
in the future.
As you know, over a period of years
ahead, a larger and larger portion of
American citizens will have reached the
retirement age. They not only provide a
great responsibility for us to ensure that
they have an adequate life, those par-
ticularly who are poor and who need the
direct and daily help in their lives from
the Government, but they also provide a
tremendous resource, a reservoir of talent
and ability and inspiration and dedication
2214
