Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 28
tries. It was a new system that had some
problems in taking off, but which is now
working very well. We were right, Presi-
dent Carter, and I am very happy that we
were. We can now analyze in depth the
bilateral problems that, perforce, have to
come about when two countries are
neighbors.
Life is risk; life is a solution of prob-
lems. As we say in my homeland, it is
only the dead that do not make noise.
[Laughter] Noise is life, and our two coun-
tries are very vital countries. They are
both located in the same continent, but
they have two different roots.
We are learning to live together. It is
a great guarantee for us that we have this
possibility of living together at a time
when the head of the Government of this
great country is a person like Mr. Carter.
He has been very generous, as he always
is, when he referred to the proposal that
we made yesterday in my address before
the General Assembly of the United Na-
tions. In this proposal, we stand on op-
posite sides.
The United States is the powerful
nation, perhaps the most outstanding ex-
pression of this kind of a nation in the
world. Mexico is a developing nation.
There is a border between us 3,000 kilo-
meters long, and perhaps this is the best
expression of the north-south relationship.
If we can understand the facts of our
reality as a problem, if we can state our
facts as a problem within this climate of
mutual respect, which has prevailed today
and which has prevailed always when we
have met, we can then prove that we can
win out, and we can transcend the dif-
ferences between the north and the south,
between developing and the developed.
That is why I have high hopes that at
the only universal forum that we men
have been able to create, and which we
sometimes tend to ignore as if it had just
fallen upon us from Mars-since the real
fact is that we created that forum our-
selves and it will be whatever we want it
to be, at that forum, no doubt, we can
bring up problems that are of interest
to all.
I am obsessed with the problem that I
consider to be fundamental for the future
of humanity, the problem of energy. We
have this energy supply in Mexico. We
have hydrocarbons, but we know that it is
a depletable resource. I would like to
transmit to you the need to create an
awareness in all of mankind, so that they
will understand that the generation that
is represented here tonight is the genera-
tion that will see the end of the era of oil
and will witness the beginning of a new
era or the end of them all. With this
thought in mind, we have come to the
United Nations, and now we have come
to the United States to present our reflec-
tions to Mr. Carter, in order to be able to
win the political will of the United States.
We have many times said that to be
strong means great responsibilities to-
wards humanity. I am fully convinced
that if the United States expresses its po-
litical will to put order into the world of
energy sources, but within a framework
of responsibility that will comprise all of
humanity and not through bilateral agree-
ments, bloc agreements, or unilateral
struggles, in order to become independ-
ent-I am convinced that we can survive,
that we can go ahead, that we can cross
a bridge that connects one era with
another.
However, sometimes I reflect, and I
think that what is reasonable and simple
is not always what is possible. Many times,
unfortunately, humanity seeks absurd
solutions. Perhaps it is because what is
absurd does not require great discipline.
But I feel that humanity can become dis-
ciplined, and it can go from one style of
1783
