Aug. 22
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
and give me guidance for the future, both
in domestic affairs, in meeting the needs
of the average family on transportation
and housing, agriculture and saving en-
ergy, but also in international affairs.
Jean Funck asked a question, for in-
stance, about how we could make Mexico
accountable for oil spills. This is an area
that already we were exploring but we
haven't yet solved.
So, I thank all of you for your questions
and for giving me a chance to answer
them.
Let me say this in closing: If you don't
remember anything else from the town-
hall meeting outdoors today, remember
what a great country we have and how
strong we are. Almost invariably we're in-
clined to think about the temporary in-
convenience, the disagreements that are
so highly publicized between the House
and the Senate, or the Congress and
the President, or the States and the Fed-
eral Government, or private citizens and
others in our Nation. Those transient
problems come and go very rapidly.
Americans have always been able to face
them and to solve them.
And I have no doubt in my mind that
the present problems that our country
faces can be solved, because our country
is so great, because we have been so
blessed with natural resources-but above
all, because Americans are resilient,
strong when we need to be, and unified
when we see a common problem. So, I
would like to ask all of you to do what I
said in my Sunday night speech: Every
day, say something good about America.
We have the greatest nation on Earth,
and if you will join in with me in the fu-
ture, we'll make it even greater in years
to come.
Thank you very much. God bless all of
you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10 a.m.
Crapo Park.
Following the town meeting, the President
attended a private reception for community
officials and area residents at the home of Mr.
McCormally. He then returned to the Delta
Queen.
Hannibal, Missouri
Remarks at the Town Square.
August 23, 1979
Mayor Herman, Congressman Volkmer,
and my good friend, Governor Joe Teas-
dale, and all the people of Hannibal and
the surrounding communities in Missouri,
I guess on both sides of the Mississippi:
You have come here to make us feel
welcome again.
I don't believe that any person lives in
our country, and very few live throughout
the world, who are not familiar with
Mark Twain, Tom Sawyer, Becky
Thatcher, Huckleberry Finn, and also
Hannibal, Missouri.
Ours is a nation which has a source of
strength and a source of greatness that's
unshakable. And part of that strength
comes from the memories of our boyhood
and girlhood days in communities like
Hannibal throughout the country-some
smaller than Hannibal, like Plains; some
much larger than Hannibal, like the urban
areas of our country.
But the stability of a family life, the
love of an Aunt Polly or a mother or a
father or sisters or boyhood or girlhood
sweethearts, live with us as long as we are
on this Earth.
1508
