Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
Tokyo, Japan
White House Statement on Meetings With
Prime Minister Joe Clark of Canada and
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of the
United Kingdom. June 27, 1979
The President met with Prime Min-
ister Joe Clark of Canada from 5:45 p.m.
until about 6:15 p.m. Also in the meet-
ing were Secretary of State Vance and
Foreign Minister Flora MacDonald.
At 6:15 p.m., British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher and Foreign Minister
Lord Carrington joined the meeting.
Prime Minister Clark and Foreign
Minister MacDonald departed at 7:15
p.m. and the President and Secretary
Vance continued to meet with Prime
Minister Thatcher and Lord Carrington
until 7:30 p.m.
The bilateral discussions focused on
bilateral matters. In the three-way meet-
ing the focus was on the summit agenda-
energy, refugees, and economic issues.
NOTE: The statement was released in Tokyo,
Japan.
Tokyo, Japan
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Reporters on the OPEC Oil Price
Increase. June 29, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. The OPEC nations have
just increased their price again by an
extraordinary amount. The cumulative
effect of these increases has been a 60-
percent increase in the price of oil since
last December. This causes an economic
watershed for the United States and also
for the rest of the world. There is no one
on Earth who will fail to suffer from these
extraordinary increases in oil prices.
So far, we in the United States have
failed to prepare ourselves for these ac-
tions by OPEC. Between 1973 and 1977,
the United States took no action to deal
with the inevitable increases in oil prices
and the inevitable decreases in the sup-
ply of oil.
In 1977 I proposed to the Congress a
comprehensive energy plan. Until this
moment, the Congress has passed no legis-
lation concerning oil. It is absolutely im-
perative that Congress act without delay
to pass the windfall profits tax and to
establish the energy security fund.
I have decided to cut short my own
visit to foreign countries to go back home,
arriving late Sunday, to encourage the
legislation I've already described and also
Congress to act more expeditiously on the
to pass legislation authorizing the pro-
duction of synthetic fuels and other energy
supplies to make our country more self-
sufficient, more immune from the dam-
aging effect of outside decisions from
OPEC and others.
In addition, I'll be meeting with my
own advisers to see what other action can
be taken within the next few months to
protect our country from future actions
such as these I've just described.
Domestic energy supplies must be in-
creased. Oil, gas, coal, synthetic fuels,
liquefied and gasified coal supplies, solar
energy-these actions must be taken, and
without further delay. We must invest
literally billions of dollars in these tech-
nological advancements, and the money is
available to us with the windfall profits
tax and the establishment of the energy
security fund.
It's been estimated that by the end of
1980, the OPEC price increases in the
last 6 months will cost our Nation at least
2 percent in increased inflation and at
least a 2-percent decrease in the rate of
1181
