Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979.
Sept. 17
MARY C. MULVEY, supervisor of adult educa-
tion for the Providence (R.I.) public schools
and a lecturer on preparing for retirement
at the University of Rhode Island Extension
Division; and
JEAN JONES PERDUE, medical director of the
Office of Health Services of Metropolitan
Dade County, Fla., and a specialist in in-
ternal medicine and cardiology since 1934.
Council on Wage and
Price Stability
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. September 17, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 5 of the
Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I hereby transmit to the
Congress the eighteenth quarterly report
of the Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility. The report contains a description
of the Council's activities during the first
quarter of 1979 in monitoring both prices
and wages in the private sector and vari-
ous Federal government activities that
may lead to higher costs and prices with-
out creating commensurate benefits. It
discusses Council reports, analyses, and
filings before Federal regulatory agencies.
It also describes the Council's activities of
monitoring wages and prices as part of
the anti-inflation program.
The Council on Wage and Price Sta-
bility will continue to play an important
role in supplementing fiscal and monetary
policies by calling public attention to wage
and price developments or actions by the
government that could be of concern to
American consumers.
The White House,
September 17, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
Railroad Retirement Board
Message to the Congress Transmitting a
Report. September 17, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit the Annual Report to
the Railroad Retirement Board for fiscal
year 1978.
The report summarizes the Board's
operations to assist the railroad sector dur-
ing the year. Under the Railroad Retire-
ment Act, 1,100,000 recipients were paid
$4 billion in retirement and survivor
benefits, and under the Railroad Unem-
ployment Insurance Act 175,000 bene-
ficiaries were paid almost $200 million in
unemployment and sickness benefits.
advised me that the balance in the Rail-
I note with concern that the Board has
road Retirement Account continues to
decline as benefit payments exceed income
for the eighth consecutive year.
The Board's most recent actuarial val-
uation indicates a serious and growing
actuarial deficit which requires short term
remedial action, a judgment also con-
curred in by the General Accounting
Office. This Administration's budget for
fiscal year 1980 includes even-handed
legislative proposals to restore to solvency
the railroad industry pension fund which
will assure the interests of current and
future railroad retirement beneficiaries.
We also invite the view of railroad labor
and management on our proposal to pro-
vide sound financing of the industry
pension component by the railroad indus-
try without added Federal subsidies.
The Board is currently preparing its
14th Triennial Actuarial Valuation of the
industry pension, which should provide a
more accurate, up-to-date analysis of the
financial condition of the fund. The forth-
coming actuarial valuation will project the
1683
