Dec. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The controls on North Korea, Viet-
nam, Kampuchea and Cuba are under-
stood and generally supported by the pub-
lic, so there is little difficulty in enforcing
them.
Other countries are not formally co-
operating with the United States in these
embargoes. However, third country ex-
ports to North Korea are minimal be-
cause that country is in default on its in-
ternational trade payments, there is very
little trade of any kind with Kampuchea,
and Vietnam and Cuba now largely ori-
ent their former trade with the United
States toward the USSR.
All of the OECD countries combined
exported only $435 million to Vietnam in
1977. Even without the embargo, the
Vietnamese would probably have turned
elsewhere whenever possible, buying from
the United States only when it was in
their particular interest to do so. The most
notable loss has been the replacement of
U.S. firms by European firms in oil and
gas exploration activities in and offshore
Vietnam.
In 1959, U.S. firms supplied 64 percent
of Cuba's total imports. If the embargo
were lifted, the USSR would probably
continue to be Cuba's major trade part-
ner, but U.S. exporters, with the advan-
tage of proximity, could be expected to
replace some Japanese, Canadian, and
European firms currently exporting to
Cuba.
In aggregate value, U.S. exports to
Cuba would likely not exceed $300 mil-
lion annually over the medium term and
would probably reach no more than $100-
150 million in the first year if trade were
resumed.
Because Cuba does not represent a sub-
stantial incremental market for any spe-
cific U.S. industries, the embargo has not
retarded the ability of any U.S. economic
sectors to compete in world trade. Ex-
porting to Cuba would not, therefore, sub-
stantially raise production levels or effi-
ciency in any industries.
VI. Petroleum Equipment to the
USSR
The control on the export of petroleum
equipment to the USSR provides a flexi-
ble foreign policy tool. When necessary
and appropriate it can be used to sen-
sitize the Soviets regarding actions which
are damaging to United States foreign
policy interests.
The United States supports the im-
provement of bilateral economic relations
with the Soviet Union as an element in
our effort to improve overall relations.
At the same time it is recognized that im-
provement in one sector of the bilateral
relationship cannot be long sustained if it
is not accompanied by improvements in
other areas. Discontinuation of this con-
trol would represent a change in policy
not warranted by existing circumstances
in our relationship with the USSR.
Among the various means of further-
ing U.S. objectives vis-a-vis the Soviet
Union, this control continues to be useful.
While the United States Government
can effectively control exports of U.S.-
produced petroleum equipment, for most
items adequate quantities of similar equip-
ment are available from foreign sources.
There is only limited foreign availability
of some deep submersible pumps and seis-
mic equipment.
The effect of the controls on U.S. ex-
ports can be only roughly estimated since
other factors affect the data. Although no
license applications have been denied
since the control was imposed in August
1978, some exports have been lost.
U.S. exports of petroleum equipment to
the USSR average about two percent of
total U.S. petroleum equipment exports.
The U.S. share of the Soviet market had
been generally increasing until the third
2296
