Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 29
present inflation rate. This could become
a $1 trillion giveaway to the oil com-
panies.
I hope that every one of you will help
me to convince the Congress that an ade-
quate and acceptable windfall profits
tax should be levied on the oil companies
to take away a major portion of their un-
earned profits, because that would give
us a reserve supply of money to be used
for things that are crucial: first of all,
to meet the needs of our American fami-
lies, to pay the increasing cost of energy.
The increasing costs are inevitable. The
poor families of our Nation must have
added financial help to pay those costs.
And the second need, of course, is to
have a strong, consistent, permanent con-
servation program, to encourage Ameri-
cans to do what's best for them, through
tax credits, home audits, shifting away
from the scarcer supplies of energy to
more plentiful supplies of energy, the
evolution of new kinds of energy from
supplies which in our country are ade-
quate-synthetic fuels from coal, geo-
thermal supplies, biomass, low-level
dams which have been abandoned in
the past that can now be reconstituted-
a heavy dependence upon insulation of
homes, more efficient automobiles, re-
search and development.
These things are all possible; in fact,
in our country they're inevitable, pro-
vided we have adequate incentives. And
those incentives financially must be de-
rived and can be derived only from a
windfall profits tax. It sounds so logical
and so clearly to the advantage of our
country that you might say, "Why the
doubt; why the delay; why must the Pres-
ident continue to pound on this one sub-
ject for 22 years, yet without success?"
I represent and lead, in effect, two
different nations. One is the largest oil-
consuming nation on Earth, and the other
nation is one of the largest oil-producing
nations on Earth. And in the past there
has been one strong all-pervasive voice on
Capitol Hill, and that has been the oil
companies' lobbies. Now, in the last
couple of years, we've built up an effec-
tive countervoice as the American people
have become aroused to protect their own
interests.
The third quarter oil company profits
are adequate proof of the need for a rapid
passage of the windfall profits tax in an
acceptable form for me and for you.
We must meet the needs of the poor
families, particularly in the northern part
of our Nation. In April of this year, I
made two basic pledges. One was that
this winter we would have an adequate
supply of home heating oil. At that time
we were far below the reserve supplies
needed. We've been successful with that.
Our goal was 240 million barrels in re-
serve supply in October. We have already
passed that point. We will have adequate
fuel oil supplies for homes during this
winter. That's a notable achievement.
But the other part of that commitment
was to provide, from Federal revenues,
assistance for poor families, to help meet
the rapidly increasing costs of home heat-
ing oil brought about by OPEC price
rises. Very quickly now, $250 million will
be distributed throughout the country,
particularly the Northeast, for Governors
to allocate through their own mechanisms
for poor families. This is a growth of a
program that I established the first year
I was President, with the help of the Con-
gress. It's been effective so far.
We're advocating that this be increased
substantially and that we add to the $400
million from this program another $1.2
billion to be paid out through other means
to the poor families of this country. In
addition to that, we've advocated $2.4
billion per year for 10 years to have a
permanent, stable, predictable program
to meet these high needs of the poorer
families in our midst.
2057
