Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 30
like yours to do is just to sit down some
night and just go down and see who can
think of the best ways in your house to
save energy. And you can say, "The Presi-
dent told me to do these things." But see
if you can come up with a better idea than
the ones I've given you. Okay?
Thank you.
You're the same age as Amy. She'll
be 12. She's a little more than 112. She
rides a bike. [Laughter]
Thank you very much, Patricia.
Q. Well, there's one other thing I
was
Q. Mr. President—[inaudible]—very
poor situation. Then they ask, after me.
My question is not-[inaudible]. I'm not
going to take the whole time. [Inaudi-
ble] of vital importance to me and my
friends.
THE PRESIDENT. Why don't you-
Phil? 5 We're almost out of time, and,
Patricia, can I let the lady in the back ask
another question, because she hasn't had
one yet and she's been waiting. Thank
you, beautiful.
Yes?
CONGRESSIONAL ACTION ON ENERGY
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like
to welcome you to our State and to our
city, and to tell you that I am also a native
Georgian. And I am a Carter before I
married. Glad to have you here.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm always glad to
meet my kinfolk. [Laughter]
Q. I want to compliment your staff. I
have met with some of them. I see Keech
over there. And they are a wonderful ad-
vance staff, and I was greatly pleased to
have met with some of them.
Now, first, I'll make a statement, and
then my question.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
Q. Since most Congressmen have been
5 Phillip J. Wise, Jr., Appointments Secre-
tary to the President.
into Washington much longer than you
have, and our problems have not arisen in
the last 2 or 3 years, it seems we should
start placing the blame for our problems
on the shoulders of those who have helped
create them.
Ever so many of our problems have been
created by the lack of self-serving Con-
gressmen sitting in Washington for many,
many, many years.
Now, our question, Mr. President. Since
oil and natural gas are finite elements, do
you think you and we, the people, can get
the Congress to listen to you and to us and
help get us an energy program that will
keep us the richest and the greatest and
the freest nation on Earth?
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. First of all, let me say
that there's enough blame to go around-
the American people, former Governors,
like I was during 1973 and 1974, Presi-
dents, the Congress, the oil companies-
there's enough blame for all of us. But
I think the time has come for us not to
throw rocks at each other and not try to
find a place for a scapegoat, but to see
what can we do in the future.
The House of Representatives, for in-
stance the Members of the House of
Representatives have already passed the
windfall profits tax. Now it's in the Sen-
ate, and it's up to the Senators to decide.
But in the Senate the oil companies are
concentrating an enormous lobbying
effort.
In the past, the oil companies have had
pretty much a free ride in Washington,
because there never was a voice there of
consumers, of average Americans. For the
first time in the last 22 years, there's been
an intense struggle, with my proposals on
one side, which I think represent what the
consumers need, and the oil companies on
the other. The Congress has not yet been
able to pass a single line of energy legisla-
tion concerning oil.
To answer your second question, I be-
1577
