July 1
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
process of political growth in the Republic
of Korea would continue commensurate
with the economic and social growth of
the Korean nation. In this connection,
President Park explained his view on this
matter together with the current unique
circumstances confronting the Republic
of Korea.
ECONOMIC COOPERATION
16. President Carter expressed to
President Park his great admiration for
Korea's remarkable record of achieve-
ment in sustained economic development
over the past fifteen years under his
leadership in the face of various obstacles
and adverse conditions, thus offering a
model and an inspiration for other coun-
tries as an example of economic growth
and equity. President Park acknowledged
with appreciation the United States' con-
tribution to Korea's development in the
economic, scientific, and technological
areas, and affirmed his intention to con-
tinue to give high priority to economic
and social goals. The two Presidents
shared the view that possible cooperative
efforts between the two Governments
should be explored to enhance assistance
to third countries.
17. President Park and President Car-
ter also reviewed the current international
economic situation, and President Carter
reported on the discussions at the Seven-
Nation Economic Summit just completed
in Tokyo. President Park expressed con-
cern about the world energy problem in
particular, and the two Presidents shared
the view that there is an urgent need for
concerted international efforts to arrive
at a reasonable solution to the problem.
18. The two Presidents expressed satis-
faction at the rapid expansion in scope of
the economic relations between the Re-
public of Korea and the United States,
and confidence that this mutually benefi-
cial trend will continue. They noted the
advantages which accrue to the people of
both nations when the freest possible sys-
tem of trade exists, and they pledged
their mutual efforts to promote and pre-
serve an open world trading system. Pres-
ident Carter noted the commendably
progressive import-liberalization and
other measures that the Government of
the Republic of Korea had recently taken
with a view to developing a more bal-
anced trade with the United States.
These actions and the recent buying mis-
sion to the United States will help pro-
mote export of American products to Ko-
rea. President Park expressed his hope
that the United States would continue its
efforts to promote, in the MTN and else-
where, a freer trading system, and to pre-
serve fair access to the United States mar-
ket for Korean goods. The two Presidents
agreed that further efforts to expand
trade and economic cooperation between
their two countries will be highly bene-
ficial to their respective peoples.
CULTURAL AND EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGES
19. Noting that their meeting had
deepened understanding and cooperation
on many matters of mutual interest, the
two Presidents recognized that, at a time
when the Republic of Korea and the
United States have entered into a new
era of mature partnership based on mu-
tual respect and confidence, there re-
mains need for further promotion of mu-
tual understanding and exchanges be-
tween the two peoples. As evidence of
their joint desire to deepen the contact
and understanding between the two na-
tions, the two Presidents agreed that cul-
tural and educational exchanges should
be expanded. The two Governments
agreed to enhance these exchanges by
supporting the activities of organizations
such as the Korean-American Educa-
1210
