July 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
VOLUNTEER ARMED FORCES
Q. Mr. President, my name is McKay
Chauvin, and my question concerns the
volunteer draft. Each year the Armed
Forces are losing valuable manpower, and
so my question is, what can you do as
President to make the services more at-
tractive to the average American?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so far the vol-
unteer program has worked well. Lately,
however, as the unemployment rate has
gone down, other jobs in some parts of the
country have become much more avail-
able. So, we've lost one incentive for
young men who couldn't get a job other
places, who formerly came into the
Armed Forces. Now they can get a job
easier than they could in the past, and we
are having problems getting enough
young people, men and women, to volun-
teer for the Armed Forces to fill out our
quotas.
We're now reassessing the status of
whether or not people ought to be reg-
istered. I don't see any prospect anytime
soon of actually calling people up to a
draft, but we might have to have as a
precautionary measure registration for the
draft just as a standby measure.
As far as making the Armed Forces at-
tractive, we have increased substantially
the pay for young people going into the
Armed Forces. As you know, there is a
superb opportunity for a career training,
and I think the living conditions, the food,
the rapidity of transfer from one site to
another, and the degree of choice you
have is much better than it was when I
was in the Navy for 11 years as a young
person.
So, we might have a standby registra-
tion, if I decided it's needed. I don't
think we'll have a mandatory draft. We'll
do everything we can to make sure that
the service in the Armed Forces is satis-
factory from a pay and career and living
status is concerned.
The most important thing, though, is
patriotism. And I think when we can
restore to the United States the unity and
the confidence and the true sense of love
for our Nation, that will be an additional
and perhaps the most important incentive
for young people to volunteer to serve
their country for a couple of years. I hope
that happens here in Bardstown and all
over the country.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Could you all hear
it? The question was, since it appears that
the campaign promise that I made to
have a separate department of education
might soon be fulfilled, would I consider
appointing a classroom teacher as the
secretary of education.
I will certainly consider it. I don't want
to make a promise now, because I really
want to wait until the bill does pass. It's
already passed the House and Senate in
different forms. It's to go through the
conference committee, and I don't want
to be presumptuous about what kind of
person or who I would appoint.
But I will certainly consider a class-
room teacher along with others. I can't
make a promise that it would be a class-
room teacher. Is that fair enough?
OIL INDUSTRY PROFITS
Q. I'm Tom Howell, from Hodgenville,
Larue County. And my question is, Mr.
President, why don't you try to do some-
thing about the big oil companies mak-
ing so much profit?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't want to mis-
lead you all just to get a round of ap-
plause. I believe in the free enterprise
system of our country, and I believe that
1344
