Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 17
ship, as you've said, Mr. President, is in-
deed an exceptional one. It's exceptional
in its ease; it's exceptional in its dura-
bility; it's exceptional in its consequences.
And I look to see it deepened further in
the talks that we are about to begin.
Mr. President, this isn't an easy time
for the United States, and I want you to
know that every British home has fol-
lowed anxiously the events of the last 6
weeks in Tehran. The cruel ordeal in-
flicted on the hostages has aroused the in-
dignation of the civilized world, and our
hearts go out to the hostages and our
thoughts are with them and their families
here.
Our admiration goes to the American
people for their patience and wisdom and
self-control. You yourself, Mr. President,
if I may say so, have won enormous re-
spect in Britain for the statesmanship,
calmness, and courage with which you've
faced an agonizing problem. At times like
this you're entitled to look to your friends
for support. We are your friends. We do
support you. And we shall support you.
Let there be no doubt about that.
Mr. President, as well as the grievous
events in Iran, there is much to discuss;
for example, Rhodesia, which you have
mentioned, where we're deeply grateful
for your understanding and support
throughout the negotiations, and not
least in the last few days; on defense,
where we applaud the program that
you've just announced and where we take
our full part in the modernization of the
theater nuclear forces in NATO; on
energy and economic problems, where
we're both actively seeking to control in-
flation and to use our resources better;
and on Europe, where I will tell you of
my confidence that the Community will
resolve its present difficulties and emerge
a stronger partner for the United States.
After this splendid welcoming cere-
mony, Mr. President, for which I do in-
deed thank you, I look forward to tackling
our formidable agenda and on reaching a
broad measure of agreement. We bring
you affectionate greetings and good
wishes to all the people of the United
States of America.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:09 a.m. on
the South Lawn of the White House.
Following the ceremony, the President and
the Prime Minister held meetings in the Oval
Office and the Cabinet Room at the White
House.
Visit of Prime Minister Thatcher
of the United Kingdom
Remarks Following a Meeting.
December 17, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Prime Minister Thatcher
and I have had very extensive and very
productive conversations, even negotia-
tions on a few points. There are no dif-
ferences between us that cause any con-
cern among Americans or people who live
in Great Britain. We've reached agree-
ment on a few items which we have
discussed.
Iran. I've expressed again my thanks to
We have had long discussions about
the Prime Minister about the strong and
unequivocal support on that issue. We've
expressed our admiration and apprecia-
tion for the progress that has been made
by her and by Lord Carrington in ne-
gotiating for a peaceful and democratic
settlement in Rhodesia and again pledged
our full support in their efforts in that
difficult issue.
We've discussed the appreciation that
we feel for the British for their strong
support for SALT II, the strong role that
they played in developing the theater
nuclear force agreement among the Euro-
2259
