Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 22
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I've thought
about it a lot, and we have made some
progress.
As you know, each year, the services
of the Government expand. Five years
ago, there was practically no bureaucracy
for the energy question. Now we have a
very large department, the Department
of Energy, that must administer pro-
grams that encourage gasohol and en-
courage the weatherization of homes and
design better ways of transportation and
monitor more efficient automobiles and
distribute scarce supplies of fuel to farm-
ers. That kind of service is demanded by
the people. It's passed by the Congress
and goes into effect. In spite of that,
though, since I've been in office, we've
had a reduction in the number of Fed-
eral employees, just a small reduction,
2,000. And I hope that I can finish this
term and not have any increase at least
in the number of Federal employees.
When you start asking Americans
where do you want to cut, it's a very diffi-
cult question to answer. I would hesitate,
for instance, as a farmer to eliminate
either the Home Demonstration Agents
or the County Agents or the ASCS Of-
fice employees who do a good job on a
routine basis—and 3 or 4 months ago dur-
ing planting season, we had to call on
them almost full-time, 24 hours a day,
to give us an inventory of where distillate
fuels were and where the supplies were
needed.
So, there are some requirements of the
Government that must be carried out:
the improvement of cities with HUD and
the administering of programs for the
poor through HEW, increased health for
our people, the elimination of cancer, the
control of these kinds of diseases must be
carried out. So, I don't want you to feel
that just because the Government is
often insensitive that it's completely
wasteful. There is waste there. There
was waste in my farm in Plains. And
there was waste in Carter's Warehouse,
and there's probably waste in all of your
businesses as well. But we are doing the
best we can to hold it down.
We have now put into effect, with the
Congress help, the first complete revi-
sion of the Civil Service in the last 100
years. That's just gone into effect, but I
believe that in the future, you'll see some
great benefits flowing from it.
So, in spite of the increase in services
being demanded and being delivered, we
are holding down the number of Federal
employees. Maybe we're not doing a good
enough job, but we're trying. And I
would like to emphasize one more time
what's come up two or three times al-
ready, that the initiative must come from
the individual American and from the
individual family and individual commu-
nity. And the more you do for yourselves,
within a family or within a community,
the less will be demanded from the Gov-
ernment and the more we can save taxes
and the more we can have a better life
for us all, because that's where the enjoy-
ment comes in.
I'm in favor of keeping the Federal
Government as small as possible, but I
have to be responsible for defending our
Nation, keeping us strong, keeping us
free, encouraging peace around the
world, and meeting the legitimate needs
of the American people.
So, don't curse your Government; just
work with me to make it better.
NUCLEAR POWERPLANTS
Q. My name is Michael Lamb, Bur-
lington, Iowa. I am an educator. Mr.
Carter, if this community, in the future,
could become the moral equivalent of
cannon fodder and the moral equivalent
1503
