Nov. 19
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
District of Columbia
Retirement Reform Act
Statement on Signing S. 1037 Into Law.
November 19, 1979
I have approved S. 1037, a bill which
will provide a sound financial basis and
important benefit reforms in the retire-
ment systems for police, firefighters, teach-
ers, and judges of the District of Colum-
bia.
We have long recognized that these
retirement systems face an ever-growing
unfunded liability and need to be actuari-
ally based to meet future commitments to
District employees. Unlike previous ad-
ministrations, mine has accepted the Fed-
eral share of the responsibility and costs
for solving the District's current pension
problems.
Last year, however, Congress enacted
legislation that, in my view, overstated
Federal responsibility. Accordingly, I
withheld my approval of that legislation.
At the same time, I expressed my desire
to work with the Congress and the Dis-
trict of Columbia to develop acceptable
retirement funding and reform legisla-
tion. I believe that S. 1037 reflects a laud-
able compromise among all the interested
groups and achieves that objective.
Last year's legislation identified the
Federal financial responsibility to the D.C.
police, firefighters, teachers, and judges
retirement systems as the entire unfunded
liability attributable to employees who re-
tired before home rule took effect on Jan-
uary 2, 1975. That was excessive. In con-
trast, S. 1037 defines the Federal share as
80 percent of the funded liability for those
employees who retired on the basis of years
of service and 333 percent for disability
retirees before home rule. Under this, the
Federal Government will make annual
payments of up to $52 million to the Dis-
trict retirement systems over the next 25
years.
S. 1037 also provides many desirable
reforms in service and disability benefits.
They should do much to curb past abuses
and provide more reasonable benefit
levels. While I continue to believe that
these reforms should apply to current as
well as future employees, they represent a
major improvement over the present stat-
utory provisions. Coupled with the
strengthened fiscal, managerial, and re-
porting requirements in the bill, they will
contribute significantly to a sound future
for the District's retirement system.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1037 is Public Law 96-
122, approved November 17.
Exclusions From the Federal
Labor-Management
Relations Program
Executive Order 12171. November 19, 1979
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, including
Secion 7103(b) of Title 5 of the United
States Code, and in order to exempt cer-
tain agencies or subdivisions thereof from
coverage of the Federal Labor-Manage-
ment Relations Program, it is hereby
ordered as follows:
1-1. Determinations.
1-101. The agencies or subdivisions
thereof set forth in Section 1-2 of this
Order are hereby determined to have as a
primary function intelligence, counter-
intelligence, investigative, or national se-
curity work. It is also hereby determined
that Chapter 71 of Title 5 of the United
States Code cannot be applied to those
agencies or subdivisions in a manner con-
2144
