Aug. 30
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
nature of our people is exemplified in
many. But in this time of crisis, both ma-
terial and spiritual, we must learn to place
greater emphasis on the "one"-on the
shared values and the shared interests that
unite us. For in a varied nation like our
own, those transcendent values and that
concern for the common good are the sole
and indispensable basis for harmony and
social cohesion.
In international councils, we can share
with others this vision of a common
humanity based on humanistic views.
I'm very sorry that Andrew Young, as
President of the United Nations Security
Council, was called back today to New
York and was not able to be with us. He
went to the United Nations 22 years ago
at a time when many countries, especially
in the developing world, looked upon the
United States with fear and mistrust. His
work has helped millions of poor and op-
pressed people throughout the world to
understand that we support their longing
for justice and for a better life.
He speaks from the heart, he speaks out
of a deep commitment, he speaks out of
religious conscience, and he speaks with
a preacher's eloquence. The commitment
to social justice and human rights that
Andy Young has brought to his work as
an American diplomat will continue to
guide us in the months and years ahead.
As Andy leaves the United Nations, our
common task as Americans is to look
ahead with a sense of caring and concern
for the social fabric of our own Nation
and for the more peaceful, more fair, and
more just world around us.
Controversial and sensitive issues must
continue to be addressed with courage by
our Government. Every American has a
right, even a duty, to debate all public is-
sues, including issues of foreign policy.
Open debate and the free exchange of
ideas are the heart and the soul of our
political system. But differing political
views, when and if they do exist, must not
become the occasion for deep and damag-
ing divisions between groups of citizens in
our country.
Black Americans and Jewish Americans
have worked side by side for generations
in the service of human rights, social jus-
tice, and the general welfare. Both groups
have a particular call on the conscience
of each other and on the conscience of all
of us. Both groups have suffered too much
pain, too much persecution, too much
bigotry to compound that suffering in any
way. And both groups are part of some-
thing larger-the totality that we call
America.
I spoke earlier of the need for unity, for
a greater emphasis on the oneness of our
Nation. Many nations today, as we well
know, are in danger of being torn apart
by ethnic divisions, by political rivalries,
and by religious conflicts. We must seek
resolution of differences, and we must
stand with each other to prevent all these
quarrels of the world from being im-
ported into our own national life.
With the guidance of God we can be
successful in this search for the accommo-
dation of differences. We in the United
States have learned to accommodate the
diversity of our people, because all of us
hold fast to our common identity, our
identity as Americans. It's especially im-
portant to do that today, for we live in a
time of wrenching change.
As we strive to meet the challenges of
the energy crisis and of inflation, as we
search for peace in a nuclear age, we must
shape our national life in the light of
not change.
those fundamental principles which do
The well-known historian Arnold
Toynbee teaches that civilizations grow
in a rhythm of challenge and response,
challenge and response. When civiliza-
tions reach their highest goals, he said,
1564
