Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
1
To give further impetus to the coopera-
tion and progress achieved thus far, I am
directing you to develop within six
months a detailed statement of coordina-
tion objectives and a process and time-
table for achieving them. Among the ob-
jectives you should consider are:
• Better coordination of the overall
natural resource inventory and as-
sessment process, and related pro-
gram development and planning
processes used by the Forest Service
and Bureau of Land Management
and other natural resources agencies,
including compatible planning as-
sumptions and management poli-
cies and consistent levels of decision-
making responsibilities, for anal-
ogous lands and uses;
.. Better coordination of field-level
operations, including procedures for
granting permits for use of Federal
lands and the provision of technical
assistance to users of Federal lands
and to adjacent landholders;
Boundary adjustments to permit
more effective management;
Pooling of facilities, equipment, per-
•
newable natural resources managed by the
Bureau of Land Management. In that
endeavor, both of your Departments
should cooperate fully in the preparation
of the National Assessment of Renewable
Resources called for by the Resources
Planning Act, so that the Assessment
meets the needs of the Bureau's renewable
resources program preparation as well as
that of the Forest Service. You should also
cooperate to ensure that the processes and
programs developed by both agencies are
compatible.
Please give me your recommendations
within six months on the desirability of
legislation to establish the same 5-year
program development cycle for both
agencies.
Please give these assignments your im-
mediate attention.
JIMMY CARTER
Wildlife Law Enforcement
Memorandums From the President.
August 2, 1979
sonnel, training, and supplies, partic- Memorandum for the Secretary of Agri-
ularly where demonstrable cost sav-
ings can be achieved;
Joint research and study of both
policy issues and resource manage-
ment problems, techniques and other
matters of mutual concern; and
• Coordinated procedures and sched-
ules for involvement of citizens,
neighboring landholders, State and
local government and other regional
and national interests in planning,
program development and manage-
ment processes.
Furthermore, in my Environmental
Message, I directed the Secretary of the
Interior to establish a program develop-
ment process for renewable and nonre-
culture
In my Environmental Message of Au-
gust 2, 1979, illegal trade in fish and wild-
life was identified as a significant environ-
mental problem. Recent criminal and civil
investigations have indicated that this
trade runs to tens of millions of dollars
a year and can introduce serious disease.
It is important that we strengthen the in-
dividual and collective abilities of agen-
cies to deal with this problem.
We must establish a coordinated fed-
eral wildlife enforcement program. To
improve the effectiveness of this program,
I am submitting legislation that strength-
ens wildlife enforcement laws. I am also
1376
