Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 25
and sophisticated savers may receive more Negotiations (MTN)
than 11 percent.
I would like to thank Chairman Prox-
mire for his leadership on this bill, and I
will continue to work closely with the
Congress to assure final action on this
important legislation.
International Trade Functions
Message to the Congress Transmitting
Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1979.
September 25, 1979
To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith Reorganization
Plan No. 3 of 1979, to consolidate trade
functions of the United States Govern-
ment. I am acting under the authority
vested in me by the Reorganization Act
of 1977, chapter 9 of title 5 of the United
States Code, and pursuant to section
1109 of the Trade Agreements Act of
1979, which directs that I transmit to the
Congress a proposal to restructure the in-
ternational trade functions of the Execu-
tive branch.
The goal of this reorganization is to im-
prove the capacity of the Government to
strengthen the export performance of
United States industry and to assure fair
international trade practices, taking into
account the interests of all elements of our
economy.
Recent developments, which have
raised concern about the vitality of our in-
ternational trade performance, have
focused much attention on the way our
trade machinery is organized. These de-
velopments include our negative trade
balance, increasing dependence upon
foreign oil, and international pressures on
the dollar. New challenges, such as im-
plementation of the Multilateral Trade
Negotiations (MTN) agreements and
trade with non-market economies, will
further test our Government trade or-
ganization.
We must be prepared to apply domesti-
cally the MTN codes on procurement,
subsidies, standards, and customs valua-
tion. We also must monitor major imple-
mentation measures abroad, reporting
back to American business on important
developments and, where necessary, rais-
ing questions internationally about foreign
implementation. MTN will work-will
open new markets for U.S. labor, farmers,
and business-only if we have adequate
procedures for aggressively monitoring
and enforcing it. We intend to meet our
obligations, and we expect others to do
the same.
The trade machinery we now have
cannot do this job effectively. Although
the Special Trade Representative (STR)
takes the lead role in administering the
trade agreements program, many issues
are handled elsewhere and no agency has
across-the-board leadership in trade.
Aside from the Trade Representative and
the Export-Import Bank, trade is not the
primary concern of any Executive branch
agency where trade functions are located.
The current arrangements lack a central
authority capable of planning a coherent
trade strategy and assuring its vigorous
implementation.
This reorganization is designed to cor-
rect such deficiencies and to prepare us for
strong enforcement of the MTN codes. It
aims to improve our export promotion
activities so that United States exporters
can take full advantage of trade oppor-
tunities in foreign markets. It provides for
the timely and efficient administration of
our unfair trade laws. It also establishes
an efficient mechanism for shaping an
effective, comprehensive United States
trade policy.
1729
