Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 6
in the world and for closer international
collaboration. With all my heart I hope
that there will be no relaxing of its efforts,
both to reduce the risk of a fatal and dis-
astrous worldwide conflagration and to
secure a prudent and progressive reduc-
tion of the destructive capacity of mili-
tary arsenals.
At the same time, by reason of its
special position, may the United States
succeed in influencing the other nations
to join in a continuing commitment for
disarmament. Without wholeheartedly
accepting such a commitment, how can
any nation effectively serve humanity,
whose deepest desire is true peace?
Attachment to human values and to
ethical concerns, which have been a hall-
mark of the American people, must be
situated, especially in the present context
of the growing interdependence of peoples
across the globe, within the framework of
the view that the common good of society
embraces not just the individual nation
to which one belongs but the citizens of
the whole world. I would encourage every
action for the reinforcement of peace in
the world, a peace based on liberty and
justice, on charity and truth.
The present-day relationships between
peoples and between nations demand the
establishment of greater international co-
operation also in the economic field. The
more powerful a nation is, the greater be-
comes its international responsibility; the
greater also must be its commitment to
the betterment of the lot of those whose
very humanity is constantly being threat-
ened by want and need. It is my fervent
hope that all the powerful nations in the
world will deepen their awareness of the
principle of human solidarity within the
one great human family.
America, which in the past decades has
demonstrated goodness and generosity in
providing food for the hungry of the
world, will, I am sure, be able to match
this generosity with an equally convincing
contribution to the establishing of a world
order that will create the necessary eco-
nomic and trade conditions for a more
just relationship between all the nations of
the world, in respect for their dignity and
their own personality. Since people are
suffering under international inequality,
there can be no question of giving up the
pursuit of international solidarity, even if
it involves a notable change in the atti-
tudes and lifestyles of those blessed with
a larger share of the world's goods.
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in
touching upon the common good, which
embodies the aspiration of all human be-
ings to the full development of their ca-
pacities and the proper protection of their
rights, I have dealt with areas where the
church that I represent and the political
community that is the state share a com-
mon concern: the safeguarding of the
dignity of the human person and the
search for justice and peace. In their own
proper spheres, the political community
and the church are mutually independent
and self-governing. Yet, by a different
title, each serves the personal and social
vocation of the same human beings.
For her part, the Catholic Church will
continue her efforts to cooperate in pro-
moting justice, peace, and dignity through
the commitment of her leaders and the
members of her communities and through
her incessant proclamation that all hu-
man beings are created to the image and
likeness of God and that they are brothers
and sisters, children of one Heavenly
Father.
May Almighty God bless and sustain
America in her quest for the fullness of
liberty, of justice, and peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m. on the
South Lawn of the White House.
1833
