Nov. 15
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
$14.9 million. These items affect programs
in the Departments of Commerce, Justice,
State and Transportation; the Interna-
tional Communication Agency; the Rail-
road Retirement Board; and the Presi-
dent's Commission on Pension Policy.
The details of the deferrals are con-
tained in the attached reports.
The White House,
November 15, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The attachments detailing the deferrals
are printed in the FEDERAL REGISTER of
November 20, 1979.
and government, must realize and we must
confess that we are not perfect and some-
times we make mistakes. But together we
work for our country and sometimes, most
of the time, with notable success.
I've reflected for several weeks about
what I would say to you this afternoon
about our mutual goals, our legislative
successes together, our national accord,
and our solid working relationship. With
great pride I had intended to point out
our accomplishments during the last 34
months: increasing the strength of our
Nation, a nation that has stayed at peace;
rebuilding our urban centers; continuing
our fight against inflation; our progress in
expressing our deep compassion for the
American Federation of Labor and downtrodden and the weak throughout
Congress of Industrial
Organizations
Remarks at the 13th Constitutional
Convention. November 15, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. President Meany, Secre-
tary-Treasurer Lane Kirkland, men and
women of the greatest labor movement in
the world:
It's always good to be among old friends
and, today especially, to be among such
strong and sure American patriots. I might
say that the strength and the accomplish-
ments of your great organization teach us
a lesson which I am sure that our Nation
will remember in the months ahead. Over
the years, you have certainly learned the
advantages of reelecting your president,
and I hope you'll remember
[Laughter]
this.
MR. MEANY. I'll buy that..
THE PRESIDENT. President Meany said,
"I'll buy that." [Laughter]
I think it's accurate to say that Presi-
dent Meany, your president, and Presi-
dents who live in the White House have
not always agreed completely. Mr. Meany,
you cannot deny that statement.
[Laughter] And all of us presidents, labor
our society and throughout the world; a
dramatic breakthrough in minimum wage
law legislation; putting America back to
work so that we now have the greatest
number of our citizens employed and the
greatest percentage of our labor force em-
ployed than ever before in the history of
the United States, and we can be proud
of that achievement together.
It's a great record. It's a record that we
have made together. It's one which we can
improve in the months ahead. For in-
stance, this country still needs and we are
determined to get strong labor law reform.
But I must leave these subjects for Ray
Marshall to discuss with you, and I am
sure that he will carry out this assignment
magnificently. He has the approach and
the attitude of a working man, and in my
judgment he's one of the truly great Sec-
retaries of Labor who have ever served.
I am certainly proud that he is a member
of the Carter Cabinet.
But today we have other important mat-
ters to consider. For a brief time this after-
noon I want to speak with you and all
Americans about some fundamental prin-
ciples upon which our Nation was founded
and which we must never forget. To some,
2122
