Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 11
real spending for national defense. My
number one responsibility, above every-
thing else, is our Nation's security. And as
long as I'm President of the United States,
you can count on our Nation having mili-
tary forces second to none.
I don't deny that we have challenges,
but we face our challenges calmly because
we have confidence in America. We've
established an essential balance between
security and peace.
While strong and at peace, we must
never lose sight of the need to eliminate
the threat which has hung over our heads
for the last 30 years, the threat of nuclear
annihilation. I say to you today what
American labor has said for a long time:
The Senate must ratify the SALT II
treaty.
SALT II represents 7 years of detailed
negotiations under three different Presi-
dents, both parties. It's a fair treaty; it's
a balanced treaty. It's a treaty that can
be verified; it's a treaty that lets us moni-
tor what the Soviets are doing. It's a
treaty that maintains our role as a leader
of the Western World. It's a treaty that
exemplifies America's desire for peace
through strength. It's a treaty which per-
mits our Nation to put its precious
financial resources where they pay the
greatest dividend for American quality of
life. It's a treaty that enhances world
peace. This is a responsibility that we
must fulfill for our own children and for
future generations.
SALT II will lead to further arms re-
ductions so that we can maintain equiv-
alency of military strength and use the
tremendous advantages that America has
to compete with the Soviet Union all over
the world.
We are a nation that believes in free-
dom, individuality, liberty, democracy;
the Soviets don't believe in those things.
We think a person should never be sub-
jugated to the state; the Soviets put the
state first. We are a nation with deep
ethical standards and religious beliefs; the
Soviets are an atheistic nation. We believe
in the rights of other countries; the Soviets
inject themselves directly or through
Cuban surrogates into the internal affairs
of other countries and disrupt the societies
there.
We have tremendous advantages that
can be marshaled to prevail and to make
friends and trade partners with nations
throughout the world, provided the SALT
II treaty is passed. We don't fear anyone,
but we believe that we can prevail
through peaceful competition. Our allies
must have confidence in us. They look to
us to negotiate successfully. They look to
us to control the nuclear threat to them-
selves. We cannot betray this confidence
of our allies.
And the SALT II treaty permits us as
well to contribute to a world that will
let us expand everywhere the scope of our
belief in human rights. I'm proud that
we've put this issue, including trade union
rights, on the international agenda.
We in America will never lower the
banner of human rights. We want the
benefits of a peaceful world for ourselves
and for others. We have worked hard for
this.
We've made historic progress toward
peace in the Middle East. A year ago, we
had the Camp David accords. Six months
ago, we had the Middle East peace treaty
between Israel and Egypt. And now we
hope to reach a permanent solution to the
terrible conflict that has dominated the
history of this troubled corner of the
world. We are determined not to fail in
bringing peace to Israel and to the Middle
East.
At times, this has been a lonely strug-
gle, but throughout this effort, I have
1871
