Oct. 27
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
stand now why some of my predecessors
did not bring these issues up. [Laughter]
haps, biased-the facts will show that
what I've told you is accurate.
NOTE: The interview began at 1:16 p.m. in
the Cabinet Room at the White House. Albert
Eisele is Press Secretary to Vice President
Mondale.
When I made my TV speech to the
people of our country, I think, April 20 of
1977, on energy, I said then that I predict
that my public opinion polls would drop
at least 15 percent because of the energy
proposals that I would make. That was
one of the worst underestimations-
[laughter]-I've ever made to the Ameri-
can people. But some of the things we've Republic of Korea
done have been very difficult, they've not
been political winners, and we've been
successful.
The transcript of the interview was released
on October 27.
I might close by saying that the most
difficult political undertaking I've ever
had in my life, including a campaign for
President, was getting the Panama Canal
treaties ratified and the implementing leg-
islation passed. When we began that
effort, only 8 percent of the American
people were in favor of any sort of
Panama Canal treaty. And I think this
will pay rich dividends for our country in
the future. But it was obviously not politi-
cally attractive to do it.
So, I don't have any apology to make.
We've still got problems. We haven't been
100 percent successful. But I think that
when this Congress goes home, I predict
to you that if you analyze what we pro-
posed to the Congress versus what they
passed, that there would not be a Presi-
dent in the last 20 years or more that's
had a record as good as ours, and that
would even include the relatively halcyon
days of Lyndon Johnson's administration,
immediately after the tragedy of John
Kennedy's death.
We've got a good record, very difficult
issues, an extremely fine, cooperative rela-
tionship between me and the Congress.
And I think the facts-not just my voice,
which certainly will be thought of as, per-
Letter to Acting President Choi Kyu Ha
Following the Death of President Park Chung
Hee. October 27, 1979
Dear Mr. Acting President:
It is with a deep sense of shock and
sorrow that I have learned of the death
of President Park Chung-Hee. President
Park was a firm friend of America, a
staunch ally, and an able leader. In par-
ticular,
ticular, his role in Korea's remarkable
economic development will not be forgot-
ten.
Let me assure you, as you assume your
duties as Acting President, that the United
States Government will continue to stand
firmly behind its treaty commitments to
the Republic of Korea. Our thoughts will
be with you and the Korean people dur-
ing this difficult time.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: President Park was assassinated on Oc-
tober 26 by Kim Chae Kyu, Director of the
Korean Central Intelligence Agency, at KCIA
headquarters. Also killed during the shooting
incident were five of President Park's aides.
On October 30 the White House announced
that the President designated Secretary of State
Cyrus R. Vance to lead the United States
delegation to the funeral of President Park in
Seoul on Saturday, November 3. Secretary
Vance was to be accompanied by the Presi-
dent's son Chip and a delegation of leaders
from the Congress, the executive branch, the
military services, and the American public.
2054
