Nov. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Thank you very much.
REVEREND HESBURGH. Mrs. Carter,
Mrs. Vance, ladies and gentlemen:
Just short of 3 weeks ago, on October
24, this same group of leaders from
our various religious faiths and from the
various private voluntary organizations
met in Washington to discuss what we
might do together and in concert to meet
the tragedy in Cambodia. The purpose
was to consult how the American people,
how the American Government, and how
the United Nations might best respond to
avoid what appeared to be a growing holo-
caust, already half accomplished, if you
will.
We called on the voluntary agencies,
first of all, to increase their efforts and to
work together to help the Cambodians.
We urged Americans to provide them all
with financial support. And in a special
letter to the President, we urged greater
United States Government efforts in order
to assist, as quickly and as effectively as
possible, this people in great need.
We met that same day at the White
House with the President, and never was
a letter answered more quickly. Hardly be-
fore the letter was in his hands, he granted
us all of the various requests we had for
increased aid and said he was willing to do
whatever else might be necessary to do to
avert this holocaust.
I think today, in the light of the appeal
made by United Nations Children's Fund,
UNICEF, the International Committee of
the Red Cross, the appeals by all of our
various voluntary agencies for more than
$300 million for Cambodian relief, and
after the generous and immediate response
of the President of the United States
voiced by our Secretary of State, Mr.
Vance, at the Pledging Conference of the
United States on Monday, November 5—
when many of you were present, and
I too-it seemed to us that the time was
now appropriate to update our Octo-
ber 24 meeting in an effort to relieve the
growing misery of the Cambodians.
It was again against this same back-
ground as our last meeting that I, as
chairman of the Overseas Development
Council, and cochaired by the Reverend
Paul McLeary, who is chairman of the
American Council on Voluntary Agencies,
that we invited this group again, on very
short notice, to this second consultation to
exchange information on the situation in
Thailand and Cambodia after other relief
is taking place there.
In this second consultation we have four
things we would like to do: first, to find
out what the various agencies are now
doing; second, what they are planning to
do for the near-term future; third, what
fundraising efforts have been undertaken
to date; and fourth, what are the various
bottlenecks and needs that we have to
move forward quickly and efficiently.
There is, of course, a fifth topic which I'm
sure will emerge from our discussion with
Mrs. Carter, and that is how can we im-
prove and institutionalize exchange of in-
formation among ourselves and coordina-
tion of the various activities-govern-
mental and nongovernmental and inter-
governmental-here and overseas.
It seems to me that the vigor of the plu-
ralistic American response to this Cam-
bodian tragedy is most welcome, but it
does raise for all of us a great challenge to
work together and, as the President just
said, to work together without seeking
praise in so doing.
I would like to say that the visit to Cam-
bodia and Thailand in October by Sen-
ators Danforth, Sasser, and Baucus, who
are here with us this morning, on my left,
your right, and also the various Governors
and the Congresswomen and, most partic-
ularly, of our First Lady, Mrs. Carter-all
of this has heightened and increased the
consciousness of Americans for the need
of all of the generous action we might put
forward to alleviate this growing tragedy.
May I say, Mrs. Carter, in introducing
2114
