Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
NOMINATIONS-Continued
Submitted July 20-Continued
THOMAS J. WATSON, JR., of Connecticut, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipoten-
tiary of the United States of America to the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
MORRIS ABRAM, of New York, to be Chairman
of the President's Commission for the Study
of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Bio-
medical and Behavioral Research (new
position).
G. WILLIAM MILLER, of California, to be Sec-
retary of the Treasury.
J. BRIAN ATWOOD, of Maryland, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of State, vice Douglas J.
Bennet, Jr.
CHECKLIST OF WHITE HOUSE
PRESS RELEASES
The following listing contains releases of the
White House Press Office which are not in-
cluded in this issue.
Released July 16, 1979
Advance text: remarks at the annual conven-
tion of the National Association of Counties
in Kansas City, Mo.
Fact sheet: oil import reduction program
News conference: on the oil import reduction
program by James R. Schlesinger, Secre-
tary, and Alvin L. Alm, Assistant Secretary
for Policy and Evaluation, Department of
Energy; Eliot R. Cutler, Associate Director
for Natural Resources, Energy and Science,
Office of Management and Budget; and
Bertram W. Carp, Deputy Assistant for Do-
mestic Affairs and Policy
Advance text: remarks at the annual conven-
tion of the Communications Workers of
America in Detroit, Mich.
Announcement: settlement of Pennsylvania
and Delaware Gasoline Dealers' Association
strike
Released July 17, 1979
Announcement: nomination of James W.
Kehoe to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Florida
CHECKLIST-Continued
Released July 18, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Dudley H.
Bowen, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Georgia
Announcement: nomination of Juan Guerrero
Burciaga to be United States District Judge
for the District of New Mexico
Announcement: nomination of Irvin B. Smith,
Jr., to be United States Marshal for the
District of Delaware
Released July 19, 1979
News conference: on the proposed reorganiza-
tion of the Federal Government's interna-
tional trade activities-by Ambassador
Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for
Trade Negotiations, and James T. McIntyre,
Jr., Director of the Office of Management
and Budget
Fact sheet: proposed reorganization of the Fed-
eral Government's international trade activi-
ties
News conference: on White House activities in
the energy field pursuant to the President's
proposals contained in his address to the
Nation by Anne Wexler, Assistant to the
President, Mr. Carp, and Mr. Cutler
Statements: support for the President's energy
program by leaders of business and labor
organizations and civic associations
Biographical data: G. William Miller, nomi-
nated to be Secretary of the Treasury
Released July 20, 1979
Transcript: statement by the President on U.S.
troop withdrawals from the Republic of
Korea (as read by Zbigniew Brzezinski, As-
sistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, in the Briefing Room at the White
House)
Statements: support for the President's energy
program-by civic and religious leaders (two
releases)
Announcement: nomination of Barbara B.
Crabb to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Wisconsin
Announcement: nomination of Terence T.
Evans to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Wisconsin
Announcement: nomination of Eugene P.
Spellman to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Florida
1294
