Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 21
But for the first time the oil lobby was
successfully challenged by those inter-
ested in the consumers of our country.
Now we've got another major test this
year. Are we going to have a windfall
profits tax on the oil companies or not?
If the consumers of the country, including
people like you, Keith, will speak up and
let your voice be heard with your own
Member of Congress and with others,
then we'll have the windfall profits tax,
and we'll have an able country to meet
the energy challenge.
This will leave, by the way, adequate
amounts of money for the oil companies
to go ahead and explore and produce new
oil supplies and natural gas supplies in
the United States. But this is the first time
in the last couple of years that anyone
has ever challenged the enormous author-
ity and influence of the oil companies in
the Congress of the United States. And I
believe we've made good progress so far.
But this year is going to tell the tale,
and if you'll help me, along with all those
who are listening to my voice, it'll pick up
some extra votes, we'll get the windfall
profits tax passed, leave the oil companies
enough profit, and have a better life for
all of us in meeting the energy challenge.
MR. ROYAL. Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. JACKSON. Mr. President, we have
no further time for callers. We will open
our microphone for any final comments
you'd like to make.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to say that it's
been a real pleasure for me to be with
KSTT and WXLP here in Davenport
and Moline to talk to roughly six or
seven hundred thousand listeners of these
two stations. The questions have been
very good. It's given me a chance to talk
about the basic strength of our country,
the individual responsibility that falls on
the shoulders of every American, how
serious our energy problem is now, and
what we can do about it. If the Congress
acts effectively this year, we will have
made a major stride forward in meeting a
problem that has not been faced in previ-
ous years.
And I might add that the government
can't do it alone. There must be a dedi-
cation and a determination on the part of
every single American to do one's part.
The last thing I'd like to repeat is
that our country is the greatest on Earth.
We've been given enormous blessings by
God in every possible way. And this is
one of the richest and the most blessed
parts of a great nation. So, if we can
all work together, there's no doubt in
my mind that our greatest Nation will be
even finer in the future.
I see Amy peeping in through the door.
And we're all glad to be here Amy,
Rosalynn, and I—and I might say that
the trip down the Mississippi so far has
been an exciting part of our lives, and I
want to express my thanks to everyone
listening to my voice.
MR. JACKSON. Mr. President, we at
KSTT and WXLP thank you very much
for being with us. The Quad Cities, of
course, thank you for taking this time
from your day. It is most important that
the people have access to their leaders,
and today we've had exactly that. I'm
H. L. Jackson, KSTT/WXLP News.
NOTE: The program began at 9:43 a.m.
Following the program, the President at-
tended a private reception for community
leaders at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Lynne
Chamberlin, early supporters of President
Carter's 1976 campaign.
The President then went to the John Deere
Administrative Center in Moline, Ill., to view
an energy biomass project. Following his visit
to the center, he returned to the Delta Queen
at the Lake Davenport Sailing Club dock.
1491
