Dec. 7
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
President's Commission on the
Accident at Three Mile Island
Remarks Announcing Actions in Response to
the Commission's Report. December 7, 1979
The purpose of this brief statement this
afternoon is to outline to you and to the
public, both in this country and in other
nations of the world, my own assessment
of the Kemeny report recommendations
on the Three Mile Island accident. And I
would like to add, of course, in the presen-
tation some thoughts and actions of my
own.
I have reviewed the report of the Com-
mission, which I established to investigate.
the accident at the Three Mile Island nu-
clear powerplant. The Commission,
headed by Dr. John Kemeny, found very
serious shortcomings in the way that both
the Government and the utility industry
regulate and manage nuclear power.
The steps that I am taking today will
help to assure that nuclear powerplants
are operated safely. Safety, as it always
has been and will remain, is my top prior-
ity.
As I've said before, in this country
nuclear power is an energy source of last
resort. By this I meant that as we reach
our goals on conservation, on the direct
use of coal, on development of solar power
and synthetic fuels, and enhanced produc-
tion of American oil and natural gas-as
we reach those goals, then we can mini-
mize our reliance on nuclear power.
Many of our foreign allies must place
much greater reliance than we do on nu-
clear power, because they do not have the
vast natural resources that give us so many
alternatives. We must get on with the job
of developing alternative energy resources,
and we must also pass, in order to do this,
the legislation that I have proposed to
the Congress in making an effort, at every
level of society, to conserve energy. To
conserve energy and to develop energy re-
sources in our country are the two basic
answers for which we are seeking. But we
cannot shut the door on nuclear power
for the United States.
The recent events in Iran have shown
us the clear, stark dangers that excessive
dependence on imported oil holds for our
Nation. We must make every effort to
lead this country to energy security. Every
domestic energy source, including nuclear
power, is critical if we are to be free as a
country from our present overdependence
on unstable and uncertain sources of high-
priced foreign oil.
We do not have the luxury of abandon-
ing nuclear power or imposing a lengthy
moratorium on its further use. A nuclear
powerplant can displace 35,000 barrels of
oil per day, or roughly 13 million barrels
of oil per year. We must take every pos-
sible step to increase the safety of nuclear
power production. I agree fully with the
letter and the spirit and the intent of the
Kemeny commission's recommendations,
some of which are within my own power to
implement, others of which rely on the Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission, or the
NRC, or the utility industry itself.
To get the Government's own house in
order, I will take several steps. First, I
will send to the Congress a reorganization
plan to strengthen the role of the Chair-
man of the NRC, to clarify assignment of
authority and responsibility, and provide
this person with the power to act on a
daily basis as a chief executive officer with
authority to put needed safety require-
ments in place and to implement better
procedures. The Chairman must be able
to select key personnel and to act on be-
half of the Commission during any emer-
gency.
Second, I intend to appoint a new
Chairman of the
Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, someone from outside that
2202
