Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Nov. 15
These difficult days have reminded us
of basic facts and principles which are
fundamental to the existence of us as a
people. We will honor all constitutional
protections and international law and cus-
tom, and we will not let our freedom and
our security be jeopardized.
The developments in Iran have made
it starkly clear to all of us that our ex-
cessive dependence on foreign oil is a di-
rect, physical threat to our freedom and
security as Americans. That's why we
must all join together in the battle for an
energy-secure America. This struggle de-
mands the deliberate and the conscien-
tious participation of every single citizen.
Unfortunately, our dependence on for-
eign oil has been growing for the last 5
or 6 years, especially, when it should have
been diminishing. As a nation we have
become dependent on the undependable
and addicted to the unaffordable.
At Camp David this summer, one man
summed up the significance of our energy
problems better than any other person
there. It was Lane Kirkland. He said to
me,
"Mr. President, the issue is freedom."
That is exactly the issue today. That's
why I've been calling on the Congress and
encouraging the American people for the
last 22 years to recognize the danger of
excessive dependence on foreign oil.
That's why I've ordered phased decon-
trol of oil prices to make conservation pay
and to stimulate domestic energy sources.
This is an extremely important, a vital
issue. Do not be misled by political dem-
agoguery. I and every other public of-
ficial in this country have an obligation
to speak the truth and to deal responsibly
with the hard facts, and they are hard
facts. We cannot close down all nuclear
powerplants, burn less coal, refuse to build
oil refineries, refuse to explore for new oil
sources, oppose the production of syn-
thetic fuels, and at the same time encour-
age the waste of energy by artificially hold-
ing down its price in order to encourage
more consumption. This is a ridiculous
combination of proposals, which could
only be put forward in an election cam-
paign. America knows better.
I am very pleased that our national
energy program is now moving steadily
through the Congress, after enormous
difficulty there and sharp debate. Now
more than ever before, it's essential that
we have an energy security corporation
and a windfall profits tax in order to take
care of the poor, encourage production,
build a better transportation system.
Armed with these new programs, our
technology, our creativity, our abundance,
our vision, our firm will, America can
finally control its own resources, and we
can continue to control our own destiny.
Our love of freedom will not be auc-
tioned off for foreign oil. Hundreds of
thousands of our forebears gave their very
lives for our freedom. Our freedom is not
for sale now or ever in the future.
Every important victory that this Na-
tion has ever won-with Americans
struggling together-has made us stronger
as a nation. So will it be with the energy
problem. There's a clear choice for Ameri-
cans to make: We can either keep pouring
out billions and billions and billions of
dollars to foreign countries to import oil-
which also buys us inflation, unemploy-
security or we can take some of that
ment, and national dependency and in-
money and invest it in America to hire
American workers, to unleash American
ingenuity, to develop American resources,
to promote American energy that Ameri-
cans own and control. That's the way to
approach the energy problem, and that's
what we must do together.
There are millions and millions of
people who can help directly with this
challenge, and there are hundreds of
thousands of jobs involved. Next year we
anticipate that we will send overseas $70
billion to pay for foreign oil. Just think
2125
