Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 31
don't believe in any welfare payments for
them. I think they ought to go to work.
STANDBY GASOLINE RATIONING PLAN
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the
mike's working. Come up here and use
this one. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, my name is Sean
Cantrell, and I live right here in Bards-
town. And what would the circumstances
have to be before you ration gas, should
Congress give you their permission to
do so?
THE PRESIDENT. Very good. Thank
you. Good question.
I've asked the Congress to give me au-
thority to develop a standby gasoline
rationing plan. The House of Representa-
tives is voting on that authority this after-
noon.
I just talked to Washington before I
came in here, and the predictions are-I
can't guarantee it, you don't ever know
what Congress is going to do but the
prediction is that this afternoon or to-
night the House of Representatives will
give me that standby authority. What it
means is that I will prepare for gasoline
rationing. It will not be implemented.
We'll put the rationing plan on the shelf
as a standby, but we'll be ready. And if
we do have a severe and sustained loss
of gasoline, then it will be put into effect.
I hope that it will never have to be
implemented. And if I do a good job as
President, and if we get a good energy
program through the Congress, that I've
described to you in my opening remarks,
then we won't have to have gasoline
rationing. But I would rather have a
standby gasoline rationing plan than to
see gasoline rationed by price so that only
the rich people can afford it. You've only
got those two alternatives.
So, I will have a standby rationing
plan. It will only be implemented if we
have a severe shortage that lasts a long
time. We need it. I believe we'll have it.
Dan, how about checking all three of
the mikes?
TELEPHONE SERVICE IN BULLITT COUNTY
Q. Mr. President, I am Juanita Smith
of Bullitt County. We have a terrific
problem in our county, where our tele-
phone company provides direct service-
[microphone feedback]-
THE PRESIDENT. You shouldn't have
said anything about the telephone com-
pany. [Laughter]
Q. where our telephone systems
provide direct service for over half of
Bullitt County. The other half, which I
am in, do not have the direct service. We
have to pay toll charges for every call we
make. We have tried to go through the
Public Service Commission of Kentucky,
but we have failed.
I have personally written to Senator
Walter D. Huddleston. I think you might
remember me writing to you. I have writ-
ten to Senator Wendell Ford. We are re-
ferred back to the Public Service Com-
mission. We get nowhere from the Public
Service Commission.
My question to you, Mr. President:
Could you appoint someone that could
talk to us and see what they can do to
help us secure this service?
THE PRESIDENT. As soon as this pro-
gram is over, I will not only talk to Julian
Carroll, but tomorrow morning I'll get on
the telephone, and I will call the chair-
man of the Public Service Commission
and see if I can't help Bullitt County get
better telephone service. I'm not guaran-
teeing you any results, but I guarantee
you I'll call them.
1343
