Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Dec. 18
overall responsibility of the individual ra-
ther than the state for his own welfare,
and the paramountcy of Parliament for
the protection of fundamental rights.
The government I lead has a resound-
ing mandate to restore the faith and the
fortunes of the nation. We shall stick at
the task whatever the difficulties and
however great the endurance required.
And we shall do so, Mr. President, in the
conviction that our allies across the At-
lantic have confidence in us, just as we
have confidence in the strength and in-
genuity of the United States to meet any
challenge and triumph over any adversity
that confronts them.
And it's in that spirit that I would like
to ask all your other guests this evening
to drink a toast to you, the President of
the United States of America.
The President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:50 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
Visit of Prime Minister Thatcher
of the United Kingdom
White House Statement. December 18, 1979
The President met December 17 with
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of the
United Kingdom. Prime Minister That-
cher is making an official visit to the
United States, her first to this country as
Prime Minister.
The President and the Prime Minister
reviewed the exceptionally close relations
between their two countries and discussed
a number of key world issues which are
of particular concern to both. These in-
cluded the Iran crisis, the Rhodesia set-
tlement, Middle East, Northern Ireland,
theater nuclear force modernization and
arms control, strategic cooperation,
SALT, the comprehensive test ban talks,
international economic issues and energy,
common approaches to the Caribbean
and aid to developing countries, trans-
atlantic defense trade, and bilateral eco-
nomic and commercial issues.
The President expressed his apprecia-
tion and that of the entire American
people for the United Kingdom's assist-
ance and support in connection with the
international effort to secure release of
American hostages held by Iran in defi-
ance of universally accepted standards of
decency and law. The President and the
Prime Minister agreed that the principle
of civilized behavior and the rule of law,
vital to the whole world community, is at
stake in the present crisis. The Prime Min-
ister made it clear that Britain shared the
anguish of America and would do its ut-
most to convince the Iranian authorities
to release all the hostages unharmed.
The President congratulated the Prime
Minister on her government's vigorous
role in the Lancaster House negotiations
and the potential these have for contrib-
uting to peace and stability in southern
Africa. The Prime Minister expressed
warm appreciation for the full support of
the United States for an all-party solu-
tion to outstanding issues and its readiness
to promote further progress in Rhodesia
towards a fully democratic, independent
state, within the framework of the ar-
rangements agreed upon by the parties
directly concerned.
The Prime Minister explained the
British Government's recent political ini-
tiative in proposing a conference of the
principal political parties in Northern
Ireland with the aim of finding an ac-
ceptable way of giving the people of
Northern Ireland more responsibility for
their own affairs. Both leaders condemned
support for organizations and individuals
engaged directly or indirectly in cam-
2267
