Sept. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
On this historic day, let us resolve anew
to keep faith with those who have done so
much to shape this Nation with their
honor and valor. The flag under which
they served is the emblem of our unity,
our power, our purpose as a Nation. It
has no other character than that which
we give it from generation to generation.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby invite citizens everywhere to
join with me in observing Veterans Day on
Sunday, November 11, 1979. Let the past
and present unite in prayer that America
will ever seek the ways of peace, and, by
her example at home and throughout the
world, hasten the return of goodwill
among men.
This is a particularly appropriate time
to remember with respect and affection
our sick and disabled veterans. I urge
their families and friends to visit with
them and reassure them of their country's
enduring gratitude.
I call upon the press, radio and televi-
sion and other media of public informa-
tion to participate in this observance to
help realize the full purpose and meaning
of this important commemoration.
I ask that Federal, State and local
government officials arrange for the dis-
play of the flag of the United States on
this day, and encourage the public's in-
volvement in appropriate ceremonies
throughout our land.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:30 p.m., September 18, 1979]
Presidential Scholars
Executive Order 12158. September 18, 1979
AWARDS FOR SPECIAL CAPABILITY IN THE
VISUAL AND PERFORMING ARTS AND IN
CREATIVE WRITING
By the authority vested in me as Pres-
ident by the Constitution and statutes of
the United States of America, Section 2 of
Executive Order No. 11155 is hereby
amended by adding thereto the following
paragraph:
"(5) In addition to the Presidential
Scholars provided for in paragraphs (3)
and (4) above, the Commission may
choose other Presidential Scholars not
exceeding twenty in any one year. These
Scholars shall be chosen at large, from
the jurisdictions referred to in paragraph
(3), on the basis of outstanding scholar-
ship and demonstrated ability and accom-
plishment in the visual and performing
arts or in creative writing.".
The White House,
September 18, 1979.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:48 a.m., September 19, 1979]
Archbishop Iakovos of the Greek
Orthodox Church in North and
South America
Remarks at a White House Reception
Honoring the Archbishop.
September 18, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Rosalynn and I are very
delighted that not only the East Room but
the entire White House is filled with ad-
mirers and friends and lovers of Arch-
bishop Iakovos. We are very proud that
1688
