Administration of Jimmy Carter
PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Week Ending Friday, August 3, 1979
Interview With the President
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session
With Editors and News Directors.
July 27, 1979
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
THE PRESIDENT. Ordinarily we don't
have this large a group. In general, when
we invite editors from around the coun-
try, about half of them prefer to come at
a later time. But this time almost everyone
decided to come. And I can understand
why, because there's such a tremendous
interest focused now on what is going on
here in the Nation's Capital because of
the rapidly changing series of events con-
cerning me, personally, and the Presi-
dency and the Cabinet, and also because
of the crucial importance of decisions that
will be made in the next few weeks: a
series of legislative proposals-concerning
energy, standby rationing, production
board to expedite decisions on refineries
and pipelines, power company installa-
tions, a production corporation that will
meet our goal of cutting down energy im-
ports, and, as you know, windfall profits
tax to finance over the next 10 years—
I think what will be a successful effort to
restore our Nation's energy security. In
addition, the Congress is considering many
other items, the most important of which,
in foreign affairs, is obviously the SALT
treaty.
I think this is a time, too, when Ameri-
cans are particularly and deeply involved
in a reassessment of themselves, perhaps,
or of our country-who we are, what our
Nation is, what we can be, how we can
work more closely with one another, how
natural divisiveness can be assuaged, how
we can set clear goals for ourselves and
achieve those goals with both competence
and confidence.
I think every now and then, in every
person's life there comes a time of re-
assessment. I think we are going through
a time of national reassessment, not initi-
ated by me; it's a self-examination proc-
ess that was initiated long ago. I think we
more narrowly focus now our interest on
this question, but it's something that has
been of concern for a long time to me as
President.
There is really only one person in this
country that has a constant and sustained
voice in politics, and that is the President.
Others, on a transient basis, because of a
focus of an event, have a loud and clear
voice, and during the campaigns for office,
these voices are dispersed. But ordinarily,
the President must be the one to speak for
our country and indeed to our country.
1321
