July 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
passes the windfall profits tax, to make
sure that we do not have anybody in
America, particularly New England, the
north, where it's so cold and where the
houses are heated with oil, who have to
go cold because of the price of energy
increases.
We're now building up to 240 million
barrels of home heating oil by the end of
October. That's one thing we'll do. And
the other one is to compensate those very
poor families who have a large increase in
the price of heating oil through no fault of
their own-and, I might add, through no
fault of mine.
But if the Congress will pass the wind-
fall profits tax, we'll have enough money
without increasing the taxes on you by
taxing the oil companies to make sure that
that suffering that you are concerned
about does not happen.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
Q. Mr. President, I'm Clint Boling
from Jonesboro, Arkansas, president of
Local 6505.
In your speech last night, you talked
about many problems that affect all of us
today. One of those problems was the lack
of trust and faith that we as Americans
have in the Government. Do you have a
specific plan, other than some that you
may have outlined today, to provide the
leadership to help restore this trust and
faith that is required to improve these
problems?
THE PRESIDENT. The only part of your
question that bothers me is something I
haven't mentioned so far. I worked for
10 days on that speech, including the
background for it. I had about 150 people
to come to Camp David in the quietness
of that mountaintop area, just to talk to
me. I listened 95 percent of the time to
Americans saying, "Mr. President, this is
what concerns me about my Nation, this
is what concerns me about my life, this
is why I'm doubtful about the future, this
is why I can't work with my neighbor,
this is what I don't like about the Govern-
ment, this is what I don't like about you,
and this is what I want you to do to
change."
And I thought about it and I prayed
about it, and I wrote that speech and gave
it last night to tell you from the bottom of
my heart that we do have some serious
problems in our great Nation.
One thing is we've started dividing
from one another. This country is a coun-
try of immigrants. We are a country of
refugees. I bet you there are a hundred
different foreign nations represented in
this 4,000 people in this hall. In the past,
in times of trouble, like a depression, like
the First World War, like the Second
World War, American people came to-
gether to meet the challenge with courage
and bravery and commitment and sacri-
fice and unselfishness. Now we are faced
with some serious problems that divide us.
When you have to sit in a gas line or
when your home heating bill goes up, it
doesn't pull people together. It separates
people one from another, because you're
mad at your neighbors, you're mad at the
Government, you're mad at OPEC,
you're mad at the oil companies. It's
tended to divide us apart.
So, my point that I would like to make
again is this: There's only one clear voice
in this country on a sustained basis. That's
the voice of the President of the United
States. If I can't speak to you so you can
understand me about the problems of our
Nation, then nobody can. If I don't tell
you the truth, then my voice will not be
meaningful. If I don't go out among the
people and listen, then I don't know what
you are thinking. And if you don't be-
1256
