Aug. 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ergy and to weatherize homes, to make
automobiles more efficient, to give us mass
transit systems, and to produce synthetic
fuels.
We have the means in our hands to
solve our national problem, but the most
single important thing is for us to have
confidence in one another, faith in our-
selves, and to be unified in facing the
future.
You have really thrilled me this morn-
ing and inspired me and, I think, all
Americans who will see this on television
and read about this in the newspaper and
hear this on the radio, to know that the
people in Wabasha have come here—a
too, for this wonderful welcome, for all
your birthday wishes, and for your
prayers. And I want to thank you for the
birthday cake, too, with the energy
pledges, because as Jimmy has said, every
effort helps. And when you save energy,
you help not only yourselves and your
community, but you help our whole
country.
I'm very proud of you and proud to
be here today. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 11
a.m. near the docking site of the Delta Queen.
lot more people than live in Wabasha; I Alma, Wisconsin
don't know where you all came from—
[laughter] to show that you believe in
the strength of our country.
believe that we live
How many of you
in the greatest nation on Earth? [Ap-
plause] Very good.
How many of you believe that we can
have energy security in the United States
of America? [Applause]
This is the most difficult question: How
many of you are going to do your part and
a little more to save energy and to make
sure our Nation is secure in the future? If
you'll do your part, would you let me
know? [Applause] Very fine.
One other question. How many of you
think that even though we live in the
greatest nation on Earth now, we're go-
ing to all combine our efforts to make it
even greater in the future and have the
United States of America be an even more
wonderful place to live in years to come?
How many of you believe that? [Ap-
plause] Very good.
Well, you've made me very happy,
and I know that Rosalynn would say this
is the best birthday party she has ever
had. Thank you very much.
MRS. CARTER. I want to thank you,
Remarks on Arrival at the City.
August 18, 1979
I hope that you'll all remember what
a great country we have, how strong we
are, and how much God has blessed us.
We have a serious problem, as you
know, right now with inflation that's been
with us for 10 or 12 years and with too
much dependence on foreign oil, which
makes our Nation's security a cause of
great concern. There's only two things we
can do about it. One is to save energy,
conservation, to stop wasting so much
energy, and every single person in our Na-
tion can help with that. Figure out in your
own driving habits, the way you heat your
home, the way you air-condition your
home, the way you share automobiles,
everything that you do, try to save as much
energy as possible. And secondly, we need
to increase the amount of energy that we
produce in our own country-solar energy,
increased use of coal, synthetic fuels, and
the other kinds of things that we can do
as a great nation.
We have now before the Congress pro-
posals which will give us an opportunity
both to save and to produce more in our
1470
