Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
the open the working of oil markets by
setting up a register of international oil
transactions. We will urge oil companies
and oil-exporting countries to moderate
spot market transactions. We will con-
sider the feasibility of requiring that at
the time of unloading crude oil cargoes,
documents be presented indicating the
purchase price as certified by the pro-
ducer country. We will likewise seek to
achieve better information on the profit
situation of oil companies and on the use
of the funds available to these companies.
We agree on the importance of keeping
domestic oil prices at world market prices
or raising them to this level as soon as
possible. We will seek to minimize and
finally eliminate administrative action
that might put upward pressure on oil
prices that result from domestic under-
pricing of oil and to avoid new subsidies
which would have the same effect.
Our countries will not buy oil for gov-
ernmental stockpiles when this would
place undue pressure on prices; we will
consult about the decisions that we make
to this end.
3. We pledge our countries to increase
as far as possible coal use, production,
and trade, without damage to the envi-
ronment. We will endeavor to substitute
coal for oil in the industrial and electrical
sectors, encourage the improvement of
coal transport, maintain positive attitudes
toward investment for coal projects,
pledge not to interrupt coal trade under
long-term contracts unless required to do
so by a national emergency, and main-
tain, by measures which do not obstruct
coal imports, those levels of domestic coal
production which are desirable for rea-
sons of energy, regional and social policy.
We need to expand alternative sources
of energy, especially those which will help
to prevent further pollution, particularly
increases of carbon dioxide and sulphur
oxides in the atmosphere.
Without the expansion of nuclear
power generating capacity in the coming
decades, economic growth and higher
employment will be hard to achieve. This
must be done under conditions guaran-
teeing our people's safety. We will coop-
erate to this end. The International
Atomic Energy Agency can play a key
role in this regard.
We reaffirm the understanding
reached at the Bonn Summit with respect
to the reliable supply of nuclear fuel and
minimizing the risk of nuclear prolifera-
tion.
New technologies in the field of energy
are the key to the world's longer-term
freedom from fuel crises. Large public
and private resources will be required for
the development and commercial appli-
cation of those technologies. We will en-
sure that these resources are made avail-
able. An International Energy Technol-
ogy Group linked to the OECD, IEA and
other appropriate international organiza-
tions will be created to review the actions
being taken or planned domestically by
each of our countries, and to report on
the need and potential for international
collaboration, including financing.
We deplore the decisions taken by the
recent OPEC Conference. We recognise
that relative moderation was displayed by
certain of the participants. But the un-
warranted rises in oil prices nevertheless
agreed are bound to have very serious
economic and social consequences. They
mean more world-wide inflation and less
growth. That will lead to more unem-
ployment, more balance of payments dif-
ficulty and will endanger stability in de-
veloping and developed countries of the
world alike. We remain ready to examine
with oil exporting countries how to define
1199
