Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 31
you remove that presumption, then I will
be glad to answer the question.
We have not been blackmailed. There
was no threat, whatsoever, issued to me
or implied through the Iranians or any
other intermediary. When they requested
that we sell them from a private, free
enterprise refinery that was located, I be-
lieve, in the Caribbean, at that time a
million barrels of kerosene, they sent word
to me through Jim Schlesinger-I was at
Camp David at the time, it was during
the period when I was preparing my en-
ergy speech. And he called and said that
the Iranians had requested that we send
them a million barrels of kerosene on a
one-time basis, because through sabotage
or other interruptions-I believe it was
sabotage-a refinery in Iran, that pro-
duced kerosene from their unlimited sup-
plies of crude oil, had been disrupted and
that many of the people in Iran, relatively
poor-
Q. Yeah, I heard your answer.
THE PRESIDENT.- -depend upon
kerosene as a fuel for their families. This
was a problem Iran faced during the
revolution—the most serious problem that
Iran faced during the revolution, eco-
nomically speaking, was a shortage of
kerosene. And they asked me if I would
supply them in effect about 1 day's worth
of crude oil back in the form of kerosene.
The company, which I think is-Rex,¹ do
you remember?-Amerada Hess?
MR. GRANUM. It is.
Q. I have a feeling that you want to
evade the question.
THE PRESIDENT. I am not trying to
evade the question.
Q. The real part of the question-be-
cause most of us have heard your ex-
planation would you answer this ques-
tion: It does seem to me that whether
you call it blackmail or what, we are in
¹ Deputy Press Secretary to the President.
an extremely vulnerable position, and you
have so said yourself.
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly admit that.
Q. That is the purpose, you say, of
this visit. My question to you then is,
are we willing to take the extreme meas-
ure of going to war if the Arab nations
should cut off our supply, which they
are perfectly capable of doing?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to
answer your question directly, because it
is too hypothetical in nature.
We had an Arab boycott, as you know,
in 1973 and 1974. Our Nation did not
have to go to war, because we got oil from
other sources. We conserved and we got
larger supplies of oil from places like
Ecuador, Indonesia, Venezuela, Nigeria,
and other sources.
I would take whatever action is neces-
sary to defend the security of this coun-
try, but I would have to make a judg-
ment if an interruption of the oil sup-
plies from some of the Mideast countries
was endangering the security of my
country.
We have analyzed all options. If you
study the straight military aspects of
it-which has been done by my predeces-
sors, and which I have reviewed-it is a
very difficult military question. If a coun-
try, country X, said we will not send any
more oil to the United States, and then
if our country said we will go in and take
the oil, to destroy those oil fields or to
blow up a refinery would be so easy for
terrorists or saboteurs, or for that gov-
ernment itself if they were threatened
with invasion, that it adds a complicating
factor to it that I cannot address right
now.
But I am trying to get our Nation in
the posture, first of all, with reasonable
friendship toward the OPEC nations, in-
cluding the Arab nations, which we have,
including Iran, and secondly, to increase
1583
