Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1980
Sept. 10
by each Federal department, includ-
ing mandatory building temperature
standards and a 10% reduction in
automobile fuels;
-a $900 million grant program to pro-
vide 50% of the cost of energy con-
servation measures for schools and
hospitals;
-a $65 million grant program to pro-
vide technical assistance and energy
audits for local government and
other public buildings;
-mandatory non-residential building
temperature restrictions;
-mandatory automobile fuel economy
standards for each model year
through 1985; and
-a "gas guzzler tax" on automobiles
failing to meet fuel efficiency stand-
ards, beginning with the 1980 model
year.
I also have proposed, and Congress will
consider:
-a major program to make residential
and commercial buildings more en-
ergy efficient;
-$16.5 billion in new Federal fund-
ing over the coming decade for mass
transportation systems and improved
automobile efficiency. These latter
programs will be funded by the pro-
posed Windfall Profits Tax.
The effectiveness of our efforts to con-
serve energy in the years ahead will have
substantial impact on both the Nation's
ability to meet future energy needs at
home and on the stability of social, polit-
ical and economic institutions around
the world.
In response to the recognized need to
conserve energy, the 20 member coun-
tries of the International Energy Agency,
ternational Energy Conservation Month.
The objectives of International Energy
Conservation Month are: 1) to provide
an international focus for national efforts
to stimulate greater public awareness of
the continuing and long-term need for
energy conservation; 2) to underline the
extent to which industrialized nations are
cooperating to conserve energy; and 3)
to give member countries an opportunity
to plan events which will either culmi-
nate during the month or use the month
as a springboard for continuing programs.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of
America, in full support of this interna-
tional program, do proclaim October
1979 as International Energy Conserva-
tion Month in the United States and call
upon all Americans to join me in observ-
ing it. During the month let us as a Na-
tion focus our attention on energy con-
servation through our actions and deeds.
Let us view that month as the springboard
to a more energy-efficient, energy-reliable
future.
I call upon State and local govern-
ments to join me in proclaiming October
as International Energy Conservation
Month and to undertake activities in sup-
port of its objectives.
I urge all citizens, corporations, labor
unions, trade associations, the media, and
groups and organizations of all types to
participate in this international energy
conservation program at home, at work,
while traveling and in all daily activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this tenth day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred seventy-nine, and of the Inde-
pendence of the United States of America
the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
including the United States, have desig- [Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
nated the month of October 1979 as In-
11:23 a.m., September 11, 1979]
1623
