Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 13
INFLATION
MR. MORRIS. I guess the second ques-
tion is related to inflation. That is, how
can you persuade families to hold down
on consumer spending when they know
that 6 months from now things will be so
much more expensive?
you
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my daddy
always said, "If you don't need some-
thing, it's not cheap, no matter what
buy it for," and he had to warn my mother
about this quite often when they went to
auction sales around home. I think pru-
dent buying is obviously an important ele-
ment of any family's existence, unless one
is so wealthy that you don't have to worry
about what you spend for.
And also, of course, what we for-
get about is that when we save and
don't waste things, if there's a given sup-
ply, the competition to sell to customers
will force the price down. I hope this will
happen, for instance, with the most sig-
nificant product that I hear about now,
and that's home heating fuel. We've got
adequate supplies on hand, for instance,
in our country for home heating oil-240
million barrels have now been put in the
primary reserves.
If the families throughout our country
will, through thermostat settings and very
careful living habits, reduce the amount
of energy that they use this winter, com-
pared to previous winters, then there'll be
much more competition among oil suppli-
ers to get those customers' business-and
they don't want to carry over those oil
stocks until next winter. So, prudent use
of energy supplies can be a major factor
in forcing down prices in a competitive
free market system.
So, there are many different elements of
the issue that I could discuss-I've tried
not to repeat things that I've said earlier in
the program. But that's one that I hadn't
mentioned previously that I think is an
important factor. Prudent buying, no mat-
ter what the item is, can help us control
inflation.
MR. MORRIS. Thank you very much,
Mr. President, and good luck.
THE PRESIDENT. I've enjoyed talking
to you.
Thank you, Kenneth.
Ms. STAMBERG. Thank you, Mr.
Morris.
A reminder again to listeners that you
cannot call into President Carter. Na-
tional Public Radio is doing the phoning
to citizens who have been chosen at ran-
dom and have written in advance to "Ask
the President."
The next question will come from
Bruce Hallock, Mr. President, and he's on
the line from Austin, Texas. Go ahead,
Mr. Hallock.
U.S. SPACE ACTIVITIES
MR. HALLOCK. Hello, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Hello, Bruce.
MR. HALLOCK. What is your view of
mankind's future in space for the long
term and for right now?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have a
very bright future, Bruce. We're moving
into a new era of the use of space that
will be quite different from what we've
known in the past. We've had the highly
publicized exploratory flights into space,
not only to the Moon with men-Ameri-
cans on the Moon-but also in trips with
our space vehicles through the different
planets themselves.
Now we are shifting to a more routine
use of space flights with the shuttle, that
will be launched for the first time next
year. This will permit us with a space ve-
hicle to launch relatively cheaply a major
load of equipment and other things into
space-both from our Government, from
other governments who are friendly to us,
1911
