July 20
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
view and will support using the resources
and technological development necessary
to achieve it. The many fine people serv-
ing in the Department of Transportation
stand ready to help you in this effort.
I hope you find happiness in your job,
and I join with the whole Nation in hop-
ing that the remainder of your administra-
tion will be successful.
Respectfully submitted,
BROCK ADAMS
[The President, The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C.]
White House Conference
on Families
Remarks at a White House Reception.
July 20, 1979
First of all, I want to thank Jim Guy
Tucker¹ and all of you for being willing to
serve in this most important and respon-
sible effort.
As you know, the American family is
under unprecedented pressure, and it's
good to meet with people who will think
and study and consider and learn before
we act.
The purpose of the family conference
to be held here at the White House will
be not to set up some big new expensive
Federal program; it's to see what we can
do, not simply as a government, but as a
nation, to strengthen American families.
In some instances, this may mean just get-
ting government out of the way. You'll
be looking at what many public and pri-
vate institutions of all kinds are doing now
at all levels to see how these activities af-
fect families.
I hope that you will not look just at the
programs that were originally designed to
Chairperson, White House Conference on
Families.
affect families, but also look at other pro-
grams that were designed for other pur-
poses that might have an adverse effect on
the cohesion and the strength of American
families today. You must reach out, not
only to scholars and to experts but to
many thousands of American citizens
around this country who know from their
own experience what makes a family
strong.
Our generation has been through a
time of great social and technological
change, affecting the way we live, the
way we think, the way we act, the way
we work, the way we assess our own status
as individuals. Our institutions do not
seem to offer the same degree of support
for a cohesive family arrangement as they
did in years past. And the signs of strain
within families, those signs are all around
us.
I talked last Sunday night about a crisis
of confidence in our country. And the
family is very much part of that crisis-
part of the problem, yes, but much more
importantly, it is a major part of the solu-
tion. For couples who married in the early
years of this century, 1 marriage in 10
ended in divorce; for couples who have
married since World War II, 1 marriage
in 3 ends in divorce.
I was talking to Jody Powell the other
day—who's a little bit older than my oldest
son, who lived in a small Georgia town
not very far from Plains-and neither he
nor I could recall any divorced person
who lived in Vienna, Georgia, or Plains,
Georgia, in the years we were growing up.
There are a lot of them there now. The
rate of teenage suicide has doubled in the
last 10 years. Half a million youngsters
each year run away from home. Too many
of our older people are lonely and some-
times even afraid. Without question, the
American family is in trouble.
The family has survived, though, many
social and technological revolutions in the
1286
