Sept. 25
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
percent. We've had a net increase in jobs
in this country of 8 million, a net increase
in jobs. This record has mirrored itself
in New York City, where the unemploy-
ment rate has dropped about 2 percent.
I would like for every college graduate,
like you, and also for every person in our
country who hasn't had the advantages
of college, to have a job. It's not possible
to give a job to everyone. I think we've
made reasonable progress.
On inflation-we've had inflation with
us for about 10 years, 11 years. It's been
as high as 12 or 13 percent in 1973 and
'74, when OPEC raised their prices. It's
up to that level now because OPEC has
raised their prices.
In the last 3 months, for instance, the
inflation rate, not counting energy, has
gone up one-fourth of 1 percent. In that
same time, because of action taken by
OPEC, over which I have no control, the
inflation rate in energy is going up 100
percent per year. And obviously, when
that's mixed in with the other costs, the
inflation rate is high; it's too high. I wish
I could get it down.
You point out that we have no energy
policy. We are hammering out a com-
prehensive, excellent energy policy which
I believe and predict flatly will be on the
law books by the time this year is over.
We have not ever had before any sem-
blance of an energy policy. And in spite
of my efforts for the last 22 years, the
Congress has yet not passed one word re-
lating to oil.
In the past, the oil lobbies have per-
meated the influence on the Hill in Wash-
ington, because consumers had no strong
voice. And I have to admit, at that time
that oil prices were relatively low. Now
it's just about an even thing. But I still
predict to you that we will add on to a
very good legislative program last year, a
complete energy policy this year. It's long
overdue, but there's only so much that
you can do in 22 years.
The second thing I'd like to say is that
so far we've already saved, because of ac-
tions taken within the last 12 months,
about 4 million barrels of imported oil
that we will not have to import by 1990.
My additional proposals, which will pass
this year, will save an additional 4½ mil-
lion barrels of oil.
I know how serious the problem is. I
don't know how you reacted in April of
'77 when I went to the people on evening
television and said this is the moral
equivalent of war. Very few citizens, per-
haps even including you, rallied to my
side and said, "I agree with you, Mr.
President. We will fight for an energy
policy." But I fought for it, and a lot of
people in this country thought it was a
ridiculous thing to say. And now we are
seeing that we have a serious energy
problem that really endangers the security
of our Nation.
You mentioned the Cabinet changes.
I went 30 months and did not make a
single change in my Cabinet. And then I
decided that that level of the Cabinet had
done some extraordinary things. They
had initiated good programs like Jim
Schlesinger, for instance, and put through
a major part of the energy program and
also set up a Department of Energy, and
his time had expired. He wanted to step
down.
So, I've now got Charlie Duncan in
there highly qualified, administrator,
manager who can take over an existing
department and make sure it functions
smoothly.
I've appointed a man as head of HUD,
Housing and Urban Development, Moon
Landrieu, an accomplished mayor, a
mayor of New Orleans. And those of you
who keep up with the history of New
York City know that just a few years ago,
not too long ago, when New York City
1748
