Dec. 31
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
example of what government can do to
retain existing businesses and jobs and to
attract new private-sector development
and employment.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4943 is Public Law
96-163, approved December 28.
Department of Energy National
Security and Military Applications
of Nuclear Energy Authorization
Act of 1980
Statement on Signing S. 673 Into Law.
December 31, 1979
I have signed S. 673, the Department of
Energy National Security and Military
Applications of Nuclear Energy Authori-
zation Act of 1980.
In addition to authorizing appropria-
tions in fiscal year 1980 for the Depart-
ment of Energy's national security pro-
grams, S. 673 authorizes the creation of a
facility to demonstrate the feasibility of
storing certain nuclear wastes from de-
fense activities. This project is known as
the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP),
and its proposed location is in New Mex-
ico. Specifically, the bill provides that:
"The Secretary of Energy shall proceed
with the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant con-
struction project. . . . Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, the Waste Iso-
lation Pilot Plant is authorized as a de-
fense activity of the Department of En-
ergy . . . for the express purpose of pro-
viding a research and development facility
to demonstrate the safe disposal of radio-
active wastes resulting from the defense
activities and programs of the United
States exempted from regulation by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission."
In signing S. 673, I am not endorsing
this approach to the WIPP facility. As
evidenced by the efforts of the Inter-
agency Review Group on Nuclear Waste
Management, which I established in
March 1978, my administration is com-
mitted to the safe management of nuclear
wastes. I have reviewed a number of al-
ternatives for managing both defense and
commercial wastes, and I believe that the
future of WIPP ought to be resolved only
in the context of an overall nuclear waste
management policy. I will be making a
comprehensive statement on the manage-
ment of nuclear wastes in the near future.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 673 is Public Law 96-
164, approved December 29.
Knoxville International Energy
Exposition of 1982
Statement on Signing H.R. 5079 Into Law.
December 31, 1979
I take great pleasure in signing H.R.
5079, which authorizes United States par-
ticipation in Energy-Expo '82-the In-
ternational Energy Exposition to be held
in Knoxville, Tennessee, in 1982.
ing critically important to the future of
Energy-Expo '82 has the prospect of be-
every nation and perhaps of every indi-
vidual on Earth. With "Energy Turns the
World" as its theme, the exposition will
focus attention on one of the world's most
pressing problems, and give participating
nations an opportunity to demonstrate
working prototypes of their newest energy-
related inventions and developments as
well as to discuss their energy policies in
a variety of conferences.
The planning of this internationally
significant event has been going on for sev-
eral years. In April 1977, I granted it
Federal recognition as being in the na-
tional interest; in December 1978, I in-
2298
