Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 16
records in 1978, world records in 1979. I
believe in 1980, next year, we'll set world
records again on the total amount of grain
exported.
We don't want to punish our farmers by
raising the prices of our grain so it cannot
sell on foreign markets. The OPEC coun-
tries have very small populations; they
don't buy much food. And if we cut off all
our shipments of wheat and corn to the
OPEC countries, they could very easily
get that wheat or corn from France or
from European countries or from Argen-
tina or some other country aside from us.
It would only hurt our farmers. So, I
would rather see our exports be sure, so
customers could depend on us and to have
this tremendous benefit from getting new
customers for our grain.
When I ran for President, I promised
that there would never be any grain em-
bargoes put on the farmers as there were
several times just before I became Presi-
dent. So, I think for us to export our beau-
tiful product of food and to import less oil
from overseas because we save and pro-
duce more energy at home, is the best ap-
proach. That's what we're doing. I need
all of you to help me with it.
Thank you very much, Harvey.
DEFENSE AND NATIONAL SECURITY
Q. Mr. President, my name is Gerald
Reilly. I reside in South Holland, Illi-
nois. I would like to add my words of
welcome to you for coming to our area
and express my appreciation for the won-
derful job you are doing under condi-
tions as they exist today.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, sir.
Q. Mr. President, do you feel that the
money appropriated for defense in your
1980 budget is really for defense or a step
towards the possible conflict with another
nation?
THE PRESIDENT. I'll be glad to answer
that.
The most important responsibility that
I have as President is to guarantee the se-
curity of our Nation. It comes above
everything else—above inflation, employ-
ment, energy, agriculture-to preserve the
security of our country, because unless our
Nation is secure, unless our Nation is free
from the constant threat of a successful at-
tack by other countries, then everything
that we stand for would be lost.
I have no apology for the defense budg-
et request. I believe in a strong defense,
and as long as I'm President, the strength
of our military forces will be second to
none. I want to be sure that if any other
country is tempted to attack the United
States, that they will realize that they are
committing military suicide.
We only spend about 5 percent of our
gross national product on defense. In the
past, this is the lowest we've ever spent.
In the past, we've spent 8, 9, 10, 11 per-
cent. The Soviet Union spends 13 percent
of their gross national product on defense.
Our military is still better than theirs, and
we're going to keep it that way. But I
hope that every American will realize that
it's not a sacrifice when we pay our mili-
tary personnel a good salary, when we
give them high training, when we give
them the best weapons.
What I want to be sure of is that all of
our nuclear submarines, all of our air-
planes, all of our tanks, all of our artillery
pieces, are never used—are never used—
and the way to do this is to let the world
know that we are strong, not only in weap-
ons and service people but also in our na-
tional will.
If the other countries on Earth-our
allies, our friends, our potential adversar-
ies know that the United States is a
strong country, then we'll have peace. If
they ever believe that the United States is
weak, either because we don't have ade-
1945
