Nov. 16
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
employees of business who are fairly nar-
rowly restricted in their ability to get a
continuing formal education, and those
who occupy positions of leadership with
rapidly varying and challenging respon-
sibilities from day to day-in all those ele-
ments of life libraries and access to books
and other information play an important
role.
Times change very fast. Information
available to the world is exploding more
rapidly than it can be accommodated,
and the function of libraries is to collect
information, to collate information, to
assess information, to store information,
and to let information be available to
those who need it.
There are many people in our modern
society who are isolated in some form or
another the deaf, the blind, the im-
mobile, the afflicted, those who live in iso-
lated communities are obvious examples,
but there are others. Those who have a
particular life's career in a fairly narrowly
defined area, but who desire constantly
to stretch their minds and to stretch their
hearts and to know more about the world
around them, other people, opportunities
for a more gratifying existence, are in the
same category as those who are physically
isolated. Libraries can play this role to
make available to people, in a special
occasion for an unexpected event, an op-
portunity for study.
Science, business, politics, government
is an area where rapid information is
crucial in dealing with challenges of the
day, where long-time study to prepare for
an event is impossible, because events that
are important cannot be predicted. And
there, the instant access to information
and the calm and reasoned guidance of a
qualified librarian can make the differ-
ence between the success or failure, even,
of a life.
A President in particular is faced with
varied responsibilities. And my access to
the Library of Congress and my access to
books is one of the most important ele-
ments of my life. Amy reads, sometimes
two or three books a day. She and I have
both had rapid reading lessons since I've
been President. I read two or three books
a week, sometimes more, and in addition
to that have instant access to the broad-
ranging information which is available
here in Washington and, obviously, in
many other communities in our country.
The Library of Congress was started, as
you know, when the Government decided
to buy the book collection of President
Thomas Jefferson. He withdrew from
formal schooling when his life was in the
formative stage and began private study-
with a tutor, yes, but heavily dependent
not on classroom instructions, but on his
access to a varied gamut of books. And I
would guess that one of the most well edu-
cated Presidents who has ever served had
limited formal schooling, and that was
President Harry Truman. His education
came primarily from books, history books
and others from his local library.
I'm not at all criticizing or playing down
the importance of formal education, but
no matter how broad an educational ex-
perience has been in a person's life, some-
times determined by the state of a person's
birth or the wealth of a family or oppor-
tunities that all can't share-no matter
how broad a formal education might be,
libraries are still important if that person
desires to continue in education through-
out one's life. This need for knowledge
about history or current events is par-
ticularly important in a democracy, where
the strength of a nation depends to a
major degree on a well-informed public.
One of the most important responsi-
bilities that I have had on my own
shoulders is to make sure that in contro-
versial events that the public has a maxi-
mum access to knowledge about that
2130
