Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 22
But we're doing everything we can to
resolve both issues. I have much more
authority on the Rock Island Railroad
than in the Duluth.
COAL SUPPLIES
Q. Mr. President, Glen Moyer from
WOAI Radio in San Antonio, Texas.
The conversion to coal is a well-known
prophecy or directive of yours as a part
of your national energy program.
The city of San Antonio, a couple of
years ago, made that conversion and now
owns and operates municipally-or owns
a municipal electrical power-generating
plant that is coal burned. The problem
that we are facing is continuous rate in-
creases being granted by the Interstate
Commerce Commission to, particularly,
the Burlington Northern Railroad. Since
January their price increases have in-
creased by 18 percent. In fact, just this
morning the Commission upheld yet
another rate increase that now raises the
price more than $19 a ton to get coal
from Wyoming to San Antonio. The city
has even looked at the possibility of im-
porting from overseas, coal from Austra-
lia, at a more economical rate than we
could use American coal.
I have somewhat of a two-part ques-
tion, if I might. First of all, does your
administration have any plans for getting
involved or intervening in any way in that
pricing situation? And if not, how then
can the administration continue to urge
the conversion to coal in order to limit our
need for oil imports, which you, a few
moments ago, said is in some ways a
threat to our security?
THE PRESIDENT. We're doing all we
can, through legislation and through ad-
ministrative action, to encourage a shift
from oil to coal. And of course, the com-
petitive price of the two fuels is one that
is of great concern to me.
As you know, the Interstate Commerce
Commission is an independent agency,
and I have no authority over that agency
in directing them to establish a particular
rate for the hauling of coal. That's done
in a judicial forum, where the customers
and also the railroads have a right to pre-
sent their cases. And I presume the ICC
has made a reasonable judgment in it.
We also are pursuing the option for coal
delivery using slurry lines. The railroads
are fighting this proposal, and of course,
you have the additional problem involving
environmentalists, that it may be an exces-
sive use of water if the origin point has a
scarce supply of water. But this is some-
thing that we've put forward, we're trying
to fight through the Congress, to give the
appropriate agencies the right to require
rights-of-way under railroads if the coal
slurry pipeline needs to travel in that
direction.
We will make every effort, through pub-
lic statements and otherwise, to influence
the ICC and the railroads to restrain their
rate increases. I would presume that the
railroads and the coal miners know that if
coal should get to a price level, including
transportation costs, that's non-competi-
tive, that they would lose very important
and very large customers.
I don't know the details of the San An-
tonio area, but I think it's worthy of my
inquiry now that you've raised the
question.
AGRICULTURE EXPORTS
Q. Mr. President, a number of congres-
sional leaders from the Midwest have
mentioned that it would be feasible for
this country to use the agricultural prod-
ucts, primarily wheat, beef, corn, to other
nations to establish more of a balance of
1709
