Aug. 2
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
The United States and other nations
are just beginning to appreciate fully the
scope and seriousness of the problem and
to assess the effects of development proj-
ects on world forests. There is much more
to be done. I am therefore directing all
relevant federal agencies to place greater
emphasis on world forest issues in their
budget and program planning. An inter-
agency task force established last fall and
chaired by the State Department will re-
port to me in November 1979 on specific
goals, strategies, and programs that the
United States should undertake. On the
basis of these recommendations, I will di-
rect federal agencies to carry out an in-
tegrated set of actions to help toward
protection and wise management of world
forests.
In the international arena, the Govern-
ing Council of the United Nations En-
vironment Programme has just adopted
a resolution-introduced by the United
States-calling for a meeting of experts
to develop proposals for an integrated in-
ternational program for conservation and
wise utilization of tropical forests, and to
report to the next Governing Council
meeting in April 1980. I am asking the
Departments of State and Agriculture, the
Council on Environmental Quality, and
other federal agencies to give this program
full support and assistance and to encour-
age and support high-level multinational
conferences on forest problems in regions
where forest losses are severe.
To help protect the earth's natural re-
source base, I issued an Executive Order
earlier this year, which directs federal
agencies to review carefully in advance
the effects of many federal activities
abroad. I am directing the Council on
Environmental Quality and the Depart-
ment of State to report to me within six
months on the best ways to designate the
globally important resources to which
the order applies.
Acid Rain
Acid rain has caused serious environ-
mental damage in many parts of the
world including Scandinavia, Northern
Europe, Japan, Canada and the North-
eastern part of the United States. Over
the past 25 years the acidity of rainfall has
increased as much as fifty-fold in parts
of the Eastern half of the United States.
In the Adirondacks in New York, many
mountain lakes have become devoid of
fish partly because of increasing acidifi-
cation. Adverse effects on crops and
forests are suspected; steel and stone
buildings and art works may suffer as
well.
Acid rain is produced when rain re-
from the air, forming sulfuric and nitric
moves sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide
acid. Sulfur and nitrogen oxides are
emitted in all forms of fossil fuel com-
bustion. Power plants, smelters, steel mills,
home furnaces, automobiles-all may
contribute to acid rain.
To improve our understanding of acid
rain, I am establishing a ten year com-
prehensive Federal Acid Rain Assess-
ment Program to be planned and man-
aged by a standing Acid Rain Coordina-
tion Committee. The assessment program
will include applied and basic research
on acid rain effects, trends monitoring,
transport and fate of pollutants, and con-
trol measures. The Committee will estab-
lish links with industry to promote coop-
erative research wherever appropriate.
The Committee will also play a role in
future research cooperation with Canada,
Mexico, and other nations and interna-
tional organizations. The Committee will
prepare a comprehensive 10-year plan for
review by the end of the year. In its first
1372
