Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
July 20
we will win the fight against inflation
while expanding rapidly our domestic en-
ergy resources, so as to reduce the intol-
erable dependence of the U.S. economy
on imported oil.
You have my best wishes as you con-
tinue to lead our nation and to deal with
the many difficult problems we face. I am
sure you will have a strong ally in Bill
Miller in the future shaping of your eco-
nomic policy.
As I return to private life, you can
count on my wholehearted support in
your efforts to achieve these goals.
With best wishes.
Sincerely,
MIKE BLUMENTHAL
W. Michael Blumenthal
[The President, The White House, Washing-
ton, D.C.]
United States Troop Withdrawals
From the Republic of Korea
Statement by the President. July 20, 1979
Last February it was announced that
withdrawals of U.S. ground combat forces
from Korea would be held in abeyance
pending the completion of a reassessment
of North Korea's military strength and
the implications of recent political devel-
opments in the region. That reassessment
has been completed, and these policy
issues have been discussed with our key
allies in Asia, with principal defense and
foreign policy advisers, and leaders of the
Congress. Circumstances require these
further adjustments in the troop with-
drawal plan:
-Withdrawals of combat elements of
the 2d Division will remain in abeyance.
The structure and function of the Com-
bined Forces Command will continue as
established last year.
-Between now and the end of 1980
some reductions of personnel in U.S. sup-
port units will continue. This will include
one I-Hawk air defense battalion whose
transfer to the ROK had been planned
since 1976.
-The timing and pace of withdrawals
beyond these will be reexamined in 1981.
In that review the United States will pay
special attention to the restoration of a
satisfactory North-South military balance,
and evidence of tangible progress toward
a reduction of tensions on the peninsula.
These decisions have been shaped by
the following considerations:
-First, recent studies by the intelli-
gence community have confirmed that the
size of North Korea's ground forces,
armor, firepower, and mobility are larger
than previously estimated. Given the in-
herent economic strength of the Republic
of Korea and with U.S. support, the
existing imbalance in North-South mili-
tary strength can be remedied. Holding
further withdrawals of U.S. ground com-
bat units in abeyance will help reinforce
deterrence, avoid conveying misleading
signals to the North, and provide addi-
tional time for the ROK to put its ground
defenses in order. For its part the Repub-
lic of Korea recognizes the need to aug-
ment its self-defense efforts, and President
Park has stated that his government would
expand defense spending significantly
beyond previously planned levels and
accord special urgency to improving its
ground defenses.
-Second, during the recent visit to
Seoul, President Park and President
Carter jointly announced their desire to
explore possibilities for reducing tensions
in Korea with representatives of North
Korea. Only through authoritative dis-
cussions between representatives of the
1275
