Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 21
Paul Volcker. I think I know more about
the people of this country than he does.
I think I know more about the Nation
than he does. And I'm not sure what he
meant. In my own experience, in dealing
with the people through the press and
making an offhand statement, quite often
a statement can be taken out of context
and distorted from the intention of the
speaker's that the speaker had when he
made it. This may be the case with Paul.
If he meant that Americans can no
longer avoid saving, then I think he's
right. If a person measured a standard of
living by saying, "I've got to be able to
drive 75 miles an hour in a large, fancy,
heavy automobile by myself," then he's
right. Americans are already beginning to
decide we've got to use public transporta-
tion when it's available, we ought to have
three or four people in a car instead of
one, we ought to obey the speed limit,
and we're shifting toward smaller and
more efficient automobiles. So, in that
case he would be right. It depends on
what the person thinks is a standard of
living.
Let's take another example. I think in
people's homes we're talking a lot about
the cost of home heating oil. The average
family can do more than I can. We're
going to provide about $200 to help poor
families pay heating bills during the win-
ter. It'll pay a substantial portion of the
increase in cost, but that family can do
a lot more than that if they insulate their
homes, keep the doors shut, put weather-
ization on the windows, if they hold their
thermostats at a reasonable level. They
can save a lot more than I've just de-
scribed to you with their own actions. And
people might say, "Well, I don't want to
cut the thermostat down, therefore, my
standard of living has been decreased."
So, I believe that the American people
have a strength and the resiliency to take
care of these changes in our lives when
we do have limits that we didn't have be-
fore without lowering the quality of a life.
I like to think about families who in the
future will walk more and maybe ride
bicycles more, maybe stay home more,
maybe go on picnics more, or maybe drive
a little slower. These kind of things can-
not only be enjoyable instead of a pain,
but they can also be patriotic at the same
time.
So, there are ways to have a good life,
even a better life without wasting so much.
And if Paul Volcker meant that, I agree
with him; otherwise I don't.
TAX CREDITS FOR ENERGY CONSERVATION
Ms. RICHARDSON. You mentioned
weatherization, and, of course, here in
New England that's very important.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it is.
Ms. RICHARDSON. At present there are
no Federal programs, there are no incen-
tives for multiunit buildings; in other
words, buildings where there are apart-
ments, townhouses. There are plenty of
incentives for the homeowner. There are
presently a million dwellings in Massa-
chusetts. Half of those are multiunit
dwellings, and yet there are no incentives
for the owner of an apartment building,
say, to begin a weatherization process. Do
you have any plans to offer programs in
that area?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, this proposal is in
Congress now, and I hope it will pass. As
you know, we had to walk before we could
run, and a year ago, or 6 months ago, it
was almost impossible to get any American
citizen, much less the Congress, to agree
that we really had an energy problem. But
we did last year get tax credits for home-
owners to insulate their homes and to get
credit for it when they paid their income
tax. I think about 9 percent of all the fam-
1993
