Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 21
before I left Washington, I took the last
action that's available to me as President
by decontrolling the price of heavy oil,
very heavy oil. This will add about 500,-
000 barrels of oil to our Nation's supply in
the future without having an adverse im-
pact on inflation.
Now the other action that can be taken
by our Government must be taken by Con-
gress. And I want all of you to help me
convince the Congress-I might say John
Culver is already convinced, and he's help-
ing me that we need to put a windfall
profits tax on the oil companies. This must
be done.
You were wonderful to me a couple of
years ago, and as President, you've been
even nicer to me. And I believe that all of
us working together can make sure that
our Nation stays strong, stays happy, stays
united, and that we will have indeed in
the rest of our lives and for our children
the greatest and the strongest nation on
Earth.
Thank you very much. God bless all of
you.
We'll be on the radio at 9:30. Listen in,
call if you can. We'll see you later.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 a.m. at
the Lake Davenport Sailing Club dock.
The choice is, do we let the oil com-
panies keep enormous profits or do we
tax them and use that money to conserve
energy, to shift towards solar power, to Davenport, Iowa
have more gasohol made in Iowa, and to
have a nation strong and free and inde-
pendent of dependence on OPEC prices
and OPEC oil. Will you help me with the
Congress to have an independent nation?
[Applause] Right on.
We will soon have a very fine energy
experiment work-that I'll describe to
you on the radio this morning-that will
let our entire Nation have advice on all 50
States about how we can conserve energy.
We've tried it out now for 2 years in 10
different States throughout the country.
It has worked very well. And we'll have
several hundred thousands of dollars avail-
able in Iowa, beginning next year, to help
us plan in every local community like
Davenport how we can conserve energy,
eliminate waste, and make sure our Na-
tion is better able to meet this challenge.
This is a very important program that in
the long run will not cost anything-it will
save much more than it costs.
So, I hope all of you will work with me
and the Congress to make the greatest na-
tion on Earth even greater in the future.
I'm very glad to be back in Davenport.
Remarks During a Radio Call-Out Program on
KSTT/WXLP Stations. August 21, 1979
MR. JACKSON. Good morning. I'm H. L.
Jackson, news director of KSTT and
WXLP. Good morning, Mr. President,
and welcome to the studios and the Quad
Cities.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning.
It's really a great occasion for me to be
back here in the Quad City area. I've been
here several times before, but I have to say
that this is the biggest and most enthusi-
astic crowd I've ever seen around Daven-
port and Moline.
This is a fine opportunity also for me
as President this morning to get questions
from the listeners in this Quad City area,
and I'm looking forward to trying to ex-
plain as best I can what our Nation is do-
ing now and what we can do in the future
with the help of all Americans to remove
this threat to our Nation's energy security.
So, I think this will be a good session for
me to express my views, and I'm looking
forward to the questions very, very much.
1479
