Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 19
were the men who held the eight regional
hearings throughout the country in which
we received testimony related to our na-
tional urban policy.
And I would say, Mr. President, that
you have exceeded your pledges to the
mayors of America. Your very recent ap-
pointments of our good friends and fellow
mayors, Secretary Landrieu and Secretary
Goldschmidt, reflect a true commitment
to urban America in the full implementa-
tion of your national urban policy.
Now, I'll admit, Mr. President, that
the policy that we formulated and was
entered in this document, in which these
gentlemen's pictures are also present, was
a little, perhaps, exaggerated, and you
probably couldn't agree with all of it. But
the mayors have instructed me to inform
Secretary Landrieu and Secretary Gold-
schmidt that we fully expect them to ef-
fectuate that policy. [Laughter] And I
know I speak for my fellow Democratic
mayors when I commend you and thank
you for keeping the pledges and keeping
the faith.
And in very concrete terms, the Urban
Development Action Grant component of
your national urban policy is giving our
cities a basic new life in the area where
our hugest tax base was in a state of
decline. In Milwaukee our original
UDAG grant for our downtown shop-
ping mall was based upon an anticipated
$60 million in private investment. And we
have already now exceeded over $100 mil-
lion as a result of the spinoffs from our
UDAG grant, and we're still climbing.
As you mentioned, Mr. President, it is
indeed a blue chip investment, in capital
investment and in jobs and in tax dollars.
We find that for every Federal dollar
spent, there's a $6.10 private investment,
and for every UDAG dollar, an additional
10 cents in property tax revenue. And
there isn't another Federal program in
existence that has given us these kinds of
fiscal tangible results. And I thank you,
Mr. President, and I commend you for
carrying forward the program.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. As all the Members of
the Congress know, and as I know very
well and I'm sure all of you realize, we
have a very serious conflict, basically be-
tween trying to control the Federal budg-
et expenditures, to hold down the defi-
cit, and to help control inflation on the
one hand, and to sharply focus direct and
expanded benefits when Federal moneys
are expended. And this fiscal year 1980
appropriation, which has now been
passed through the Congress and through
its conference committee, will provide
just in the construction area alone 230,-
000 permanent jobs and 130,000 tem-
porary jobs, in addition to giving people
a better life in the communities involved
and increasing the hope and the expecta-
tion that they can work in harmony, not
only with themselves but also with their
government. It restores confidence, which
I think is very good.
Have the Members of Congress been
recognized yet the individuals? All the
Members of Congress here that are not
on the stage, would you all stand? I think
you really deserve a debt of gratitude.
There are many others, obviously, in
the Congress who've been in the forefront
of this, and those are here today. There
are others who couldn't be here, and
there are many others who are now claim-
ing credit for the program-[laughter]--
which is very good and the highest ac-
colade that the program could have.
But I would like to introduce two peo-
ple now to make remarks, one from the
House and one from the Senate, repre-
senting a bipartisan group. Since we do
have a majority of Democrats, they hap-
pen to be Democrats. [Laughter] But I
1971
