Sept. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
founding are a symbol of the increasingly
complex and diverse world which the
United Nations confronts today.
Protecting international peace and se-
curity is still the United Nation's greatest
contribution and responsibility, but that
political stability is only the precondition
for fulfilling the larger aspirations of man-
kind. For all its imperfections, the United
Nations remains the principal forum for
the pivotal dialogue among the nations of
the world on constructing a more stable,
equitable, and productive economic order.
It plays a leading role in the global man-
agement and allocation of vital natural
resources. It offers an increasingly im-
portant channel for providing develop-
ment assistance to many nations in the
world. It offers a forum, and often a
timely and effective mechanism for pro-
tecting basic human rights. The leadership
of the United Nations in responding to
the present refugee crisis, and the recent
Geneva Meeting on that problem, repre-
sents one of the proudest examples of that
world body's ability to harness world co-
operation in the cause of human dignity.
The United States has historically been
one of the United Nations' most active
and dedicated supporters, and I have been
proud to continue and expand on that
support as President. Not a single day
goes by when we in the United States do
not call upon the United Nations, or one
of its affiliates, to help deal with a problem
of global dimensions. I join with many
other Americans and citizens of all na-
tions in expressing my sincere support for
this unique world body on the thirty-
fourth anniversary of its founding.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of America,
do hereby designate Wednesday, Octo-
ber 24, 1979, as United Nations Day. I
urge all Americans to use this day as an
opportunity to better acquaint themselves
with the activities and accomplishments
of the United Nations.
I have appointed O. Pendleton Thomas
to serve as 1979 United States National
Chairman for United Nations Day, and
the United Nations Association of the
U.S.A. to work with him in celebrating
this very special day. And I invite all the
American people, and people everywhere,
to join me on this thirty-fourth anniver-
sary of the United Nations, in strengthen-
ing our common resolve to increase its
effectiveness in meeting the global chal-
lenges and aspirations that we all share.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this thirteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred and seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America, the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
3:07 p.m., September 13, 1979]
United States Ambassador
to Ghana
Nomination of Thomas W. M. Smith.
September 13, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Thomas W. M. Smith,
of Readfield, Maine, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States to the Republic of Ghana.
He would replace Robert P. Smith, who
has transferred to another position.
Smith has been Director of the Office
of West African Affairs at the State De-
partment since 1975.
He was born April 18, 1930, in Boston,
Mass. He received an A.B. from Harvard
1658
