Oct. 21
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
ing
down unnecessary spending, being
cautious about what kind of new pro-
grams we've put forth that are very ex-
pensive, we are in sharp disagreement.
Senator Kennedy is much more inclined
toward the old philosophy of pouring out
new programs and new money to meet a
social need. He may be right. I disagree
with him. I'm much more inclined to try
to make existing programs work efficiently
and start up new programs only when it's
absolutely necessary.
I think in the matter of a commitment
to our Nation's defense strength, I would
be in favor of much stronger defense com-
mitments than his record shows. And I
think with those two exceptions, there is
little real incompatibility between us in
working for peace, in trying to meet the
needs of unfortunate people, and moving
to eliminate racial or other discrimination
in our society.
I have found a complete ability to work
harmoniously with Senator Kennedy. But
he's got a record of his own, and I don't
think he has to depend on his brother's
reputation to give him the stature of a
very good leader.
EMPLOYMENT
MR. FOELL. Mr. President, you just
mentioned not throwing money at pro-
grams.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
MR. FOELL. I'd like to double back to
your answer to Jim Scott's question for a
moment. There seems to be some confu-
sion still as to whether you were including
all construction workers in the promise
you made to the construction workers in
San Diego, and, if so, what dollar figure
might be put on the size program you
have in mind for them and why this would
not be inflationary.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what we've tried
to do is be firm and resolute in controlling
inflation and, at the same time, without
wasting money or creating massive spend-
ing programs and so forth, to focus the
effective Government funding and ad-
ministration of programs to hold down
unemployment to give people jobs.
per-
For instance, when I became President,
the unemployment rate among construc-
tion workers was between 15 and 20
cent. We added a net increase of a million
construction jobs alone, and we cut the
unemployment rate among construction
workers by 40 percent.
We did this in various ways: local pub-
lic works projects and Economic Develop-
ment Administration projects. One of the
most successful, for instance, has been the
Urban Development Action program,
UDAG we call it.
Through this program, we have put in
about $6 billion and we've added over
400,000 jobs. Only one-sixth of that
money is Federal money. The other five-
sixths comes from private investment. But
we've provided the incentive there to re-
build the deteriorating central cities of
our country. We have slashed through
redtape and government delay. And the
Government never initiates these pro-
grams. It's initiated by local government
and by private investors. They come to
us with a proposal on very simple forms.
We make a decision on that request with-
in 60 days, and then a small amount of
Federal money goes in there, a large
amount of local money goes in, mostly
from private sources, and people are put
to work and people's lives are changed.
Housing programs become better, new
facilities are built for the life of a city,
transportation, otherwise, and that's the
kind of effect we've had. That's one rea-
son why we have such strong support,
politically speaking, from the Governors
and mayors of this country. We have
1988
