Dec. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
but also extremely sensitive and may have
historic connotations for the future. I
think it's demonstrated that Americans
can be remarkably united, that Americans
can be remarkably resolved, and that,
contrary to our basic nature, Americans
can also be very patient, when patience is
the better part of valor.
I think we've learned, as I said yester-
day in my speech to the Business Council,
that it's a general consensus now in our
country that military strength and also a
strong nation is not contrary to the de-
sires for peace. I think we've learned from
the Vietnam war that to become unneces-
sarily involved in the internal affairs of
another country when our own security
is not directly threatened is a serious mis-
take. But we've also learned since then,
particularly now, that a strong America,
willing to exert its strength when neces-
sary, is an integral part of the psyche of
our country and also a legitimate role for
America to play.
I don't know what the future will bring
in the Iran situation. It's so far been
handled with, I think, dispatch and also
with wisdom. I've got good advisers, and
we're very cautious about how we have
approached this difficult circumstance.
We have emphasized over and over, not
adequately yet, that there is no confronta-
tion or schism between the world of Islam,
the Moslem countries and our own coun-
try. This is not the point at all. And as
far as the hostages are concerned, they
are the only issue for us. It's not a proper
time for us to discuss the wisdom or the
role that the Shah played as a good or bad
leader. It's not a proper time for us to
get
involved in a debate about whether he
is or has been sick, or how sick, or where
he goes, or to discuss the history of Iran.
It's important, and we have recognized
the importance of maintaining one issue
foremost in our mind and in our national
consciousness in our dealing with other
countries, in our dealing with Iran, in
our dealing with the United Nations, and
that is the early and the safe release of the
American hostages. I'm very proud of the
way our Nation has performed.
We do have adequate military presence
in the Arabian Sea at the mouth of the
Persian Gulf. We've not made idle
threats; we've not had to. We've made a
clear statement of our purpose and our
resolve, which will be exercised if neces-
sary. What we want is peace, and what
we want is a good relationship, now and
in the future, with the people of Iran.
We're not trying to decide what form of
government they should have. We're not
trying to interfere in their own internal
affairs. We think they've violated every in-
ternational law imaginable-the Geneva
agreements, the premises on which the
United Nations Charter is based.
And we've had an additional respon-
sibility, which has been difficult, but, I
think, which has been successfully
achieved so far, of keeping world opinion
on our side. This even involves the less
developed countries and other Moslem
nations who would not ordinarily be in-
clined to do so. It has encompassed, as
well, nations who in the past have not
been our close friends. And in the United
Nations Security Council vote, the three
small nations, coincidentally, happen to
have been and are Moslem countries.
Our presentation to the International
Court of Justice by the Attorney General
this week has been well received. We
anticipate-I can't say for sure that
we'll have a ruling from that Court, per-
haps even as early as tomorrow. I have no
way to determine that accurately; that's
what the Attorney General believes. And
we hope it will be resolved in our favor.
We're trying to keep legality, propriety,
and world opinion and the right on our
side.
I think we've seen in this incident a
very serious additional piece of evidence
2240
