Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
June 29
Third World, and that we have also
called the attention of the world to the
appalling refugee situation in Southeast
Asia and requested immediate action
both as to the cause and to the conse-
quences of that tragedy.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
PRIME MINISTER OHIRA. Thank you
very much.
Lastly, but not the least, Mr. Jenkins.
PRESIDENT JENKINS. Mr. Prime Min-
ister, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage
there is little to add, and I believe that
brevity will be more valued than any
other quality.
Like the heads of state and govern-
ment who have spoken before me, I am
glad that we have been able to concen-
trate on the challenge of the energy crisis
and agree on medium-term goals for oil
imports, as well as for conservation and
new development measures in the energy
field.
I take satisfaction in the fact that the
work done by the European Council at
Strasbourg provided such a good foun-
dation for and contribution to the results
of this summit. Here in Tokyo, the in-
dustrialized nations have, I believe, put
themselves in a better position to deal
with the inevitable damage caused to us
by scarce and expensive oil. We have done
so without forgetting the still worse, in-
deed potentially crushing impact upon
the developing countries, and we have
done so in the knowledge that we must
follow our words with action if they are
to succeed.
I add my thanks to the Emperor, to the
Prime Minister, the Government and
people of Japan for the welcome they
have given us.
PRIME MINISTER OHIRA. Thank you
very much, President Jenkins.
Ladies and gentlemen, this closes the
joint press conference.
Thank you very much for your atten-
tion.
NOTE: Prime Minister Masayoshi Ohira of
Japan, chairman of the Conference, spoke at
5:35 p.m. in the Banquet Room at the New
Otani Hotel. He spoke in Japanese. President
Valéry Giscard d'Estaing of France, Chancel-
lor Helmut Schmidt of the Federal Republic
of Germany, and Prime Minister Giulio An-
dreotti of Italy also spoke in their native lan-
guages. The translations of their remarks fol-
low the press release.
President Carter, Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher of the United Kingdom, Prime
Minister Joe Clark of Canada, and Roy Jen-
kins, President of the Commission of the Euro-
pean Communities, spoke in English.
The remarks of the participants concluded
2 days of meetings, consisting of four sessions,
at the Akasaka Palace. On the evening of the
first day's meetings, the conference partici-
pants attended a state dinner, hosted by
Emperor Hirohito, at the Imperial Palace.
Tokyo Economic Summit
Conference
Declaration Issued at the Conclusion of the
Conference. June 29, 1979
The Heads of State and Government
of Canada, the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, France, Italy, Japan, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, and the United States of Amer-
ica met in Tokyo on the 28th and 29th
of June, 1979. The European Commu-
nity was represented by the President of
the European Council and by the Presi-
dent of the European Commission for dis-
cussion of matters within the Communi-
ty's competence.
1. The agreements reached at the Bonn
Summit helped to improve the world
economy. There was higher growth in
some countries, a reduction of payments
imbalances, and greater currency stability.
1197
