Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Oct. 4
from first-hand experience how important today were selected from over 200 appli-
this SBA program really is.
SCORE volunteers have guided and
counseled hundreds of thousands of small
businesses over the past fifteen years. Their
efforts have helped our nation maintain
the healthy small business community that
is the backbone of national stability and
confidence.
On this occasion I salute SCORE vol-
unteers and their associates at the Small
Business Administration who have helped
SCORE grow in numbers, spirit and ac-
complishment. All Americans can be
proud of what this milestone represents.
JIMMY CARTER
NOTE: The text of the message was released on
October 3.
Urban Park and Recreation
Recovery Program
Announcement of Grants to 44 Cities and
Counties. October 4, 1979
The White House today announced
grants to 44 cities and counties, totaling
$17.1 million, under the Urban Park and
Recreation Recovery (UPARR) program.
The program is part of the President's
urban policy legislative program and offers
direct matching grants to eligible local
governments to rehabilitate urban park
and recreation systems.
The UPARR program is a key element
in the administration's plan to revitalize
American cities. The program is designed
to revitalize neighborhood recreation op-
portunities in the Nation's most distressed
cities, while encouraging local and State
governments to make greater use of their
own resources for urban recreation.
The grants announced today are the
first in a series to be awarded over a 5-year
period. The 44 jurisdictions announced
cations, whose proposals totaled more
than $90 million. Cities and counties
whose applications were not selected for
funding this time will automatically be
held over for consideration in the next
funding cycle.
Factors considered in the selection of
projects were: the expansion of neighbor-
hood recreation opportunities and the ex-
tent to which a project would provide jobs
for minorities, youth, and low- and mod-
erate-income neighborhood residents.
Other factors were the quality of local
recreation system planning, the degree of
need, and the applicant's ability to match
Federal funds with private and local con-
tributions.
The program was approved by the 95th
Congress as title X of the National Parks
and Recreation Act of 1978 (Public Law
95-625). It is administered by the Interior
Department's Heritage Conservation and
Recreation Service.
The 44 cities and counties whose grants
are being announced today are Birming-
ham, Ala., Tucson, Ariz., San Francisco,
Calif., San Jose, Calif., Bradenton, Fla.,
Dade County, Fla., Savannah, Ga., Chi-
cago, Ill., Bloomington, Ind., Alexandria,
La., New Orleans, La., Boston, Mass.,
Cambridge, Mass., Lowell, Mass., Detroit,
Mich., Minneapolis, Minn., Pascagoula,
Miss., St. Joseph, Mo., Camden County,
N.J., Essex County, N.J., Hoboken, N.J.,
Irvington, N.J., Perth Amboy, N.J., Plain-
field, N.J., Bernalillo County, N. Mex.,
New York, N.Y., Syracuse, N.Y., Utica,
N.Y., Cincinnati, Ohio, Cleveland, Ohio,
Cuyahoga County, Ohio, Lincoln Heights,
Ohio, Steubenville, Ohio, Warren, Ohio,
Lawton, Okla., Portland, Oreg., Mem-
phis/Shelby County, Tenn., Galveston,
Tex., Laredo, Tex., Portsmouth, Va.,
Richmond, Va., Seattle, Wash., Tacoma,
Wash.
1817
