Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Aug. 24
We must do something about the en-
ergy challenge that faces us. There are
two things that we can do. One thing is
to save energy. Every American, every
American can save energy in your own
life, in your own family, in transportation,
in your homes, on your job. This is some-
thing the government cannot do for you,
but there are dozens of things that each
one of you and each one of us can decide
to do day in and day out that will be
beneficial to our country, and will also
give us, in the same process, a better life.
It doesn't make it good for us or more en-
joyable for us when we waste what God
has given us. So, I ask all of you to help
us conserve energy.
you to
The second thing I'd like to ask
do is to join in with me in helping to pro-
duce more energy in our own country.
The Mideast OPEC nations all put to-
gether have less than 5 percent of the en-
ergy reserves in our world. The United
States has 25 percent of all the energy, en-
ergy reserves in the world. So, what we
must do is to produce more of our Na-
tion's energy-oil, gas, coal, geothermal,
with our tremendous cropland for gaso-
hol, use more solar power. This can make
us secure in energy.
Now the Congress has before it a wind-
fall profits tax, which is being opposed by
the oil lobby and which must be passed.
Oil prices are going up in the future, and
the basic question is: Who is going to get
the tremendous profits that come in that
are unearned? The oil companies have
not earned this profit, but they want to
keep it. So, with a windfall profits tax we
can take these profits and give them back
to the American people for a better trans-
portation system, to help the low- and
middle-income families pay the increased
cost of fuel, to insulate our homes, to have
a better way to produce synthetic fuels-
all these benefits can come to us when the
Congress passes a windfall profits tax.
We can have energy security. So, I want
to ask
you to do two things in summary:
One is save energy, and the other one is
work with me and the United States Con-
gress to overcome the oil lobby, to pass the
windfall profits tax, to make our Nation
energy-secure.
With a strong nation we can stay at
peace; we can keep our Nation secure.
And if you'll help me, I will help you and
the Members of Congress here with me to
pass a windfall profits tax, to make the
greatest nation on Earth even greater in
the future. Will you do that? Will you
help me? [Applause]
Thank you all very much, thank you.
Rosalynn, do you want to say a word?
Rosalynn would like to say just a word.
MRS. CARTER. We've had a wonderful
trip on the beautiful Mississippi River.
The countryside is spectacular. I believe
and I wish that every person in our coun-
try could take the trip that we have had
and just see what we have in our country.
It is so beautiful. We've enjoyed it. Amy
has enjoyed it. The people along the way,
you, too, have made it very special for us.
It's a week that Jimmy and I both will
never forget. Thank you all for coming
out today. We love you.
THE PRESIDENT. Amy? Say hi. All you
have to do is say one word.
AMY CARTER. Hi. Hi.
THE PRESIDENT. How's that for a short
speech? Thank you very much, every-
body. We love every one of you. Thank
you.
We'll come down and shake a few
hands the ones we can reach.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 a.m. at the
docking site of the Delta Queen.
1513
