Nov. 29
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Attorney General. He would replace John
Shenefield, who has been appointed Asso-
ciate Attorney General.
Litvack has practiced law with the
New York City firm of Donovan, Leisure,
Newton & Irvine since 1961 and has been
a member of the firm since 1969.
He was born April 29, 1936, in Brook-
lyn, N.Y. He received a B.A. from the
University of Connecticut in 1957 and an
LL.B. from Georgetown Law Center in
1959.
From 1959 to 1961, Litvack was a trial
attorney with the Justice Department's
Antitrust Division.
Civil Aeronautics Board
Nomination of Marvin S. Cohen To Be a
Member, and Redesignation as Chairman.
November 29, 1979
The President today announced that
he will nominate Marvin S. Cohen for re-
appointment as a member of the Civil
Aeronautics Board, for a term expiring
December 31, 1985.
The President intends to redesignate
Cohen as Chairman of the CAB when his
term as Chairman expires on December
31, 1979.
Federal Paperwork Reduction
Remarks on Signing Executive Order 12174.
November 30, 1979
THE PRESIDENT. Ever since I've been in-
volved in public life, in the minds of many
Americans, government-particularly the
Federal Government-and redtape have
been synonymous phrases.
In my first Cabinet meeting here after
I was inaugurated President, the first item
of business that I brought up was my de-
termination to eliminate redtape and
paperwork from the Federal Government.
I've been in office now almost 3 years, and
with the help of these Members of Con-
gress behind me and executive agencies,
we've had a substantial degree of success.
We have been able to reduce the total
number of hours devoted to Federal
paperwork by 15 percent, which is a sub-
stantial achievement. This amounts to
130 million hours of filling out paperwork
each year. That's as though every person
in Dubuque, Iowa, to take a typical
State-[laughter]-was working 40 hours
a week the whole year. That's how much
paperwork we've already eliminated.
That's 15 percent, but we've still got a
long way to go.
And I'm very deeply grateful to the men
standing behind me, particularly Senator
Chiles, who's in the forefront this year,
Congressman Brooks, and Congressman
Frank Horton. Obviously, others have
done a great deal of work, including Sen-
ator Nelson and others.
A while back Frank Horton delivered
to me the result of a long study of paper-
work elimination. It consisted of several
hundred recommendations. We have
already implemented, Frank, more than
half those recommendations, and we're
working on the implementation of the
others.
Today, I'm going to sign an Execu-
tive order that will go as far as I can
legally go in reducing paperwork further.
This sets a definite limit, or paperwork
budget, that cannot be exceeded by any
one of the Federal agencies without my
direct approval; further, to reduce the
amount of paperwork that they require
either within Government or outside of
the Federal Government.
Secondly, I'm eliminating every de-
gree of interagency duplication. Quite
2176
