July 18
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
categories designated from time to
time by the Attorney General.
(b) The Attorney General shall pro-
vide all agencies reasonable access
to the information collected in the
litigation notice system.
will be available to all Federal law offices
on a reimbursable basis. The system may
include in its data base such Federal regu-
lations, case briefs, and legal opinions, as
the Attorney General deems appropriate.
1-602. The Federal Legal Council
1-4. Resolution of Interagency Legal shall provide leadership for all Federal
Disputes.
1-401. Whenever two or more Execu-
tive agencies are unable to resolve a legal
dispute between them, including the ques-
tion of which has jurisdiction to adminis-
ter a particular program or to regulate a
particular activity, each agency is encour-
aged to submit the dispute to the Attorney
General.
1-402. Whenever two or more Execu-
tive agencies whose heads serve at the
pleasure of the President are unable to
resolve such a legal dispute, the agencies
shall submit the dispute to the Attorney
General prior to proceeding in any court,
except where there is specific statutory
vesting of responsibility for a resolution
elsewhere.
1-5. Access to Legal Opinions.
1-501. In addition to the disclosure
now required by law, all agencies are en-
couraged to make available for public in-
spection and copying other opinions of
their legal officers that are statements of
policy or interpretation that have been
adopted by the agency, unless the agency
determines that disclosure would result in
demonstrable harm.
1–502. All agencies are encouraged to
make available on request other legal
opinions, when the agency determines that
disclosure would not be harmful.
1-6. Automated Legal Research and In-
formation Systems.
1-601. The Attorney General, in co-
ordination with the Secretary of Defense
and other agency heads, shall provide for
a computerized legal research system that
legal offices in establishing appropriate
word processing and management infor-
mation systems.
1-7. Responsibilities of the Agencies.
1-701. Each agency shall (a) review
the management and operation of its legal
activities and report in one year to the
Federal Legal Council all steps being
taken to improve those operations, and
(b) cooperate with the Federal Legal
Council and the Attorney General in the
performance of the functions provided by
this Order.
1-702. To the extent permitted by law,
each agency shall furnish the Federal
Legal Council and the Attorney General
with reports, information and assistance
as requested to carry out the provisions of
this Order.
The White House,
July 18, 1979
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
10:40 a.m., July 19, 1979]
Management of Federal
Legal Resources
Memorandum From the President.
July 18, 1979
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies
Subject: Management of Federal Legal
Resources
I have today signed an Executive Order
entitled Federal Legal Resources concern-
1266
