Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
Sept. 18
tunities for people of every age and in-
come.
In these times of worldwide inflation
and energy shortages, we can turn to our
forests for relief. Forests offer numerous
opportunities for low-cost vacations.
Forest products can have even greater
inflation-fighting and energy-saving roles.
I recently directed two Federal agencies
to examine their forested lands to see
what could be done to provide more
timber so that the cost of housing could
be reduced.
Discoveries from forest product re-
search are being applied to help fight in-
flation and save energy. A new house
developed by Forest Service scientists will
allow us to build houses with 30 percent
less structural lumber than is used now
for similar structures. New processing
techniques reduce the amount of energy
needed to make paper and also allow
manufacture of more paper from less
wood.
In addition, America's forests make
direct contributions to reducing our de-
pendence on foreign sources of energy.
This country once ran on the energy pro-
vided by burning wood, and we can ob-
tain energy from that resource again.
Every year, more and more Americans
are turning to efficient wood-burning
stoves and furnaces to help in their fight
against rising energy costs.
Wise use of our Nation's forest prod-
ucts results in turn from wise and efficient
management of the forests themselves.
Planning carefully for all forest uses,
minimizing waste, and replenishing har-
vested trees will sustain our forests and
insure the continuity of this tremendous
renewable asset.
In recognition of the value of forests
for energy, wood products, and recrea-
tion, Congress has designated the third
week of October as National Forest Prod-
ucts Week. It is important that we pause
to reflect upon the value of our forests to
our national well-being.
Now, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER,
President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim the week of Oc-
tober 21 through October 27, 1979, as
National Forest Products Week and ask
all Americans to demonstrate their
awareness of the value of forests through
suitable activities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have here-
unto set my hand this eighteenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord nine-
teen hundred seventy-nine, and of the
Independence of the United States of
America the two hundred and fourth.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register,
2:29 p.m., September 18, 1979]
Veterans Day, 1979
Proclamation 4688. September 18, 1979
By the President of the United States
of America
A Proclamation
No Americans have done more to win
and protect the peace than the men and
women of our Armed Forces, past and
present.
Veterans Day affords each of us the op-
portunity to join our fellow citizens, in
communities across the Nation, in honor-
ing those whose love of country knew no
bounds those to whom patriotism was
principle, not mere sentiment. Without
the sacrifices which our brave veterans
made so freely and so generously, our
cherished freedom would long ago have
vanished.
1687
