Oct. 13
Administration of Jimmy Carter, 1979
will be accurate. And I hope that every
American who's interested will study the
report and join with me in analyzing
where we go from now.
There's a role for nuclear power. As
I've described, we need to emphasize and
correct any defects that might exist now,
in the past, or in the future.
Ms. STAMBERG. We'll get to the next
call in a moment. But again, a reminder
that this is a live, 2-hour broadcast from
National Public Radio in Washington.
President Carter is speaking by telephone
with Americans. None of the questions
are screened, but for technical reasons,
you cannot phone in with your questions.
Please do not call NPR, don't call the
White House, don't call your local public
radio station. Instead, National Public
Radio is phoning out to randomly chosen
listeners who have written to say that they
wish to "Ask the President."
Here's one of those listeners now, Presi-
dent Carter. It's Kimberly Powell from
Hyannis, Massachusetts, and I'm told that
Kimberly is 13 years old. Go ahead, Kim-
berly.
VISIT TO BARNSTABLE MIDDLE SCHOOL,
MASSACHUSETTS
MISS POWELL. Hi, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
MISS POWELL. My name is Kim
Powell, and I'm from the Barnstable
Middle School, Red House Team II. As
you already know, our team of eighth
graders sent out an invitation, a
note for you to come and teach a
history lesson to our school in any way
possible that would be convenient to you.
We did get a response, but they didn't
give us a definite answer. We would like
to know if you are really considering to
come and when your visit will be? It will
be greatly appreciated.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, thank you, Kim-
berly. I have seen news reports that you
all were inviting me to come to Hyannis
and to visit your school. I don't know
whether I can do it or not. I'll be coming
up to Massachusetts again on the 20th of
this month to join in dedicating the li-
brary of former President John Kennedy,
but whether I can visit Hyannis, I don't
know. I'll check with my schedulers after
this program's over, and we'll let you
know directly whether or not I can be
there.
MISS POWELL. Okay, thank you. I
would also like to ask you a question.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay.
INFLATION
MISS POWELL. Do you have any idea
what inflation will be when I get out of
school, like, you know, when I'm 18?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope it will be much
less.
MISS POWELL. Me, too.
THE PRESIDENT. If every American
will help with it, then it'll be much less.
We've had, by the way, Kimberly,
pretty good luck with our wage and price
guidelines that we've established about a
year ago. And now we've got a new thing
that's never been formed in the past in
our country, and that is an agreement that
we reached voluntarily with labor and
with business so that government, labor,
and business will all join in together in a
common effort to hold down inflation. In
the past, the Government has passed a
law and, in effect, forced on the working
people and business, standards for wages
and prices. I think this new so-called na-
tional accord or agreement will be a ma-
jor step forward.
And we've already discussed on this
program the things that we can do about
buying habits and energy waste and so
forth, that would help.
1908
